20-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Nothing much changed, he gives coaching to athletes online||Jalandhar, April 19City-based athletics coach Sarabjit Singh ‘Happy’ feels that though the lockdown may be boring for a few and may have physical and mental impact on players, it can prove to be a good break for many. He says nothing much has changed for him except for the fact that the webcam has become a special part in his life over sports field.Sarabjit said, “I wake up at 4:30 am and do some exercise and yoga. After having breakfast, I give some physical training to my family members. I stay connected with my athletic players through the online platform. Besides, I have been brushing off my cooking and reading skills.”“I live in a joint family and we are 10 members, including kids. After giving online training to my players, I engage my family members in a workout session, which I have never done before. I read motivation books and prepare diet food for my parents to keep them fit and healthy,” he added.Sarabjit, a former national coach, says he keeps finding motivational sports movies and documentaries to watch. Thereafter, he shares these with his players to keep their spirits high for the postponed tournaments. “Goals have merely shifted for the time being, but not changed,” he said, adding that it is important for the athletes to take care of their fitness and body.He said as everyone had ample amount of time these days, some were doing over exercises which might weaken their immune system. “It is important for sport players and fitness lovers to understand that they should not over exhaust themselves. They should stick to a limited workout plan with short breaks in between,” he said.Sarabjit, who has been associated with the Punjab Sports Department as an athletics coach at Khalsa College for the past two decades, said the lockdown was all about mental strength. “All sports players have to look at themselves physically, mentally and see whatever things they can do, which can make them better when they get back on the field,” he added.Quoting an example of a movie, “Junoon-Ek Soch”, which was made and produced by him three years ago, he said the movie was specially made to promote sports in the state. The movie depicts the struggle of an athlete from his childhood days to becoming an international icon.“Similarly, the lockdown has come as a testing period in our lives. It is a struggle to save our lives so we will definitely have to win this battle,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nothing-much-changed-he-gives-coaching-to-athletes-online-73502
20-04-2020||---||100 PPE kits, N95 masks donated||Jalandhar, April 19Rotary Club, Jalandhar West, in association with Inner Wheel Club, Jalandhar West, and Rotary Club, Jalandhar Rainbow, donated 100 PPE kits and N95 masks for doctors and nurses of Civil Hospital, Jalandhar.Civil Surgeon Gurwinder Kaur Chawla appreciated their efforts in the hour of crisis. Dr SPS Grover, ex- president of the district, told other officers and doctors of the Civil Hospital Dr Kashmiri Lal, Dr Naresh Bathla, Dr Surinder Kumar, Dr Paramjit Singh, Dr Jyoti, that if there was any other requirement to fight against the disease, Rotary would always be there to help the frontline fighters in the hospital.Dr Harinder Kumar, newly appointed medical superintendent, Raman Bhalla, president, Rotary Club, Jalandhar West, Dr Amandeep Arora and Dr Puneet Pal Singh Grover, Executive Secretary, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/100-ppe-kits-n95-masks-donated-73501
20-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Sans PPE kits, firefighters 24x7 on job||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 19With the surge in Covid-positive cases, it has become an arduous task for health workers to do the contact tracing of infected persons and disinfect their areas. However, sharing the burden of the Health Department, workers of the fire brigade team in the city are walking shoulder-to-shoulder with them to make their job easy.Even as the number of fire incidents have reduced after the lockdown as industries, factories, restaurants and several other manufacturing units have been lying shut, firefighter teams are available round the clock to help the administration sanitise the town.Considering themselves as an essential emergency service providers, the firefighters accompany health officials every time a new Covid case is reported. Sans PPE kits, the firemen in their fire extinguishing gear even enter the houses of the patients.Satish Kumar, Assistant Division Fire Officer (ADFO) of the district, said, nowadays the prime task of the firefighters involved visiting all areas where people were found infected with the virus. “We keep ourselves available even at 2 am to accompany health teams and subsequently sanitise the house and locality of the patients to contain the spread of the virus,” he said.Sub Fire Officer Rajinder Sharma said they had a team of 37 ground duty firemen and 26 drivers who were deployed at different locations of the city so as to be available on any call.Fulfilling their services, the firefighters demanded that as the government had offered Rs 50 lakh health insurance cover to police personnel and sanitation workers in the frontline duty against Covid-19, they should also be covered under the same insurance as they also have direct contact with the positive cases.Walking shoulder-to-shoulder with health Department staffEven as the number of fire incidents have reduced after the lockdown as industries, factories, restaurants and several other manufacturing units have been lying shut, firefighter teams are available round the clock to help the district administration sanitise the town.Seek insurance coverFulfilling their services, the firefighters demanded that as the government had offered Rs50 lakh health insurance cover to police personnel and sanitation workers in the frontline duty against Covid-19, they should also be covered under the same insurance as they also have direct contact with positive cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sans-ppe-kits-firefighters-24x7-on-job-73500
20-04-2020||Phillaur||Masks given to cops, labourers||Six booked for assaultNakodar: The Shahkot police on Saturday booked six residents of Punia village for assaulting a co-villager, Jasvir Singh. According to the police, Loveprit Singh, alias Bhule, Harjit Singh, alias Jitu, Hakam Singh, alias Anka, Kulwant Singh, alias Kanti, Amritpal and Manprit Singh, alias Nanna, had a personal enmity with Jasvir. The victim said the suspects barged into his house on April 4 and assaulted his mother Jito. He said he tried to run away but they waylaid him and attacked him with sharp weapons. A case was registered. No arrests have been made so far. OCMan killed in road accidentTalwara: Kanwar Charanjit Singh, a retired employee of the HP State Electricity Board from Thakurdwara village, died in a road accident near Mirthal town on Sunday. Charanjit was a resident of Goiwal village in Talwara, while his wife Usha Rani is the sarpanch of the village. Charanjit was on his way to Pathankot when his car collided with another vehicle near Mirthal. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/masks-given-to-cops-labourers-73498
20-04-2020||Our Correspondent        ||Stress mgmt counselling for health workers||Hoshiarpur, April 19The Health Department on Sunday organised a special counselling session for doctors, paramedical staff and other employees of the department , who are fighting the war against the Covid-19 by performing day and night duties.  Following the social distancing, the counselling session was organised to enable them to deal with mental stress and raise their morale. Counselling specialists under the supervision of Senior Medical Officer Jaswinder Singh gave tips to health workers to cope with stress and motivated them to maintain morale. Counsellors Tajinder Kaur and Sukhpreet Kaur guided the staff how to relieve stress caused by long working hours and continuous work without weekly break. On the occasion, some yoga asanas were also practiced to relieve stress so that whenever they get a few free moments from duty, they may do these asana which relieves stress and can be refreshed. Dr Jaswinder Singh said doctors, paramedical staff, ward servants, malaria department and employees of the anti-larva scheme were deployed day and night on duty for several days. So it becomes necessary to enable them to cope up with the stress and keep their morale high.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stress-mgmt-counselling-for-health-workers-73496
20-04-2020||---||33 cartons of illicit liquor seized, 2 held||Jalandhar, April 19The Police Commissionerate on Sunday seized 33 liquor cartons and arrested two persons in three  separate incidents in the city. The arrested suspects have been identified as Amit Arora (28) of Vij Nagar and Tinku Kumar (25) of Pucca Bagh. The third suspect managed to escape.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said acting on a tip-off, a police party laid a trap at Gajjigulla Chowk and stopped a Hyundai Verna car (PB08-DX-4200) for checking. The vehicle was driven by Amit who was carrying 17 boxes of Punjab King Whiskey brand to supply to his customers. The police seized the liquor and arrested him.Bhullar said another police party in the Mota Singh Nagar market had received a tip-off about Tinku Kumar, who was involved in selling illicit liquor, and arrested him after seizing four boxes of Imperial Blue Whiskey from the White Maruti Swift car (PB08-AZ-6970) which he was driving.In the third incident, a police party patrolling in Ajit Nagar, found a Honda City car (HR 01-M-9911)  that was rammed into a wall. Twelve boxes of Punjab Cash Whiskey were recovered from the car. The police also conducted the videography of the recovery.A case under Sections 188, CRPC, and 61,1 and 14, Excise Act, has been registered against all suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/33-cartons-of-illicit-liquor-seized-2-held-73495
20-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Hailstorm damages wheat in Garhshankar||Garhshankar, April 19Hailstorm damaged wheat crop on 50 acres at Nainwan village in the Garhshankar subdivision on Saturday.Farmers including Jagdeep Singh Rana, Goldie, Bharat Singh, Anil Kumar, Bhushan, Kesar Singh, Shiv Rana, Dimple Rana and Sudhir Singh were among the most affected. Jagdeep Singh Rana said he suffered a loss of Rs2.5 lakh as he had taken some land on contract.The crop was ready to harvest but hailstorm ruined it. Rana Shiv Pal Singh said the government should compensate farmers by doing special girdawari of the damaged crop.Wheat crop guttedTanda Urmar: Wheat crop on one-acre land turned into ashes at Hejma village under Tanda in Hoshiarpur district. The fire started due to short-circuit in the wires passing over the field. The PSPCL staff reached and inspected the loss and assured the farmer all help. AAP leader Jasbir Singh also provided financial help to the farmer. He said loose and low-lying electricity wires were destroying fields and these should be repaired immediately. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hailstorm-damages-wheat-in-garhshankar-73494
20-04-2020||---||Police action against journalist condemned||Jalandhar, April 19The Punjab Press Club has strongly condemned the action of the Chandigarh Police of detaining a senior reporter of Punjabi Tribune, Devinder Pal, on Saturday evening.The press body said the act of the police speaks volumes about the colonial mindset of the Chandigarh Police in dealing with the mediaperson, who was walking to his office with his ID card.Davinder was allegedly dragged and bundled into a vehicle, after which he was taken to a police station and made to sit on the floor. Devinder managed to inform his colleagues of the incident and they took up the matter with the higher-ups, after which he was set free. However, no action has been taken against the erring cops, said the press body.The club demanded strict action against the policemen who manhandled Devinder. If the police can humiliate and harass a journalist who has a valid identity card, how ruthless will it be on other citizens, the body said.Lodging a complaint over the issue with the UT Administration, the Punjab Press Club also sought intervention of the PMO “as the act of the cops is a violation of the lockdown guidelines issued by the Centre”.The Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, in every his address since the lockdown, has been showering praises on mediapersons for performing their duties in these tough times.Meanwhile, members of the media fraternity from Phagwara, Goraya, Phillaur, Nurmahal and Nakodar have strongly condemned the police’s ‘excessions’ on mediapersons, including Davinder Paul in Chandigarh and Hari Pal Singh in Phagwara, during the curfew.Journalists Jasbir Chana and Neeraj Sharma, Harjot Chana, BD Sharma, Laddi Sharma and Shiv Kaura, while condemning the police for adopting inhuman behavior with the mediapersons, demanded stern action against the erring police personnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-action-against-journalist-condemned-73493
20-04-2020||Our Correspondent||BJP leader among 2 held for  molestation||Hoshiarpur, April 19The Sadar police on Sunday arrested BJP Kisan Morcha state secretaty Satish Bawa and another person on the charge of trespassing and molesting a woman Congress leader in Ajjowal village.A total of 10 persons were booked in the case on Saturday. Both were presented in a court, which sent them to jail. Congress leader Bindu Sharma, in her complaint to the police, alleged that while she was distributing ration (sent by Cabinet Minister Sunder Sham Arora) among needy persons of the village, BJP leader Satish Bawa, along with Sandeep Sandhu and some other persons, started shouting abuses in front of her house. She further alleged they forcibly entered into her house and molested her.Talking to reporters outside the court, Bawa alleged during this difficult time, cheap politics is being played by some people instead of serving the needy. He said a false FIR has been registered against him.BJP state president Ashwani Sharma has sent a letter in this regard to Punjab Governor VP Badnore, CM Captain Amarinder Singh and DGP Dinkar Gupta, alleging that ruling Congress leaders are busy in playing dirty politics to suppress and humiliate BJP workers. He demanded immediate withdrawal of the FIR and a thorough inquiry in the case.Covid suspect bookedMahilpur: A Covid-19 suspect, who was quarantined at Dadiyal village, was booked for quarrelling with an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) and chowkidar of the village.According to information, Gurvinder Kaur, a Dadial resident, in a statement told the police that she works as an Asha at the village. Kulwant Singh of the village was home-quarantined on April 15 after being suspected of Covid-19 infection.The next day, when he was walking out of the house, village watchman Tarsem Lal prevented him from doing so. After this, Kulwant started arguing and quarrelling with her and the watchman. On the basis of the complaint, the Mahilpur police have lodged an FIR against Kulwant Singh under Sections 353, 186, 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-leader-among-2-held-for-molestation-73491
20-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Refund Rs 26.6 lakh along with 12% interest, JIT told||Jalandhar, April 19The failure of the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) in handing over the possession of a 153-sq yd plot at Surya Enclave Extension, here, to an allottee has cost the former dear. The State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission while addressing a complaint of Rajinder Pal Singh, a resident of Guru Nanak Pura, has ordered the Trust to refund the principal amount of Rs 26,60,523 along with 12 per cent interest per annum from various dates of deposit till realisation.Besides, in its orders, the commission asked the JIT to pay Rs 40,000 as compensation for mental harassment and agony suffered by the complainant, including the cost of litigation. The Trust was told to make all payments within 60 days of the date of pronouncement of the judgment.The complainant, Rajinder Pal, in his complaint, said he bought a 153-sq yd plot at Surya Enclave Extension, after the Trust came up with a ‘development’ scheme for the allotment of residential plots on 94.97 acres.He said the JIT offered around 431 plots ranging from 100 sq yd to 500 sq yd to the public at a reserve price of Rs 17,000 per sq yd.“In July 2016, I paid the entire payment of Rs 26,60,523 for the plot bearing number 117-C as per terms of the allotment letter to the JIT,” Rajinder Pal said, adding that in the same month an agreement was also signed by him and the the JIT EO, which promised the possession of the plot by 2018. However, he did not get the possession till date.He alleged in his complaint that he visited the office of the JIT several times and approached the authorities concerned to know the status of the plot, but he was not given any suitable reply.The complainant said he had written letters to the JIT to refund the earnest money. However, the Trust authorities kept on adjourning the matter on one pretext or another. Therefore, he approached the commission to seek justice for the unfair trade practice on the part of the JIT.A notice regarding the complaint was given to the JIT by the commission. In its reply, the Trust, maintained that the complainant was at fault as he did not turn up to take the possession of the flat as per the terms and conditions of the allotment letter.The commission in its judgment said the complainant paid the entire amount and complied with all terms and conditions of the allotment letter, but the JIT failed to perform its part of the contract. It did not comply with the provisions of the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Rules, 1995, and had failed to deliver the possession within the stipulated period. Thus, the complainant was entitled to seek refund of the earnest money with 12 per cent interest per annum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/refund-rs-26-6-lakh-along-with-12-interest-jit-told-73490
20-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||5 from media house among six test positive||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 19With six more persons testing positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar, the total tally in the district rose to 47 on Sunday.Five of those tested positive are employees of a vernacular daily. All five are contacts of a 40-year-old man from Raja Garden, who tested positive on April 13. All are employees of the media house and aged 39 years, 42 years, 27 years, 36 years and 29 years. They were working in the same office as the 40-year-old resident of Raja Garden. The sixth person to test positive today was a 65-year-old from Basti Danishmandan.Five persons from Raja Garden resident’s family, including him, have previously tested positive and they include his mother, daughter, nephew and sister.The media house has become the focus of the district health authorities now, as an increasing number of samples linked directly or indirectly to it are testing positive every day. The five persons testing positive today were also listed as the employees of the media house and the Health Department is now checking as to what areas they hail from.Besides, three persons from the family of a colleague of the Raja Garden man have also tested positive. They include his father and two granddaughters in Basti Danishmanndan. In total, the Raja Garden man’s 12 contacts have tested positive.Two persons from the same organisation had also tested positive in Himachal Pradesh – which takes the number associated with the organisation to 14.So far, as many as 915 samples have been taken in the district, 675 have tested negative and the reports of 179 are awaited.Nodal officer, Covid-19 Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh said: “Five of the persons tested positive today were listed as being under the care of the said media house. Their addresses are not listed with us yet. But as details emerge, we shall seal their respective areas. We have placed 113 houses under quarantine today. We are looking at all possible contacts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-from-media-house-among-six-test-positive-73489
20-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj---||Don’t visit us, say messages put up outside houses||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, April 19 Interestingly, some of the households in Phillaur have pasted messages outside their houses which read: “Kirpa karke sadde ghar na aao ji, phone te hi gal karlo ji” (please don’t come to our house, instead talk over phone) and “Kirpa karke gali de andar na aao”. This is how residents have given a message that it was important to maintain social distancing amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In several places people are not following the norm and come out of their homes. But at ward no. 10 in Phillaur, people are following the rule properly and pasted the messages outside their homes for others. One of the anganwadi workers of the area, Nirlep Kaur, who has been visiting every household to check if somebody has got any symptom of the virus, said people here were aware that nobody should go to each others houses and all must maintain social distance. “It is an appreciable step that has been taken by local residents people here,” she said.  Today, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said till date all 840 villages under the Jalandhar (rural) police had been holding theekri pehras in their villages. He said people have self-isolated themselves and no outsider was being allowed to enter in their villages. He said it had helped in checking the spread of the virus in the rural areas to a great extent. The SSP said in most of the villages women had come forward for helping the police in installing these theekri pehras, thereby checking the entry of any strangers in their villages. He said police officers were regularly requesting reidents of villages to ensure strict implementation of theekri pehras to keep Covid virus at bay. These pehras would continue in coming days too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dont-visit-us-say-messages-put-up-outside-houses-73488
20-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||72-yr-old woman beats Covid||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 19An elderly woman at Pathlawa village here today defeated Covid and became the 17th resident of the village to be discharged.A month after a Nawanshahr elderly became the state’s first Covid-19 casualty, the 17th and the oldest coronavirus positive person from Pathlawa — Pritam Kaur (72) — the mother of village sarpanch Harpal Singh (49), was discharged from the hospital today. Notably, its been 24 days since the last positive case was reported from Pathlawa.With one death and recovery of 17 residents, only one person is left in the isolation unit of the village. The 16-year-old grandson of the Nawanshahr elderly is likely to be discharged in a day or two.Brought to the isolation ward on March 26 after she tested positive for Covid, Pritam Kaur was welcomed back to the village with a siropa. Overjoyed, her brother Ajaib Singh, former sarpanch of nearby Usmanpur village and a retired head teacher, also donated a month’s pension (Rs 40,000) to hospital staff for treating his sister well. The staff also offered her flowers and wished her a healthy life.While her son Harpal Singh, the sarpanch, had also completed the isolation period on April 7, he stayed back to take care of his elderly mother at the isolation ward.As soon as Kaur came out of the isolation ward, she lauded the hospital staff for their service by saying: “Initially, it was a horrific experience when I was asked to come to the hospital, but the presence of my son Harpal and other patients from the village there and the friendly environment at the hospital, made things easier.”Harpal, who had a twofold battle against Covid (one rescuing the village which at one point led the state tally and the other tending to himself and his positive mother), said: “Patience, perseverance and mental health are key in the fight against the virus. The authorities helped a lot in the fight. In return, the best we can do is listen to them. We have to ease the health staff who are also scared. After recovery, I decided to stay back with my mother to support her. I stayed back while maintaining social distance. I cleaned toilets after every use as, health staff can’t do the same all the time. We self-nursed ourselves as well by keeping warm water with salt handy and keeping our throats moist and warm.”Harpal said: “Some people don’t listen to officials and try to escape quarantine. That causes immense problems. With out fight, the lesson we have learnt is abide by quarantine rules. Follow precautions strictly, don’t leave a patient alone, keep them engaged and listen to health staff and co-operate with them.”Following the death of the Nawanshahr elderly, 18 more of his contacts tested positive till March 26 and shifted to the District Hospital, Nawanshahr. Of these, 14 belonged to the family of late Baldev Singh, two to sarpanch’s family and two others who have accompanied Baldev while going abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/72-yr-old-woman-beats-covid-73487
