20-12-2020||Our Correspondent||A first: 113 PwDs get jobs during special fair||Hoshiarpur, December 19In a first of its kind initiative to provide better employment opportunities to the people with disabilities (PwDs) in the district, a special employment fair was organised by the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) Hoshiarpur under district administration’s ‘Udaan’ project as a part of the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar te Karobar Mission’ of the state government. During this job fair, 40 different companies of the district offered jobs to 113 PwDs.Karam Singh, district employment officerFor employment related information the youths visit the Facebook page of the DBEE Hoshiarpur. Under the leadership of the Deputy Commissioner, the entire team of the District Employment Office was working day and night to provide maximum employment to the unemployed candidates and make ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar te Karobar Mission’ a success.It was inaugurated by Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Harbir Singh. Singh said that the objective of this special fair organised under ‘Udaan’ project was to provide better employment opportunities to the PwDs and through this fair, employment opportunities have been provided to many needy diwyangjans (PwDs).As many as 250 PwDs participated in the fair and after interviews by the industrial units 113 were selected for various posts out of which 100 were given offer letters from different units while 13 were shortlisted. In this fair, the PwDs having different educational qualification ranging from the least educated to the Classes VII, X, XII passed, besides those having knowledge of computer and having qualifications up to B Pharmacy and M Pharmacy, etc participated. Orthopaedically, hearing and speech impaired were selected for the posts of helper, cleaner, computer operator, packer, tele caller, chemist supervisor in accordance with their qualifications. Also, those tech-savvy PwDs who wanted to start their own Gram Suwidha Center (CSC) in their own village have also been selected after being interviewed in this job fair.Karam Singh, district employment officer, said for employment related information the youths visit the Facebook page of the DBEE Hoshiarpur. He said under the leadership of the Deputy Commissioner, the entire team of the District Employment Office was working day and night to provide maximum employment to the unemployed candidates and make ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar te Karobar Mission’ a success. Placement Officer Mangesh Sood, Career Counselor Aditya Rana besides the entire team of the Bureau and representatives of various industrial units were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-first-113-pwds-get-jobs-during-special-fair-186758
20-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||4 arrested with intoxicants in Hoshiarpur||Stolen cylinders recovered, 1 heldHoshiarpur: The police have recovered six stolen LPG gas cylinders from a person. The accused has been identified as Vishal Saini, a resident of Mohalla Prem Garh. Gobinder Kumar, in-charge, City police station, said Radha Verma, a resident of Mohalla Prahlad Nagar, filed a complaint that Saini tried to steal LPG gas cylinder from her house. He said, the police registered a case against the accused and arrested him. He said they have recovered six stolen LPG gas cylinders from the accused. Gobinder said they would produce the accused before the court and seek his remand. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-arrested-with-intoxicants-in-hoshiarpur-186759
20-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||19 days on, Jalandhar contractor’s kin seek justice||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 19A resident of Sant Nagar, Ladowali Road, ended his life allegedly due to continuous harassment by two Military Engineer Services (MES) officials on November 30, last month. But, even after 19 days, Kulwinder Singh’s (49) family, including his father Balbir Singh (76), is yet to come out of the shock.Balbir Singh is running from pillar to post to get the accused behind the bars, as he says, he forced his son to take such an extreme step.Omkar Singh, Deceased Kulwinder’s brotherUpset over the delay, he hanged himself to death at his site office in Jalandhar Cantt. They (JE & AGE) were denying to prepare his payments and were demanding commission from him for previous projects. They asked him to first pay them the commission for previous work and then they will enter his work in the measurement book (the book certifies that the construction work has been completed by the contractor for MES).The deceased used to work as an independent contractor, undertaking various work contracts on tenders. In his one-page suicide note, he said Subedar Mukesh Kumar Singh, a native of Patna, Bihar, posted as Junior Engineer (JE) at Garrison Engineer (west) Jalandhar and Captain Gaurav Tripathi, a resident of Amethi, Uttar Pradesh, posted as Assistant Garrison Engineer (AGE) were not only harassing him, but also asking him to give commission for previous projects.Kulwinder had received several contracts worth Rs26,54,812 from the Army for provision or certain special repairs/ LBW works in the area of AGE. But his work wasn’t being approved by the accused to receive the payment.“Upset over the delay, he hanged himself to death at his site office in Jalandhar Cantt,” his brother Omkar Singh (46) said. “They were denying to prepare his payments and were demanding commission from him for previous projects. They asked him to first pay them the commission for previous work and then they will enter his work in the measurement book (the book certifies that the construction work has been completed by the contractor for MES),” Omkar said, while referring to the content of the ‘suicide note’.On the basis of the complaints of the family members, an FIR (No.205) was registered against the MES officials for abetment of suicide under Sections 306 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Jalandhar Cantt police station.Subsequently, Advocate Inderpal Singh Sabharwal, fighting the case on victim’s behalf said considering the gravity of the offence committed by the accused, their anticipatory bail application under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) has been dismissed in the court of Darbari Lal, Judge Special Court, Jalandhar. Hence, they need to be arrested for detailed investigation.Meanwhile, Investigating Officer (IO), Sub-Inspector Jaswant Singh, assured that the accused would be arrested shortly, as they both were on leave till December 24. While the AGE is on leave since November 23, the JE took leave from November 27 onwards. The IO further said they both have gone to their native places.On the contrary, sources in the MES Builder Association claimed that the accused were spotted at their office on December 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/19-days-on-jalandhar-contractors-kin-seek-justice-186760
20-12-2020||---||4 die of Covid in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 19The district reported four more Covid-19 fatalities on Saturday, taking the death toll to 620, while 33 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 19,444.The active cases in district are 644 and 18,180 people have been discharged, while as many as 463 patients are under home isolation. In Kapurthala, eight more persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, while two people died of Covid in the district.Three succumb to virus, 51 test +ve in HoshiarpurWith 51 new positive patients, the number of positive patients rose to 7,505 in Hoshiarpur district and with three deaths, the toll reached 294.With 933 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms taken on Saturday, the total number of samples taken in the district has reached 2,20,592 so far. As per reports, 2,12,862 are negative, while the reports of 1,742 samples are awaited and 149 samples are invalid. The number of active cases is 164, while the number of patients who have recovered is 7,047. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of today’s 51 positive reported in Hoshiarpur district, 10 were from Hoshiarpur city, whereas 41 positive patients were from other health blocks of the district. There have been three deaths due to corona in the district. Of them, a 60-year-old woman of Jagatpura died at a private hospital in Hoshiarpur, while a 74-year-old woman of Pramod Nagar, Garshankar, died at a private hospital in SBS Nagar and a 60-year-old woman of Mahilpur died at Government Medical College, Amritsar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-die-of-covid-in-jalandhar-district-186761
20-12-2020||---||Retd officials form society for discussion on national issues||Jalandhar, December 19Deciding to have discussions on issues of national and state importance, several retired government officials, intellectuals, industrialists and academicians have formed a ‘Punjab Civil Society’ under which they held their first meeting on Friday.Sharing the idea behind the society, Ramesh Chander, a retired IFS officer, said, “We welcome people from various walks of life to have healthy discussions on prevailing social, economic and cultural issues so that the ideas conceived out of it can be further forwarded to the concerned officials for the society’s good.”Ramesh Chander, a retired IFS officerWe welcome people from various walks of life to have healthy discussions on prevailing social, economic and cultural issues so that the ideas conceived out of it can be further forwarded to the concerned officials for the society's good.Discussing the issue of the farmers’ protest, the members shared various positive and negative things coming out of the issue. They said that the protest showed the oneness in the communities and their strength to take on the adamant government. It also showed how singers, artists and celebrities were ready to support the Punjabi community. It also showed how everyone was ready to contribute and is lending a helping hand to the farmers fighting for their rights.Among those present on the occasion were Congress MLA Pargat Singh, ex-Principal of Central Cooperative Training Institute Nachhatar Singh, Principal Navjot Kaur from Lyallpur Khalsa College, President of Punjab Ex-Servicemen Association Col Balbir Singh, retired PCMS officer Dr Swaran Singh, industrialist Ravinder Dhir, realtor Sukhdev Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/retd-officials-form-society-for-discussion-on-national-issues-186762
20-12-2020||---||Farm laws: Harbhajan Singh appeals to PM to break deadlock||Jalandhar, December 19Expressing solidarity with farmers protesting on the outskirts of the national capital, Indian cricketer Harbhajan Singh took to twitter on Saturday appealing to the Prime Minister to find ways to end the deadlock over farm laws.Sharing a list of farmers who lost their lives during Kisan Andolan on the Delhi-Haryana borders, the cricketer tagged PMO India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on twitter.Appealing to the Central Government, he said, it’s high time the demands of farmers must be heard and steps be taken to resolve the issue. The ace spinner added that innocent lives were being sacrificed without any war.A host of actors, singers, sportspersons and other artistes from the state have expressed solidarity with farmers in the ongoing protests, majorly at Singhu and Tikri border.From lending their voice to farmers’ stir to putting out tweets and messages in their support on social media, the Punjabi film fraternity and sportspersons have supported the movement of farmers in their fight against new farm laws.Making apt use of his social media accounts, actor and singer Gippy Grewal has been associated with hashtag Istandwithfarmer campaign. Wearing t-shirts with ‘No Food No Farmer’ logo, he and his team including his children had earlier come out in support of farmers. Likewise, apart from posting pictures on his social media page, The Great Khali also joined the farmer’s protest over agriculture laws at the Tikri border recently. Expressing solidarity with farmers in their protest, he urged his followers among others to support farmers in their agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farm-laws-harbhajan-singh-appeals-to-pm-to-break-deadlock-186763
20-12-2020||---||Jalandhar district administration fixes 9 places for protests||Jalandhar, December 19In order to ensure minimum hindrance to the residents during demonstrations by people, the district administration has designated nine places in the district for the purpose of peaceful protests.Divulging the details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday said these places had been carefully selected to ensure that normal life was not at all disturbed during protests by political parties or other organisations.He said the PUDA ground opposite the Tehsil Complex, Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Hall, Burlton Park, Dushera Ground in Jalandhar Cantonment, the Improvement Trust ground, Kartarpur, the grain market, Bhogpur, on the western side of Kapurthala Road (Nakodar), Grain Market village Saifawala (Phillaur) and the Nagar Panchayat complex, Shahkot, had been identified for protests outside the city.The Deputy Commissioner said these places had been designated for the purpose of peaceful protests with several riders. He said the protesters would have to seek prior permission from the Commissioner of Police or the Sub-Divisional Magistrates concerned, whichever was applicable, before the protest. Likewise, Ghanshyam Thori said no weapon like knives, lathis or others would be allowed during the protest.The Deputy Commissioner further said the organisers of the protest would have to give an undertaking to ensure a peaceful march and protests with marshals at each relevant junction. He further said the organisers/protesters would be responsible for any loss of human life or property during the protest.He said these orders, being issued in pursuance of circular issued by the Department of Revenue, Rehabilitation and Disaster Management, Punjab, with reference to CWP No. 28061 ‘Varinder Pal Singh vs State of Punjab’ would remain in force for the next two months.Candlelight march for agitating farmersJalandhar: Congress councillors Balraj Thakur and Harsharan Kaur led a candlelight march in support of protesting farmers on Saturday. The march commenced from Mithapur chowk and concluded at Shivani Park in Model Town. Residents lit up candles and paid tributes to nearly 20 farmers who lost their lives during the protest. Councillors said their objective was to awaken the Centre to concede to the demands of farmers and repeal the new farm laws. TNS24 deceased protesters to be paid tributes todayJalandhar: A poster of ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’ to be observed on Sunday for farmers who breathed their last during the protests in Delhi reads ‘Marke marde roz anekan, marke jiunda tawan tawan, apni shahdat naal likh challe haan, sameyan da sirnawa’. Massive demonstrations have been planned all over Doaba from 10 am to 1 pm, including at the Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner office, Sanghowal toll plaza (Mehatpur), Phillaur and Nakodar, among other spots and demand the Centre to revoke controversial agri laws. The Bhartiya Kisan union (Rajewal), Bhartiya Kisan Union (Qadian), Kirti Kisan Union, Pendu Mazdoor Union, Doaba Kisan Union, Doaba Sangharsh Committee and Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, among others, will be organising protests. The kisan unions will address residents on farm issues and a kirtan will also be held outside the Deputy Commissioner office. Hoardings bearing photographs of 23 farmers and Sant Baba Ram Singh dot the city and neighbouring villages. Amarjot Singh, youth chief, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), said, “In 1907 farmers protested for nine months against the Britishers for their land rights. These 24 martyrs will be remembered for generations. It’s for the first time in 100 years that a farmers’ stir has gone on for this long.” Fauja Singh, a resident of Subhana village, said, “In 1907 men, women and children headed to Lyallpur (now in Pakistan) with cattle, goats and sheep to protest against the ordinances brought by the Britishers. This movement is three-months old, but finds its roots in the resolve shown by peasants a century ago.” — Aparna Banerji||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-administration-fixes-9-places-for-protests-186764
