20-11-2020||---||Fight for space takes ugly turn||Jalandhar, November 19A 60-year-old man was killed by his neighbour in the Phagwara Gate area early Thursday morning.Yovinder Singh (60) was beaten up with rods by his neighbour and his son, following which Singh succumbed to injuries.A dhaba owner, Yovinder, who runs Jaggi Naan shop opposite Pratap Bagh in Jalandhar, had an altercation with his neighbour over some utensils being kept outside their shop.The feud over some utensils reached to such an extent, that his neighbours Manohar Bhalla and his son Rinku Bhalla thrashed Yovinder badly, after which he died.Yovinder’s son Harjot Singh (32) also received injuries on his arms, but is said to be out of danger.The police have registered an FIR against the father-son duo — Manohar Bhalla (55) and Rinku Bhalla (30) — under Sections 302, 207 and 34 of the IPC. The accused are currently absconding, but the police said they were on a lookout for them. An FIR has been lodged on the complaint of Harjot Singh. Manohar owns a cycle parts shop next to the naan outlet of Yovinder.In his complaint, Harjit told the police that Manohar Bhalla attacked his father while he was placing his utensils outside his shop this morning. He said Bhalla began abusing his father and then attacked him with rods and wood sticks. While Yovinder was injured seriously, Harjot took him to the hospital where he was declared brought dead.SHO police station number 3, Mukesh Sharma, said, “A petty fight on the issue of the placement of some utensils got serious and the Bhallas hit Yovinder with an iron rod. The incident took place around 8 am. Harjot also received injuries but is fine now. We have lodged an FIR but the duo fled. An MLR has also been filed following Harjot’s injury.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fight-for-space-takes-ugly-turn-173071
20-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj ---||Pandemic scare dithers parents from sending wards to college||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, November 19 Colleges were opened two days ago for the final semester students after the orders from the state government, but it seems that the fear of Covid is not letting the parents of the students to allow them to go to the college. Jaspal Singh Randhawa, principal,  Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) College, Nakodar, said that proper precautions were being taken for the safety of the students. “But the strength is extremely low. There are approximately 265 students in the final semester, but nearly 25 are coming right now,” he said.  The principal conducted Covid test of all staff members. In college the students’ temperature is checked, sanitisers are given and the students and staff are asked to willingly wear masks.   “I feel since the colleges have started in phased manner, the students are under the impression that it might not be safe for now to go to the college. They think that if the students of other classes are not allowed to come, it means that it is unsafe to visit the college. Also, the cases are again increasing in the district,” the principal said.  He said,“The parents are also not ready to take risk and thus are not letting their wards to attend classroom classes”. The principal of GNDU College Phillaur, Paramjit Kaur Jassal, said, “Only 20 per cent of the students are coming to the college. The parents haven’t given them the consent. The students are still confused whether they should come or not,” she said. “Also, we have seen the students are not active in online classes. Students come and then leave the classes,” the principal said.  Jassal has called the area senior medical officer to send medical teams to take samples of the staff and the students.  The principals said there was an issue of lack of practical training to the students because of online classes.  Dr Sunil Khosla, principal, Baba Balraj Panjab University Constituent College, which is the only government college in Balachaur, said the university had ordered to continue with online classes only.  “Sometimes, the attendance of the students is too less during online classes. Because the students belonging to rural areas face network problems and some are also devoid of smart phones. But we have finished our 80 per cent of the syllabus now,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-scare-dithers-parents-from-sending-wards-to-college-173072
20-11-2020||Our Correspondent---||337 policemen  transferred in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, November 19 In compliance with the directives of DGP Dinkar Gupta to implement the posting and transfer policy of Punjab Police, as many as 337 police personnel in the district have been transferred. The police personnel have been transferred out of their home police stations as well as home sub-divisions so as to improve transparency and prevent biases in the working of police department. Along with that, in order to increase the manpower at police stations and to ensure effective policing, 446 police personnel have been posted from non-essential duties to the police stations.  The police personnel having more than three years of tenure in same police stations have also been transferred to other police units in order to increase their efficiency by assigning new tasks and to prevent any nexus in the region. A thorough briefing of the newly transferred police personnel was also done by SSP Navjot Singh Mahal in presence of SPs, DSPs in order to encourage them to perform at their best to prevent crime in Hoshiarpur. They were also told to instill confidence in general public and to enhance police-public relationships via community policing.  Mahal said, “The exercise will help in increasing professionalism in young recruits who have not completed their minimum required tenure in police stations and will help in early redressal of public grievances”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/337-policemen-transferred-in-hoshiarpur-173073
20-11-2020||---||5 die, 122 test positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, November 19The district hit a high of 122 cases on Thursday taking the total number of Covid positive cases to 16,576. Five Covid deaths were also reported.As many as 15,218 people have been discharged in the district so far. There are 841 active cases in the district so far. As many as 541 people are also under home isolation in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, 13 people tested positive for coronavirus in Kapurthala on Thursday.2 succumb in Hoshiarpur, death toll reaches 235As many as 29 cases of Covid-19 have surfaced taking the tally of positive patients to 6,708 of the 1,627 samples taken on Thursday.Due to the death of two more patients, the toll has increased to 235.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 1,525 samples of persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Thursday, taking the total number of samples taken till date to 1,81,325.According to the reports received from the lab, 1,73,954 samples were negative, while the reports of 1,886 samples were still awaited and 133 samples were invalid.He said the number of active cases was 208, while the number of patients who have recovered was 6,265.Of the 29 new positive cases today, 15 cases including a teacher, were related to the city, while the rest of them were from various health blocks of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-die-122-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-173074
20-11-2020|| ---||Social media comes to Education department's rescue||Jalandhar, November 19 Ever since the pandemic started, education has gone online. The online medium also exposed the gulf existing between the rich and poor when scores of government school students couldn’t even afford smartphones and their parents adopted several ways to buy it.  Now, the Education Department with an aim to keep the students motivated, have asked the district education officers (secondary and primary) to ensure that the ‘storytelling project’ that has been started by the department through social media platforms including  Facebook, YouTube, Instagram and twitter, should reach the students.  A statement in a circular read, “The stories that will be running on social media are ‘Anni and Addu chat about Covid, when spots went away, and How Raju rescued Goldie’. The idea is to keep students uplifted in these times. “They should be aware of the pandemic and not worry about anything else,” it said.  But not every student has an access to social media. The Punjab Achievement Survey started on September 21 and most of the students of a village couldn’t take the online test on the first day. Government Middle School, Mundi Cholian, Lohian block, has 131 students and 30 of them are residents of Dhakka Basti, a village 3 km away from the school. Of the 30, only five had smartphones. The village is situated near the Sutlej and most residents are involved in drudgery. Being aware of the financial constraints of these families, the head teacher of the school, Kulwinder Singh, visited the village on Wednesday along with other teachers and ensured that every student took the test. This isn’t the story of this village only, almost every student living in remote areas have to go through these problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/social-media-comes-to-education-departments-rescue-173075
20-11-2020||---||Ensure timely completion of projects: DC||Jalandhar, November 19  To streamline the implementation of projects initiated under various schemes in Nakodar sub-division, DC Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday held meetings with officials and directed them to adhere to the project timeline to facilitate people. The DC asked all officers to ensure that these projects worth Rs113.13 crore are carried out at the earliest for the welfare of people. These projects include uplift of road infrastructure, sewage schemes, construction of new bypass among others. He said these projects would prove game-changer to transform the lives and destiny of people residing in the town. “The main focus of the administration is that more and more development works are kicked off to make sure residents get benefitted,” he said. The DC asked SDM Gautam Jain to further expedite the pace of works.  He said the motive of the meeting was to propel the pace of works and warned officials that any callousness in serving people was unwanted and undesirable. The DC visited smart Haripur village and inspected various projects undertaken by the panchayat. He appreciated the efforts of panchayat’s representatives and handed over a cheque for Rs1 lakh to the panchayat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensure-timely-completion-of-projects-dc-173076
20-11-2020||---||Woman ends life on husband’s 3rd death anniversary||Jalandhar, November 19A 62-year-old woman committed suicide by hanging herself at her home on Thursday. The victim has been identified as Tarsem Kaur of Hardeep Nagar at Hoshiarpur Road in Jalandhar.As per reports, she was staying alone at her home and was depressed since long. The police said Kaur’s husband, who retired from the Police Department,had died three years ago in an accident. “It was her husband’s third death anniversary today. That might have led the woman to take such an extreme step,” an official said.Kaur has left behind three children, two daughters and a son, who are married and live in Canada. As per unconfirmed reports, the deceased had video called her son before she took the extreme step. Neighbours received a call from her son who asked them to look after her mother, as she was depressed, the police said.Sulakhan Singh Bajwa, SHO, Ramamandi police station, said they received the information around 9 in the morning. So, the exact time of suicide is not known. “Her son will fly down on Saturday. Until then, the body has been kept in the mortuary. Further probe will be done once her son is back,” the SHO said.As per the information, loneliness caused a deep impact on Kaur and she used to stay sad after her husband’s demise. The police said her relatives also live nearby, but nobody was with her when she committed suicide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-ends-life-on-husbands-3rd-death-anniversary-173106
20-11-2020||Housed in a palatial building of the erstwhile Maharaja of Kapurthala||Of grandeur &  deep emotional connect||Named Jagatjit Palace, the structure was built in 1908 on the pattern of Versailles built by Louis XIV of France.the names of 15 bravehearts from the school.Already housing 630 students from Punjab, Bihar, Ladakh and other states, the school is spread on a sprawling campus of nearly 200 acres. It is a fully residential school for boys providing public school education. It offers an array of opportunities to channel the energies of cadets for constructive purposes. A wide spectrum of extra-curricular activities ensures their multitudinous personality development. The school has been rendering yeoman service to the nation for over four decades by imparting balanced and quality education to cadets hailing from all strata of society. It has produced over 700 officers for the Indian armed forces through National Defence Academy. A sizeable numberof its alumni has made their mark in other respectable professions too! It is the only school among the 20 Sainik Schools that holds the record of holding the Defence Minister’s trophy continuously for seven years.Principal Col Prashant Saxena said: “The National Testing Agency will hold All-India Sainik Schools Entrance Examination (AISSEE)-2021 on January 10. The process of filling admission forms, which is currently on, will end on December 3. In Punjab, the exam will be conducted in Kapurthala, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Faridkot.”The Subhash House hostel building would be converted as the girls’ hostel. The hostel building would be revamped by raising a boundary wall and some renovation work would be done through the PWD.Alumni who made their mark||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/of-grandeur-deep-emotional-connect-173107
20-11-2020||Jalandhar||Raninder questioned by ED for six hours||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh appeared before the Enforcement Directorate in the alleged Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) violation case today. He was questioned for over six hours.FEMA violation caseRaninder, who arrived at the ED office at 11 am, was accompanied by Congress spokesperson and lawyer Jaiveer Shergill.This is the third time Raninder has been summoned by the ED this year. On October 27, he failed to appear before the ED owing to a meeting in the Rajya Sabha and again on November 6 (in the same case) citing health reasons. He last appeared before the ED on July 21, 2016.“I am a law-abiding citizen and have appeared before the ED today. I am ready to appear whenever summoned by the ED or any government agency, subject to inquiry. We will continue to cooperate with the authorities in the inquiry,” Raninder told mediapersons after emerging out of the ED office.While key Congress leaders have time and again alleged political vendetta in the timing of his summoning by the ED, Raninder said: “I can’t comment any further on the issue as the case is subject to inquiry. I leave this to your judgment.”While commenting on the long duration of the questioning, Shergill said: “That is the standard operating procedure of the ED. He has earlier, too, been questioned for five hours. We are extending all cooperation.”The ED probe concerns an investigation into assets acquired abroad and movement of funds, a case first investigated by the Income Tax Department.The IT probe alleged there were discrepancies in the full disclosure of assets — a charge denied by Raninder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raninder-questioned-by-ed-for-six-hours-172879
