21-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||Monday mess: ‘Monsoon ready’ claims fall flat||Jalandhar, July 20The tall claims of the Municipal Corporation (MC) about monsoon-preparedness fell flat after the Monday morning rain, which submerged various parts of the city. Commuters were seen struggling on water-logged roads.Several roads and localities, including Sodal Road, Pathankot Bypass, Rama Mandi Road, Railway Road, Damoria Flyover underbridge, Lamba Pind Chowk, Ladowali Road, BMC Chowk, Model Town, Preet Nagar, Industrial area, Ram Nagar colony among others, turned into water streams, causing severe inconvenience to rickshaw-pullers, motorists, car drivers and auto operators.Residents slammed the civic body, saying: “The accumulation of water on roads is not a new affair during rains. We have now become habitual. But what amazes us is that the MC, even after so many years, has failed to find a solution for this age-old problem.”They complained that desilting of drains was not done on time which was the major reason behind choking of sewer lines in many locations.Arun Kumar, a shopkeeper at Doaba Chowk, said: “Water-logging is witnessed on the entire stretch whenever it rains heavily. The authorities don’t pay heed to our complaints. Rainwater flows into our shops and enters homes in Preet Nagar, Aman Nagar, Ram Nagar Colony and even Kusht Ashram.”Another commuter Keshav Arora, who was spotted at BMC Chowk struggling to get his bike out of a pothole, filled with water, said, this was not happening for the first time with him as in the past, too, he had met with an accident due to water accumulation on roads."Due to water-logging, one fails to recognise potholes in one go and usually ends up either falling off the vehicle or getting stuck there. For persons driving a car, this might not be a serious issue, but for two-wheelers, it is fatal," he said.“It is unfortunate that the MC officials are not learning any lesson from the past. They claim that they are prepared and equipped to tackle the problem of water-logging in the city. But, the ground reality is completely opposite,” Arora said.Rajinder Singh, a resident of Model Town, said: “The city has already been inducted into the smart city project list, but a lot of work needs to be done. The problem of water-logging can be seen in even posh localities. It is tough for commuters to commute safely.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/monday-mess-monsoon-ready-claims-fall-flat-115816
21-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Educare App subscribers grow by leaps & bounds||Jalandhar, July 20Coming as a big achievement to the state Education Department, the ‘Educare App’, which was launched last week, has gained as many as 2,55,940 users and 4.7 rating on Google Play Store. Besides, the app has registered users not only from Punjab, but from Haryana, Himachal, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir.Giving details, Deepak Kumar, one of the team members who had an instrumental role in the app development, said as per the figures received on Monday from the technical team, the Educare App has around 2.55 lakh downloads, 88,19,418 views, 2,85,98,295 hits and 1,501 reviews so far. The app has become a big hit and we are getting a very good response from users, he said.He said the Educare App is a storehouse of all learning material. “Teachers and students can have hassle-free access to the syllabus, text books in a PDF form, video lectures, worksheets, assignments, quizzes etc in just a click. It is also helping users to recapitulate any topic whenever they want.”“Different features of the app such as teachers’ station, students’ corner, word of the day, Udaan are being highly appreciated by users, as it provides additional help in case of any problem or difficulty in access,” said, Chander Shekhar, Jaswinder Singh and Harjit Bawa, members of the Educare App developing team.Sujhaav Somvaar To bring qualitative improvement in online classes and make it more comprehensive, the Education Department on Monday held a virtual meeting — Sujhaav Somvaar — with the department officials, heads and teachers, to seek suggestions from teachers and officials on how online learning experience could be made more interesting and reachable for students. Besides, suggestions regarding adding more features in the app were also shared. Education Secretary Krishan Kumar said valuable suggestions were given by teachers and the team having technical expertise, adding that the department would definitely explore the ideas and soon develop a roadmap to execute the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/educare-app-subscribers-grow-by-leaps-bounds-115817
21-07-2020||---||27 new cases take district tally to 1,690||Jalandhar, July 20With 27 more cases reported in the district today, the tally has risen to 1,690. Eight of them are the contacts of persons previously tested positive, while 19 are new cases. Of the 673 active cases in the district presently, 89 are at the Civil Hospital and 211 at the meritorious school, out of which 41 are the BSF personnel.Five new positive cases were also reported from Kapurthala, of whom one is a cop. Those tested positive include a 52-year-old of the Punjab Police, a 44-year-old man from Jatt Pura, a 30-year-old man from Kesari Bagh, a 48-year-old man from Aman Nagar and a 47-year-old woman from Nathupur.15 BSF jawans among 27 test positive in HoshiarpurWith 27 new positive cases reported today, the number of patients suffering from Covid-19 in the district has increased to 298. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 27 out of 1,351 reports received from VDRL Lab Amritsar have tested positive. Of the 27 positive cases found in the district, 15 positive cases are from BSF subsidiary training camp at Kharkan Camp, 2 from Dasuya sub-division, 1 each from a village of Hoshiarpur subdivision, Talwara and Hajipur, 2 from Garhshankar and 1 from Mukerian Sub-division. Four cases are related to Hoshiarpur city.Dr Jasvir said today samples of 721 persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken, taking the total number of samples taken so far to 22,718. According to the reports received from the laboratory, 20,873 are negative while 1,543 reports are awaited. As many as 31 samples have been found to be invalid.There are now 98 active cases in the district which are being treated at Covid care centre. He said there have been 10 deaths in the district since the onset of the corona epidemic, while 190 patients have recovered from Covid. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/27-new-cases-take-district-tally-to-1-690-115818
21-07-2020||---||Lucky escape for 2 in accidents||Jalandhar, July 20 Two road accidents were reported on the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway on Monday.  While a bank manager had a lucky escape in a major incident when her car turned upside down after hitting police barricades, a two-wheeler rider, in another incident, received minor injuries after his scooter hit a truck on the Pathankot bypass road. ASI Satnam Singh of Division 1 police station said Harpreet Kaur, a manager at a private bank in Model Town, survived an accident after she lost control over her car that hit barricades and road dividers. The incident occurred around 9.45am near Kalia Colony when she heading to her bank. A resident of Amritsar, Harpreet was rushed to a nearby hospital where she was imparted first-aid. In the second incident, the truck and Activa scooter collided around 11am, said  Sukhjit Singh, SHO, Division 8 police station. The Activa rider saved himself by jumping off the vehicle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lucky-escape-for-2-in-accidents-115819
21-07-2020||---||Digital dentistry launched in city||Jalandhar, July 20 As visiting a dentist has become risky because of Covid-19, a private dental clinic has introduced a new technology called ‘digital dentistry’. Dr PS Sodhi, who runs the dental clinic, said: “We have set up a CAD-CAM unit which takes digital impressions of the tooth and designs and fabricates crowns and bridges in less than one hour. We can thus complete the entire treatment in one sitting, eliminating the need of multiple visits by the patients. The technique minimises the exposure of the people and reduces the chances of contracting coronavirus.” Dr Sodhi said the teeth crowns that were usually fabricated were made of metal piece with ceramic coating. “But the one that we are designing using CEREC system involve the use of non-metallic material. It is made of zirconia and comes with an eight-year warranty. Any breakage during the period will be on us. Besides squeezing the treatment into a single sitting, the technique also offers cost-effectiveness treatment. A single digitally-made crown comes for around Rs 3,500.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/digital-dentistry-launched-in-city-115820
21-07-2020||---||Youth narrates his ordeal on Facebook before killing self||Jalandhar, July 20 Perturbed over continuous harassment from his owner, a 27-year-old caretaker committed suicide here on Sunday around 4 pm, at his residence in Green Model Town. The deceased have been identified as Gurpreet Singh.  Before taking the extreme step, Gurpreet even went live on Facebook and narrated his ordeal. He said: “I have been working as a caretaker and helper at Harpreet Singh Baath’s house for the past more than two years. Not only was I subjected to extra work here, but my owner used to beat me up every now and then. Once he even slapped me in front of my friends and wife. I was subjected to continuous harassment almost every day. I was only paid Rs3,400 for working more than 14 hours, and when I refused to work for him, Harpreet asked me to pay the rent of the servant room, where I was staying with my wife and a 2-year-old daughter. It’s hard to make ends meet and my owner has further made it tougher. He is asking me to pay Rs84,000 as rent.” He reportedly hanged himself to death when his wife had gone out. While weeping in the video, he said he loves his daughter and never wanted to take any such step, but his owner made him do it.  When his wife, Sunita, spotted him hanging, she raised an alarm. Gurpreet was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital, where he breathed his last.  The police said a case has been registered against Harpreet, who was reportedly absconding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-narrates-his-ordeal-on-facebook-before-killing-self-115821
21-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Meet Jahnavi, a Class XII student who runs an NGO||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 20A Class XII girl from the city has set up an NGO ‘Word Builders’ that has been imparting courses for dropouts and slum children of not only Jalandhar, but Bihar, Mumbai and Bengaluru as well. She is helping them improve their employability skills.A commerce student of Cambridge International School for Girls, Jahnavi Mahajan, has already imparted six types of 12-hour courses to 300 students, including those on improving speech and writing skills in English, using email, making power point presentations, HTML coding, appearing for interviews and honing business skills.“They are all children who have studied in Classes VI to XII, who wanted to continue with their studies but were deprived of any such opportunity. We used the ‘Tribe for Good’ programme to help identify such children, who were keen on learning but were awaiting some help. We specially designed short-term courses for them and started one-to-one, one-hour learning sessions for them through Zoom or Whatsapp,” says Jahnavi, who has set up a team of 25 teenagers like her.Daughter of sports goods exporter Ashish Mahajan, Jahnavi said when she started the project in August 2019, she asked those interested in her NGO to apply for joining.“About 50 youths applied and on the basis of their seriousness to continue in the long run, I selected 25 of them who are studying in Classes X to XII. Having set up a team, we collaborated with renowned NGOs such as Tara in New Delhi, Oscar Foundation in Mumbai, Sakshi in Bihar, New Hope in Bengaluru and Saraswati Sanstha Niketan in Jalandhar. Having initially developed links with slum communities through these NGOs, we now have our own network of slum dwellers and children in six states,” she says.Jahnavi adds: “While we started this project last year, it took a new pace from mid-March onwards in the lockdown, when we got a lot of time to improve our set up because of the lockdown. We named our courses in a very innovative way so as to connect with the children – we call English language programme as ‘Angrezi medium’, business skills as ‘Mann ki Baat’, coding and technology programme as Digiwave.”While Jahnavi is herself the curator of Computorian programme and makes sure that she spends 9-10 hours a week on it, she has in her team Apeejay School student Harsahib Sodhi as curator for Angrezi Medium and Digiwave programme, Aaliah Janeja as curator for socioholic and Mann ki Baat programmes besides other 23 members. Having herself designed her NGO portal, she says she had learnt coding and developed a mobile application too.“Next year, I plan to go to the US and take admission to an undergraduate course, which will help me in reaching my goal to launch a technological set up that can have an impact on society,” she said, adding that it was really satisfying working with the underprivileged kids, especially when they send back a voice message to you telling you to send them another project assignment.Having done some exercises for fund raising for slum kids as well, she says at least one of the parents had a smart phone, which was made available to children at least for an hour on Saturdays and Sundays, through which the entire programme was carried on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meet-jahnavi-a-class-xii-student-who-runs-an-ngo-115822
21-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Welder killed, brother injured as armed men attack their shop||Garhshankar, July 20Some youths armed with sharp-edged weapons attacked two brothers working at their welding shop in Posi village of Garhshankar block.Deepak and his brother Sushant were seriously injured in the attack. Their family members took them to the Civil Hospital, Garhshankar. Owing to his serious condition, Deepak was referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, where he died during treatment. His younger brother Sushant Kumar, alias, Happy is undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital, Garhshankar.According to the complaint, around 20 attackers came armed with sharp weapons, riding motorcycles without number plates.They attacked both Deepak and Sushant while they were working at their welding shop. Victim’s mother Seema Rani told the police that a woman of the village, Kulwinder Kaur, living in Lebanon got the attack executed as she had been threatening to kill them. She alleged that Kulwinder Kaur and Ravi, Sonu and Soni, all residents of Rajpur Bhaiyan, got Deepak Kumar killed.SHO Sukhwinder Singh said a case has been filed against Kulwinder Kaur and others, on the statement of Seema Rani.Man shot dead in DasuyaDasuya: A man was shot dead by unknown assailants late this evening at his office in Dasuya’s Dana Mandi around 6:30 pm. The deceased has been identified as Paramjit Singh, a vehicle sales and property agent.As per the information, Paramjit, son of Kulwant Singh, was sitting in the cabin in front part of his shop when some unknown faces entered the premises and shot him before escaping. He came out of the establishment in an injured condition and was rushed to the Civil Hospital by a young man, where he succumbed to injuries after an hour and a half. He was a former reporter of a Punjabi newspaper from the Ema Mangat area. The police are investigating the matter.Case highlights||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/welder-killed-brother-injured-as-armed-men-attack-their-shop-115823
21-07-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab Government adopting pick & choose policy: AAP||AAP Doaba Zone Youth Wing president Tarandeep Sunny said the state government was adopting double standards in penalising those not abiding by the Covid-19 protocol.  Sunny said while some AAP workers gathered at the Jalandhar West constituency were booked by the police, no FIR was filed against Akali Dal leaders who recently held press meets, without masks, nor was any Congress leader, holding meetings publicly, booked for breaching Covid-19 protocol. He said a Jalandhar MLA, who turned up with 50 supporters at a site where government ration was privately stacked, also did not abide by the protocol. He said FIRs were registered against only the hapless and the poor out to procure necessities during Covid-19.  Sunny sought adequate action against all party leaders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-government-adopting-pick-choose-policy-aap-115824
21-07-2020||---||Five arrested for theft in 2 temples||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-arrested-for-theft-in-2-temples-115825
21-07-2020||Jalandhar||Man killed by friends||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-killed%C2%A0by-friends-115827
21-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Hit by Covid, they are fighting disability battle differently||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 19Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the disability sector in Jalandhar is charting stories of inspirational success and unparalleled heroism. Life did come to a grinding halt for some handicapped persons who had to suffer due to lack of jobs, rations and also had their families to look after. Not only this, social distancing norms also rendered their lives difficult. Thanks to a bunch of activists, who are reaching out to the differently-abled, providing them counselling, that they are able to see the flip side of lockdown.Vivek Joshi, whose victory over cerebral palsy won him several awards, has penned two books and offered counselling to hundreds during the pandemic.Anjali Dada, mother of an autistic child and trainer of hundreds of parents having autistic kids has trained several such kids, who are beating Covid-19 exceptionally when trained via visual stories and training videos.Visually-impaired Professor Prem Sagar inspires many and provides visual lessons to his college students. His wife’s NGO Saksham has been reaching out to many visually impaired holding webinars and inspiring them to cope with the pandemic with the help of technology and changed schedule.State disability activist Amarjit Singh Anand, who helped many differently-abled reunite with families amidst the lockdown, has tied up with the district administration during the pandemic and helped these patients receive medicines, rations and aid. He has also been a constant voice for the disability sector which most people forgot about – during the pandemic.While the activists are flooded with distress calls, they say special mechanisms need to be put in place for the underprivileged and those undergoing mental health issues so that they receive aid and support during the Covid-19 pandemic.Speaking out“A number of problems were faced by the disability sector in the beginning of the pandemic. During the lockdown, many did not receive medicines. A team of young volunteers had to be disbanded because they didn’t get e-passes. But slowly, we had to devise a mechanism through which everyone got help. Another huge problem is that most of the differently-abled are out of work during Covid-19 and have also not received rations. Many disabled have been hit hard during Covid-19. An accurate disability sector database is needed to help them get basic amenities.” ……………… Disability activist Amarjit Singh Anand,“I am 40, both my parents are both over 65. We can’t step out. So isolation is undoubtedly the new normal for us. I have tried to take it in stride though. During the lockdown I penned two books – Sankalp Se Srishti and Lavz Masoom 2. It is important to keep things positive. But the real challenge is for those who are jobless. I have counselled many people facing mental health issues.”….. Vivek Joshi, a disability activist and a lawyer“Technology has been of a great help during pandemic. It has helped me stay connected with friends from Ujjain, Barnala, Delhi, who face similar issues. I have grown spiritually and technologically during lockdown. I have appeared on webinars, offered counselling and provide lessons via audio and video conferences. I also resort to Yog and meditation. My wife’s NGO Saksham also provides help and counselling via webinars during the pandemic.” ……………. Prem Sagar, Professor, Music Vocal,“Autistic children turn out to be bright when properly trained. Visual stories and training has worked wonders for them. Trained autistic children follow a set schedule and cope up with new Covid norms within days. Proper training and counselling goes a long way to help children with severe autism.” ………………… Anjali Dada Founder, Soch Foundation (for Autistic children)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hit-by-covid-they-are-fighting-disability-battle-differently-115829
21-07-2020||Evergreen Publications (India) Ltd||Closure of educational institutes due to Covid hit our business hard||How has the lockdown impacted your business?As the government has been giving priority to the safety of public than the losses incurred by industrialists, our business remains severely affected. Our publication publishes textbooks for CBSE and ICSE board classes, lab manuals, practice papers, school diaries, notebooks, etc. March and April are considered as the peak months as our sales are highest during the period. Books, notebooks and stationeries are supplied to several schools. However this year, as the lockdown was announced in the last week of March, sales almost remained negligible. This is notably the first time that the company had to face such a steep downfall. Our business has reduced to just 10 to 20 per cent of the pre-Covid level. We would have a turnover of over Rs 120 crore, but this year it hasn’t even touched the Rs 50 crore-mark.Do you expect your business to pick up the pace in the near future?Looking at the situation, it’s really hard to predict when the business would get back on track. The sale is completely dependent upon schools and colleges, so unless the educational institutes open, our sales would remain low. In view of the availability of online books and study material, students are unlikely to visit the market to purchase books.What is the status of your labour?At our production unit in Jalandhar, we had around 600 to 700 labourers before the lockdown. The number has come down to 200 to 300. We have been continuously providing salaries to labourers. However, those who wanted to leave were not stopped as the work has been suspended. We publish books of around 1,500 publication titles and other state boards.Did you opt for online modes to maintain the profits?Even before the lockdown, digital sales contributed partly to our business as several e-books and e-content were sold online. As the classes went online after the lockdown, demand for e-content rose. A large number of schools associated with us were supplied online study material. However, the major share of our profits is offline sales.What lessons, as a businessman, have you learnt from the lockdown?The lockdown has taught us many things. We have realised the need to divide our sales mode between offline and online equally. Besides, we learnt that as a businessman, we should diversify our businesses. Having trades and investments in different sectors will always be more safe and profitable.What are your expectations from the government?Though I have zero expectations from the government, I think every industrialist or a businessman should always be provided with a friendly atmosphere, even during the crisis. The government should make businessmen their partner in building the nation’s economy. When in crisis such as the one, focus should be on how to revive the declining trade by lowering taxes and levies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/closure-of-educational-institutes-due-to-covid-hit-our-business-hard-115830
