21-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar rank improves in Swachhata survey||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 20Improving its previous ranking, Jalandhar has secured the 119th rank in the Swachhata Survekshan results 2020. With this, it has become the fourth cleanest city in the state after Bathinda (79), Patiala (86) and Ferozpur (96) among the cities with a population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh. In the last survey, the city had bagged the 166th rank, 214th in 2018 and 233rd in 2017.Jalandhar Cantt first to be declared ODFLuckily, among the 62 cantonments from across the country, Jalandhar Cantt has been named as the country’s cleanest cantonment in Swachh Bharat Survekshan. It is one of the oldest cantonments in the country, the construction of which had begun after the first Anglo-Sikh War in 1848. Moreover, while the Jalandhar cantonment is the first local body in the state to be declared ODF, the Municipal Corporation of Jalandhar is far away from the target.‘Planning on for management of waste’Meanwhile, MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma said new plans had been drafted for the segregation and effective management of waste in the city. “The MC officials and sanitation workers are working on bioremediation. Waste management is our key focus area. For this, the door-to-door rag pickers have also been roped in and 20 new carts have been distributed to waste lifters. In addition, I appeal to the residents to join hand in the source segregation of household waste and make use of compost pit. The MC will dedicate one month for this activity shortly,” the Commissioner said.It secured 3096.20 out of the total 6000 marks. The city was surveyed on various parameters, including sanitation, utilize capacity of wet waste processing facilities, treat and reuse waste water, open defecation, availability of public and community toilets, etc. The ‘Citizen Participation’ feedback also contributes towards increasing the score.The city could not compete for 50 per cent marks, including that of public and community toilets and garbage disposal. Its average score for Service Level Process remained 374.33 out of 1500 and in the open defecation free (ODF) category, the city got ODF++ certificate with an average score of 500 out of 1500. ODF++ focuses on toilets with sludge and septage management.Though the city has improved its ranking in the recently released Swachhata Survekshan report 2020, there were many factors that were again neglected this year. The city scored below 50 per cent marks in the categories of ODF, Door-to-door collection and segregation of garbage and enforcement of the Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016. Apparently the score dropped due to the garbage disposal and processing plant that hangs in balance. The authorities also failed to conduct 100 per cent cleaning of wards falling under the Urban Local Body (ULB).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-rank-improves-in-swachhata-survey-129043
21-08-2020||Our Correspondent||45-yr-old fresh fatality, 10 +ve in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, August 20The district reported the death of a woman due to the Covid-19, taking the toll to 26 on Thursday. Besides, the district reported 10 positive cases. With new cases, the total number of positive cases has risen to 936.A 45-year-old woman of Bajwara died at Guru Nanak Medical College, Amritsar. Around 1,494 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were collected in the district, taking the total number of samples in the district to 46,041.According to reports received from the laboratory, 41,676 are negative, while the reports of 3,456 samples are awaited and 61 are invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 172 and 738 patients have recovered.Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said of the 10 cases reported on Thursday in the district, four were from Mall Road in Hoshiarpur city, one from Dasuya, two cases each from Garhshankar and Mukerian and one from Hajipur health block. A woman, who died at Guru Nanak Medical College and Hospital, was reported Covid-19 positive after death.Meanwhile, 210 positive cases were reported from Jalandhar district on Thursday taking the tally to 4,894. As many as five deaths were reported from Jalandhar and Kapurthala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/45-yr-old-fresh-fatality-10-ve-in-hoshiarpur-129044
21-08-2020||Jalandhar||Amritsar-based NRI’s murder: Wife hatched conspiracy, three arrested||The police have arrested three persons for the murder of Amritsar-based NRI Jarnail Singh here four days back. They have been identified as Bhupindar Pal Singh, alias Bhinda; Manjindar Singh, alias Baj, both of Ajit Singh Wala village in Moga; and Harcharan Singh of Cheema Khudi village in Gurdaspur.The body of the NRI was found near Dhussi Bandh near Raipur Arayian village of Mehatpur town. Shahkot DSP Varinder Pal Singh said Sarabjit Kaur, the wife of the deceased, had been in a relationship with Baj, whom she met on social media, two years ago. Sarabjit hatched a conspiracy to eliminate Jarnail to marry Baj. The murder plan was devised by Sarabjit and her nephew Harcharan Singh.It was on their behest that Baj, Bhinda, Amrik Singh and Vajindar Singh murdered Jarnail Singh by strangulating him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amritsar-based-nris-murder-wife-hatched-conspiracy-three-arrested-129045
21-08-2020||---||Newborn stolen from Civil Hospital, case registered||Jalandhar, August 20A just born baby was reportedly stolen from the Civil Hospital here this afternoon.At 2 pm, the parents of the baby boy, who was born this morning, raised an alarm that their baby was missing. Cops from the division number four police station reached the spot and started investigation.The police have also started examining the CCTV footage to zero in on the accused.Roshan Kumar accompanied his pregnant wife Khushboo to the hospital for delivery in the wee hours of Thursday. A healthy baby boy was born to them at 9.50 am. The baby was under observation at the paediatric ward of the hospital when it was stolen.Gynaecologist Satinder said, “The delivery was conducted this morning and the mother and child were healthy. The baby was handed over to the father with the grandmother, an ASHA worker and another woman relative of the family also present at that time, but the mother of the child was still in the operation theatre. We gave the baby to parents. It went missing during the afternoon. The gynaecology department has no knowledge of how the baby went missing.”SHO, police station 4, Rashpal Singh said, “We visited the hospital and questioning is on in the case. The baby was just hours old. So far, the culprit hasn’t been found. A case under Section 363 of the IPC has been registered and the police are trying to find the culprit.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/newborn-stolen-from-civil-hospital-case-registered-129046
21-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Expect clean roads now as MC gets new sweeping machine||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 20City roads are expected to remain clean from now onwards.Reason: A new automated sweeping machine has been brought under the Smart City Project Mission.Aimed at cleaning a stretch of around 30 km every day, the machine was purchased for a cost of Rs1.25 crore. An existing old machine would also be used for cleaning roads, said Mayor Jagdish Raja.Notably, sweeping machines are back on roads after a gap of several months, as previously the operators of the sweeping machines running under the Mechanical Sweeping Project of the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation (MC) had refused to put machines into service due to the non-payment of dues.The project was started on the orders of former Deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal and was maintained by the mechanical sweeping machines. Sources said prior to the introduction of the project, questions were raised on its huge expenditure, but the then Mayor Sunil Jyoti and the then Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khera, had implemented the project in a hasty manner. Owing to the discrepancies in the project, Jagdish Raja claimed that a commissioner-level inquiry was held for strict surveillance of the project.After a trial of over a week, the new machine was put into operation on Tuesday night. MC Health Officer Sri Krishan said, the machine would clean roads for nearly seven hours every day between 10 pm and 5 am. “The machine has been equipped with high-tech technology and with larger brushing capacity on its arms, it is capable of sweeping a sizeable proportion of roads. Besides, the conveyer and vacuum propellers fitted in the machine help in suctioning dust and sprinklers spray water on roads to settle the dust particles. One driver and an operator has been hired to effectively operate and maintain the machine and the inbuilt sensors immediately stops the machine if any fault arises,” Sri Krishan said.While the old sweeping machine will clean the interior roads of the city, the new machine will clean roads located on the outer and central locations of the city, including PAP-Maqsudan followed by Mahavir Marg covering Kapurthala Chowk, Nakodar Road, Model Town Market, from Guru Ravidas Chowk to Latifpura and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/expect-clean-roads-now-as-mc-gets-new-sweeping-machine-129048
21-08-2020||THE Covid-19 pandemic has changed the education scenario. Universities have now started investing in IT infrastructure to prepare themselves for future. Lovely Professional University (LPU) Chancellor Ashok Mittal shares the placement and admission scenarios and challenges amid the pandemic with Aakanksha N Bhardwaj. Excerpts||‘Varsities have now started investing in IT infra’||What is the admission scenario at LPU amid the pandemic?Admissions are very good. When the lockdown was imposed, everything was stopped, but nothing was stopped at LPU. The classes were being held online and this sent positive vibes among students that they should choose a university or college which is future ready. Trust of the students has increased which is being seen in the admission too. We have seen a surge in the admission. For the existing students, the session was started in the month of July while for the new admitted students’ session has already begun in the month of August.What about other state and foreign admissions?This year, too, a large number of students from states like Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa, Telangana and Kerala and over 50 countries have taken admission in LPU. Thousands of new students from other countries and states have taken admission in LPU even during the pandemic period.Have you faced any difficulty in placements this year?Our placement has been going great. We conducted a lot of online interview sessions during the pandemic and our students have also been placed. Also, lots of webinars have been conducted by top companies like Cognizant, Google, Microsoft, HCL, Oberoi Hotel, Tata Motors, Maruti, L&T, Cipla, Glaxo Smith, Fortis, Network 18 and many more. Recruiters are conducting Zoom interviews and various online placement drives are being conducted. Package offers are big like previous years and the job roles that are being offered are equally significant.Any challenge you are facing amid the pandemic?The bigger challenge is to expand the team further. We have a very good team already, but expansion seems a challenge right now. The movement of best resources would be a little more restrictive amid the pandemic, so, as we want to attract good people with bright minds, it seems a bit difficult for now.Do you have seat limits? Because govt institutes and affiliated colleges allege that private universities grab more admissions because of no limit on seats?There is an internal quota. We have a strong system of seat allocation and I would like to inform you that we are rejecting people. I can immediately fill 5,000 extra seats, but we are not doing that, we want to attract the best minds.What changes have you made to run online classes?We have invested in new IT infrastructure from April onwards. We have developed new mobile apps. By adopting such ways, we have already overcome the challenges that we had faced in the beginning.Please elaborate on mobile apps.LPU has developed a unique Online Education Tool-‘myclass.lpu.in’ for easy cybernetic classes beyond any complexities. Various artificial intelligence-based tools are added to the online system to ensure that students get as close to possible the learning as in classroom teaching. The teacher will get to know after the end of the session about the number of students who had turned their mic and cameras off. Also four questions will pop on the screen of the students and they will have to answer the same, it will show that they are active and listening and thus they cannot bunk the online classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/varsities-have-now-started-investing-in-it-infra-129277
21-08-2020||Stuck at home? Are you desperately wanting to go out to explore new places||Punjab’s war heroes beckon you, come explore, virtually…||The Tribune takes you on a virtual tour of the Punjab State War Heroes’ Memorial and Museum, that showcases the splendid history of the bravehearts of Punjab. Constructed at a cost of Rs150 crore and spread on 7 acres on the Amritsar-Attari road, the memorial is divided into eight different galleries or halls charting battle history from the bygone era, depicting the rich Sikh history and various wars. The then Chief Minister, Parkash Singh Badal, had inaugurated it in October 2016.A visit to the gallery will definitely leave one spellbound and full of patriotism, but for now, let’s take a tour, virtually…Gallery 1: OrientationThe first gallery in an introduction to the great civilisation of Punjab and its brave warriors. It details about the battle of Alexander and Porus, which was fought in 326 BC between Jhelum and Chenab rivers of Punjab. It also includes a brief introduction of the Sikh Gurus along with their life and principles. A 12-minute movie on the introduction of Punjab and the Sikhs is also showcased.Gallery 2: Rise of Sikh EmpireIt highlights the role of Guru Hargobind Sahib, the sixth Sikh guru, and his contribution to the “martialisation” of the Sikhs. All four battles have been showcased along with the concepts of Akal Takht, Miri Piri. The life and battles of Guru Gobind Singh and his four sons have also been displayed. Mai Bhago, the warrior women who fought the battle of Muktsar, has also been shown prominently. The graphic presentations beautifully reveal the emergence of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, the history of Sikh misls and their rule.Gallery 3: The Sikh Empire and Anglo-Sikh WarsThe gallery showcases the rise of the Sikh empire under Maharaja Ranjit Singh and his achievements, his major battles along with the Ropar Pact, journey of Kohinoor and Anglo-Sikh wars.Gallery 4: World War-I and World War-IIThe gallery is still under-construction, which would display the contribution of Punjabis in World War I and II.Gallery 5: Battle of J&K in 1947-48It depicts the bravery of Indian soldiers during the Indo-Pakistan War of 1947-1948, known as the first Kashmir War. It shows the contribution of soldiers, who were responsible for protecting Srinagar.Gallery 6: Indo-China War (1962) & Indo-Pak War (1965)It showcases the Indo-China war in Ladakh region and North East, in which Subedar Joginder Singh posthumously received India’s highest military gallantry award — the Param Vir Chakra. While in the 1965 war, the role of Abdul Hamid in Khemkaran Sector has been given a peculiar display. The Indian Army destroyed 91 tanks of Pakistan. At the gallery, fiber glass tanks have been made to give it a real war effect. A statue of then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri has also been installed.Gallery 7: 1971-Indo-Pak War & Liberation of BangladeshThis gallery depicts the bravery of Army men at Longewala border. A statue of Kuldeep Singh Chandpuri has also been installed. A fibre model also exists, in which jawans are seen celebrating the victory by dancing on tanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjabs-war-heroes-beckon-you-come-explore-virtually%E2%80%A6-129278
21-08-2020||---||Eco-friendly measures push Jalandhar Cantt to top slot||Jalandhar, August 20From the 12th rank among 62 cantonments across the country last year, Jalandhar has sprung a surprise by getting the top position in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, conducted by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.By implementing eco-friendly initiatives, such as segregation of waste from houses, use of compost, rainwater harvesting and ban on plastic strictly, the cantonment board managed to score the highest 3,670 points this year. A team of the Central Government had visited various pockets of the 15.2 sq km cantonment area in November last year and verified all factors and parameters set for the survey.Jyoti Kumar, CEO, Jalandhar Cantonment, attributed the recognition to the hard work of the sanitation staff and the joint efforts of residents and NGO Green Hearts, who are working for the cause with dedication. “Our sensitisation programme on waste segregation was carried out in an effective manner. All those residents who could not understand how segregation was to be done were given demonstrations outside their homes. The garden waste was managed within the garden, with aerobic and anaerobic pits for green and dry foliage,” he said, after attending an online ceremony of the department in Delhi.In the cantonment, there has been much strictness over carrying plastic bags and awareness drives have also been carried out in the residential areas. Jute handbags have been distributed and the residents have been urged to carry them along when going to markets. Fines have also been imposed on violators.All residents here have been given blue and green dustbins, with strict orders to hand over the green waste separately to sanitation employees engaged in the door-to-door lifting of garbage.As the sale of compost could not be possible, the same was used in hospitals, schools and government buildings. All government buildings also got rainwater harvesting systems installed for recharging groundwater. While Jalandhar Cantt made a mark, Jalandhar city remained far behind at 119th rank. It was placed at 166th rank last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eco-friendly-measures-push-jalandhar-cantt-to-top-slot-128990
