21-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||He is still hitting the right note with the masses||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 20As he addressed farmers at Singhu border, people of Punjab were overwhelmed by Raman Kumar’s deep, baritone voice they had perhaps been missing for nearly three years. Having their ears used to hearing news presented by him for 40 years on Doordarshan (DD), it was like recollecting old days, when DD was the only channel available, especially for the rural, farming community gathered there.Needless to say, Raman’s video went viral and got as many as 5 lakh views in a matter of few hours. After returning from the site, Raman shared, “After I delivered the speech, many farmers came to me and shared they were really happy to see me in person and talk to them directly from their dais. Certainly, it was a completely different experience for me as well.”Raman, now 63, had his innings in the DD from April 1978 onwards. “I started my career from Amritsar. In 1981, DD Jalandhar was set up and I shifted here,” he told. Accomplishing a career spanning more than 39 years, he hung up boots in October 2017.He narrated, “It was quite a different media as compared to what we see now. Of course, we had a limited freedom to experiment with but we enjoyed a much larger audience. I can easily compare it as I am still working for two channels. One is RPD channel based in Brampton where I discuss current affairs for two days a week. The other one is Punjab 1 TV, which operates from California and where I do a weekly round-up of news. The working with social media is entirely different. We can speak our mind, be more thoughtful in our discussions and take much liberty. But there are also issues of multiplicity of channels and a lot of unfiltered stuff that is flowing. If the reach is quick, the reactions and comments, too, are instantaneous. Thankfully, I have not faced any trolling or criticism in my entire life.”Raman adds, “When I retired, I had offers from various TVchannels asking me to work for them on a regular basis. But I chose not to join any as at the age of 60 I didn’t want to work for 30 days a month which was their condition. I wanted a more relaxed kind of a job, wherein I could spend more time at home and with my family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-is-still-hitting-the-right-note-with-the-masses-187180
21-12-2020||---||Accused of killing his brother, man ‘ends life’||Jalandhar, December 20 The man, accused of Kala Sanghian firing incident, has reportedly committed suicide. Amritpal Singh (32), alias Lucky, who opened fire on his brother Jaswinder Singh (38) on December 13, reportedly ended his life by jumping into the Sutlej canal in Phillaur.  He apparently took the extreme step around four days ago and his body was identified by his family members on Sunday.  As per the police, Lucky was absconding right after opening fire on his brother that accidentally hit his sister-in-law, Suminder Kaur, who had a narrow escape after it pierced through her right ear. The incident took place at their house in Ishwar Colony on Kala Sanghian Road after a dispute over an ancestral property took an ugly turn. After seeing his wife in blood, Jaswinder Singh, alias Raja, fainted and later died of shock at a private hospital. The brothers had a dispute over their property after their father passed away. Both of them were running a plywood factory ‘Inder and Sons Complex’ at Kala Sanghian.  SHO, police division number 5, Ravindra Singh said the suicide was reported on December 16 evening. The body of the accused was spotted near the canal by some locals. Subsequently, it was kept at the mortuary of the Civil Hospital for identification. The family members of the accused got to know about the body through Facebook. Lucky is survived by his wife and a child. A case under Sections 304 and 307 of the IPC and Arms Act was registered against him at the police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/accused-of-killing-his-brother-man-ends-life-187181
21-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||A tribute to those who died for a cause||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 20Farmers’ unions and residents across the region observed ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’ to mark the sacrifices of the 24 men, who lost lives in the course of farmers’ protests, here on Sunday.Huge flex boards of the 24 persons who died during the farm protests at Delhi border were put up at all sites in the district, where demonstrations were held.Events were held at the DC office Jalandhar, Sanghowal Toll Plaza (Mehatpur), Kartarpur, Phillaur, Nakodar among a number of other villages. While a number of kisan unions gathered outside the DC office on the ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’, farmers, while condemning tax raids on arhtiyas, sought the withdrawal of ordinances from the Centre to prevent the loss of lives.Organisations such as Bharti Kisan Union, Qadian, Kirti Kisan Union, Pendu Mazdoor Union, Doaba Kisan Union, Doaba Sangharsh Committee, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha among others also took part in the demonstration.At the DC office demonstration, activists of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) and Kirti Kisan Union paid tributes to the 24 martyrs in an event that was held from 10 am to 1 pm. Activists observed a one-minute silence for farmers, who lost lives during the andolan and exhorted all farmers to pledge to play an active role in the protests and extend support to the stir as long as their demands are not met.President of the union Mandeep Singh Samra, secretary Kulwinder Singh Mashiana, Pargat Singh Sarhali and Youth Congress leader Amarjit Singh Jyoti also spoke on the occasion.On the call of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, various farmers’ groups also held a demonstration at the Sanghowal toll plaza to pay tributes to farmers who died while protesting against the three farm laws at the Singhu border. Leaders said despite so many farmers sacrificing their lives, facing all kinds of hurdles and amid the biting winter chill, farmers stay put at the Delhi border awaiting the withdrawal of the three farmers’ resolutions. They said while the biting cold had claimed many lives, farmers’ demand remain unaddressed by the Centre.Kirti Kisan Union’s Rajinder Mand, Harpreet Singh Uppal, Istri Jagriti Manch’s Anita Sandhu, Kul Hind Kisan Sabha leader Sandeep Arora, Mandeep Sidhu, Dehati Mazdoor Sabha state president Darsan Nahar, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha leader Master Gurdev Singh Uggi among others were also present on the occasion.At the Kartarpur Morcha, activists condemned the income tax raids on arhtiyas supporting the farm stirs. They demanded the withdrawal of the farm ordinances and sought from the Central Government that it should stop targeting those who were supporting the fight for farmers’ livelihood and future. Kashmri Singh Ghushore, Gurpreet Singh Cheezan, Balvinder Kaur Dyalpur among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-tribute-to-those-who-died-for-a-cause-187182
21-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj---||Govt teachers cover 380 km on cycle to support farmers||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, December 20 Two government schoolteachers from Sultanpur Lodhi reached Kundli border earlier this week on their bicycles to express solidarity with farmers. Yadwinder Singh and Jagjit Singh started their journey on Monday evening and after an overnight ride, they reached the border on Saturday after covering a distance of approximately 380 km. Jagjit Singh from Government Primary School, Pithorahal, and Yadwinder Singh from Government Primary School, Fatowal, said they belong to farmer families. “My father is also a farmer and apart from teaching, I also look after my fields. Being a farmer’s son myself, I couldn’t have afforded to sit back at home. So, I decided to come and support farmers,” he said. Yadwinder Singh said he along with Jagjit started riding the cycle as a routine for the past some time.  “Also, we wanted to do something different in the protest. I heard that some farmers were also coming here on their cycles. So, we also decided to extend our support and salutation by coming here on our cycles,” he said. These teachers kept motivating people on their way to Kundli border. “We met several people, held conversations with them and told them that we were going in support of farmers. We were surprised to see the response. Everyone said they were with farmers and wished that they come back winning,” Jagjit said. On being asked if they faced any problem on the way, they said their problems were nothing in comparison to farmers, who have been fighting for their rights at the borders for the last 20 days. Yadwinder and Jagjit will remain at the border with farmers for two days now. Yadwinder said: “We will also try to reach out to students, who have come with their families and are studying here.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-teachers-cover-380-km-on-cycle-to-support-farmers-187183
21-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||2 die, 13 positive in Hoshiarpur||After 13 persons tested positive, out of 827 reports received from the lab, the tally of Covid patients increased to 7,518 in the district. With the death of two more patients, the toll also rose to 296.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the samples of 669 persons were taken in Hoshiarpur district on Sunday. With it, the total number of samples taken so far in the district has reached 2,21,261. So far, 2,13,682 samples were found negative, while the reports of 1,582 samples were still awaited. As many as 7,067 persons have recovered and there were 155 active cases. Of the 13 new positive cases, one case was related to Hoshiarpur city, while 12 were from different health blocks of the district. Two persons who died include a 91-year-old resident of Manavata Nagar, Hoshiarpur, who died at a private Hospital in Ludhiana and a 48-year-old woman of Baddon village, who died at a private hospital in Hoshiarpur. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-die-13-positive-in-hoshiarpur-187184
21-12-2020|| ---||BJP meet ‘disrupted’ by protesting leaders||Jalandhar, December 20  Members of various farm unions, BSP as well as Shiromani Akali Dal on Sunday protested against the BJP leaders during a workers’ meeting of the party, which was being held at a local marriage palace here.  The dharna happened days after various farmers unions held a protest and burnt an effigy at the Company Bagh Chowk in anticipation of BJP leader Shwait Malik.  Days before that, farm leaders had also gheraod the residences of some senior BJP leaders.  During protests, members of some farm unions and BSP as well as SAD leaders gathered outside the venue of the meeting and raised slogans against the Central Government and in favour of farmers. BSP leader Sukhwinder Kotli, SAD leader Tejinder Singh Bittu and farm leaders were also present.  BJP leaders Manoranjan Kalia, former district rural president Deepak Sharma, Yagyadutt Aeri were present in the meeting.  BSP leader Sukhwinder Kotli said: “With the ongoing farm agitation, BJP leaders should abstain from holding meetings like this. They know the sentiments of farmers. Farmers have given a statewide call that they shall gherao leaders wherever they try to hold such meetings. Despite that, a meeting was held here. We stand with farmers and will be democratically and peacefully opposing the BJP’s policies and its attempt to hold any such event in future as long as farmers’ demands are not met. The dharna was also not a party event. It was an opposition from all parties and farmers’ groups were also present.” SAD leader Tejinder Singh Bittu said: “Delhi vich morcha chal reha, eh sama nahi haiga meeting karan da (protests are going on in Delhi. This is not the time to hold meetings). I think the BJP leaders are aware that protests are on at Delhi and farmers are unhappy. Farmers are angry and farm leaders aren’t allowing any such meetings by the BJP leaders.” Cops moved protesters to a side and the BJP mandal meeting concluded amid the ongoing dharna, after which party leaders left.  Speaking to media, DCP Gurmeet Singh said the agitation was peaceful and was peacefully dispersed. He said BJP leaders also left soon after their programme concluded. He said the police have been exhorting farm leaders to maintain peaceful and democratic stirs and not to disrupt or cause inconvenience to traffic anywhere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-meet-disrupted-by-protesting-leaders-187185
21-12-2020||---||Science plays a major role in textile industry: Experts||Jalandhar, December 20 A webinar titled ‘The science behind traditional fabrics of India and fashion world’ was organised by Women Technology Section of Pushpa Gujral Science City on Saturday. Jaspreet Talwar, principal secretary, Department of Water Supply and Sanitation, was the chief guest. Around 300 students pursuing fashion designing participated in the event.  Talwar said, “India’s textiles sector is one of the oldest and dates back to several centuries. Archaeological surveys and studies have indicated that people of Harappan civilization were familiar with weaving and spinning of cotton 4,000 years ago.” She said, “Reference to weaving and spinning materials is also found in the Vedic literature and block-printed and resist-dyed fabric have been found at tombs in Misr-Al-Fustat and Egypt. Thus, indicating the export of Indian cotton textiles to Nile civilisation.” Talwar added, “Large quantities of Indian silk were traded through silk route to western countries. At present, Indian fabrics are in high demand and textile exports contribute 5 per cent of India’s GDP. The sector is estimated to have a potential to reach $50 billion and it provides employment to over 45 million people directly and 60 million people indirectly. Science has significantly contributed towards development and use of traditional fabrics and continues to contribute to the development of textile industry.” Dr Neelima Jerath, director general, Science City, said, “Science has played a major role in promotion of handlooms, handicrafts and sericulture, besides technological contributions in weaving, spinning, dyeing and garment production through textile engineering.”  She said innovation, science and technology, has helped to develop new types of clothes, ‘Sustainable fabrics’, including paper cloth (used in high fashion clothing), pinatex from pineapple, micotex from mushroom, orange fibre cloth, ucalyptus yarn and cactus leather. It has also contributed in preservation of traditional fabrics, including vicuna wool, alpaca wool, cashmere wool and shahtoosh. Harpreet Kaur, head, Department of Fashion Design, KMV College, introduced the participants to the world of textile crafts of India and made them understand finer details of traditional textile crafts and the fashion world. She explained the science behind fabrics, various scientific methods and techniques used in the manufacturing and designing of fabrics.  Harpreet said, “Everyone should adopt and purchase traditional Indian handicrafts as not only are they most suitable as per weather, but also made with fabrics dyed with natural dyes, which are non-allergic. Moreover, we contribute in preserving our heritage and provide sustainable livelihood to artisans. Thus, we do our bit as sustainable consumers by adopting 3Ps (planet, people and profit).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/science-plays-a-major-role-in-textile-industry-experts-187186
21-12-2020||---||1,606 students appear for NTSE, NMMS exams||Nawanshahr, December 20 As many as 1,606 students, comprising 749 of Class X and 857 of Class VIII, appeared in the national level competitive scholarship exam in the district on Sunday. Divulging details, Satnam Singh, district science supervisor, said that as many as six examination centres , three each for National Talent Search Examination ( NTSE) and National Means-cum-Merit Scholarship ( NMMS) were set up. While students of Class X took the NTSE test, the students of Class VIII appeared in the NMMS test. Assistant Director- cum-Nodal Officer Dimpy Dhir, District Education Officer(SE) Jagjit Singh, and Deputy District Education Officer(SE) Amrik Singh, visited examination centres and expressed satisfaction over the free, fair and smooth conduct of examination.  Jagjit Singh said that despite closure of schools due to Covid-19 pandemic, the Education Department had set path breaking trends to provide access to the education facilities by ensuring optimum utilisation of the latest digital application, TV and radio channels.  “Besides taking regular classes as per the prescribed syllabus, the brilliant students had made elaborate arrangements for preparing them to take competitive examinations. The team of expert teachers designed daily slides related to different subjects and Google quizzes, which were made available to the students continuously via well knit social media network of the department at the grassroots level,” the officer said.  The special online as well as physical coaching classes for the students aspiring to take NTSE and NMMS examinations were also organised, he informed.  The officer added that the department also organised virtual PTMs on regular intervals to take feedback from the parents about progress of their wards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-606-students-appear-for-ntse-nmms-exams-187188
21-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||BSF organised cyclothon under ‘Fit India Movement’||In sequel to the events being organised by the BSF under ‘Fit India Movement’, a cyclothon and run was organised by Sub-Training Centre (STC), BSF Kharkan camp. The event was flagged off by Sanjeev Bhanot, Inspector General, BSF.  Officers, sub-officers and trainees of STC participated enthusiastically in the event. They passed through various villages of the area making people aware of the importance of regular exercise. They gave a slogan of “Fitness ka dose-adha ghanta roz” to area residents. The event was aimed at inspiring residents to undertake fitness activities to improve their health. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bsf-organised-cyclothon-under-fit-india-movement-187189
21-12-2020||Shouldn’t the Centre expedite talks and resolve agri crisis at the earliest?||Before it’s too late, strike down the farm laws||Govt must break the impasseNever before in India farmers’ peaceful protest with such a magnitude has taken place anywhere across the country’s map. But what is most worrying is huge gathering of gullible farmers amid the pandemic. The Centre is totally bound to protect our farmers from this incurable disease sitting at the borders of Delhi, which is presently also reeling under severe cold weather conditions. No governing dispensation can be so cruel and indifferent towards own people who are peacefully demanding justice through reversing some wrongs done to them. The leadership of farmers deserves to be adequately recognised for their proficiency to keep the movement integrated and focused, free from any communal overtones. Given the circumstances, the government must immediately come forward to resolve the impasse and unilaterally declare revocation of three farm laws against which the farming community has put everything on stake. Jagdish ChanderShun rigid postures & expedite talksFarmers have been protesting for over three months against the agri laws. Finding no redressal to their grievances, they reached national capital’s borders in huge numbers, dismantling all coercive hurdles in their way to express resentment before the Centre. Since then, they have been camping, braving the chilling weather besides the Covid threat still looming large. The roads entering Delhi are blocked by the protesters. Economic development of the region, already paralysed by the pandemic, has been hit severely. Inordinate dilly-dallying even after six rounds of talks to clear the impasse has cropped up simmering discontent than easing out the problem. Farmers are asking to repeal the laws while the government is trying to wriggle out of such demands. So far the agitation has been peaceful, but may turn ugly if some mischief mongers creep in to vitiate the atmosphere. The government should show magnanimity, shun rigid postures and expedite talks to resolve the crisis without a delay. To end the ongoing deadlock, the best way forward would be to suspend the contentious laws and constitute a committee, as envisioned by Supreme Court, comprising of agri experts, farm activists, state and central government representatives to reinvent farm reforms with thorough deliberations. Upholding the essence of human rights and democratic values, the PM must intervene for amiable end to this stalemate. Nirmaljit SinghEconomy may suffer, againIndustrialists are facing hardships due to farmers’ agitation as goods supply chain has been disrupted. Hundreds of factories have been closed in Haryana and Delhi. If this agitation continues for long, it will come as a shock for our economy. Economists and intellectuals should intervene and make farmers aware of the outcomes. Farmers in Punjab are already facing multiple problems as their vegetables are rotting and roads are blocked by farmer unions which connects Punjab to Haryana and Delhi. So there is no way to send vegetables to other states. However, one must always remember that obduracy in any matter is always detrimental for society as well as the country. Saahil HansCan a compromise be the answer?The virus posed a serious threat to life during the farmers’ agitation and it will end up in super-spreading the danger not only in Delhi but the whole country. The winters are here and they are camping outside without masks and maintain no social distancing, the risk of Covid putting new challenges. The government is in power and can do anything to end agitation, they should listen to the farmers demand to revocation of law, at least it should announce the suspension of implementation of law and that these will not be enforced till the concerns of farmers are resolved – the act should be redrafted. It has become the duty of the government to issue an ordinance to amend the three laws. They should consider a compromising solution to end their protest because nothing is coming out after rounds of talks. Even wars between nations have settled through agreement. Here it is not a war, they are our own known as ''anndata''. For both sides it would be good if the matter is resolved as soon as possible before it is too late. Shashi KiranNo point in protestingThe stir has become a huge problem for all the sectors in India. Everybody is facing hardships. But the big challenge is how to tackle coronavirus as well as farmers’ protest simultaneously. The farmers need to understand this and should not gather in such a situation because we haven’t caught Covid-19 yet. The obdurate attitude of the central government is a clear indication that farm laws will not be repealed. The bottom line is there is no point in protesting. If the central government wanted to revoke the law, they would have revoked it. Shailja ThakurFuture could hold doomThe current deadlock between the government and farmer organisations over the three contentious farm laws is quite disappointing. While the Centre is constantly sermoning that these laws will make agriculture more efficient and lucrative, the farming community is unequivocally demanding their revocation as it apprehends losing both its livelihood and lands. With the two sides apparently taking tough stands, farmers are prepared for a long haul and have decided to intensify their stir which has received huge public support in the country and abroad. The national capital has already witnessed a huge movement of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other states. Enthusiastic and eager to join, more and more people are heading towards Delhi borders with each passing day, in spite of the chilly weather. At the same time, the threat of pandemic is still looming large. The Delhi administration is grappling with the sudden resurgence in cases post-Diwali celebrations and increasing pollution levels. There is an inherent, well-founded risk of the virus transmission as the mandatory health and safety precautions such as distancing, wearing masks and self-sanitisation are taken for a toss. So amid the given pandemic and economic crises trajectories, it is imperative to overcome the continuing impasse between the Centre and the farming community honourably and amicably. Otherwise, it will undermine the country’s socio-economic, political, constitutional and democratic interests. Instead of discrediting, dividing and derailing the farmers’ struggle, the Union government should revisit its legislative overreach and immediately hold conclusive discussions with them to address their specific concerns. It will simultaneously help avert any unsavoury showdown and medical calamity in future. DS KangNo early end in sightIt’s really unfortunate that the central government is stubborn and adamant in not repealing the farm laws. Firstly, there was an ordinance route due to the lockdown because and then the same laws were passed in the Rajya Sabha amidst pandemonium and that also through ‘voice-vote’ and not through proper voting. This government is hell-bent on crushing the democratic rights of the people. No agricultural experts, economists or farmer unions were consulted before enacting these laws. Only ‘Ambanis, Adanis’ and some other corporate houses were favoured to implement these laws. Agrculture was the only factor which was positive in economic index. Rest all were falling down the graph. These corporate houses want to grab the land of the farmers through contract farming and then sow the crops as per their own desire and option. The farmers would be reduced to just labourers in their own fields as has happened in Bihar and in many other states. Now it is a pan-India movement. Though there is a risk of Covid during the agitation but it’s the government to be squarely blamed for this sorry state of affairs. The central government will have to relent sooner or later. If the government indulges in violent crushing of the agitation, it will be catastrophic for the country. The PM is just hoodwinking the farmers and the people through his ‘Mann Ki Baat’. When farmers don’t want these laws, why is he ramming the laws into their throats? Dr JS Wadhwa.A cold-hearted governmentUnlike other protests, the farmer''s protest against the new agri laws has been so far the most peaceful protest in the reign of BJP government in contrast to the CAA Shaheen Bagh protest in Delhi. Keeping in mind the nature of the protest, the Centre should expedite talks and resolve the crisis at the earliest not only due to the Covid threat and farmers out on the road in this bitter cold fighting for their livelihood but also keeping an eye on the clock ticking daily on the losses incurred due to immobilisation of public transport across the borders. The government showed a pitiful sense of dignity and concern when the farmers marched towards the capital and campaigns against these laws, while it grew more influential on social media platforms globally. A day''s incident in Bengal was enough to catch the attention of Union Home Minister and so influential that MHA summoned the DGP and Chief Secretary of West Bengal but lakhs of farmers peacefully protesting for their rights at the border are summoned for discussion after 12 days of protest. This is a tell-tale sign that the government is deliberately delaying the matters in hand by offering non-agreeable agreements paving way for some anti-national elements to appear in the protest which may lead this peaceful protest on the wrong path.Gurmanjot Singh QUESTIONAccidents due to stray cattle are quite common these days as visibility reduces due to fog in the winter season. What measures should be taken to minimise fatal accidents?Suggestions in not more than200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 24).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/before-its-too-late-strike-down-the-farm-laws-187196
