21-10-2020||Stories that inspire||Keeping the dance inside alive!||Ajay JoshiTribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 20He is fast approaching twilight years but the energy levels exude an aura of a person still in his 20s. Neete Raj B Singh, a city-based Bhangra coach, continues to be at top of his trade ever since first falling in love with it from his college days.The 44-year-old, besides following his passion, has also been promoting Punjab’s traditional dance form among youngsters and people across the world. And if you want to learn some of those pumped up moves, well, he’s the go-to person to approach.Having developed the fondness at a very young age, the journey of giving stage performances kicked off for Neete after he joined DAV College here. Continuously for five years during his graduation and post-graduation days, he would participate in the national youth festivals and performed at several stages. He was also the best folk dancer for around three years. Unable to get Bhangra out of his system, he decided to sow the seeds of Punjabi culture among locals through it.Neete has been coaching students of various colleges for past 20 years. Apart from this, he is also a member of ‘Surtal Sabhyachari Sath’ – a cultural club established to promote Punjabi society and service of the same. Working as block extension educator in the district’s Health Department, it’s been long since he has been providing free classes to Bhangra enthusiasts in the camps organised by the club. After forming a group of likeminded people initially, he also started forming own groups of his students to engage local residents. “We only train people in dhol, with traditional beats and songs,” he says.“Our main purpose is to uplift the ancestral dance styles that have become overshadowed by the contemporary styles and cultural mix. While considering the typical men style of dance we aware people about Jhumar, Malwayi Gidda and Bhangra performed to the beats of dhol specifically,” he adds. Meanwhile, girls are trained into Naree Luddi and Gidda filled with boliyan.Grooving about globeHis journey has taken him to several places. He has performed in Egypt, Dubai and various other countries to spread the essence of Bhangra. A scholarship by Ministry of Tourism and Cultural Affairs for his achievements was also awarded which kept him motivated all along.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/keeping-the-dance-inside-alive-158763
21-10-2020||Avneet Kaur||Illegal cutting of trees goes unchecked||Jalandhar, October 20While the city is already gasping for fresh air due to rising pollution levels, the felling of trees goes unchecked.Local residents have blamed the horticulture wing of the Municipal Corporation for indiscriminate cutting of trees in the city, particularly at Urban Estate Phase II, to pave the way for the construction of commercial outlets.The residents said a few days ago, a number of decade-old trees were chopped off by migrant workers at Urban Estate, Phase II, near the petrol pump. However, when they questioned the workers that with whose permission they are cutting down the trees, they arrogantly answered that they belong to some market association and do not require any permission to cut the trees.Sukhjeet Singh, a local resident, while talking to The Tribune, alleged that due to vested interests of some staff members of different departments, trees were being cut arbitrarily in the absence of any strict action by the Municipal Corporation.Instead of putting a ban on the axing of trees, the authorities concerned were rather busy promoting the exercise by giving permission for commercial outlets.“Mindless destruction of trees, plants and shrubs going on in the city to make space for residential and commercial buildings has already played havoc with the ecosystem. “While the pollution level has already touched an alarming level due to stubble burning, the green cover which virtually serves as lungs of the city is being damaged with supervisory staff of the horticulture wing closing its eyes to the harsh reality”, he added.Mandeep Singh, a social activist, said last year too in May and November, scores of peepal trees (ficus religiosa) were chopped off from this same at Urban Estate. “The commercial development at Urban Estate is on full speed, and I don’t feel if the Municipal Corporation has any record of the number of trees cut down”, he alleged.He said though the government had undertaken a number of initiatives to save the environment and promote greenery, merely campaigns and asking people to plant more and more saplings would not save the environment. “What we need is proper planning and sapling plantation, besides saving the decade- old trees,” he added.When contacted, Guran Dass, XEN, Horticulture, said the department had no information regarding the cutting of trees at Urban Estate. In the past too, we had taken action on the complaints of residents over the illegal cutting of trees. “We will investigate this matter as well,” he added. ‘Major threat to ecosystem’Mindless destruction of trees, plants and shrubs going on in the city to make space for residential and commercial buildings has already played havoc with the ecosystem. While the pollution level has already touched an alarming level due to stubble burning, the green cover, which virtually serves as lungs of the city, is being damaged with supervisory staff of the horticulture wing closing its eyes to the harsh reality — A residentThe department has no information regarding the cutting of trees at Urban Estate. In the past too, we had taken action on the complaints of residents over the illegal cutting of trees. We will investigate this matter as well — Guran Dass, XEN, Horticulture||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegal-cutting-of-trees-goes-unchecked-158764
21-10-2020||---||4 roads converging at Shastri chowk in state of neglect||Jalandhar, October 20Even as several lakhs of rupees were spent on the repair and beautification of the Lal Bahadur Shastri chowk, all four roads leading to it from various areas are in a shambles and require urgent repairs.The badly potholed roads include those from Madan Floor Mill chowk to Shastri chowk, the Main Post office to Shastri chowk, Kamal Palace chowk to Shastri chowk and Luv Kush chowk to Shastri chowk. All three roads remain busy throughout the day with a lot of commercial activity happening around.The stretch from Madan Floor Mill chowk to Shastri chowk, also known as the Shastri Market road, houses dealers of big tyre companies and automobile repair shops and is frequented by many visitors. This is also one of the passages leading to the city’s railway station and hence the hurried commuters are compelled to be slowed down, sometimes leading to breakdown of vehicles as well.The road from Luv Kush chowk side houses the backside of the MC’s office, where all water bills and property taxes are paid. Residents are paying the cost for the tattered path apart from the bills. “Whenever we come from this road to pay our dues, we sometimes do not feel like making our payment to the MC. We feel as if our civic body has become uncivil, especially when it cannot even mend way to its own office,” said Ankur Batra, a resident of Civil Lines area.Rajnish Dogra, SE (B&R), Municipal Corporation, “The work to recarpet roads from Madan Floor Mill chowk and Kamal Palace side have been allotted to a contractor and would be executed soon. The other two roads will also be repaired soon.”A bumpy drive to city’s railway stationThe badly potholed roads include those from Madan Floor Mill chowk to Shastri chowk, the Main Post office to Shastri chowk, Kamal Palace chowk to Shastri chowk and Luv Kush chowk to Shastri chowk. The stretch from Madan Floor Mill chowk to Shastri chowk, also known as the Shastri Market road, houses dealers of big tyre companies and automobile repair shops and is frequented by many visitors. This is also one of the passages leading to the city’s railway station and hence the hurried commuters are compelled to be slowed down, sometimes leading to breakdown of vehicles as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-roads-converging-at-shastri-chowk-in-state-of-neglect-158765
21-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||1,853 consumers fined Rs 81.43 lakh for power theft||Adopting a zero tolerance policy against power theft, Hoshiarpur circle of the PSPCL has imposed a fine of Rs81.43 lakh on as many as 1,853 consumers for indulging in theft, unauthorised load extension or unauthorized use of electricity. Around 70 per cent of the amount has already been recovered and pending is being recovered through electricity bills from the consumers.Providing details, Parvinder Singh Khamba, Deputy Chief Engineer, said, “The Hoshiarpur circle of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited is conducting mass checking of connections for prevention of power theft and to regularise the unauthorised load of consumers. By now the premises of 49,635 consumers of different categories have been checked under this campaign.”Khamba said that premises of 22,417 consumers in August, 22,299 in September and 4,919 consumers in October (till Oct.17) were checked by different distribution teams of Hoshiarpur circle. Fines of Rs30.95 lakh, Rs25.27 lakh and Rs25.21 lakh have been imposed during these three months respectively.To recover defaulting amount from consumers of government and private defaulters, connections of defaulting consumers are being disconnected. Since August 1 this year, defaulting amount Rs5.87 crore has been recovered which includes Rs1.25 crore from government consumers.Khamba appealed to consumers to not to indulge in power theft or tampering of meters to avoid hefty fines along with registration of FIRs as per the Electricity Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-853-consumers-fined-rs-81-43-lakh-for-power-theft-158766
21-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Passengers face hard time as trains remain cancelled||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 20With the agitation by the farmers against the contentious farm laws gaining pace, the cancellation of several long route and other passenger trains continues to give tough time to the passengers. Worst affected are the ones, who did not have access to online ticket booking and cancellation facility. There are many passengers, mostly migrants who could be seen thronging at the city railway station to book or get cancelled their tickets and enquire about the resumption of their trains.Though the Railways has announced bringing more trains on tracks in few days, considering the festivity, cancellation/short termination and diversion of trains has also been extended. People who had booked their tickets online are also complaining about not receiving refunds.The list of cancelled trains announced by Ferozpur railway division include; 02425/ 02426 (New Delhi- Jammutawi-New Delhi Rajdhani express) special train journey commencing, 22439 /22440 (New Delhi- Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra- New Delhi Vande Bharat express train), 02461 (New Delhi- Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Express special train), 02462 (Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra- NewDelhi express special train) , 02011/ 02012 (New Delhi- Kalka - New Delhi Shatabdi express), 02029/ 02030 (New Delhi- Amritsar - New Delhi Shatabdi expres),02054/ 02053(Haridwar – Amritsar – Haridwar Jan Shatabdi express), 02422 (Jammutawi –Ajmer express special train), 02421(Ajmer - Jammutawi Express)Trains short-terminated02903 (Mumbai Central- Amritsar express train) to be short terminated at Ambala, the 02904 (Amritsar- Mumbai Central express train) to remain partially cancelled between Ambala – Amritsar-Ambala, 02925 (Bandra Terminus- Amritsar express train) to be short terminated at Ambala, 02716 (Amritsar-Nanded express train) to be short originated from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between NewDelhi- Amritsar-NewDelhi, 04649 (Jaynagar – Amritsar express train) to be short terminated at Ambala. Consequently, 04650 (Amritsar-jaynagar express special train) will remain short originateed from Ambala and remain partially cancelled between Amritsar-Ambala, 02357(Kolkata -Amritsar express special train) short terminated at Ambala. The 02358 Amritsar-Kolkata express special train commencing on October 22 will short originate from Ambala .It will remain partially cancelled between Ambala and Amritsar. The 04654 Amritsar - Newjalpaiguri express special train journey commencing on October 21 will be short originate from Saharanpur.It will remain partially cancelled between Saharanpur and Amritsar. The 09026 Amritsar – Bandra Terminus express special train journeys commencing on October 21 will short originate from Ambala .It will remain partially cancelled between Ambala and Amritsar. The 02356 Jammutawi – Patna express special train journeys commencing on October 22 will short originate from Bareilly. It will remain partially cancelled between Bareilly and Jammutawi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/passengers-face-hard-time-as-trains-remain-cancelled-158767
21-10-2020||---||Cong leaders celebrate passing of agriculture Bills in Vidhan Sabha||Jalandhar, October 20 As three Bills were passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to counter the Centre’s farm laws, the local Congress leadership celebrated the day by playing dhol and distributing sweets among party workers. Among various party leaders who celebrated the occasion was Dr Jasleen Sethi, district president, Congress Mahila Morcha. Terming Capt Amarinder Singh as ‘Punjab da rakha’, she distributed sweets to the party workers. Congress councillor Sherry Chadha distributed sweets to the shopkeepers of market areas falling in his ward.  Former Punjab Youth Congress president and Phillaur Assembly constituency in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary too rejoiced the occasion with partymen and termed the unanimous passing of agriculture bills as ‘historic’. He held celebrations in Phillaur.  To negate the impact of Central Government’s agriculture Acts, the Captain Amarinder Singh government brought three bills having special provisions. The provisions include sale of wheat and paddy at prices equal to or over the MSP, imprisonment of three years and a fine in case anybody compels a farmer to sell his agricultural produce below MSP, mandatory payment of MSP by anyone entering into contract with farmers, and keeping all powers to fix stock limits of food grains with the state government. The Punjab government also brought a resolution to reject Modi government’s farm laws. Chaudhary thanked the Chief Minister for bringing these bills and said, “The Congress government is a government of the people, by the people and for the people, whereas the BJP’s Central government is of, by and for the crony capitalists.” He said that under the state government bills, no one can force a farmer to sell their produce below MSP and in case of any dispute, farmers can also go to court, an option which is not available in the Central Government’s laws. “Capt Amarinder Singh has always protected interests of Punjabis. But the BJP government is hell bent on destroying farmers and giving their land to Ambanis and Adanis. The Congress won’t tolerate injustice to annadata and would take every step to fight for their rights,” he added. Goraya Municipal Council president Kamaldeep Singh Bittu, Market Committee Chairman Dara Singh Rai, Municipal Council vice-president Ravinderpal Rinku, city Congress president Manish Jain, city Congress vice-president Sanjay Atwal and Rurka Kalan block Congress president Rakesh Duggal were among those present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-leaders-celebrate-passing-of-agriculture-bills-in-vidhan-sabha-158768
21-10-2020||---||Rs 26,000 stolen from electrical goods shop in Phagwara Gate||Jalandhar, October 20Four miscreants broke open shutters of an electrical goods shop in Phagwara Gate electrical market and took away Rs 26,000 lying in the cash box on Tuesday.The owner of ML Industries, Harsh Sharna, who was informed about the incident through some locals, stated that Rs 26, 000 was missing from the shop.He said the incident took place around 5 am on Tuesday. Harsh said four persons entered his shop. They had come on a four wheeler. The whole episode was captured in the CCTV camera placed outside the shop.Mukesh Kumar, SHO, police division 3, said a case had been registered and cops were tracing the accused. Due to darkness, the vehicle number couldn’t be captured in the CCTV footage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-26-000-stolen-from-electrical-goods-shop-in-phagwara-gate-158769
21-10-2020||---||Rs 729 cr released to farmers against paddy procurement||Kapurthala, October 20 Ensuring a hassle-free procurement of paddy, the district has released Rs 729.53 crore to farmers against the procured paddy, which is nearly 86 per cent of the payment to be made till today. Deputy Commissioner, Kapurthala, Deepti Uppal said the district administration had made adequate arrangements for a smooth procurement in 106 grain markets, which included 42 notified mandis and others temporarily set up to avoid rush in the season. She said till today, the district had registered the arrival of 5,19,481 metric tonne paddy, which was totally procured by state agencies. The district had witnessed more than 100 per cent lifting in the stipulated time frame.  Pungrain has procured the maximum paddy with 2,22,145 MT, Markfed 1,67,336 MT, Punsup 87,885 MT, PSWC 37,620 MT and the FCI 4,436 MT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-729-cr-released-to-farmers-against-paddy-procurement-158770
21-10-2020||Jalandhar||Online event on challenges in tapping solar energy held||The department of mechanical engineering, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, is organising a five-day online faculty development programme under AICTE Training And Learning Academy on ‘Challenges and Opportunities in Collection, Storage and Utilisation of Solar Thermal Energy’.  On the second day today, Dr T Srinivas, course coordinator, informed the 250 participants that the solar energy was playing a key role on energy sharing and innovative technology developments among the green energy technologies. He said that the main objective of the programme was to understand the fundamentals and advances in collect, keep and using methods and techniques of solar thermal energy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-event-on-challenges-in-tapping-solar-energy-held-158771
21-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Man arrested on  shooting charge||The Garhdiwala police have arrested Hardeep Singh, a resident of Kesopur village, on the charge of  firing and injuring a person at his neighbour’s house.  In his complaint to the police, Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Kesopur village, said that he along with his sister Kamaljit Kaur and her husband Jasvir Singh were at his house on Monday. He said his neighbour started abusing them when they went out to see what the matter was, Hardeep allegedly fired two bullets at them while one bullet hit Jasvir Singh on his chest. After firing, the accused fled the spot in his car. Investigating Officer ASI Anil Kumar said the police had registered a case under Sections 307 of the IPC and Sections 25,27,54 and 59 of the Arms Act. The police have arrested the accused and impounded the car used in the crime. He was sent to two-day police custody.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-arrested-on-shooting-charge-158772
21-10-2020||Jalandhar||CT Group inks MoU with ASSOCHAM||39 fresh cases, two succumbJalandhar: The district on Tuesday witnessed 39 new Covid cases, while two more succumbed to the infection. The death toll has mounted to 456 while the tally of infected persons stands at 14,453. The average daily count has been witnessing a decline for the last few weeks. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ct-group-inks-mou-with-assocham-158773
21-10-2020||---||Dengue alert amid Covid-19 threat||Jalandhar, October 20The rise in the number of dengue cases in October has become another cause for concern for doctors and the Health Department.Doctors are witnessing several such patients who are coming with low platelet count. Also, amid the current situation, a patient fails to identify if it is viral, dengue fever, Covid-19 or typhoid.Senior Medical Officer Dr AS Duggal said if someone suffered from high fever and body ache, he must get himself tested. “It is seen that people suffering from such symptoms do not report on time and when they do, the body becomes weak and then platelet count decreases and the situation becomes more problematic,” Duggal said.He also advised people to consume coconut water and juices when they get diagnosed with dengue. Officials of the Health Department said no one should allow the accumulation of water in and around their houses.Experts said mosquitoes stayed in the corners of the house and storerooms, so it was important to switch on the coils that could kill mosquitoes. They said cases might rise in November.Recently on Covie-19 too, the Senior Medical Officer had said that he was shocked to see that even after several months, the thinking of people had not changed towards the fatal virus and to convince a patient, who suffers from the symptoms, has become a painstaking task.“Be it educated or illiterate, everyone has a similar response to the fact that they must get themselves tested,” the doctor said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dengue-alert-amid-covid-19-threat-158774
21-10-2020|| A day in the life of a medical representative||No breathing space for Hitesh amid pandemic||Sanjiv Kumar BakshiTribune News ServiceHoshiarpur, October 20Hitesh Bansal’s workaday life more demanding than ever. Working as a medical representative (MR) with Zydus Cadila here, his day starts as early as 7:30 am. The pressure for meeting the sales target is the only thing on his mind as he steps.But even though things are opening up amid the unlocking phase, the target to touch seems miles away. “The people are still wary of and hospitals doctors, and if patients are not there, how can the sales improve? From 9 in the morning till 3 in the afternoon, we are busy calling doctors, meeting them or trying so. We have to ring them up countless times a day,” said Hitesh. His work involves frenetic visits to places like hospitals, clinics and nursing homes – he is always exposed to the risk of getting infected.He generally calls it a day after 6 when working out of station and around 4 pm when going about the. But that is just one part of work ending and other beginning. The other wave takes around two hours to do the online documentation and reporting of work after taking a bath, sanitising the bag and other items. His lunch is skipped amidst it. “I have my lunch generally after 5 in the evening and that’s the meal that we have after the breakfast in the morning before leaving. Earlier, we used to have it in afternoon wherever we were working but due to pandemic we avoid eating outside,” he shared.The lockdown adversely affected the working and for about three months there was no meeting with doctors and sales in red. Fortunately, the company stood by him and salary was credited regularly. “In June when the curfew was lifted I started my daily working as per old routine but the new ways of working were adopted. We as MRs have to be in touch with the doctors and are duty-bound to call them and visit hospitals regularly, no matter how harsh the situation,” he said.The previous methodology of our calls was to see the doctors personally for sharing the samples, medicines and brochures of the products but it’s all gone. So-called ‘window calls’ are now practiced, in which the doctor is on one side of the window and MR on the other. “Every time we have to see a doctor all precautionary measures, including sanitising of bags, samples, use of face shields and masks are a must. Despite this, many of them (doctors) avoid meeting,” Hitesh added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-breathing-space-for-hitesh-amid-pandemic-158777
21-10-2020||Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme||Institutes warned of action for denial of benefits to SC students||---Educational institutions should not run away from their social obligation. Any sort of discrimination or alienation of SC students is unwarranted and undesirable. Ghanshyam Thori, DC---------Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 20  A day after a massive protest by students from the Scheduled Caste (SC) category, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today said strict action would be taken against educational institutions denying benefits to students under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme.  Accompanied by Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Thori presided over a meeting with representatives of educational institutes and student organisations to review the implementation of the scheme. The Deputy Commissioner said the scholarship scheme was a right of the SC students and not any sort of charity. Educational institutions should refrain from bullying the SC students.  He ordered the constitution of a committee comprising an SDM, ACP, along with a district welfare officer and tehsil welfare officer, to sort out all issues raised by the students at the meeting. These included withholding of degrees and taking a blank cheque from them. Thori said the committee would work under the supervision of the Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) and submit its report to him. Action would be taken accordingly.  The online portal for registration under the scheme was expected to be launched next month. The Deputy Commissioner categorically asked the educational institutions to ensure that all SC students were able to pursue their courses in a hassle-free manner.  He said educational institutions should not run away from their social obligation. Any sort of discrimination or alienation of SC students was unwarranted and undesirable.  DCP Naresh Dogra, Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasvir Singh, SDMs Rahul Sindhu and Dr Jai Inder Singh were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/institutes-warned-of-action-for-denial-of-benefits-to-sc-students-158778
21-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Gang of bank robbers busted, 3 held||Hoshiarpur, October 20In a major breakthrough, the police today claimed have solved three cases of bank robberies by arresting three members of a gang. Three country-made pistols with eight live cartridges and a .12 bore rifle, snatched from the security guard of UCO Bank’s Kalra branch in Adampur, have been recovered from them.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the gang was involved in robberies at Indian Overseas Bank, Gilzian Branch, Tanda, and Punjab and Sindh Bank, Bhagowal village, Hoshiarpur, besides the UCO Bank branch. A scooter, bike and Rs 30,000 in cash had also been recovered from them.Mahal said six teams had been constituted to investigate the robberies. The CCTV footage of the crime scenes was scoured and records of history sheeters and those on bail were examined. The SSP said the police arrested Sunil Dutt, alias Sunny, Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukha, and Balwinder Singh, alias Sonu, last night from Khakli village under the Hariana police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-of-bank-robbers-busted-3-held-158667
