22-08-2020||Avneet Kaur||Covid triggers a historic rise in mental health cases||Jalandhar, August 21Covid-19 might be the buzzword for the past few months, but the world’s reluctance was discreetly trending all these years. The reluctance to indulge in a mental health conversation, the constant ignorance of one’s deteriorating psychological condition and finally succumbing to the society’s nonchalant pressure. Despite being a country that has more than 50 per cent of its population below the age of 25 and more than 65 per cent persons below the age 35, India, in the WHO’s report of 2018, was crowned as the ‘most depressed nation’ in the world, with a large majority of the population struggling with depression, anxiety, schizophrenia and other mental health issues.Cause for concernThough the tragic death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and the outbreak of Covid-19 have opened the doors for the much-needed conversations on mental health, we can’t deny the fact that mental health problems have been a major contributor to the burden of illness in India for long, but the sad part is these have always went unnoticed.At the present time, major reasons contributing to poor mental health include uncertainty about future, broken dreams of moving abroad, losses in business, lay-offs, risk of contracting infection, uncertainty as to when life will come back to normalcy, concerns about family and loved ones, lack of physical activity and increased screen time. But what if we exclude risk of contracting Covid-19? Don’t you think the anxieties about future, love life, health, etc, have been taking a toll on the health of many, even before the Covid-19 struck?However, the culmination of above-mentioned factors leads a person to take a lot of extreme steps with the most disturbing one being suicide. In the past four to five months, suicide, depression and anxiety cases have seen a huge spike and literally no one has been spared from this. The fact that a 19-year-old girl in Kapurthala on July 27 committed suicide over not being able to crack IELTS test speaks volumes about the crisis and reveals how the government isn’t solely responsible; we, as a society, are too are guilty of being complacent. And it doesn’t stop here, on July 30, a 20-year-old BBA student from the city shot himself to death as he was angry over being scolded by his father for overusing his phone and playing PUBG, an online game.Moreover just two days back on August 19, after the Supreme Court dismissed a petition seeking postponement of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test and Joint Entrance Examination scheduled to be held in September, a 19-year-old Coimbatore-based girl committed suicide, allegedly out of fear of writing the paper amid the pandemic. So, the question arises, how our governments, health policymakers and other stakeholders should respond to this crisis when the number of health professionals in the country is abysmal and the mental health care infrastructure is lacking.But yes there is a simple home remedy to it, if you allow yourself to follow. All you need is to let go of the very thought that ‘Log kya kahenge’ (What will people say) and try to speak your heart out to your friends, parents or whosoever you think will understand you.“I have been receiving a large number of cases of anxiety these days and the primary reasons behind it are financial security and concerns related to one’s own well-being as well their loved ones. Earlier, due to lack of awareness and social stigma surrounding mental health issues, people usually avoided consulting psychiatrists and psychologists. However, as cases are surging these days, people have opened up and are now realising the importance of reaching out and sharing their problems,” Dr Smita Vasudev, clinical psychologist and cognitive behavioural therapy practitioner.Dr Sanjay Khanna, assistant professor, Government Medical College, said: “Cases of depression, anxiety and substance abuse have gone up during the pandemic. If I talk about anxiety in particular, it occurs when you do not have proper knowledge about what you are thinking or thinking about things you are uncertain about. So, instead of trusting social media messages and rumours, people should read latest updates on the websites of the WHO or the Ministry of Health.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-triggers-a-historic-rise-in-mental-health-cases-129741
22-08-2020||---||7 teams to keep check on private labs conducting Covid tests||Jalandhar, August 21To keep a check on the private labs conducting tests for the Covid-19 disease, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has constituted seven joint teams of civil officials and doctors for daily inspection of such labs as conduct Covid tests and submit reports about details of positive and negative reports.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday said these seven teams had been tasked with separate labs in different areas of the city. He said the teams would not only visit private labs to check reports of individuals reaching for Covid-19 testing but also submit a detailed report about positive and negative cases to his office.The DC said Senior Medical Officer Dr Pritpal Singh, along with SDO (Soil Conservation) Lupinder Kumar, would check Lal Path Lab and Core Diagnostic; Dr Mukesh Kumar and Assistant Labour Commissioner Jatinder Pal Singh Sohal will conduct verification of SRL Labs; SMO Dr Kuldeep Singh along with District Welfare Officer Rajinder Singh will visit Oncquest and Tagore Hospital, SMO Dr Ashok Kumar and GM (District Industries Centre) Sukhpal Singh will inspect Path Kind; Dr Paramjit Singh and District Social Security Officer Varinder Singh Bains will visit Metropolis; Dr Rajinder Pal Bains and District Town Planner Naval Kishore to inspect Patel Hospital and Dr Rajeev Sharma along with Deputy Director (Animal Husbandry) Dr Mohinder Pal to check Shrimann Hospital.The DC said the step was aimed at ensuring early testing of at least 10 persons of a positive contact which would go a long way in preventing the spread of the Covid-19 disease by breaking the chain of transmission.He said the administration was laying emphasis on contact tracing on a large scale which would further help bring down case fatality rate (CFR). He said private labs must keep information of all persons coming for testing completely confidential.He said the Health Department had fixed Rs 2,400 for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) Covid test and Rs 1,000 for Rapid Antigen Covid testing in private labs. Thori said people could register complaints at control room number 0181-2224417 in case of any violation of prescribed norms/guidelines in labs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-teams-to-keep-check-on-private-labs-conducting-covid-tests-129742
22-08-2020||Jalandhar||Six deaths, 178 contract virus in Jalandhar district||On Friday, 178 Covid positive cases and six deaths were reported in the district. With six deaths, the toll has touched 122 in Jalandhar. Out of six deaths, two patients were 38-year-old and 24-year-old. The third victim was a 48-year-old resident of Bagh Karan Baksh, who died at Gulab Devi Hospital. He had hypertension.Three persons who died at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital included a 68-year-old resident of Shiv Nagar, who had hypertension, a 24- year-old resident of Baldev Nagar, who had hepatitis C, and a 38-year-old resident of Bhatnura, who had diabetes.Positive cases were reported from Kazi Mohalla, Mitapur, Boparai, Tower Enclave, Phillaur, Baba Budha Enclave, Guru Nanak Nagar, Nurmahal and Lajpat Nagar, among other areas. Sixty-six cases of Covid were also reported from Kapurthala, which included the SSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-deaths-178-contract-virus-in-jalandhar-district-129743
22-08-2020||Our Correspondent||37 fresh cases in Hoshiarpur, total 973 now||Hoshiarpur, August 21With 37 new cases of Covid-19 positive patients being reported in the district on Friday, the total number of positive cases has increased to 973. The total number of samples taken has increased to 47,295 as 1,254 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken.According to lab reports, the reports of 42,931 samples have come out negative; 3,404 reports are awaited; and 75 are invalid and 26 patients have died so far. The number of active cases in the district is 186 while 761 patients have recovered.Giving this information, Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said of the 37 new cases, seven cases were reported from Subhash Nagar, Sarup Nagar, Civil Lines and Islamabad areas in the city. Five are from Garhshankar followed by Mukerian (6), Dasuya (4), Budhawar (7) and Nihalpur (2). One each case was reported from Jhingad Kalan, Hariana, Noorpur, Mehatpur, Mand village and one patient belonged to Tanda health block.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/37-fresh-cases-in-hoshiarpur-total-973-now-129744
22-08-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Give info on kids of migrants studying in govt schools: Department||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 21When the lockdown was imposed, thousands of migrants moved back to their respective states with their families on foot and bicycles.Now, the Education Department in a communiqué to the District Education Officer (Secondary and Primary) and school principals has asked them to prepare a data of kids of migrants studying in the government schools.The communiqué reads, “during the lockdown, there is possibility of students who are ‘in-migrant’ and ‘out-migrants’, thus, school principals are required to upload this information on the Education Department’s website. The information is needed to know about the correct situation of every student and nobody should suffer in studies.”The circular states that further planning will be done accordingly. For this, teachers have been asked to call students and talk to their parents and then enquire the same from their neighbours so that actual information and status could be known.District Education Officer (Secondary) Harinderpal Singh said information sought is related to students who had left for their native places. “I don’t think that students from Class VI to Class XII had gone back. This must be the case with students belonging to primary and pre-primary classes,” he said adding that teachers were already in touch with students because they were taking online classes.“The picture will get clear in the coming days after I get the report from a team working on the same,” he said.District Education Officer (Primary) Rampal said he had yet not received a consolidated report from his team. “Things will get clear when schools open,” he said.Ravinder Singh Kang, a teacher at Government Primary School, Uggi, said they have just received the instructions. “There might be schools from where students had gone back. However, numerous migrants are already settled here,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/give-info-on-kids-of-migrants-studying-in-govt-schools-department-129745
22-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Artisans in a dilemma: Covid-19 restrictions, weekend lockdown hit Ganesh Chaturthi sales||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 21Until last year they sculpted big Ganesha statues and celebrated the spirit of Ganesh Chaturthi. But this time a glum year has given way to a yet more sombre Ganesh Chaturthi for the artisans who have been sculpting Ganesha statues for decades in Jalandhar.Leela’s (35) husband has been missing since February this year, leaving her to take care of two children on her own. She incurred a huge debt to sustain living during the lockdown and to prepare for the 200 Ganesha idols she had to sell during Ganesh Chaturthi. The entire year is past and now Leela anticipates a glum Ganesh Chaturthi amidst the just-imposed lockdown after 7 pm restrictions imposed today.For artisans who were banking on the festival to make up for the reduced dividends this year, the new restriction have also made the usually lucrative Ganesh Chaturthi festival for them a glum occasion where sales are unpredictable.Leela says, “I had complained to thana number 6 for my husband, Shankar. He left in February and still hasn’t returned. I alone take care of my children. We have debts from sabziwala (veggie vendor) and karyana wala (grocery vendor). With money yet to be paid to them, the 7 pm deadline and weekend lockdown has hit us hard during Ganesh Chaturthi also. Until last year we earned hefty sums during Ganesh Chaturthi. But it’s glum this year. Of the 200 statues I made, only three are big Ganeshas. Rest is all small because no one will buy. We don’t know how we shall sustain this year.”There is a little silver lining on the cloud – 30 of her Ganesha statues have already been booked by customers on call – but she worries whether all the statues shall sell.While Leela along with several kin belongs to Rajasthan, she came to Jalandhar 12 years ago from Jodhpur in pursuit of a better livelihood. Her hopes are pinned on finding her husband and bringing up her kids aged 15 (girl) and 12 (boy).Naraini, who also sells statues for a living, says, “Maang maang ke khaya pure saal. Ab fir lockdown lag gaya. (We begged for subsistence all year and now lockdown has been implemented again). The 7 pm deadline shall massively affect customers. While sales were brisk during the day, we were banking heavily on the Ganesh Chaturthi festival for a better livelihood for the rest of the year. While we sell clay pots and vases the year round, the big statues we sell on Ganesh Chaturthi pay rich dividends every year. Today and tomorrow were pivotal for sales. Today is wrapped up and tomorrow is lockdown.”Leela said, “Last year all my statues barring 15-16 were sold. This year we made 200, most of them small. If only we get decent sales, we can at least pay off the debt on various vendors.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/artisans-in-a-dilemma-covid-19-restrictions-weekend-lockdown-hit-ganesh-chaturthi-sales-129746
22-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Contagion forces people to delay visits to doctors||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 21It’s been five months since Covid-19 cases surfaced in the country. Apart from mental health and job losses due to the pandemic, the pandemic has resulted in healthcare crisis, especially among senior citizens and persons with comorbidities.Such is the scenario that people have delayed their visits to doctors and footfall has reduced tremendously in the hospitals. Fear of contracting Covid-19 from the hospitals has increased manifold in the minds of people.Prof Santosh Chibber, said, “Covid has altered life massively, especially of senior citizens. A visit to the hospital now warrants an additional risk. A month ago, my husband caught shingles for which we had no other choice, but to take advice from doctors virtually or via call. First diagnosis was incorrect and it was only later that the infection was accurately diagnosed and proper treatment began. We sent photographs to my daughter-in-law who is a doctor and to our family doctor. There was just one early morning visit that my husband paid to the doctor.”She said, “The regular privilege of visiting a doctor at any time is now a thing of the past due to the fear of contracting infection. This does create a constant concern at the back of the mind for those with existing health conditions. Medical options have certainly become very limited for those with a compromised immunity.”Prof Lakhbir Singh, president, Pahal (NGO), said his chemotherapy sessions now come with apprehensions among the pandemic. “Every 15 days, I have to get chemotherapy done. I have never thought of getting it done at home because there are a couple of procedures involved which necessitate a visit to the hospital. The visit now certainly poses a risk since I have to sit on a chair and touch things. This is a new scenario, which has surfaced due to the virus.”Dr RS Chahal of Kidney Hospital, Jalandhar, said, “There is a sizeable amount of patients who are approaching us with considerable delays because they are scared of contracting Covid-19. People don’t want to be tested positive as there is a perception that the police and health workers will visit them. People are stalling their visits to the doctor for months. Patients who had to visit me in April, came for a check-up in August because they cannot wait any longer.”He said, “People are also waiting too long, which causes minor health problem to take more serious proportions. Footfall is certainly down in the hospitals due to the pandemic. Travel restrictions have held up patients from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. The impact of Covid-19 on health treatment and consultation is huge.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/contagion-forces-people-to-delay-visits-to-doctors-129747
22-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Safai sevaks to get wages as per DC rates||Hoshiarpur, August 21Providing relief to the contract and mohalla committee sanitation workers employed by the Municipal Corporation here, the state government has approved remunerations as per DC rates. Besides, the government has instructed the corporation to take immediate steps to meet the shortage of sanitation workers. Now, the corporation will be able to fill all vacant posts of sanitation workers at DC rates, taking the number of sanitation workers to 450.Giving this information, Cabinet Minister Sundar Sham Arora said after the formation of the civic body, 450 posts of sanitation workers were approved. Many posts had been lying vacant for a long. “In view of the acute shortage of sanitation workers in Hoshiarpur, I had raised the issued before the government and sought the wages as per DC rates which was their major demand. Earlier, the workers were getting around Rs 4,000 per month. The government has agreed to pay them salary as per DC rates and to complete the shortfall of workers,” said Arora.Arora said around 122 sanitation workers, who were associated with mohalla sanitation committees, will now get salaries as per DC rates. He thanked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for being sensitive to employees and to stand by them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/safai-sevaks-to-get-wages-as-per-dc-rates-129748
22-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Trees axed, streams littered with trash during pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 21On Thursday, a 15-year-old tree near Doaba Chowk in Jalandhar was axed in Jalandhar. During the pandemic, reports of trees being felled in various areas of Jalandhar and its periphery have come in, which pose a serious challenge to ecology.While the view of Dhauladhars from Jalandhar has diminished, the pandemic is being used as a diversionary tactic to wreak havoc on forests.In Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr, tonnes of garbage can be seen strewn in streams and forest areas. Activists and residents said anti-social elements axe trees on a regular basis and the proceeds are pocketed secretly by those indulging in such activities.While vast swathes of green areas within and outside the city have been destroyed by construction activity as well – the authorities concerned have failed to nab and prosecute violators. Sources say incidents of axing trees in forest areas of Balachaur and Ropar have also surfacead during the lockdown.Nikhil Senger, Honorary Wildlife Warden and Human Animal Conflict Expert, SBS Nagar, said, “People have been dumping polythene, beer bottles and leftovers in streams and forest of Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr. Residents are destroying forest areas in the garb of tourism. Trash poses danger to wild animals and ecosystem. The frequency of garbage has increased during the pandemic.”Surinder Saini, a social activist, said, “Do the MC or department concerned have a count of trees felled in Jalandhar. Numerous green belts have no trees left. Trees axed during repair work of the Bist Doab Canal and construction of highways has left vast swathes completely barren. Trees are being axed in the name of pruning. Civic body lacks a team, which can differentiate between cutting and pruning.”Gurnek Singh, Range Officer, Jalandhar, said, “During July and August, 57,500 saplings have been planted in Jalandhar. These saplings were given to paramilitary forces, including CRPF, ITBP and BSF by us. Our jurisdiction includes roads, canals and protected forests outside the MC and national highway, among others. In areas falling under us, there has been no deforestation during the pandemic.”Mandhir Singh, Engineer, B&R and Horticulture, MC, said, “An FIR has been lodged against the person who axed a tree two days ago. During this season, there have been several other FIRs as well. An FIR had also been lodged against similar violators who had chopped trees at Kewal Vihar and other areas.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/trees-axed-streams-littered-with-trash-during-pandemic-129749
22-08-2020||---||Ward Nos. 28, 31 residents  to segregate waste at homes||Jalandhar, August 21Balraj Thakur, who is a councillor of Ward No. 28 and chairman of the Health and Sanitation Adhoc Committee, along with Harchran Kaur Happy, councillor of Ward No. 31 on Thursday said residents of both these wards would segregate waste at their homes.Thakur had been visiting bulk waste generators in the city to check if they were segregating waste at the source itself. He said residents will now segregate waste and days have been fixed for lifting of wet and dry waste.“Wet waste will be lifted on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. Dry waste will be lifted on Wednesday and Saturday,” said Thakur.Sanitation supervisors of both wards were present during the meeting and they also agreed to follow this pattern of lifting garbage.“We request everyone to cooperate with us. The Health and Sanitation Adhoc Committee is taking big steps along with the MC officials to solve this issue,” he said.The chairman held a meeting with rag pickers and told them about the decision taken in this regard. He said an official order would also be released in this regard.Row over dumping of garbageResidents of adjoining area of Model Town crematorium stopped rag pickers from throwing garbage at the Model Town dumping site.The MC Joint Commissioner reached the spot and residents said waste of other than Ward No. 28 and No.31 was being thrown at their dump yard. The Joint Commissioner assured residents to look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ward-nos-28-31-residents-to-segregate-waste-at-homes-129750
22-08-2020||---||PTU recruitment case: VB files closure report||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 21Having probed the case for two years, the state Vigilance Bureau (VB) has filed a closure report in the alleged FIR pertaining to a case of financial irregularities and administrative lapses against former IK Gujral Punjab Technical University Vice-Chancellor Dr Rajnish Arora and nine others.A closure report in the case was filed on August 3 in the court of Rajwinder Kaur, in-charge Sessions Judge, Kapurthala. A notice was sent by the court to the complainant. The next date of hearing has been fixed for September 16. The case had been registered after an inquiry report had been submitted by IAS (retd) SS Dhillon to the state government citing irregularities and flouting of norms for holding appointments. The complaint had been filed by the Jalandhar-based Anti-Corruption Society.While Dr Arora was arrested and remained behind bars, other nine including Geetika Sud, law officer and daughter of former BJP state minister Tikshan Sud, Vishwadeep Singh, associate professor and son of state RSS pracharak Kishore Kant, Sumeer Sharma, assistant director cultural activities, Ashish Sharma, computer programmer, Dr RP Bhardwaj, former director, recruitment, Dharinder Tayal of Chandigarh-based Anovus group and Parveen Kumar, consultant hired by ex-VC were also in the loop. Eight of the 10 accused were related to the RSS or the BJP.The closure report reads that if the chargesheet is filed in court in the case, there would be little chance of its success, which would waste the time of court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ptu-recruitment-case-vb-files-closure-report-129751
22-08-2020||Jalandhar||54 KCLIMT students in merit list||Fifty-four students of KCL Institute of Management and Technology have got merit positions in the results declared by IKG Punjab Technical University.Thirty-four students from the department of management, three from hotel management and 17 from IT department got merit positions in the university. In BBA first year, Sudiksha stood first in the university and Diksha got the third position. In BBA fifth semester, Ramneet Kaur got the first position, Paras Arora second and David John third.In MBA third semester, Saloni got the second position and Navdeep Kaur stood third. In MBA first semester, Rohit Jassal, Col Sanjay Shandil and Shifali stood fifth in the university. In hotel management first semester, Vaishali got the second position and Tanvi stood third spot in the university. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, director, academic affairs and SK Sood, director congratulated the students for their achievements. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/54-kclimt-students-in-merit-list-129752
