22-07-2020||Talwara||27-year-old man washed away in Kandi Canal||A man riding bike swept away in the Kandi canal here on Tuesday. He fell into the canal after his bike collided with a culvert near Sector-4 of Talwara. He has been identified as Ajay Kumar (27), a resident of Palli village. He used to work as a mechanic in Jalandhar.Ajay Kumar was going to Beh Lakhan village with his friend Yograj on his bike. At 3.30 pm, when he reached Fatehpur turn, his bike collided with the canal’s culvert and Ajay Kumar fell into the canal, while Yograj riding pillion fell on road. Ajay tried to save himself, but was swept away by the strong water current. ASI Naridar Singh of the Talwara police said the department told that the department had been informed about the incident. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/27-year-old-man-washed-away-in-kandi-canal-116338
22-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Waste outside Harbhajan Singh cricket stadium remains a mess||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 21It's a non-designated site for dumping any kind of waste material. But still, for many years the residents and area sanitation workers have made it a disposable point. The plot lying vacant outside the Harbhajan Singh Institute of Cricket at Isa Nagar, Suranussi road, is gradually taking on the form of a landfill. The gravity of the situation can be gauged from the fact that the empty area is home to wild grass and a mound of junk lying about the place; and it is piling up with each passing day. The guff emanating from the dumped trash is just another addition to the ugly sight.Naveen Kumar, who owns a shop near the place says, “Earlier we mistook the plot as a dumping one and since then we were disposing of our trash there. Even the area residents threw their garbage here while crossing the road.”Though a dustbin has been kept at a distance from the entry gates of the stadium, it is so full to the brim that it is over flowing with waste. As per the locals, the trash remains unlifted for several weeks.A vendor, who earns his livelihood by selling fruits, adds substance, “Just like other dumping points, we thought sanitation workers would pick up the waste material from here but nothing of sort has happened.”Not only have the residents in vicinity to the spot have come face to face with the mess, but also the budding cricketers, until lockdown happened, enrolled at the academy too have suffered. Moreover, the 'dump' is also located opposite to the Kendriya Vidyalaya, Suranussi. Several complaints have been reported from the commuters and even students, but the inaction is the only thing running the show.The councillor of Ward No. 80, Desh Raj Jassal, where the plot lays, comments: “I have already taken cognizance of the matter and the sanitation workers of the Municipal Corporation (MC) have been regularly informed about the seriousness of the issue and assured its eradication.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/waste-outside-harbhajan-singh-cricket-stadium-remains-a-mess-116337
22-07-2020||---||Congress to explore legal options||Jalandhar, July 21Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Friday assured the farmers that Congress was with them and exploring legal options to challenge the anti-farmer ordinances brought by the Centre.Responding to protests against the ordinances by farmers’ unions in Jalandhar, the Lok Sabha MP said the Congress had been protesting against the three ordinances from the day one and had organised demonstrations across the country.“The ordinances are a clear case of constitutional overreach,” he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-to-explore-legal-options-116336
22-07-2020||---||Farmers demand rollback of agri ordinances||Jalandhar, July 21Despite Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s appeal in view of spread of Covid-19 disease, a large number of farmers from around the region on Tuesday assembled here and gheraoed the residence of MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh till late evening hours. Traffic from Nakodar Chowk to Football Chowk remained disrupted for hours. Continuing their protest that started around 1 pm, farmers ate their food outside the MP’s house.Fearing a discontinuation of the minimum support price (MSP) regime, farmers, labourers including women, under the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee, Punjab, raised anti-government slogans and displayed their dissent against the recent ordinances passed by the Modi government concerning agriculture sector.The Capt government has failed to protect the interest of farmers, they demanded that ordinances be withdrawn and threatened to intensify the agitation if the government failed to do so.Gurlal Singh, finance secretary of the committee, said, “Farmers are against the three ordinances which the Centre had promulgated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-demand-rollback-of-agri-ordinances-116335
22-07-2020||Jalandhar||Gold kitty scam: Lookout notice issued against 3||The police are yet to make any headway in the arrest of the three accused in the Rs25-crore gold kitty scam.They have issued a lookout circular against three suspects — Ranjit Singh of Shiv Vihar, his brothers-in-law Gagandeep Singh and Gurminder Singh of Kapurthala. The company bank accounts have been frozen and details of their personal accounts have also been taken. The trio, who had been operating through OLS Whizz Pvt Ltd at PPR Mall in the city, had been booked under Sections 420, 406, 120-B of the IPC on Friday for allegedly duping 10,000 investors in the company.SHO Division No 7 Kamaljit said the bank officials had also been asked to furnish detailed statements for further probe. Even as there had been reports that one Sheela Singh, who worked as an agent with the company, had even bought an Audi car. She told the media that she was just an investor and had been duped like others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gold-kitty-scam-lookout-notice-issued-against-3-116332
22-07-2020||---||Motorists stuck for hours as truck hits railway overbridge||Phagwara, July 21Traffic on the Phagwara-Jalandhar highway remained jammed for over an hour this evening as an overloaded truck hit a railway overbridge near the Lovely Professional University here.The truck was coming from Ludhiana to Jalandhar. It lost its balance on the bridge after which it hit the divider, got damaged and remained stuck there. As a result, traffic on both sides of the bridge remained affected and caused hindrance to the vehicles.Commuters on both sides, who were travelling through this stretch, between 4 to 5 in the evening, were badly affected. Hydraulic machines had to be used to remove the truck, which further led to traffic snarls for a while. Heavy iron sheets, which were loaded in the truck, had to be unloaded in a vehicle before removing the damaged truck to clear the passage for the motorists.Inspector Ranjit Singh, traffic in-charge, Phagwara, said, “A truck from Ludhiana, that hit the divider, led to the jam, but we got it cleared. The traffic movement was streamlined as soon as possible. The motorists started taking the wrong side which added to the chaos.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/motorists-stuck-for-hours-as-truck-hits-railway-overbridge-116331
22-07-2020||Our Correspondent||COVID-19 pandemic: Hoshiarpur witnesses spike, 67 BSF men among 80 test positive||Hoshiarpur, July 21The district today witnessed the biggest spike in the Covid-19 cases after the arrival of the Nanded pilgrims. Out of the reports of 1,192 samples received from the VDRL Lab Amritsar, 80 have been found to be positive. Providing details, Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said these include 67 positive cases from the BSF Sub Training Centre Kharkan Camp and 13 are from Garhshankar. With this, the number of Covid-19 positive cases found in the district so far has become 378. Dr Singh said so far, 23,340 samples have been taken in the district, including the 622 samples taken today.Out of these, 21,984 tested negative while the reports of 974 are awaited. As many as 31 samples have been found invalid. Presently, there are 169 active cases in the district, while 199 patients have recovered.75-year-old succumbs to Covid-19, dist toll 34Jalandhar: As many as 22 Covid-19 cases were reported in Jalandhar today. One of them is an accused held by the Jalandhar Rural police. A 75-year-old man, who was seeking treatment at a private hospital, succumbed to the virus. The doctors at the Civil Hospital said another patient, who was yesterday referred to Ludhiana, died on the way, taking death toll in the district to 34.In a major relief today, 69 patients, including 18 from local Civil Hospital, 13 from Covid-19 care centre in Government Meritorious School, 12 from Military Hospital, five from private hospitals were recovered and discharged, besides 21 completed their home isolation period.Now, 1151 patients so far have been cured and discharged in Jalandhar besides the district has now 544 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-pandemic-hoshiarpur-witnesses-spike-67-bsf-men-among-80-test-positive-116330
22-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Parveen tops Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, July 21Praveen Kaur of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Railway Mandi, secured 99.5 per cent marks and secured the first position in the district. Parveen’s father Rajinder Singh of village Mehmowal is a farmer.Expressing happiness, Parbeen thanked her teachers and parents. Principal of the school Lalita Rani congratulated Parveen and the family and said this was possible due to the hard work done by the staff of the school and the student’s dedication. She said 31 students of the school secured more than 92 per cent marks, while 83 secured more than 80 per cent marks.Trishna shines in KapurthalaTrishna from Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Phagwara, bagged the first position in science stream, while Priyanka from the same school topped in humanities by scoring 442 marks and attaining 98.2 per cent. Lovepreet Kaur of Government School, Dhariwal Bet, Sandhya of Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Kapurthala, and Mandeep Kaur of Government Senior Secondary School, Noorpur Lubana, came second among government school students with 97.33 per cent. While Lovepreet and Mandeep are from arts stream, Sandhya is from science stream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parveen-tops-hoshiarpur-116329
22-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||So soulful! Kids spark creative side, become more innovative||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 21Locked in at home for four months as schools and educational institutions continue to remain shut, it has been hard for children to cope. But they have fashioned the times with their creative spark. Apart from having managed studies and boredom, many, notably, have accessed their creative side in such circumstances. They have developed the blue-sky thinking and are more innovative than ever.With so much time on their hands, the kids have been indulging in various activities. From baking cakes to making portraits with pencil shading, learning to do make-up, renovating old furniture, indulging in photography, trying their hand at foreign languages, classical dances, polishing their literary skills and trying new hacks that they learnt from ‘guru YouTube’, kids have shown the best of their abilities.Jasmin Pannu, a blogger on parenting, says, “Kids certainly have become more creative owing to free time. But a lot depends on how parents guide them to use this time. There are a lot of opportunities for parents to train their children at home under international and Indian experts of reputation.” Attending webinars and being a member of Rotary Club, she often gets a chance to interact with more people. “And find new things for my son Sartaaz, who is in Class X, and daughter Geet, a Class VI student,” shares Pannu.Sonia Chawla, a parent, has a word to say about how her daughter has dished out surprises. “Even though my elder daughter Kamya remains busy in her Class XI studies, she keeps surprising us with a new recipe every other day,” she tells. Her daughter has honed her skills in baking chocolate cakes and mango pudding. “While my younger daughter Divyanshi makes a video of her as she does cooking. Both of them are having a lot of fun even as we parents remain occupied with our office work,” Sonia adds.Speaking outWe have been attending webinars on various activities. We are taking bhangra classes from a Canada-based trainer and taking classes in art, drama and spoken English, too, and it really has been fun for us. — Sartaaz and Geet Pannu, Cambridge International Co-Ed SchoolFrom baking cakes to preparing puddings, penning poems, making sketches and doing video shoots at home, we have been keeping ourselves engrossed in many activities. We have tried several five-minute crafts and made many useful things at home. — Kamya and Divyanshi Mehra, Swami Sant Dass SchoolWe have done quite a few interesting things such as raising a dog and cat together. We have designed mobile phone covers, grown vegetables in the kitchen garden, made cement planters, renovated our old dressing table, penned poetry and designed a wall with colourful posters. — Anmol and Aadil Bali, Apeejay College and Innocent Hearts SchoolI always had interest in pursuing literature and wanted to write a lot of stuff in free time. I have all the time now and am writing poems. I am even Instagramming them on page ‘Art is heaven’ and my friends, too, add their creations. — Sanjivanie Bhalla, Hindu Kanya Collegiate School||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/so-soulful-kids-spark-creative-side-become-more-innovative-116328
22-07-2020||Daughter of an auto-rickshaw driver||Father an auto driver, Harpreet nurtures dream to own a house||“I want to support my family financially. I scored 84 per cent marks in my Class X exams and wasn’t very happy with my performance. So this year, I worked even harder and secured 98 per cent marks. I am very happy. I am thankful to my teachers for their help and support,” she said, adding: “I dedicated seven to eight hours to studies on a daily basis. After coming from school, I used to revise whatever was taught in the evening. During exams, I increased the study hours. I used to wake up around 4 am and study till 8 or 9 am,” she said.Plumber’s daughter aspires to become a fashion designerGGSSS, Nehru GardenVocational 98%A student of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, Pratima, has scored 98 per cent marks in the vocational stream. She said she was now planning to take admission to BSc fashion designing and aspires to become a successful fashion designer, so that she can support her family financially. Daughter of Siya Ram Yadav, a plumber, Pratima, while sharing her success mantra, said one should give his/her 100 per cent without thinking much about the percentage they are going to achieve.“My parents and teachers have been very supportive, and I owe this success to them, as they are the real motivation behind my success,” she said.She wants to give her father a respectable, decent lifeGGSSS, Ladowali RoadHumanities 98.6%Ashu, a student of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Ladowali Road, scored 98.6 per cent marks in humanities. Aspiring to become an IAS officer, she said: “My father Mohan Lal, works as a daily-wage labourer. His monthly income is around Rs8,000. I want to be an IAS officer so that everyone looks at my father with respect. I want to support him financially and take the responsibility of my family on my shoulder, as he has been working really hard to see me at a good position in future.” She said her father used to wake her up in morning for studies and make tea, so that she could concentrate on her studies. JEE on her radarNew St Soldier Sr Sec SchoolNon-medical 98.6%A student of New St Soldier Senior Secondary Public School, Gurneet Kaur has scored 98.6 per cent in the non-medical stream. She said she was now preparing to appear for the JEE and aims to become a computer science engineer in future. “I followed a very easy timetable. I used to pay a little extra attention in class and study daily at home for four to five hours. Also, I never stressed myself for good grades and studied with a very calm mind,” she said.Hard labour paysMeritorious SchoolMedical 98%Vanita of Meritorious School scored 98% marks in the medical stream. Daughter of a labourer who merely earns Rs3,000 to Rs4,000 a month, Vanita says she wants to become a doctor, so that she could financially support her family. “I am very happy. It’s a dream come true for me. I was expecting above 90%, but never thought I will score 98%. My father and mother have been very supportive all through and always motivated me to study hard,” she said, adding that she was now preparing for NEET. A stitch in time GGSSS, Ladowali RoadHumanities 98.6%A student of GGSSS, Ladowali Road, Jyoti scored 98.6% in humanities. She used to study for eight to 10 hours a day and wants to become a bank manager. Daughter of Didar Singh, who works as a tailor, Jyoti said it was a proud day for her, as her parents always wanted her to secure above 90%. “I thank my teachers and parents, as this wouldn't have been possible without their belief in me,” she said. She is preparing for bank exams and planning to get admission to BA or BSc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-an-auto-driver-harpreet-nurtures-dream-to-own-a-house-116296
22-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||PSEB CLASS XII: With pass percentage of 93.86, Jalandhar beats Ludhiana, Amritsar||Jalandhar, July 21The district Education Department officials are elated over the district’s performance in the Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) Class XII exams, the results of which were declared here on Tuesday.The pass percentage of students of government schools in the district was much better than those of Ludhiana and Amritsar schools. Not only this, as compared to last year, it even improved on its own performance.The pass percentage of students in Jalandhar stands at 93.86, while Ludhiana and Amritsar have recorded 89.99 and 92.22 pass percentage, respectively.As many as 19, 608 students appeared for the Class XII exams (all four streams – medical, non-medical, humanities and commerce) in the district, of which 18,404 students have successfully passed by scoring respectable grades.As per the statistics received from the PSEB, the pass percentage of government schools in the state stands at 94.32 per cent as against the 88.14 pass percentage last year. The pass percentage of associated schools is 87.04 per cent, affiliated schools 91.84 per cent and that of government-aided schools is 91.03.Divulging details about the criterion on which the results were prepared this year since a few exams were not held due to Covid-19 induced lockdown, Education Secretary Krishan Kumar said the result have been prepared as per the average taken on the basis of marks scored by students in the best of three or best of two papers attempted by them. “Following the CBSE’s pattern, the PSEB, too, has not prepared a merit list this year,” he said.He said the stream-wise pass percentage of regular students was 91.05 per cent in commerce, 92.87 per cent in humanities, 94.82 per cent in science (93.80 per cent in medical and 95.36 per cent in non-medical) and 88.81 per cent in vocational stream.Ropar district topped in the state by achieving 96.93 pass percentage. Faridkot and Ferozepur districts with a pass percentage of 96.61 and 95.68,respectively, have been placed at the second and third place. While Jalandhar bagged the ninth spot in the state list, Amritsar and Ludhiana stand at the 15th and 20th positions, respectively.Government schools outscore private ones, againDistrict-wise pass percentageKapurthala sets the bar high Setting the bar high, government schools in Kapurthala secured 93.96 pass percentage, the highest in the Doaba region. As many as 7,837 students appeared for Class XII exams in Kapurthala, of which 7,364 passed. The district stands at the seventh position in the state list after Shri Mukstar Sahib. Hoshiarpur fares well too!Government schools in Hoshiarpur district secured 93.80 pass percentage. As many as 17,341 students appeared from the district, of which 16,266 passed the examination.Nawanshahr not far behindGovernment schools in Nawanshahr district secured 92.83 pass percentage. A total of 6,051 students appeared from the district in Class XII exams and 5,617 of them passed successfully. Nawanshahr DEO (Secondary) Sushil Kumar Tuli and Deputy DEO, Amrik Singh, while appreciating the school heads and teachers for the excellent results, said the hard work put in by teachers has paid off. “Teachers braved extreme cold to take extra classes before the actual school timings. They took extra classes even on Sundays and holidays,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pseb-class-xii-with-pass-percentage-of-93-86-jalandhar-beats-ludhiana-amritsar-116287
22-07-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||Jalandhar, here she comes||“Next week I am hopefully going home. I am so excited about it. This is the longest I’ve stayed away from Jalandhar. I visit my town every month,” says a joyful Jyotica Tangri. This playback singer has been holed up in Mumbai since the lockdown began. Now, all she wants to do is chill with her mom.“My mom is alone as my brother’s family lives in Dubai. I want to make it very special for her. I’ve planned a lot of things. I will drive her around in the city. We will sit on the terrace with tea and pakoda. I’ve learnt new recipes, so I will cook for her and together we will watch TV.”Jyotica hasn’t just learnt cooking during these three months. This time has been of learning and growth for this 27-year-old singer. “I’ve been working from home; made some videos, even recorded songs and sent them to composers. When I was asked to do the female version of Teri Mitti by Zee Music, for the first time in life I used this app called Garage Band to record my song. I did it with the mic of our normal earphones. And I was thrilled when it came out so well.”Even when there were no resources, there was willingness and this difficult phase made her realise how lucky she is. “It’s pure grace that in a time when my friends had to go back since they didn’t have work or money to pay the rent, I had both savings and work flowing from all corners. I feel, in this time, I’ve grown as an artiste.”Around 10 of her songs have been released in the last four months, some of which were ready before the lockdown. Virgin Bhanupriya, a film released on Zee5, has three of her songs. Then, she did a project with MyFm called The Corona Song, which talks about ways to protect from the virus. That one has her voice in 21 different languages, a quality that got her recognition in the industry since her reality show days. “I can switch to different languages, this is my USP.” The highlight of this period has also been her song Jaadugariyaan. “The lyrics are mine and the music is by Aryan Shukla and Sonu Sagu.”Jallandhar specialEvery time she goes to Jallandhar, the must-do activities include, “I am a foodie and I love the street food in Jallandhar. Chole bhature being one of my favourites, I also make sure to go have the novelty burger. A person sells them on the roadside near the Kapurthala chowk, it’s very close to my place and I never miss going there when I am home.”Most cherished memory“I started learning music at the age of 6-7 and I’ve participated twice in the oldest sangeet sammelan, the Harbhallabh Sangeet Sammelan. In the junior round, I came second and in the seniors, I came first. It is held every year at Devi Talab Mandir. That’s one place and one memory very close to my heart.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-here-she-comes-116225
