22-11-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Moved to France illegally, he now helps Indians in distress||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 21Kapurthala-based NRI Iqbal Singh Bhatti (65), needs no introduction. His France-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) ‘Aurore Dawn’ has been often in the news for finding whereabouts of missing Punjabi youngsters and dispatching bodies of Indian youth back home. He had also spearheaded a campaign against the French Government over ban on turbans some years ago.A native of Miani Bhagupurian village, Bhatti has sent bodies of 178 Indians since he started philanthropic works in 2003. Of these, 79 were dispatched at the expenses of the Indian Embassy and bodies of remaining 99 youth were sent through his NGO that bore an expenditure of 4,200 Euros per body.He also managed to send 13 youth, who got disabled in France, back to India through his NGO.Ten days ago, he reached Punjab with ashes of eight Punjabis who had lost their life due to the pandemic in France and handed over to their families. Most families said their wards were illegal immigrants whom they had not seen for the past 12-18 years.Bhatti shared his own story as well, “My father was a poor mason in Kapurthala and I was just a matriculate. After Class X, I too began working as a mason along with my father. I did this work for 20 years, before I moved to France. I too had gone there illegally in 1991. There I continued to toil as a mason. After six years or so, I managed to get PR and called my family there. With God’s grace, slowly things got better. My son joined my construction business. My wife also ran a grocery store. Now, my daughters are married and settled in Canada. I have stopped working and I am fully devoted towards my NGO.”Narrating how he started the NGO, Bhatti said, “In 2003, a family from Kapurthala contacted me in France saying that their boy had gone missing. I searched at his whereabouts, but could not trace him. I got a hint from his workplace that he would go to a café with his Chinese girlfriend. I showed his picture to the café owner and he made me meet his girlfriend, who further informed me about his new location, but I found him dead. With a heavy heart, I sent the body to his parents after completing all legal formalities.”Bhatti said, “A family from Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur contacted me to locate their kids. I found bodies of both the boys and sent them back. Anyone who could not afford to come to France or pay for dispatch of body of their kin started contacting me and I always showed my readiness to help them. After three years, I started the NGO, got associated with some people, arranged funds and started helping families in distress.”Having worked extensively for Indian families even during the pandemic, Bhatti says, “Thankfully, I have remained fit. It perhaps could be due to a good diet that I am keeping and countless blessings of Indian families whom I have helped.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/moved-to-france-illegally-he-now-helps-indians-in-distress-173742
22-11-2020||Jalandhar||16 wellness centres opened in Jalandhar||To augment primary healthcare services and infrastructure amid the Covid-19 outbreak, Jalandhar (West) MLA Sushil Kumar Rinku and Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday dedicated 16 health and wellness centres (Tandarust Punjab Sehat Kendras) in Jalandhar.The district now has 208 health and wellness centres with upgraded 172 sub-health centres, eight urban and 28 rural primary health centres. Participating in the state-level virtual inauguration ceremony of 107 health and wellness centres by CM Capt Amarinder Singh, Rinku and Thori said these centres would be operated by the Community Health Officers and will offer treatment for non-communicable diseases, including cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, among others.They said to run these centres, nursing officers (staff nurses) have been trained by the Health Department under a specially-designed bridge programme adding they have undergone six-month training from the Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU). They revealed theoretical and practical training had been imparted to the Community Health Officers. They said these centres would prove instrumental in fighting the pandemic effectively by ensuring early reporting of the suspected cases at the first stage. They said spread of contagion can be curbed with early testing of suspected cases having influenza-like symptoms and would help to break the transmission chain of the virus at the earliest.Staff nurse Kamaljeet Kaur, who had been performing the Covid duty since March 2020, spoke to Capt Amarinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/16-wellness-centres-opened-in-jalandhar-173743
22-11-2020||---||23-year-old kills relative for money||Jalandhar, November 21A 36-year-old building contractor was found murdered at the Shiv Nagar locality of the district in the Garh area on Saturday. The murder took place just a day after the brutal murder of Yovinder Singh, a dhaba owner, who was killed in a fit of rage by his neighbour on Thursday.The accused, 23-year-old Irfan, was booked under Sections 302 of the IPC at the police station number 7 and was arrested soon after. He killed Hanif Ansari by repeatedly hitting him by a hammer on his head.SHO police station division 7 said Hanif’s body was found in a gruesome condition this morning at his home. He was found covered in a blanket with face and head riddled with stab wounds.Seven hours after the murder, the district police arrested the accused, who was the relative of the contractor. The hammer used in the crime was also recovered from him by the police.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said during investigation, it surfaced that 23-year-old Irfan, a distant relative of the deceased, committed this heinous crime. The Police Commissioner said accused Irfan of Bishanpura village, district Betia Bihar, was working with Hanif Ansari as a labourer, and had a tiff with him over money.Irfan killed his uncle by constantly striking with a hammer on his head, resulting in his death.Bhullar said the police also recovered the weapon of offense from the accused besides the mobile of the deceased which he grabbed after committing the crime.The commissioner said a team of the Police Commissionerate led by ADCP Ashwani Kumar, ACP Harinder Singh, SHO Ramandeep Singh initiated probe covering various aspects of the murder and cracked the case within a short time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/23-year-old-kills-relative-for-money-173744
22-11-2020||---||Jalandhar reports 7 deaths, 156 new cases||Jalandhar, November 21With 156 new cases, the Covid tally reached 16,826 in the district on Saturday. Not only this, seven deaths were also reported in Jalandhar due to Covid taking the toll to 528. With the district administration already instructing the Health Department to ramp up testing with an awaited peak, the steady rise in cases also warn city residents that they will have to brace up for another wave soon. With each passing day, there is a steady and dramatic rise in the number of Covid cases in the district. As many as 15,354 people have been discharged in the district so far. The active cases are 944. As many as 584 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar at present. Meanwhile, four people tested positive for Covid-19 in Kapurthala.4 more succumb to virus, 19 infections in HoshiarpurThe district reported four more Covid-19 fatalities on Saturday, taking the death toll to 240. Besides, the district reported 19 new infections on Saturday. The seven cases were related to the city while the remaining were from various health blocks in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said samples of 954 people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Saturday, taking the total number of samples till date in the district to 1,83,799. He said according to reports received from the lab, 1,76,885 samples are negative, while reports of 1398 samples are awaited and 133 samples are invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 192, while the number of cured patients is 6,318, Dr Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-reports-7-deaths-156-new-cases-173745
22-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||Ustad BS Narang is preserving the masterful notes of yore||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 21His tastefully chosen bandishes evoke nostalgia in a generation bred on vocal poetry and songs of Ustad and dervishes and sick of the present day noise, which goes for music.Preserving a long tradition of music tutored by Gurus who nurtured Doaba’s musical movement of the 1950s to 80s, Ustad BS Narang’s vocal renditions bring back a bygone era and introduce present generations to music created by Punjab musical masters.Has given taleem to the likes of Hans Raj Hans, Jasbir Jassi and Sarabjeet CheemaIt was the atmosphere at home and musical gatherings and lessons going on around me, which got me attracted to music early on. My father always laid stress on academics while asking me never to leave my penchant for music. I quite like Gal sun lai sajjan dil naal, hun sambh lai sur aur taal and Mohan Jago Harwa in Raga Deshkar (both composed by his father). The mastery of our ancestors was unparalleled and it is in their footsteps we try to walk. Despite the odds and the pandemic, I made it a point to continue my riyaaz religiously. It is music that keeps me going. So, I regularly sing and am working on a book on bandishes by our ancestors.A retired professor and an A-grade artist, he has lent taleem to the likes of Hans Raj Hans, Jasbir Jassi and Sarabjeet Cheema, among others. Generations have also been regaled with his choicest bandishes on radio and TV.Born and brought up at Nakodar, he received his early lessons from his father Pt Kesar Chand and was subsequently tutored by Husan Lal, Ustad Karam Singh Chakraborty, Dr SL Mishra and Pt KS Jasra.“It was the atmosphere at home and musical gatherings and lessons going on around me, which got me attracted to music early on. My father always laid stress on academics while asking me never to leave my penchant for music.”While pursuing his graduation from Doaba College in Jalandhar and DAV College, he joined the latter as a professor in 1973 and hasn’t looked back ever since.Having had the honour of performing with the likes of sarangi virtuoso Ustad Sabri Khan during a conference in Tanda and also having sung with Ustad Salamat Ali Khan Sahib – he won praise and accolades from the legends. Ustad Salamat Ali Khan was taken by his command on vocals, which he greatly appreciated.At 75, having recuperated from a recent illness, it was music, which kept Ustad Narang busy during the pandemic. He has featured as one of Punjab’s acclaimed musical artists (along with Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan) in music textbook for Class XII students. He has also penned a book called “Punjab Khayal Bandishen”, which features his vast collection of music bandish of Ragas from the region.He is also currently working on another book – featuring Bandishes of yore from classical musical masters of the state – including his father and Guru.Ustad Narang has a decade-long career performing for radio and TV. He has also performed for BBC and TV Asia, among other.His concerts regaled audiences across the US, London, Birmingham, Scotland, Bratford and Wales. He had performed at music festivals - Baba Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan (Jalandhar), Saptswar (Delhi), Fort William (Kolkata), and Sangeet Sammelan (Mumbai), among others.About his favourite bandishes, he says, “I quite like “Gal sun lai sajjan dil naal, hun sambh lai sur aur taal” and “Mohan Jago Harwa” in Raga Deshkar (both composed by his father). The mastery of our ancestors was unparalleled and it is in their footsteps we try to walk. Despite the odds and the pandemic, I made it a point to continue my riyaaz religiously. It is music that keeps me going. So, I regularly sing and I am working on a book on bandishes by our ancestors.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ustad-bs-narang-is-preserving-the-masterful-notes-of-yore-173746
22-11-2020||---||‘False positive’ spoils his family trip to Vaishno Devi||Jalandhar, November 21  The plans of Chetan Dhir and his wife to celebrate their marriage anniversary by going on a two-day trip to Vaishno Devi (Saturday and Sunday) went haywire, thanks to a faulty coronavirus testing system. Running a sport goods manufacturing firm, Chetan (32) had got four chopper tickets booked. These included for himself, his wife Radhika (30), son Atharav (7) and daughter Divisha (4). Besides, he also got hotel booking done till tomorrow. The family was to leave early this morning and had even got booking for the ‘Aarti’ done but a faulty coronavirus report spoiled their plan.   Chetan said that since corona report was needed immediately and was mandatory, his family took the Covid-19 Rapid Antigen Test from the Civil Hospital on November 19. He said since the RT-PCR test report could take a day or two, hence, they went for the the Rapid Antigen Test.  To his surprise, while his wife and daughter tested negative, he and his son tested positive. He said neither he nor his son had any symptom and they got really disturbed and were asked to cancel the trip and go for home isolation immediately.Chetan said he went to a private laboratory immediately after the report on November 19 and got the family’s RT-PCR test done. He said the report came on Saturday evening and all four members tested negative.  He said for two days, he and his son remained isolated from their family.  “I did not just face financial loss owing to ‘wrong testing’ but also a psychological trauma owing to ‘wrong Covid test report’. It also had a detrimental effect on my son’s mind,” he said, adding that he would take up the matter with the authorities in a day or so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/false-positive-spoils-his-family-trip-to-vaishno-devi-173747
22-11-2020||---||Health teams told to conduct 6,000 tests daily||Jalandhar, November 21With the second wave of the Covid-19 contagion being predicted to surface in the next two weeks, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has directed the Health Department to ensure that around 6,000 samples are taken daily and tested for the virus. This will help in early detection of the disease and treatment of the patients, besides containing the spread of the contagion.Participating in a videoconference chaired by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan here on Saturday, the Deputy Commissioner, who was accompanied by Jalandhar (rural) SSP Sandeep Kumar Garg and Kapurthala SSP Kanwardeep Kaur, asked the department to hold Covid-19 sampling camps at those places which have a high footfall of people and ensure that the target of 6,000 samples is achieved daily.Ghanshyam Thori further asked them to conduct sampling in colleges, schools, hostels and other institutions to detect the potential cases. He said widespread and extensive testing would lead to low positive cases and would stop the transmission of the virus.He said the aggressive testing would ensure that potential disease carriers were identified promptly and effective tracing, containment and treatment could be started.The Deputy Commissioner said, “The more we do sampling the better will be chances of not missing infected persons, especially asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients who otherwise will be roaming within society freely and spreading infection.”Further, he asked the officials to improve contact tracing of a positive case which would help contain the spread. He said the district administration was fully geared up and well prepared to tackle the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic if it surfaced in the next few weeks.He said beds in ICUs of private and government hospitals were already reserved. The district administration would leave no stone unturned to serve people in this difficult situation.He asked the police department to strictly enforce mask-wearing as masks were the only vaccine right now to prevent the spread of the virus. The Deputy Commissioner ordered to launch a special drive to enforce safety precautions strictly, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. He directed officials to penalize those who were found violating these guidelines and carry out the enforcement drive aggressively, besides special night patrolling.Further, he urged people to follow safety precautions that included wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, washing hands, and others to check the spread of the infection.Those present on the occasion were Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal, Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla, and Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Gurmeet Kaur Duggal, among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-teams-told-to-conduct-6-000-tests-daily-173748
22-11-2020||---||Budding players get tips from Olympians||Jalandhar, November 21 Olympians Pargat Singh, Harpreet Mander, Gundeep Kumar and Sanjeev Kumar Dang and international player Daljit Singh trained nearly 100 budding hockey players who are getting training at Surjit Hockey coaching camp on Saturday. On the 60th day of the camp, all veteran players interacted with hockey players and told them how they started hockey in their childhood and also shared some tips with players. Daljit Singh donated 21 hockey sticks to players of the camp. Former Indian hockey team captain, Hockey Punjab honorary secretary and also MLA, Pargat Singh, said he was impressed from the overwhelming enthusiasm among children at the coaching camp. He thanked the parents of 100 participants who are bringing their children to the camp themselves to keep them physically fit and are taking care of their drug-free future. He appealed to all parents to send as many children as possible to the camp. He said new astroturf at the Surjit Hockey Stadium would be laid in the next three months and a new astroturf would be laid in Lyallpur Khalsa College and Kukar Pind soon. Pargat Singh said the camp would soon be known as the leading hockey nursery in the country. He said veterans and former hockey players of other districts should learn from the coaching camp run by the Surjit Hockey Society and start similar hockey camps in their respective districts as well for the promotion of hockey in Punjab. Surinder Singh Bhapa, director (coaching camp) of Surjit Hockey Society, said under Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshayam Thori, who is also the president of Surjit Hockey Society, more than 100 players in the age group under 14 to 19 years are participating. They are being trained by good coaches such as Olympians Rajinder Singh, Davinder Singh, Avtar Singh Pinka, Rajinder Kumar Sharma and Yadvinder Singh Johnny. He said no fee was being charged for attending the camp and the training is absolutely free. Apart from hockey sticks and fruits, soaked almonds are being provided to participants as daily food to all participants, sponsored by NRI and sports promoter Tut Brothers of the US, said Surinder Singh Bhapa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/budding-players-get-tips-from-olympians-173749
22-11-2020||---||No headway in setting up of  Pind Babe Nanak Da||Jalandhar, November 21The state government is likely to take up the issue of delay in setting up of ‘Pind Babe Nanak Da’ with the Centre in the coming days.Member of Parliament Jasbir Singh Dimpa and Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema said the project was to commence soon after the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, however, nothing has happened in the last one year.The duo said they would take up the matter with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who would visit Sultanpur Lodhi on November 30, to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Ber Sahib on the 551th Parkash Purb. sThey said they would urge him to take up the matter with the Centre.Talking to mediapersons at the market committee office, Cheema and Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal said Capt Amarinder would lay foundation stone of six new projects, including STP, new administrative complex, two smart schools and renovation of Qila Sarai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-headway-in-setting-up-of-pind-babe-nanak-da-173751
22-11-2020||---||Experts dwell on energy efficient buildings, tech||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 21With support of the Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA), the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) organised a one-day workshop on ‘Energy Conservation Building Code’ (ECBC).Trainers touched various case studies to explain perfect architectural projects of different scale and typology. Registered architect with Council of Architecture and BEE Certified Master Trainers of the Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC) of India, Abu Talha Farooqi and Satinder Maan, informed the participants how heat transfer can be reduced by ‘Building Envelope’.They revealed that the building reduced its heat load from 100 ft2/Tr to 450 ft2/Tr. The master trainers also showed case studies, where daylight in a building could be increased just by optimising the design.Chief guest was Jalandhar MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma. Joint Commissioner MC Harcharan Singh and Municipal Town Planner Parampal Singh, were also present.The programme was attended by many practicing architects and engineers from the MC, Public Works Department, Improvement Trust and other stakeholders. Dinesh Bhagat from IIA Punjab Chapter, Rajinder Pal Singh, LSAD HoD Prof Nagendra Narayan and many other participants from across the state were present in the training programme.School of Architecture and Design at Lovely Professional University (LPU) made a presentation.Atul Singla, Chief Architect and Dean, LPU, said the PEDA was doing a great job for professionals engaged in architectural endeavours through such programmes.Sushil Kumar Malhotra, Member, Board of Governors (PEDA), informed regarding energy efficient buildings and initiatives taken by the agency in Punjab. PEDA organises One-day session||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/experts-dwell-on-energy-efficient-buildings-tech-174095
22-11-2020||Jalandhar||‘Paryavaran Ratna’ award||Sehajdeep outshines in MA (Music)The students of MA – Music Instrumental(Sem IV) of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, made their college proud by bagging top positions in university examination conducted by the GNDU, Amritsar. Sehajdeep Singh stood first while Ravinder Jeet Kaur came third in university. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the students and motivated them to keep working hard in future as well. She also appreciated the faculty members of the department of music (instrumental) for guiding students towards sparkling success.MBA, MCA results declaredMBA and MCA students of KCL Institute of Management and Technology have bagged top positions in the result declared by IKG Punjab Technical University. In MBA IV, Kuljeet Kaur and Pooja Saini stood first by scoring 9.92 SGPA, Navdeep Kaur and Pooja Jassal bagged the second position by scoring 9.85 SGPA, Anil Kumar, Mrinal, Preeti and Rozal Bhagat stood third by scoring 9.62 SGPA. In MCA VI, Priya stood first by scoring 10 SGPA, Manjinder Kaur, Mahesh Giri, Prinka stood second by scoring 9.83 SGPA. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) congratulated the students and their parents. Dr S.K Sood (Director, KCLIMT) also congratulated the students.Girls prove mettle in DesigningGuru Nanak Dev University has declared the results of BSc Fashion Designing (Sem-VI). Himanshi secured the first position in the university, having already maintained it since three consecutive years by getting 2,714/3,000. Sheeba made it to the fourth position with 2,674/3,000. Mandeep Kaur got the sixth position and Gurpreet managed it to the seventh position by securing 2,639/3,000 and 2,624/3,000 respectively. Principal Dr Kiran Arora maintained that such accomplishments were indeed a feather in the college’s cap.Virtual inter-house science quizMayor World School organised a virtual inter-house science quiz for Classes IX to XII. Each team had four participants who proved their skill in the brain drill. There were five rounds. The students were asked questions related to general scientific principles in the question-answer round. In the visual connection round, four slides were shown to each team and the participants had to find out a connection between them. The third round was ‘Identify the place’ round. Pictures of various research centres were shown and the participants had to identify them. Another interesting round was the ‘Jumble trouble round’ where jumbled chemical formulae were shown and the students had to recognise the compound. The last round was the ‘Rapid Fire’ round. Questions were asked on topics like inventions and discoveries, Nobel Prize winners and recent activities in the the field of science. Principal Sarita Madhok congratulated the teachers and students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/paryavaran-ratna-award-174097
