22-10-2020||Jalandhar||Six killed in road mishap in Jalandhar||Six persons, including two children, were killed when a truck hit the vehicle they were travelling in on the Sultanpur Lodhi road near the Rail Coach Factory (RCF) late Tuesday. Three persons were injured in the accident.The deceased, who were migrant workers, were returning from a farm at Biharipur in a motorised cart.The truck driver has been identified as Harjinder Singh, a resident of Sabuwal village in Lohian. He has been booked under Sections 304 A, 279, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC.The deceased have been identified as Upinder Mandal (29), his wife Billa Devi (29), his daughter Pooji (6), Sanjeev Kumar (18), Reena Devi (24) and Karishma (2 ). Reena Devi and Karishma are the wife and daughter of Danveer who works in Gujarat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-killed-in-road-mishap-in-jalandhar-159283
22-10-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta pays tribute to police martyrs||The 61st Police Commemoration Day was observed at the PAP ground here today. Dinkar Gupta, DGP, paid tributes to the martyrs of the Punjab police and paramilitary forces. This year, the event was a low-key affair due to Covid-19 pandemic, and the parents of the martyrs were not invited.The DGP said from 1981 to 2020, 2,721 police officers had sacrificed their lives for the state and the country. Hailing the efforts of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the DGP said the government had ensured the welfare of the wards of the martyrs on priority.The DGP lauded the bravery of Patiala ASI Harjeet Singh, whose hand was severed in an attack in Patiala, and the sacrifices of Moga’s Jagmohan Singh and Jalandhar’s Gurmeet Singh, who lost their lives while discharging their duties last year.Expressing satisfaction over the humanitarian steps initiated by the Punjab Police amid Covid-19 crisis, the DGP said the state police had helped about 12 crore people with dry ration and langar.“As many as 40 jawans and officers have succumbed while serving society during the pandemic,” the DGP said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-dgp-dinkar-gupta-pays-tribute-to-police-martyrs-159288
22-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||What’s supposed to be inviting, is actually driving away people||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 21A plush commercial complex, a posh hotel, a handful of high-end cafes, the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall, the Hans Raj Stadium, the district library and the Virsa Vihar are all lined up on a single street in Jalandhar. This service lane leading to an uptown residential colony, which hosts the topmost officials, is city’s cultural hub.While one would imagine a decent and smooth path leading through such a opulent area, the actual road through this historic cultural centre of Jalandhar is completely opposite of that. Artists, writers, intellectuals and eminent politicians gather frequently here – only to be annoyed due to the pathetic condition of the stretch and nuisance of parking vehicles.Most of these buildings of repute are hidden by a line of cars which remain parked outside them 24x7. Potholed, puddles strewn around in the monsoons and choked by hundreds of cars illegally parked on it sums up the story of the service lane at the BMC chowk here. The authorities of most of these establishments have run out of number of times the issue has been taken up with the administration.The Virsa Vihar's gate is reduced to a place where people relieve themselves. We have ambitious plans to uplift the space to the next level. We have tried drawing murals across the boundary, but the dhaba owner won’t budge.  —Prof Basudeb Biswas, SculptorWhile the Yadgaar hall, Hansraj stadium and Virsa Vihar have reasonable parking spaces on crowded days, it is a mammoth task to get the vehicle up to their gates. A huge electricity tower erected right outside the gate of the hall also obstructs bigger vehicles. Further up, the car bazaar and the following taxi stands park their myriad of vehicles totally blocking the lane. One just cannot drive straight to the Virsa Vihar from the hall. Similarly choked are the entrances to the stadium, the way to the residential colony and the library.Amolak Singh, cultural convenor of the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee, says, “Our entire entrances have been eaten up by these parked vehicles. Flex announcing future programmes are obscured by huge vehicles. The footpath has disappeared beneath dhaba and plinths spread by car bazaars. Many a time vehicles spread out to GT Road. Where can people park their vehicles? This road is totally claimed by the cars and taxis from the stand. These vehicles stand 24x7 denying anyone else decent space. Even our boundary is claimed by dhabas and vehicles.A newcomer has trouble finding where the hall is.” Capt (retd) Inderjit Singh Dhami, secretary, Virsa Vihar, says, “This street symbolises Jalandhar’s culture and heritage. The service lane was made especially to provide an approach road to DC’s residence. But right now, it’s an absolute mess. There have been several attempts to make them leave but all in vain. We have personally removed the food stall, dhaba etc owners but they keep coming back.” The Virsa Vihar is supposed to be a beautiful cultural hub; the very entrance should be calling visitors. All these kiosks and stands must be moved to an alternate space for this area to breathe.Artiste, sculptor, Prof Basudeb Biswas, says, “The Virsa Vihar’s gate is reduced to a place where people relieve themselves. We have ambitious plans to uplift the space to the next level. We have tried drawing murals across the boundary but the dhaba owner won’t budge. Now, more have joined. More than the establishment itself, taxi stand has become the identifier.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/whats-supposed-to-be-inviting-is-actually-driving-away-people-159254
22-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Khaki, a tribute to courage of martyred policemen||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 21Contributing his bit towards observing the Police Commemoration Day, Sub Inspector, 7th Batallion, Youngbir Singh has written a poem titled ‘Khaki’. ‘Parivar Chadd mar mite jo, apnepan da ehsas kraande e, 21 October vaale din, khaki veer saputa layi sir jhukandi e’.He said four days ago, he wrote this poem because he wanted to dedicate this piece to the great martyrs who shall be always remembered.“I started writing several poems in the pandemic. This situation gave me a chance to identify a writer in me. I have written several poems and I didn’t want to miss this day to express my emotions. Because of the pandemic, the function was not big as it used to be earlier, but the respect for the martyrs in our hearts will never fade,” he said.I started writing poems in the pandemic. This situation gave me a chance to explore my writing skills. I have written several poems and I didn’t want to miss this day to express my emotions. Because of the pandemic, the function was a low-key affair, but the respect for the martyrs in our hearts will never fade. —Youngbir SinghTo mark the 61st Police Commemoration Day, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta on Wednesday joined the police officers/officials to pay glowing tributes to the martyrs of Punjab Police and Para-Military Forces here at the PAP Complex. The DGP said the Punjab Police would remember the brave hearts of the force for their valiant deeds and humanitarian act in the battle against the Covid.He said as many as 40 jawans and officers have succumbed while fighting Covid and paid homage to these warriors on behalf of the entire force. Youngbir has also written on the farmers’ plight. ‘Main kado mange lakh crore si, mainu mere haal te chad de sarkaare, karzdaara nu kanoona di ki lod si’ he writes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/khaki-a-tribute-to-courage-of-martyred-policemen-159255
22-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar's first bike-taxi driver Kanta Chauhan now sells paranthas to stay afloat||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 21A year ago, Kanta Chauhan (35) had hit the headlines for becoming the first bike-taxi driver in the city. After her husband met with an accident, she was compelled to take this job in order to provide good education and a better lifestyle to her children.Kanta started earning well and enjoyed her work. However, her joy of doing something for the family was short-lived. The entire country went into the lockdown amid the Covid-19 outbreak and her work was affected. The earnings remained nil for almost five months, though she played a Good Samaritan during the lockdown by extending help to the stranded people.Since I never wanted my family to suffer any more, I decided to vend cooked food. With the help of my husband, I put up a parantha stall near Doaba Chowk. We named our little refreshment corner Parantha Junction, but the customer footfall was not as per our expectations. Subsequently, I approached the MC officials, who allotted me space outside the Indo-Canadian office. It has been a week since I'm here.  —Kanta Chauhan“Although I wasn’t laid off from my job, but I stopped getting bookings as social distancing has become a new norm now. I tried for other jobs, but most companies refused saying they are not hiring amid the crisis. My husband, who used to be delivery man, was also unemployed. Soon we started running out of savings,” said Kanta.“Since I never wanted my family to suffer any more, I decided to vend cooked food. With the help of my husband, I put up a parantha stall near Doaba Chowk. When Good Samaritans got to know about us, they helped us in getting a cart and gas cylinders. We named our little refreshment corner ‘Parantha Junction’. Although we received customers daily, the footfall was not as per our expectations. We used to cover 15 km to reach here. Subsequently, I approached Municipal Corporation officials, who allotted me space outside the Indo-Canadian office, near the bus stand. It has been a week since I’m here. Being the most visited area, and due to its location, the daily turnout of customers is satisfactory. We operate our stall from 6am to 6pm and provide all meals to our customers as per their demand,” said Kanta.Kanta, who resides in Pratap Nagar, says she can now look after her kids, aged 5 and 10 years, as well while operating the stall. Nearly 30-40 customers visit her stall everyday.Even as Kanta has taken up this new income source, she doesn’t want to leave her previous occupation. She says when things are back to normal, she will resume her bike-taxi job for at least two-three hours, as it gave her recognition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-first-bike-taxi-driver-kanta-chauhan-now-sells-paranthas-to-stay-afloat-159256
22-10-2020||Our Correspondent||SSP Mahal reiterates to help families of martyrs on priority||Hoshiarpur, October 21Observing the 61st Police Commemoration Day here, District Police Chief SSP Navjot Singh Mahal on Wednesday reiterated to address the issues of martyrs’ families on priority. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal and other officers paid rich tributes to the police personnel, who were martyred while discharging their duties.Recalling the services rendered by the bravehearts in line with their duties, the Deputy Commissioner said the Punjab Police had played a pivotal role in restoring the peace in the region, which would always instill a sense of nationalism and patriotism among our youngsters. She said the Police Commemoration Day was celebrated on October 21 every year to remember the 10 brave-hearts CRPF soldiers, who were martyred in an ambush by the Chinese force at Hotspring area of Laddakh on this day in 1959.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said from September 1, 2019, to August 31, 2020, as many as 264 police officers/officials had laid their lives across the country in line with their duty. “The supreme sacrifices made by police personnel would be remembered by one and all as our martyred protected the country from inimical forces and nefarious designs to destabilise the hard-earned peace. The directions had already been issued to all police officers to give priority to the issues pertaining to the families of martyrs and that too within minimal time,” said SSP.Meanwhile, the names of all martyrs were read out by DSP Tanda Daljit Singh Khakh. The SSP also inspected the guard of honour led by the parade commander DSP Gurpreet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ssp-mahal-reiterates-to-help-families-of-martyrs-on-priority-159257
22-10-2020||---||30 farmers honoured for not burning paddy stubble||Jalandhar, October 21In order to recognise the contribution of farmers in the battle against stubble burning, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday honoured 30 progressive farmers who did not burn stubble and helped the administration in keeping the environment pollution-free in the ongoing paddy harvesting season.In a simple but impressive event held at the District Administrative Complex under the aegis of the Mission Tandarust Punjab, Thori said these farmers have played a vital role in the war against stubble burning by desisting from the unhealthy practice which pollutes the environment.The farmers honoured by the Deputy Commissioner include Harmesh Lal, Mangal Singh, Pargan Singh, Karanbir Singh Sandhu, Jaskaran Singh, Satnam Singh, Avtar Singh, Surjeet Singh Balwinder Singh, Harinder Singh, Gurmukh Singh, Sharanjeet Singh, Kashmir Singh, Harnek Singh, Bhupinder Singh, Baljinder Singh, Charanjeet Singh, Suchha Ram, Surjeet Singh, Manpreet Singh, Robandeep Singh, Gurdev Singh, Gurmail Singh, Paramjeet Singh, Sukhchain Singh, Ramneek Singh, Jagdishpal Singh, Sukhjinder Singh, Harpreet Singh and Lakhwinder Singh.The DC said these farmers have managed the stubble in their fields which would benefit them in future by saving their money to be spent on fertilisers and pesticides later.He said due to the burning of paddy straw several major nutrients and other micronutrients of soil were destroyed whereas the soil health improves drastically if the residue of straw was mixed in the soil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/30-farmers-honoured-for-not-burning-paddy-stubble-159258
22-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||3 foreigners arrested for stealing cash||The Model Town police have arrested three Iranians, including a woman, on the charge of stealing Rs 11,000 from a shop. The three had come from Delhi to visit various places and fled the spot after committing the crime three days ago.In his complaint to the police, Sodhi Verma, a resident of Mandhera village, said a man and a woman came to his shop and asked for contact lenses.They selected a pair of lenses priced Rs 850. They gave him Rs 2,000 note and when he was about to return the balance, the man started asking for notes of smaller denominations and the woman started asking him for some other items. Meanwhile, the man stole some currency notes from his cash box on the pretext of asking for smaller notes. After their departure, when he counted the cash, Rs 11,000 were missing.On Tuesday, a boy working at the said shop was going to Jalandhar when he spotted the said people near Kathar and informed the police. With the help of shopkeepers the police arrested the trio. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-foreigners-arrested-for-stealing-cash-159259
22-10-2020||---||Colleges ready for admissions, but with a rider||Jalandhar, October 21The issue of giving free admissions to SC students under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme has taken a new turn with the Confederation of College and Schools of Punjab saying that either the student or the government will have to clear all dues before the conduct of examinations.After a massive protest by SC students demanding free admissions under the scheme, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori yesterday issued a warning to all colleges not to deny the same.Chairman of the confederation Ashwani Sekhri and president Anil Chopra today accused the administration of acting in an unlawful manner. Sekhri alleged that the administration was adopting a coercive measure against them even when the government had failed to clear the pending dues of colleges, which were to the tune of Rs 1,850 crore.“Such a long delay on part of the government is against the orders passed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court,” they said.Sekhri and Chopra said if the government used any pressure tactics against them, they would have to move court to get their pending dues released.Vipin Sharma, president of the Confederation of Polytechnics, Sanjeev Chopra, president of the Confederation of Nursing Association, and Talwinder S Raju, president of the Confederation of Degree Colleges, said the government should ensure the timely payment of the previous dues before any fresh enrolment this year.They said many colleges were on the verge of closure. They were willing to carry forward the scheme, but only if the state government cleared their old dues and gave an assurance to make fee reimbursement of students for the forthcoming session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/colleges-ready-for-admissions-but-with-a-rider-159261
22-10-2020||Jalandhar||64 fresh covid cases reported||Half-burnt body of 6-yr-old foundHoshiarpur: The half-burnt body of a six-year-old girl was found at a cattle shed at Jalalpur village on Wednesday. The deceased’s father told the police that the grandson of Surjit Singh, who lived in the same locality, took his daughter along on the pretext of giving her biscuits. However, when she did not return home till late in the evening, they started looking for her. When they reached the haveli of Surjit Singh, they found his daughter's half-burnt body in a cattle shed. He is suspecting it to be a case of rape and murder. A case of murder has been registered as of now. OCAcademician gets invite from Chicago universityJalandhar: Honouring him in the field of language and linguistics, University of Michigan in the US has invited Dr Charanjit Singh from the Department of English of Lyallpur Khalsa College to address the Graduate Student North America SFLA Symposium 2020. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/64-fresh-covid-cases-reported-159262
22-10-2020||---||Roadways staff hold gate rally, seek job regularisation||Jalandhar October 21Protesting against the merger of Punjab Roadways into the PRTC and the recommendations of the Montek Singh Ahluwalia Committee, permanent roadways workers and contractual employees staged a gate rally at the local city bus stand here today. The protest was led by members of the Punjab Roadways Joint Action Committee and the Punjab Roadways Contract Workers’ Union.Agitating against the policies of the Transport Department, leaders of the committee said the government was making a strong pitch for the privatisation of the public transport system.The major demands of the workers include the regularisation of contractual workers, discontinuation of salary cuts, cancellation of mergers of roadways buses into private buses, no implementation of Montek Singh Ahluwalia Committee recommendations, time table of roadways buses to be scheduled fairly,release of DA instalments, and implementation of old pension scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roadways-staff-hold-gate-rally-seek-job-regularisation-159264
22-10-2020||Several camps are being held at Nawanshahr in different areas where the samples of Covid are being taken. But in several areas||Organising Covid-19 camps not a cakewalk||Food safety team on a missionThe food safety teams have started conducting surprise check with the onset of festive season in Nawanshahr. Recently, a sweets shop was raised by the food safety team and it was found the rules of making the sweets under the Food Safety Act was being violated. The officials said the shop owner was selling old sweets such as barfi, laddoos to the customers and the entire workspace was unhygienic. The owner was served notice under Section 32 of the Food Safety Act. As per the information, 50 samples have been taken and 11 notices have been sent till now.Police Commemoration Day observedThe Nawanshahr police led by SSP, Alka Meena, today, observed the Police Commemoration Day parade, here at the District Police headquarter to pay tributes to the martyrs belonging to police and Para Military Forces. As many as 27 police jawans and officials of the district had laid down their lives while fighting against militancy and contributed towards restoring peace, harmony, law and order in the state,” said SSP Alka Meena, while adding that during this period, a total of 1,785 police personnels and 262 of their family members sacrificed their lives to face the anti national forces bravely. She said the Police Commemoration Day was observed to re-assure the dependents of the martyrs that the Police Department and the society would not only remain indebted to the sacrifices made by the police martyrs but would also stand by them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/organising-covid-19-camps-not-a-cakewalk-159266
