23-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||47 more test +ve, tally hits 565||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22The district tally reached 565 after 47 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.With this, the count of people testing positive in June alone, has reached 335. The positive cases on Monday include 14 contacts of previous patients from Bhargo Camp, Seth Hukam Chand Colony, among other areas, a cop and the son of a local councillor.Notably, the councillor’s son had recently met a Jalandhar MLA, pictures of which went viral on social media. In all, three cops are among those who tested positive in the district on Monday. Meanwhile, of the nine new cases reported in the district from Bhargo Camp today, five are from a single family and four are those with travel history.Awaiting an ambulance to pick him up, a 50-year-old resident of Bhargo Camp, who tested positive with three of his children and wife, said: “My elder brother tested positive some days ago. Now, he is about to come back. While their family is fine and tested negative, we have tested positive. We haven’t even stepped out for over a week. We are perplexed. My brother is even about to be discharged now.Of the total positive today, six are from Ram Nagar, five from Shahkot, including a 49-year-old police person. Other areas from where cases have poured in include Nakodar, Raja Garden, Gandhi Camp, Bhogpur, Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Rose Garden, Seth Hukam Chand Colony, Tej Mohan Nagar, Wariana, Guru Nanakpura, Baba Namdev Colony, Basti Danishmandan, Phillaur, Nurmahal and Bilga among other rural areas.After councillor’s son tests +ve, MLA says met him long agoAfter a councillor’s son tested positive for Covid-19, his photographs with Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku sitting in close proximity, holding a cake, went viral on social media.The councillor’s son, a resident of Tej Mohan Nagar, had celebrated the MLA’s birthday with him. However, responding to speculations that he should also be tested or be placed under 14-day quarantine, Sushil Rinku said he met the said person long ago and was perfectly healthy at present.Rinku said: “The said person along with a bunch of others came to my home on June 5 to wish me on my birthday. They just cut the cake and wished me, posed for a photograph and then left. The photograph being shared is also of the same day. I have spoken to the person after that over phone many times, but haven’t met him. It’s been a long time since we met. I am perfectly healthy right now and have no symptom. I don’t think there is any need for getting tested.”The son of local councillor had also participated in a protest recently against a bad road at Nijatam Nagar. He was tested for Covid on June 18.No entry at Shahkot station as cops test +veNakodar/Phagwara: The Jalandhar (rural) police have restricted the entry of the public to the Shahkot police station after four policemen tested positive for Covid-19. Shahkot DSP Piara Singh Thind said the building of the police station had been sanitised twice and its main gate closed and the work of the police station was being carried out from the DSP’s office. He said SHO Surindar Kumar had been quarantined in his quarter after his gunman tested positive. The DSP said samples of all police employees had been sent for testing again after four employees tested positive. Meanwhile, Jalandhar (Rural) SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the police station had not been closed but only the movement of public had been restricted. Notably, the police station in Phagwara had also been sealed after the SHO (City), his gunman and driver tested positive on Friday. SSP Satinder Singh had ordered to shift the police station working from the PCR office on the Phagwara-Banga road temporarily. He asked the PCR in-charge to work as the officiating SHO (City) till then.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/47-more-test-ve-tally-hits-565-103077
23-06-2020||---||After spurt in cases, admn takes corrective measures||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22After a gap of over a fortnight, the district administration has finally released a list of new areas, which have been declared micro-containment zones in the district. The Tribune has continuously highlighted the need for containment and surveillance and the need to share information publicly regarding containment zones in the district after a huge spike in new cases.With 19 active cases, Sarvhitkari School, Vidya Dham at Surya Enclave was declared containment zone-1 in the district on Monday. Micro Containment Zones have been declared at Mohindru Mohalla (7 active cases), Teachers Colony Gopal Nagar (7 active cases), Babbu Babe Vali Gali Bhargo Camp (9 active cases reported), Ram Nagar (6 active cases) and Nagra Bilga (5 active cases).The said micro-containment and containment zones shall be totally sealed by the Health Department.Jalandhar DC Ghanshyam Thori in a meeting to review Covid asked officers to expedite the process of setting up micro containment and containment zones in localities, where more than five coronavirus positive cases have surfaced. He said this would ensure better coordination of the departments to make plans at microscopic level for saving precious lives of people. Thori asked officers to do micro management for identifying localities, from where cases have been erupting.The DC said the administration would adopt a multi-pronged strategy to check the spread of Covid-19 efficaciously in the district.The DC had issued instructions for the creation of containment zones in the district a few days ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-spurt-in-cases-admn-takes-corrective-measures-103078
23-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Storm leaves trees uprooted, city without power||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22Heavy rain and strong winds that lashed city last night led to snapping of power supply in the region after the 100 kV high tension (HT) transmission lines got damaged at several places due to uprooted trees.Seventy per cent of the estimated feeders remained affected throughout the day due to faults in the lines. While some of the areas got power supply restored this afternoon after over 12-13 hours, at some localities broken power cables remained unrepaired till this evening. Residents had a sleepless night in the absence of power.Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) reportedly suffered heavy losses. Jainender Dania, Chief Engineer, North Zone, said as many as 33 high tension wires and 14 transformers were broken due to the rain, disrupting the power supply. However, no casualties were reported.He said after receiving complaints, workers of the department were sent to affected areas for restoration of power supply.The residents also made a beeline at their nearest electricity board offices. Darshan Singh, XEN, Maqsudan Electricity Board Office, said besides calls, many residents reached the office to lodge complaints. Over 25 electrical poles and two 100 kV high tension transformers suffered damages after the storm.Meanwhile, the downpour accompanied by strong winds also brought some respite to residents as the temperature plunged to 20°C after the rainfall.Various colonies, including Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony, got power supply restored this afternoon. In Kalia Colony, residents said power got disrupted for 11 hours.“We got the supply restored this morning for one-and-a half hour from 7:30 am to 9 am after which the repair work started again. Later in the day, the supply resumed,” said residents of the area.Residents of Old Baradari too faced a power cut that started at 9 pm last evening. The supply got restored in the wee hours today later, which it was disrupted again.They complained that due to long power disruption they were not able to charge their gadgets. Residents of other areas, including Lajpat Nagar, also complained of voltage fluctuations in the night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/storm-leaves-trees-uprooted-city-without-power-103079
23-06-2020||Phagwara||‘Remove Namma toilets from  posh colony’||Keeping in mind the demands of residents of Hargobind Nagar led by former councillor Anurag Mankhand, Additional DC and MC Commissioner Rajeev Verma on Sunday ordered to remove Namma public toilets from the locality. They are to be shifted to the Phagwara market committee premises. Verma said residents submitted a memorandum to the administration on December 16 last year to remove public toilets from the posh locality due to the nuiscance of foul smell. They alleged that these toilets were being misused by anti-social elements including drugs addicts. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/remove-namma-toilets-from-posh-colony-103080
23-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Shahkot farmer develops innovative machine to overcome labour crisis||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22Dearth of farm workers amid the pandemic has forced a farmer from Shahkot to think out of the box and develop a machine that can help farmers to be less dependent on labourers.Using old and used machine parts that were lying at his home, Major Singh invented a machine that can be used in sowing of mat-type paddy saplings on approximately 20 acres in a single day.He said due to the lockdown, they knew that buying new things would be impossible. Hence, he used worn-out wheels, chains and shafts from his combine machine and modified accordingly to develop a new machine.The farmer said earlier, nearly five labourers were required for sowing saplings on 4-5 acres but now, only three farm labourers were needed and sowing of saplings on approximately 20 acres could be completed in a single day.“Starting from loading of soil, spreading of polythene sheet, sprinkling of water and then sowing of seeds and covering them with soil, every step can be carried out by this machine,” Major Singh said.He said preparing of a nursery was a difficult task as it was done manually and people would often leave it midway due to the laborious work involved.“But with this machine, it has become easy,” he said.He said amid the lockdown, the shortage of labourers had already been troubling farmers a lot, due to which he, along with one of his relatives, thought about making some ‘jugaad’ to resolve their issues.Major Singh said for the next time also, he had already thought of another innovation, where everything would be done automatically and no labourer would be required for the task.Recently, Agriculture Department officials also visited the area and appreciated the efforts of the farmer. Chief Agriculture Officer Surinder Singh said such innovations would help other farmers to sow mat-type saplings at a low cost and also less number of labourers were required in the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shahkot-farmer-develops-innovative-machine-to-overcome-labour-crisis-103081
23-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||State’s first-of-its-kind project to treat waste water set up in Kapurthala||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, June 22With many of the sewage treatment plants (STPs) in Punjab and a majority in the Doaba region remaining non-functional, the PPCB is now banking on bioremediation and nanobubble technology for treating waste water in the effluent-ridden drains and river bodies. The very first in-situ remediation project was set up at Bhulana drain in Kapurthala on Saturday, which the department claims is expected to reduce the BoD level in the drain by the end of two months.Bhulana is the controversial drain which is one of prime spots causing effluent discharge into the holy Kali Bein. Bhulana drain carries wastewater of 27 colonies near Rawal village besides wastewater of Rawal village, which eventually converges into holy Bein near Hussainpura village (Kapurthala), thereby deteriorating the quality of water of the Bein by discharging untreated wastewater.The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB)has developed low-cost model of in-situ remediation of Bhulana, based on the combination of bioremediation and phytoremediation enhanced by the nanobubble technology to treat wastewater. Chandigarh based firm M/s KBK Environ Infrastructures Limited Chandigarh has lent the nanobubble generator machine for the oxygenation of wastewater to the PPCB.As a pilot project, the department might also extend the model to other organic drains in the region or the state based on the two-month trial success.Prof Satinder Singh Marwaha, Chairman, PPCB, said, “Trials were carried out with the nanobubble machine at a Kharar-based pond for a month which showed successful results. The BoD levels were reduced between10 to 50 from 200 in a month.However, that was standing water and the quantum was lesser. “For the Bhulana drain we are also trying to recharge it with duckweed and also installing a nanobubble generator, which will refurbish oxygen level in the drain. This project is only meant for water bodies with organic wastes like fecal matter and kitchen wastes. Hence, if successful, it can be replicated at other small drains. It all depends on the results,” he said.Sampling is being conducted at the drain and daily pollutant constituent reports shall be surveilled and compared by the PPCB to chart the progress of the project.Dr MNV Prasad of the department of plant sciences at the University of Hyderabad, an expert in the field of bioremediation technology in India, said, “Bioremediation is a technology widely acknowledged in India both for soil and water but the results of a certain project depend on the amount and nature of pollutants in a given water body. Nanotechnology is another science which is now being used for water replenishment but detailed audits of the water constituents and the pollutants are first needed to determine the degree of success a certain project might achieve.”Krunesh Garg, Member Secretary of PPCB; GS Majithia, CEE Jalandhar and Rahul Chaba, ADC-cum-Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Kapurthala; Harbir Singh, SEE, Jalandhar; SS Matharu and Kuldip Singh, XENs, were present during the inaugural ceremony on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/states-first-of-its-kind-project-to-treat-waste-water-set-up-in-kapurthala-103082
23-06-2020||SUKHDEV RAJ ||‘Govt must help industry with monetary support & easy loans’||What is the impact of the lockdown on the hand tools industry?The industry has largely remained closed. We face a problem in every sector. All the workers have left and we do not know how to call them back to join work. Many of our orders and consignments have been cancelled as clients are facing problems. A majority of orders have been cancelled. Owing to the lack of orders and workers, industry has suffered a huge setback.Which area is giving you maximum problem?Undoubtedly, the shortage of workers is giving us pain. We had about 300 to 350 workers with us, out of which only 70 to 75 have left. We have been making efforts to get them back but they say no trains are plying. Labourers are unwilling to return in cars or other vehicles. Unless we get an adequate number of labourers, we will not be in a position to get the industry functional.Some industries are facing difficulty in getting raw material. Is that the case with hand too industry?We don’t face much trouble in that area. Steel can be readily available through many factories in the state. But our major problems are of workers and finances.What are the problems being faced in terms of finance?While on the one hand, our orders have drastically reduced, on the other, the interest rates are too high. Already, amidst the lockdown, the hefty interest rates put an additional burden on us.What kind of help do you think the government can provide to industry?The government can help with monetary support and provide easy loans to us to keep industry up and running. Once things return to normal, we can repay these loans. The interest rates should also be reduced. That will be a huge help to the industry.How long do you think such a crisis will persist?It is very difficult to say right now. Only time will tell how long it will take for things to return to normal. In the meantime, we hope for monetary support amidst the crunch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-must-help-industry-with-monetary-support-easy-loans-103083
23-06-2020||Jalandhar||Centre must roll back fuel price hike, says Youth Cong||The Youth Congress, Jalandhar, burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi against the hike in petrol and diesel prices across the country, in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here today. It has urged the Centre to roll back the fuel price hike.A protest march, led by MLA Rajinder Beri and Angad Dutta, president, Jalandhar Youth Congress, started from the Congress Bhawan to the DC Office. They burnt the effigy of the Prime Minister.Rajinder Beri said in the present scenario, the Modi-led Central Government had failed on all fronts.“The focus of the Centre seems to be shifted from helping people to revenue generation. While the country is battling coronavirus, the increase in diesel and petrol prices by the Union Government is putting financial burden on people. People had lost their earnings during the lockdown but instead of helping them, the government has been increasing the prices on a regular basis for the past two weeks. Whereas, the price of crude oil has reduced in the international market to USD 40, the government has put the burden of Rs 1 lakh crore on the public,” he said.Angad said: “Increasing taxes on fuel is an insensitive move on the part of the government. Rising fuel prices will hit the agriculture sector hard. Most of the irrigation-pump operations require diesel. From sowing to harvesting and irrigation, at each level, our agriculture is heavily dependent on diesel. The rise in fuel prices is happening at the time when wages of farm workers have almost doubled in many places. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/centre-must-roll-back-fuel-price-hike-says-youth-cong-103084
23-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar sees a surge in number of YouTubers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22During the ongoing lockdown period, the city has been seeing a surge in the number of YouTubers. From school, college goers to even adults, a number of city residents have chosen to take to YouTube to share their experience and knowledge and engage netizens in new activities.Karamjeet Singh, a student of B Tech from Guru Nanak Dev University, Regional Campus, Ladhewali, is running a YouTube channel titled KS Easy Solutions, wherein he is giving tips to the viewers, who are learning programming languages.Karamjeet said: “I began teaching engineering topics such as machine learning, artificial intelligence and system programming. As students, we have simply tried to cram up things, but through my channel, I have helped learners understand concepts by posting videos on topics using simplest examples and solutions. Now, I have 3,400-plus subscribers with 180-plus videos and my channel has got monetised.”A resident of Ranjit Nagar here shares: “As recently, I was preparing for MBA entrance test, I also uploaded videos sharing tips for those trying to crack the entrance tests. Since my younger sibling is still in Class X and has issues on where the ICSE will take the examination, I am also sharing latest updates on the ongoing matter which my followers are closely tracking.”He has some tips for his juniors: “I will suggest to please make C, C++ and JAVA or Python language your forte. Then only go on to learn any other technology such as AI/ML, dot net, php etc. You need to be technologically very sound to meet the future challenges.”Like him, Gunreet, a Class VII student of St Joseph’s Convent School, too, has created her channel ‘Fun Time with Gunreet’, in which she is uploading various videos related to events. “Since yesterday was Yoga Day, I took to my channel to teach my subscribers 15 asanas. A few days ago, I helped my age people prepare wishes and surprises for their father on Father’s Day. On World Environment Day, I did some gardening and offered some video tips too! So this way, I keep on making videos and posting them on my channel. I have so far put 17 videos,” the 12-year-old said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-sees-a-surge-in-number-of-youtubers-103085
23-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Sharp fall in earnings has made it difficult for this cobbler to survive||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22Veeru Ram (58), who has been working as a cobbler in the city since 1985, does not expect normalcy in his work to return anytime soon. Veeru has a small stall near the cloakroom at the bus stand here from where he repairs buckles, replaces old soles of shoes, stitches broken straps and polishes shoes. The decline in the footfall of passengers at the bus stand due to Covid-19 has badly hit his earnings.Veeru arrives at the stall at 10 am and works till 5 pm every day. He charges Rs 20 for repair of a broken strap and Rs 100 to 150 to re-sole a pair of shoes. “Though I have reduced the prices for the time being, I have not been getting many customers. My earnings used to be Rs 400 to Rs 500 a day before the lockdown, but now they have reduced to Rs 80 to 100 a day. The amount is not enough to support a family of 12”, he said.“My son-in-law, who resides with me in Daulat Puri Mohalla, is also in the same profession. He sits near the railway station. My son works as a labourer. Despite the three of us working, we are unable to meet the needs of the family. Life has got really hard,” said Veeru, adding that he had received no help or ration from the government during the lockdown period, leading him to borrow money from his neighbours.“The government must come to the rescue of people like me who are uneducated and hardly have any idea about the disease. After hearing from residents of my locality that those not wearing a mask would be issued a challan, I started wearing one. In reality, nobody among us has any idea of the gravity of the situation,” he added.Veeru says he is not a migrant to the city and was born and brought up here. “Generations of my family have been into mending shoes. My son, too, was in the job before he turned a labourer. This is the only craft we know. We only hope that things get better soon as nobody likes to live on the mercy of others,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sharp-fall-in-earnings-has-made-it-difficult-for-this-cobbler-to-survive-103086
23-06-2020||Jalandhar||Online fashion contest held, 98 ‘walk the ramp’||After holding singing and bhangra competitions online, the department of cultural affairs at the CT Group of Institutions organised an online fashion show competition titled “Lockdown Ka Jalwa” in which 98 participants falling in five age categories — 4-8 years, 8-12 years, 12-16 years, 16+ years and a special category — took part.The contestants from various states across the country and also from Canada uploaded their walk and introduction videos on a social media platform. Rajinder Kaur, an actress, and Chetna, a RJ-turned-TV actress, judged the performances.A total of 41 contestants were shortlisted on the basis likes received on the social media and scores given by judges. The winners in the age category of 4-8 years included Taavish, Aillish, Anaisha, Eliza Gupta and Haradhya Kaur. In the category 8-12 years, Hasan Abdul, Arayishta, Bhawin and Kaishvi Arora were the winners, whereas, in the age category of 12-16 years, Tripat Madan, Gurdip Sharma and Mitali bagged the first three positions. In the age category 16+ years, Gurkirat Kaur, Jyoti Sharma and Drishti Saini stood first, second and third, respectively. Sumathi Pathak and Sita Devi from Assam stood first and second, respectively, under the special category.Manbir Singh, director, CT Group of Institutions, congratulated the winners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-fashion-contest-held-98-walk-the-ramp-103087
23-06-2020||---||Army veterans protest, want Chinese goods to be banned||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22Agitated over the killing of 20 Indian soldiers at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, the Ex-Servicemen Welfare Association on Sunday organised a protest outside the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here urging the government to avenge the loss. After condemning the attack, the retired army personnel also burnt effigies of China and its President Xi Jinping.Lt Col Balbir Singh, President of the association said, “The heinous and barbaric attack on our soldiers is beyond our tolerance and understanding. China has been showing its complete and utter travesty and disdain for India’s sovereignty and its forces, we strongly appeal our government to take a strong political, economical, diplomatic and military stand against China”.Around 50-60 veterans also demanded a ban on all the goods imported from China. Holding placards, they raised their demands which inlcuded boycott of Chinese goods and applications, strong military action against the Chinese forces and formulation of strong foreign policy. Assistant Secretary of the association Subedar Major BS Azad said the government must reduce the list of Chinese goods from its inventory and gradually phase them out completely. Also, an advisory must be issued in the country to delete all Chinese applications from gadgets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-veterans-protest-want-chinese-goods-to-be-banned-103088
