23-05-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||JE, lineman suspended for not replacing burnt transformer of farmer||Hoshiarpur, May 22Three employees, including a lineman, a JE and a JE-1 of the PSPCL faced the brunt of CMD for not taking action over farmer’s complaint of burnt transformer.As per PSPCL’s policy, they were supposed to resolve transformer malfunction complaints in 48 hours. The CMD of PSPCL asked Hoshiarpur Deputy Chief Engineer Parvinder Singh Khamba to take action. He has suspended a JE and a lineman posted in Bhangala, while departmental action has been ordered against the office incharge JE-1. The tranformer was too replaced within an hour.According to the information received, the transformer connected to the tubewell of a farmer of Bhangala area had some fault on May 17. The farmer lodged a complaint with the concerned Bhangala office of PSPCL. A lineman, Talwinder Singh, was sent from the office to check the fault. He went there and found that the transformer was burnt. Even after this, no action was taken.The farmer also complained to JE Rashpal Singh in this regard but no action was taken. On May 20, the concerned farmer went to the Bhangala office and informed the officer incharge of the Bhangala office, JE-1 Yogesh Kumar. Even after this, no action was taken even on the next day. The farmer explained his problem on the phone to the CMD of PSPCL. The CMD immediately instructed Parvinder Singh Khamba to take action regarding this.Khamba told The Tribune that he received instructions in this regard from the CMD at 3.30 pm on Friday and the transformer was replaced within an hour. During investigation, it was revealed that the accused lineman and JE did not even report the malfunction of the said transformer in the online system of the department. “The lineman, Talwinder Singh, has been suspended and his headquarter has been shifted to Bhogpur while JE Rashpal Singh has been suspended and his headquarter has shifted to Mahilpur. Departmental action has been ordered against Yogesh Kumar”, told Khamba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/je-lineman-suspended-for-not-replacing-burnt-transformer-of-farmer-88556
23-05-2020||---||‘Pargat befooling Punjabis, must resign’||Jalandhar, May 21Days after Jalandhar Cantt Congress MLA Pargat Singh took on against his own government over bad governance in excise matters, former Akali MLA Sarabjit Makkar today accused him of befooling innocent Punjabis again.When the public start questioning his total absence from the area, Pargat scripts a drama to portray himself as an innocent and ethical leader by transferring his failure and allegations onto his party and colleagues — Sarabjit Makkar, former SAD MLAAddressing a press conference, Makkar said, “If Pargat is actually concerned about Punjabis and loss of excise revenue, he must prove his loyalty for the state by resigning from the Assembly and not befool the residents of Jalandhar Cantt once again. I will welcome his resignation and support his voice against the current Congress regime.”He alleged that, “The reality is that Pargat has a pre-planned strategy and his basic character is to enjoy all privileges of being MLA for the first four years. When the public start questioning his total absence from the area, he scripts a drama to portray himself as an innocent and ethical leader by transferring his failure and allegations onto his party and colleagues. Surprisingly, it took Pargat four years to realise the loss of excise revenue and the losses to the state exchequer and suddenly he has differences of opinion with his own political party.”Makkar along with Youth Akali Dal Jalandhar chief Sukhminder S Rajpal took on the Congress leadership saying, “As per sources, it was from Day 1 that liquor mafia started paying all Congress MLAs their share of excise bootlegging and smuggling and they completely shielded the mafia for about four years. Sadly, public parks were shut during the lockdown, but were actually being used for illegal alcohol supply every day after the sunset. Rather a few Congress men setup their own illegal alcohol factories causing further loss to the state exchequer. All smuggling and protection of mafia by Congress men has led to massive losses to the state’s revenue and huge personal monetary benefits to MLAs and ministers.”He attacked Pargat Singh again, “Pargat woke up and scripted the whole drama to save his skin after the Shiromani Akali Dal and especially Bikram Singh Majithia raised his voice against the bootlegging and smuggling of alcohol in Punjab. I want to ask Navjot Sidhu and Pargat Singh about the castles they are making in the air. I question the validity and strength of their stands for Punjab and Punjabis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargat-befooling-punjabis-must-resign-88557
23-05-2020||---||Biodiversity has tools to fight Covid: Experts||Jalandhar, May 22To mark International Biodiversity Day, Pushpa Gujaral Science City today organised a webinar to create an awareness on the significance of biological diversity and the nature, especially during the present Covid-19 crisis.The webinar focused on the theme ‘Our solutions are in nature’. Director General, Pushpa Gujaral Science City, Dr Neelima Jerath, who was founder member secretary of the Punjab Biodiversity Board for 10 years, welcomed the speakers.She pointed out that biodiversity was a global asset of tremendous value, which had not only ensured the stability of ecosystems and food security, but had also directed trade and commerce in the past. However, man’s actions were leading to the destruction of habitats and loss of many species, the potential of which was yet to be realised.She said the Covid pandemic had brought this into focus and year 2020 was a time to realise the importance of living in harmony with the nature and reflect upon their actions.Principal Secretary, Science, Technology and Environment, Punjab, Alok Shekhar said if biodiversity was kept intact, it would offer excellent tools to fight against pandemics.Sujit Kumar Bajpayee, Joint Secretary, Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, in his message, said the preservation of biodiversity was the only answer to many challenges, which were being faced by the humanity globally, despite all technological advancements achieved so far. It was high time to recognise the significance of biodiversity in their daily requirements of food, medicines, livelihoods and ecosystem services.Underlining that life cannot be separated from the nature, Dr VB Mathur, Chairman, National Biodiversity Authority, said the current year theme signified that people were part of the nature and it was their bounden duty to preserve biological diversity. Ancient philosophy had been focusing on the earth as their ‘mother’ and all of them should pledge to protect it to live a bountiful and happy life.Head of biodiversity, United Nations Development Programme, Ruchi Pant, in her recorded message, advised to abstain from injudicious use and over exploitation of natural resources and reaffirm commitment towards conservation in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, which had shaken the entire world.A well-known biodiversity expert and former UNESCO specialist, Dr Ram Boojh, mentioned that Covid-19 was a reminder that the human health was linked to the planet’s health.Other speakers at the event were Dr PS Roy, adviser, International Crops Research Institute for Semi Arid Tropics, and Former Director, IIRS, ISRO; Jatinder Sharma, former Joint Secretary, Ministry of Ayush, Govt of India, and Dr AK Gupta, Dean, Foundation for Revitalisation of Local Health Traditions.Online eventsScience city also organised online photography and story writing competitions for children and the general public. Selected entries will be published in an e-book of stories. Winners will be declared on World Environment Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/biodiversity-has-tools-to-fight-covid-experts-88558
23-05-2020||Nawanshahr||Punjab IMA flays govt’s move to enforce Clinical Establishment Act||The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab, is up in arms against the issuance of ordinance regarding the Clinical Establishment Act. Accusing the state government of adopting a callous attitude towards private doctors and hospitals, the state chapter of the IMA has termed the step as unwanted during the ongoing war against the Covid-19.Dr Paramjit Mann, general secretary, IMA, Punjab, said the stance taken by the state government was condemnable as the private health sector had been standing shoulder to shoulder with the government in fighting Covid.“The harsh provisions of the Clinical Establishment Act would unleash an era of Inspector Raj and would ultimately dampen the zeal of the private health sector, which has been making commendable contributions during the pandemic,” he said.Dr SPS Sooch, member, PMC, and Dr Rajinder Sharma, former state IMA president, rued that despite assurances given during high-level meetings with the government, the adamant bureaucracy had thrown concerns and suggestions of the IMA with great impunity. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-ima-flays-govts-move-to-enforce-clinical-establishment-act-88559
23-05-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Govt must give relief in loan repayment, instalments’||Joginder Kumar Monga, owner of RK Wollen, has a vast experience in the power loom industry. Monga, who is also the general secretary of the Textile Manufacture Welfare Association, discusses the impact of the lockdown on the power loom industry in an interview with Charanjit Singh Teja. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted the power loom industry?The industry suffered a major blow after the imposition of the lockdown. There are about 200 major power loom units in the city. It is a small scale tinny industry. On an average, power loom owners have six to 12 looms in one unit and four to six workers require in a single shift. We make clothes, suits and shawls and sell these in the local market. Around 80 per cent weavers are from other states. Almost 50 per cent of them have left the city. We are paying power bills, bank loans and salaries of workers when the manufacturing work is yet to start. There is nothing for the power loom industry in the financial package announced by the Centre.The lockdown broke the backbone of the power loom industry. We are bearing all expenses. The market is closed and we will not get our money for production, which we supplied in the market before the Covid-19 outbreak. Electricity is very expensive and there is no relaxation by the government in this regard. — Joginder Kumar Monga, Owner of RK WollenDo you expect resumption of your business in near future?The power loom industry had been suffering for the past some decades. The operating expenses were increasing day by day. A shortage of labour will add to the woes. Migrant workers will not return soon. We tried hard to open the units. Now, the power loom units are functional, but the market is still slow. So, it will take time for resumption in our business.How are you dealing with issue of paying salaries to workers?Power loom workers work on contact. We have some employees who get salaries that include foreman and clippers. We have paid them salaries otherwise they would also leave. The government should assure migrant workers that they would get work and wages.Do you consider the current crisis a challenge or an opportunity?It is a major challenge as the lockdown broke the backbone of the power loom industry. We are bearing all expenses. The market is closed and we will not get our money for production, which we supplied in the market before the Covid-19 outbreak. Electricity is very expensive and there is no relaxation from the government in this regard.What are your expectations from the government?The Union Government offered loans in the name of a package. Loan with interest will not help the power loom industry. Here firm owners are not white-collar industrialists. They work along with workers then earn something. They are not able to get benefits of government schemes. The government should release working capital without any interest. It should ask banks to provide relaxation in loan repayment and instalments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-must-give-relief-in-loan-repayment-instalments-88560
23-05-2020||Nurmahal||Couple booked for assault||Boy sodomised by drunk manGarhshankar: A 15-year-old boy was allegedly sodomised by a resident of Moranwali village in an inebriated state. The police have registered a case against the man. The victim’s father told the police that his son went to bring drinking water from a cooler outside the gurdwara. When he did not come for long, his elder brother went to see him. During this, he found the boy walking in the street and crying. The victim alleged that when he was filling water Budhu Shah forcefully took him to his tubewell room and sodomised him. A case has been registered. OC2 held for selling illicit liquorNakodar: The police on Thursday arrested two persons on the charges of selling and brewing illicit liquor. The suspects were identified as Gurwindar Singh of Umrewal Billa village, and Baljindar Singh of Sharak Pur village. The police said nine bottles of illicit liquor and 400 litres of lahan were recovered from them. OCGautam Jain is Nakodar SDMNakodar: The state government on Thursday appointed Gautam Jain (IAS), Banga SDM, as Nakodar SDM in place of Amit Kumar Panchal (IAS), who has been promoted and appointed as ADC, Hoshiarpur. OCWoman run over by tractor, killedTarn Taran: Rajwinder Kaur (45) of Fazalpur village died when she was run over by a tractor near Pandori Gola village, seven km from here, on Thursday. The police have booked tractor driver Tarsem Singh of Deo village . ASI Sawinder Singh, investigating officer, said the tractor driver fled the spot, leaving the vehicle behind. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/couple-booked-for-assault-88561
23-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||For groomed looks, adults and kids head straight to salons||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 22One thing that Dinesh Sood, who works for a music company, his wife Babita and sons Manan and Divit had been eagerly awaiting for the last two months was to get a haircut from a good salon.“We were really missing our groomed looks and had started feeling a little uncomfortable. So this morning, we checked with our salon. It was open and we immediately took 2 pm appointment keeping in mind the schedule of online classes of our sons. Finally, here we are set to get back into form,” shared the family shortly after settling at the waiting lounge of Headmaster Salon at Model Town.Before being directed towards this lounge, the security guard at the entrance had checked their body temperature with an IR thermometer and poured sanitiser in their hands, a practice being followed at almost every shop now.Like them, Savita Nayyar (65), too, had come with her son Aryan Nayyar. She quietly mentions that it is her first day out since the lockdown began and she is enjoying being treated and pampered at the salon. “It is because of a proper decorum of maintaining social distancing by the staff of this salon that we chose to come here,” she quips as she adds, “See all chairs have been put apart. The staff is wearing masks. Some have even put on their face shields. I have noticed that they are sanitising each chair properly after every customer leaves. All equipment are being sanitised in one corner after every use. All these things are important in the new setup.”Donning her red wedding bangles, Namisha shared that she was here for a keratin hair treatment. “I had taken it in Mansa before my marriage on February 27 and I really liked it and wanted to follow it. So, my husband dropped me here,” she says.She shared that having got confined to home and not being able to visit parlours for getting dolled up or missing parties has not been a problem for her at all. "I have been a home bird and can manage skincare and some styling on my own. So, it has been fine for me,” she adds.Avinash, manager at the salon, said, “We opened for the public three days ago. But before that we had been training our staff for the new changes in the working. We have provided masks, face shields and sanitisers to all our eight staff members working as of now. About seven employees have not been called yet. We have notified to all our customers to seek prior appointment. We even tell them to wear minimum accessories at our place for everyone's safety. A majority of the people coming to us for the last four days are men and those too for haircut. As of now, no one has asked for facial or waxing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/for-groomed-looks-adults-and-kids-head-straight-to-salons-88562
23-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Technology helps this IAS aspirant enrich her knowledge during crisis||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 22For every student, getting promoted to Class X is always a special moment. But this time when they advanced to Class X, the Covid-19 pandemic hit the world. As a result, instead of going to classrooms, students are now in touch with their teachers through online platforms.Since we are not going to the school these days, I am spending my time in looking for informative links and online sites that provide knowledge about various subjects and topics. I believe that instead of wasting the time, we should utilise it in widening our horizons on various topics and issues. — Aishwarya SharmaAishwarya Sharma (15), who studies in Dayanand Model School, Model Town, has been utilising her time in discovering websites and educational YouTube channels that provide knowledge on various subjects.Aishwarya, who wishes to become an IAS officer, said, “I always aim to help people around me. For that, I must attain a position for which I have been working very hard.”On being asked how is she preparing for her goals at this point, she said, “Since we have not been going to the school these days, I have been spending my time in looking for informative links and online sites that provide knowledge about various subjects and topics. I believe that instead of wasting the time, we should utilise it in widening our horizons on various topics and issues,” said Aishwarya, adding that she has started reading new books to clear her facts on various topics.She wishes to opt for the non-medical stream next year. While sharing her study routine at this time, she said, “Initially, I had thought that without classrooms it won’t be easy for us to study. But, my teachers have made it possible by continuously staying in touch with us.” She added that teachers send them assignments, notes and several informative links, which proved to be beneficial for students.Explaining the importance of technology, she said, “Everyone is dependent on technology. So, it is not that difficult to study online.”Aishwarya, an ardent lover of Korean music, shared that she tries to follow her routine similar to the one she used to follow during her school days.“Although I am not waking up early these days, I make sure that I study properly, finish my lessons and complete the assignments on time. Later, I show it to my teachers,” she added.Apart from assignments, Aishwarya said students were also asked to make posters, cards and videos on the benefits of lockdown. “These are the activities which keep us entertained. At the same time, these make us aware of several issues. On Mother’s Day, we had prepared cards and it was fun. It keeps everyone motivated,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/technology-helps-this-ias-aspirant-enrich-her-knowledge-during-crisis-88551
23-05-2020||---||Golfers happy to tee off again||Jalandhar, May 22The happiness of golf lovers of Jalandhar and Ludhiana knew no bounds when the state government recently announced that golf courses could be opened after two months of lockdown.As the Ranjitgarh Golf Club of the Punjab Police Academy (PPA), Phillaur, opened today, several golfers reached the place this morning to celebrate its opening and have a good feel standing with their sticks amid the lush green grass. The PPA, Phillaur, has a fine 18-hole golf course.As the club members reached the place, in-charge of the club ASI Swatantar Kumar greeted everyone and apprised them of setting up of sanitisation points, temperature checking, benches, ball washers and removal of bunker rakes. They were told that various devices had been installed to keep balls from dropping into the hole so that golfers can avoid the unsanitary practice of reaching into a hole to retrieve the ball.Golf player and advocate Harpreet Sandhu appreciated the efforts of club president and ADGP Anita Punj and secretary Yurinder Singh Hayer for initiating post lockdown guidelines for the safety of club members.Golfer Harpreet Sandhu was of the view that the game will help boost the immune system and develop a strong immunity to fight any disease.“Besides, the long stretches of golf greens are soothing for the eyes. The game can help regain the fitness gap created by the lockdown,” he said.Other key golfers Dr BS Bal and Dr Mohini Bal termed golf as a great stress reliever after their stressful duty of attending patients during the Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/golfers-happy-to-tee-off-again-88552
23-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Education Secretary holds online interaction with teachers||Jalandhar, May 22In a first-of-its-kind initiative, state Education Secretary Krishan Kumar on Thursday held a mega online interaction with school teachers across the state. The move was aimed at lending ear to grievances of the teachers as due to lockdown delivery of the utility services at offices of the Education Department remained paralysed.About 10,000 school teachers of the state participated in the online meeting. Officials of the Education Department, including DPI (Elementary) Inderjit Singh, Assistant Director Shalinder Singh, state coordinator, Parho Punjab, Parhao Punjab, Dr Davinder Boha, nodal officers deputed at the state headquarters and District Education Officers also attended online interaction from their respective places. During the meeting, teachers from Jalandhar, Nawanshahr, Hoshiarpur and others districts raised issues, including transfers of the directly recruited head teachers and centre head teachers and other issues related to zila parishad teachers.Krishan Kumar, while giving a patient hearing to all issues, problems and grievances put up during the interaction, asked the officials concerned to redress them on a priority basis.He also asked the nodal officers and the DEOs to organise such oniIne interactions with the teachers at the district level so that the teachers could concentrate more on academic and co-curricular activities of students.He lauded the efforts being put in by the teachers for the successful implementation of the ‘Ghar Baithe Shikhiya’ programme and enhancement of enrolment in government school despite facing odds during the lockdown.The Education Secretary has also asked the teachers to organise virtual parent-teacher meet (PTM) for Classes VI to XII from May 23 to 25. The teachers have been asked to make calls to all parents and ask them about challenges they were facing and share suggestions on how to cope up with the current situation. Besides, they have been asked to take feedback from parents about the ‘Ghar Baithe Shikhiya’ programme of the Education Department and know if students understand concepts through TV, video calls, radio, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/education-secretary-holds-online-interaction-with-teachers-88553
23-05-2020||---||CT Group research team develops disinfection oven||Jalandhar, May 22A research team of CT Group of Institutions, Maqsudan, has developed an ultraviolet-C based disinfection oven called ‘CoronaWave’, which can deactivate DNA bacteria, virus and other pathogens, thus destroying their ability to multiply and cause disease.The achievement is made under the guidance of Dr Anurag Sharma, professor (ECE) and principal, CT Institute of Technology and Research, along with Anshu Sharma, HoD (CSE), and Navdeep Singh, Assistant Professor (ECE), CTITR. Speaking about the new gadget, Dr Anurag said, “The oven can be used to sanitise wallet, mobile phones, fruits, vegetables, kitchen utensils, slippers, clothes and other daily-use items. It kills 99.9 per cent bacteria by exposing UVC light for 10 minutes. It is a low-cost product and is easily available for the common man.”Dr Jasdeep Kaur Dhami, Director, CT Group, North Campus (Maqsudan), appreciated the efforts of the team members and encouraged them to perform more research-based activities in future also.Manbir Singh, Managing Director, CT Group, applauded the team for developing the oven that could be used by people to reduce the risk of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ct-group-research-team-develops-disinfection-oven-88554
23-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Has Covid curve flattened?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 22Of the 218 persons tested positive in Jalandhar till today, 193 have been discharged.While the district reported positive cases in bulk for weeks, for the past few days samples have seen a drastic reduction in reportage of positive cases. From 15 to 17 positive cases in a single day, for the past three days Jalandhar has reported only a few cases.There were occasions when 300 to 400 persons were being tested in the district on a single day. However, we are still conducting testing of 100-150 persons per day. Those discharged are being told to stay under home quarantine for a week. For the past few days, a lesser number of people are being reported positive. There is certainly a marked change in the Covid pattern. Weather could be a contributing factor. — Dr TP Singh, Nodal officer, JalandharEver since SOPs changed to ensure discharge of asymptomatic persons lodged at the isolation centre here, there has been a slew of discharges at the local Civil Hospital.Of the total 218 positive cases in Jalandhar, merely 18 are active now. Of these 18, 15 are lodged at the Civil Hospital, one in Nakodar and two in Ludhiana.Along with increased discharges, there is also reduction in new positive cases. Of the 93 sample reports yesterday, 92 came out negative and one positive. However, no case was reported today. While the Health Department searched for patient relatives and contacts earlier quite extensively, sources said now testing was also being done with considerations focused on symptomatic persons, which are already a few. However, health officials said over a 100 persons were being tested daily.Nine children among 79 dischargedAs per SOPs, the procedural change began on May 17 when as many as 79 asymptomatic persons were discharged. All of them were tested positive. The discharged persons included nine children, three persons in seventies and eight in sixties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/has-covid-curve-flattened-88555
