23-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||‘Sleepless for last two months, but will continue to fight for MSP, rights’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 22Last two months were not easy for farmers who had been protesting against the three farm laws passed by the Centre.Everyday, the farming community would hold protests, make strategies and head to Kisan Bhawan in Chandigarh to discuss their next move.The Tribune tracked a farmer and through him scores of his counterparts who had been spending days and nights outside just to fight for their rights.Davinder Singh from Nawanshahr doesn’t remember when he had a sound sleep. “For the last 56 days, I have not seen my family. Not that I have not gone home, but even when I go, I am on mobile phone or making some plans,” he said.“I have a 10-year-old son who asks me why I do not come home often. Due to my routine, he has come to know that I am fighting for something, but he is a child and misses me,” he added.At Behram toll plaza, Davinder along with other farmers gather and start their speeches.“I am not an orator, but time has made me one. One thing is common in my daily speeches ‘chaahe 10 din baithna paye, chaahe 50 din, asi ohdo takk nahee hatna, jado takk saadi manga pooriya nahee hundiya (We don’t care if we have to protest for 10 or 50 days, but we won’t end our fights, till the Centre doesn’t listen to our demands,” he said.Apart from this, farmers had been fighting a different battle as they did not received sugarcane payments. Today, they held a protest outside Phagwara sugarmill. “There are several reasons and issues, which we are fighting for. I don’t understand why there is no one for us. We did not celebrate any festival this year,” he said adding that on November 26, they will leave for New Delhi and every preparation has been made for the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sleepless-for-last-two-months-but-will-continue-to-fight-for-msp-rights-174556
23-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||...farmers ready for Nov 26 Delhi march on tractors||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 22On November 26, farmers will be leaving for New Delhi to protest against the Central Government. Spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) Satnam Sahni said thousands of farmers will leave for the national capital from Doaba.Farmers have started a campaign, under which they are visiting villages and people asking them to join the protest at national level.Farmers said they will go to Delhi in tractors, which will have everything from food to cylinder, chulha, blanket and clothes. Not only this, they will also install a tent in the tractor. One of them said: “It will be our home during the protest.”“More than 150 tractors will leave from Phagwara alone. We are getting a good response from everyone. Almost every person in the village knows about our struggle and the pain that we are going through. So, they have assured us that they will definitely come with us to New Delhi,” said Davinder Singh, a farmer.Numerous meetings are being held and non-stop announcements from gurdwaras being made to highlight the issue and tell people of remote areas how farm laws passed by the Parliament would harm the farming community. “We have prepared ourselves and are also asking others to support us in this fight,” a farmer from Phagwara said.A lot of preparation was done by farmers for the success of Punjab bandh. A mass movement was started in the state and farmers had done immense work on the ground to reach out to every person, who had no knowledge about the farm laws, protesters said.Kirpal Singh (50), a member of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba), said days have passed since he interacted with his family, as he was busy preparing a strategy for New Delhi.“We are sure that it will be a great success as everyone is with us in this fight,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-ready-for-nov-26-delhi-march-on-tractors-174557
23-11-2020||---||Jalandhar district reports 5 deaths, 64 fresh infections||Jalandhar, November 22With 64 new cases, the Covid tally reached 16,900 on Sunday. Five deaths were also reported in Jalandhar due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 533. There are 950 active cases in the district and as many as 15,417 people have been discharged so far. As many as 670 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar at present. Meanwhile, four people tested positive for Covid-19 in Kapurthala.Two succumb to contagion, 15 positive in HoshiarpurWith 15 new positive cases, out of the 987 samples received today, the tally of positive patients reached 6,765 in Hoshiarpur. With two more deaths, the toll also rose to 242.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said with 625 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms taken on Sunday, the total number of samples taken in the district has reached 1,84,571 in the district. According to the reports received from the lab, 1,77,867 were negative, while 1,187 reports were still awaited and 133 were invalid. The number of active cases is 167, while the number of patients who have recovered is 6,356. Of today’s 15 cases, Hoshiarpur city has four positive patients, while the remaining are from various health blocks of the district. Among the deceased are an 88-year-old resident of Janauri village, who died at MH, Jalandhar; and a 69-year-old woman of Mehtapur village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-5-deaths-64-fresh-infections-174558
23-11-2020|| ---||Miscreants loot Rs2.78 lakh from ATM at Virkan village||Jalandhar, November 22  Miscreants targeted Canara Bank ATM at Virkan village of Jalandhar in the wee hours on Saturday and decamped with cash amounting to over Rs2 lakh.  They burnt the ATM and broke open it and decamped with Rs2,77,900. While the police haven’t been able to nab the miscreants involved in the loot, they believe at least four people were involved. An FIR was lodged at Goraya police station under Sections 457, 427 and 380 of the IPC.  SHO Goraya police station said: “At least four people struck at the ATM in the wee hours. The robbery took place around 2.30 am. The robbers used gas cutters to break open the ATM. The CCTV footage at the ATM and in the vicinity is being checked to nab the culprits. An FIR has also been lodged. Further investigations are on.” Several ATM robberies have taken place in the region in the past. On October 15 this year, three robbers managed to rob Rs5.97 lakh from the UCO Bank ATM at Kalra village in Adampur, Jalandhar, and even gunned down its 50-year-old guard Surinder Pal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/miscreants-loot-rs2-78-lakh-from-atm-at-virkan-village-174560
23-11-2020||Our Correspondent---||At special camps, youth told to register themselves as voters||Hoshiarpur, November 22 District Election Officer Harish Kumar, along with his team members on Sunday, conducted checks at special camps organised by the district administration to monitor the work of receiving claims and objections for the revision of electoral rolls. He interacted with booth-level officers and appealed to the eligible youths to get them registered as voters as soon as possible. Harish Kumar, along with Hoshiarpur Election Tehsildar Harminder Singh, Naib Tehsildar Gurpreet Singh, Kanungo Deepak Kumar inspected various polling stations in Hoshiarpur city as well as in rural areas, including Lachowal, Bullowal, Khadiala Sainian, Kandhala Jattan, Tanda Urmar and Hariana etc. He   visited these polling stations and reviewed the ongoing revision of the voters’ lists.  He informed that according to the instructions of the Election Commission, after the two-day camp ending on Sunday, a similar special camp will be organised on December 5 and 6 from 10 am to 5 pm. If anyone wants to register as voter or wants to delete his name from the voters’ list or change his/her address, he can contact the BLO at the polling station concerned and submit the form.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/at-special-camps-youth-told-to-register-themselves-as-voters-174561
23-11-2020||---||Rich tributes paid to martyr||Jalandhar, November 22Indian Army has no parallels in bravery and martyrdom. Finance Minister Manpreet Badal said this at Siana village in Balachaur, while paying tributes to Shaheed Lieutenant Bikram Singh, on his martyrdom anniversary, while unveiling his statue.Exhorting the younger generation to come forward and do their bit in upholding the glory of the Indian Army, Manpreet addressed a gathering at the Government Middle Smart School, Siana.He also laid the foundation stone of a library and museum in the memory of the Shaheed Lieutenant Bikram Singh. The event held by the Shaheed Lieutenant Bikram Singh Charitable Society witnessed the presence of MLA Chaudhary Darshan Lal Mangupur, Khadoor Sahib MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki, Lieutenant General Amrik Singh Bahia, martyrs’ grandson Sandeep Singh Kang and family members.The Finance Minister, along with various family members of the martyrs, along with esteemed dignitaries, paid tributes to men in uniform. Elaborating his life’s achievements, Lieutenant Bahia shared that Shaheed Lieutenant Bikram Singh had also been honoured with the Param Vashisht Sewa Medal after his martyrdom and the Bikram Chowk in J&K has also been named after him.Uphold the glory of the Indian ArmyExhorting the younger generation to come forward and do their bit in upholding the glory of the Indian Army, Manpreet addressed a gathering at the Government Middle Smart School, Siana. He also laid the foundation stone of a library and museum in the memory of the martyr. The event held by the Shaheed Lieutenant Bikram Singh Charitable Society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rich-tributes-paid-to-martyr-174562
23-11-2020||---||Now, farmers  get live training from the fields||Jalandhar, November 22 NGO Dr Surender Dalal Keet Saksharta Mission that was holding online classes for the farmers from the fields has now started holding classes in the fields where the farmers are called and are given live training.  Because of the pandemic, the meeting was being held on Google Meet, which the farmers were advised to download on their mobile phones. Ashok Kumar, Punjab coordinator of the NGO, said it was for the first time that an online class was held for farmers. The mission has to its credit another first too. In a first-of-its kind, for the last three years, this NGO named ‘Dr Surinder Dalal Keet Saksharta Mission’, will not teach farmers in classes or in closed rooms, but in the fields and their farms to practically tell them why they do not need pesticides in their farms. The society selects those farms which are near the main road as it is convenient for participants to reach and participate. The NGO is named after a Haryana-based scientist, Dr Surinder Dalal, who died in 2003 and gave a theory to farmers that the amount of fertilisers and pesticides that they were using in the fields was not required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-farmers-get-live-training-from-the-fields-174563
23-11-2020||Jalandhar||Tractor driver dies in accident||Constable dies of heart attackTarn Taran: A constable, Buta Singh (49), died of heart attack on Saturday. He was posted at the Patti sub-jail and was under treatment for the last more than three weeks. His son Pardeep Singh said his father got serious last night and was brought to a private hospital in Amritsar but died on the way. The police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. OCTwo arrested with firearmsTarn Taran: Two country-made pistols with 34 cartridges were seized from two persons. A police party arrested Jagroshan Singh, alias Roshan Hundal, of Kaler village with a pistol and two cartridges. Meanwhile, the Patti Sadar police arrested Harpal Singh of Ruknewala (Ferozpur) and recovered one 32 bore pistol with 32 cartridges. The accused have been booked under the Arms Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tractor-driver-dies-in-accident-174564
23-11-2020||Jalandhar||National Integration Day||Gender concerns discussed at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya has introduced a ‘Gender Sensitisation Programme’ in its curriculum as a value-added programme for the undergraduate students of third semester. In the online inaugural function of Gender Sensitisation Programme, Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi discussed the issues of gender concerns in leadership. She said this programme aims to transform the attitude, behaviour and belief of students positively towards gender roles, responsibilities and relations. Prof Dwivedi shed light on various societal issues such as lack of equal opportunities, unequal wages, patriarchy, physical and psychological violence. Prof Dwivedi said under the programme, KMV had planned a series of events such as self-defence workshop and a series of talks and lectures by experts on diverse topics such as cultural roles and gender sensitivity, gender dimensions in economic participation and wage gap, social issues and problems, gender perspective with focus on Indian society, gender and political participation, gender issues and healthcare, gender rights, constitutional rights and legal rights. The Principal lauded the efforts of Amarpreet Khurana, coordinator, Women Studies Centre, for implementing the programme. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-integration-day-174566
23-11-2020||What must be done to enforce ban on firecrackers in letter and spirit ?||Banning crackers just before Diwali will not serve any purpose||Only licenced dealers should sell crackersIt is very unfortunate that residents, government and the police failed to stick to the directions of the NGT to limit the burning of firecrackers between 8 pm to 10 pm on Diwali. People started burning firecrackers even before Diwali and even after Diwali. Covid-19 is playing havoc with the lives of people. Reckless burning of firecrackers only exacerbated air pollution and Covid related deaths. Although, Delhi Government had banned the burning of firecrackers totally, it later on relaxed it a bit. The result was such that the firecracker dealers transferred their merchandise to Punjab with impunity. Why did the Punjab Government allow it in the first place? No police action was taken to stop this. The air quality of the state has worsened from poor to very poor. A strict action should have been taken to control the illegal activity beyond the stipulated time. Only a few FIRs were registered by the police. The elderly with co-morbidity and the children were the most sufferers. In future, only the licensed dealers should be allowed to sell firecrackers. We should learn from the 1918 Spanish Flu when the second wave of spike was greater than the first one because the people became complacent, resulting in millions of deaths, India being the worst sufferer. The government and the police need to be strict in future to control the large scale burning of firecrackers to save the people from air pollution.Dr JS WadhwaRealise your moral responsibilityActing tough, the National Green Tribunal (NGT), in line with the 2019 Supreme Court directive, imposed a blanket ban on the sale and use of firecrackers ahead of Diwali across the country. But the story this year was no different in the Delhi-NCR region and its neighbouring states. As always, the obdurate young revelers flouted all restrictions and burst crackers with impunity. The pollution levels rose to a four-year high. Both the public and the state are equally at fault. People do not care two hoots about sticking to the norms. Though Covid-19 awareness campaigns and health and safety protocols were issued from time-to-time, it was failure at the end of the Punjab government to implement the rules in letter and spirit, which complicated the already worsening situation. This is not the right time to show laxity. We need to introspect. Why does the government make tall claims about checking pollution on Diwali and other festive celebrations? Isn't it a mockery of law that reflects poorly on our democratic governance? If people do not realise their moral responsibility to keep the environment clean and help combat the deadly virus gripping the entire nation, authorities should deal with this sternly. Violators should be given exemplary punishment in a time-bound manner, including heavy fines. Likewise, the concerned officials should be held responsible for dereliction of duty. What is actually needed is a collective, collaborative action by the authorities as well as the public at large. For a better future, let us completely ban the manufacture of harmful fireworks and refrain from indulging in any such practice. and celebrate a safe Diwali by lighting earthen diyas and candles.DS KangDon’t let festivals be just a show of wealthDespite awareness on the social media, some persons are errant and throw caution to the wind. If everyone thinks like this, things are most likely to deteriorate. Diwali has become a show of wealth. Many people feel that bursting of firecrackers would do no harm. Let us fill our homes with prayers and light, not with fumes and crackers and not let a festival become a show of wealth.Shailja ThakurBan should be announced beforehandDespite a surge in the Covid-19 cases and a consistent rise in air pollution, people were busy bursting fire crackers. The norms were given a go-by. It is a known fact that air and noise pollution is a hazard. Government allowed crackers for a limited time frame from 8 pm to 10 pm for Diwali, Chhat Puja and Gurpurab. Government should shut firecracker manufacturing units after Diwali to resolve the issue permanently. Banning firecrackers one or two weeks before Diwali will not serve any purpose because people buy the stock in advance. Most of the people want the cracker manufacturing units to be shut. But this is not a viable option. Sale of crackers should be regulated, not banned completely. Instead manufacturing of green crackers should be encouraged.Shashi KiranWhere are the law enforcing agencies?The ban on firecrackers this time was not adhered to by the people. Instead, we polluted the environment with great zeal and enthusiasm. The role of the law enforcing agencies was negligible. The government should have put a blanket ban on the sale of crackers. Its manufacturing should be banned and defaulters behind the bars. The government should take care of the health of the people and not hanker after votes all the time. Let's learn from it and don't let it happen next time.Ravi DavesarNGT's norms were flouted with impunityIn contrast to the NGT's advice of total ban on firecrackers on Diwali, the state government seems to have diluted it and its consequences after Diwali were disastrous. Nobody bothered to obey the rules in general and restrictions of bursting firecrackers within a fixed time slot were not heeded to. The pressing issues regarding the worst air pollution and threatening surge in Covid-19 cases could not make people realise the seriousness of the whole situation. The experience indicates that self-discipline and voluntary compliance of rules and regulations, even in their own interests, are alien to public at large. In such as a scenario, the administration is left with no choice but to take drastic measures followed by strict enforcement with zero tolerance thereof. To begin with, it is proposed that there should be a total ban on the sale and purchase of firecrackers of any type.Jagdish ChanderCreating awareness best viable optionThe need of the hour is to create awareness. However, highly educated citizens are just jeering crowd on violating rules on ban of crackers. Creating awareness is the best counter to this consequence. It is better to start with ourselves. Joining peaceful campaigns and going in neighbouring areas; educating unaware and illiterate people about importance of eco-friendly celebrations and harmful impact of fireworks on environment, animals will certainly bring a visible change. Advertisements on websites, banners, posters, leaflets can all contribute in bringing improvements. The meetings should be conducted by sarpanches of the villages. In spite of wasting money on firecrackers, donating reusable items, clothes, sweets are the best ways to have eco-friendly celebrations. And, violators should be put in prison. Moreover, the government should take some steps towards it. In my opinion, harmful crackers should totally be banned and people selling them should be behind bars.Gurpreet KhushStrike at the root of the problemIn our country guidelines for any fruitful purpose carry no meaning. See the fate of stubble burning and traffic rules guidelines. It is only the strict rules with huge amount of fines that plays as a deterrent to enforce the same. A massive advertisement campaign by the central and state governments failed to convince the general public about the ill-affects of the air pollution caused by firecrackers.Harsh N JoharBan has no meaningWhen Lord Rama came back then earthen pots were lit by people, I wonder from where the ritual of bursting crackers descended. As in Punjab, government allowed bursting of fireworks for two hours only, but I think it will not work here or anywhere in India. So, either you ban it or you don't. Here are some takeaways. Firstly, the transportation of crackers must be stopped from entering the state. So, the policemen are the anchor here. Secondly, if the crackers belong to a registered company then government should sue it. If unregistered, then origin must be traced and appropriate action should be taken. The newspapers should highlight this point and insist people to use only diyas and candles.Raghav SharmaQUESTIONA second wave of Covid-19 is feared in Punjab as the number of cases is witnessing a rise everyday. What should the authorities and residents do to prevent a second outbreak of the virus?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 26).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/banning-crackers-just-before-diwali-will-not-serve-any-purpose-174567
23-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||Kin cremate wrong Covid victim after hospital mixup||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 22The bodies of two Covid-19 victims were swapped at Shriman Hospital here. One of the families went on to cremate it thinking it was of their relative.Kamaljit Singh, SHO, Police Station Division 8, said an FIR had been registered under Section 297 of the IPC against the hospital authorities on the complaint of both families.After the family of Tarsem Lal (78) went to receive his body from the hospital on Saturday, the one handed over to them turned out to be of someone else. Tarsem, who had tested positive for Covid, died on Saturday.Lal’s family staged a protest at the hospital on Saturday claiming they were given the wrong body. After enquiries at the hospital, they learnt the body had been swapped with that of Jaspal Singh, who had died on Friday, and that their father had already been cremated by Jaspal’s family.Vijay Sagar, Lal’s nephew, said, “After my uncle died on Saturday, we were called to the hospital to take his body. When we insisted on taking a picture of the body, we were shocked to see a different body. We were later told he had already been cremated.”“We filed a complaint to the police yesterday, seeking action against the hospital. We also demand a proof that the man cremated was actually my uncle,” Sagar added.On the other hand, Jaspal’s family had to face the ordeal of holding cremation twice. Half an hour after they first cremated the body, they were informed the it wasn’t of Jaspal.Prabhleen Singh, Jaspal’s son, said, “After cremation, the hospital called us saying the body wasn’t of my father. While handing over the body, the authorities, following the Covid protocol, asked us to maintain distance from the body. We didn’t even open the body bag, but were shocked to learn it wasn’t that of my father. After getting the body today, we again held the cremation. It has caused us immense trauma. The body didn’t even bear a tag or any identification. Had the other family not checked, we wouldn’t have even known.”Dr VP Sharma, MD, DM Cardiology, Shriman Hospital, said, “We had only two bodies. There was no third body. Due to Covid restrictions, there has been some error in tagging. We will take action against staff who erred in tagging the body. Proper cremation of the bodies has taken place.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kin-cremate-wrong-covid-victim-after-hospital-mixup-174474
