23-12-2020||Jalandhar||Cancer couldn’t hollow his positive vision||“The only disability in life is a bad attitude,” says Dr Deepak Anand.He is 46 and a headmaster of a government school which is known for promoting excellence in education with a heart for disabilities. He has a PhD in social sciences, is a special educator, a guidance counsellor and serving divyangjans is his life’s passion. Even amid pandemic, when he was touring villages to admit new students to his school, he looked for differently-abled children primarily; keen to provide them a chance to lead a better life.While life changed five years ago when Multiple Myeloma — a rare cancer — caused a medical condition which incapacitated 83 per cent of his body, Dr Anand was quick to make the change. He took his time, read a lot and within months used the new scenario to further learn and deal with disabilities better. He is now collecting various local applications from disabled to authorities from time to time and compiling them in the form of a book.He cleared the Punjab Public Service Commission exam last year and also got the headship of the school. He will now be appearing for an exam for principalship of school shortly. Having defied odds, the kind headmaster is always exploring new opportunities for his wards. He also holds additional charge of Government Middle School, Talwandi Mehma. Be it the Punjab Achievement Survey or English Booster Club, he is always enlisting students for newer projects, surveys and contests. He is also a district election coordinator for specially-abled, district coordinator Special Olympics and member of Down’s Syndrome Association, Punjab.“I always wanted to work with the differently-abled. Along with my regular studies, I wanted to help the sector. I have an M.Ed in special education and am a qualified counsellor and educator. However, I had never thought that I would also be a standing on the other side one day. My life was completely changed by cancer. It caused extreme disability in my left leg and a condition of pathological fracture due to weak bones,” he sharesHis life completely changed, both for good and bad. “Those times taught me about hope, about knowledge and patience. If we do not leave hope anything is possible. I take a longer time than usual tasks. My bones have weakened, I am wheelchair-bound but what is liberating is I can empathise and teach people. I am busier than ever!” His schedule is very tight and there are plenty of things he accomplishes in a day, perhaps much more like any normal person. “It has taught me a lot of things which I earlier would never know,” he adds.Since there were three differently-abled students at his school (Government High School, Razapur) so, during admissions this year, he went to several remote villages exhorting more to join. Speaking about the perception of disability, the gold medalist in MA and a single parent says, “People in Punjab need to be sensitised. They don’t know about the sector. Many at first think of them as an object of ridicule but our job is to patiently teach them. Those from the sector need to educate the others. There have been times I faced ridicule, even students. But I talked, told them stories about the disabled; made them learn. And now the same students are very helpful towards differently-abled.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cancer-couldnt-hollow-his-positive-vision-188307
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||Man held for raping 2-year-old girl||The Rama Mandi police on Tuesday arrested a 32-year-old man for raping a 2-year-old minor. The incident was reported on Monday night after the mother of the child saw her covered in blood.Known to the family members of the toddler, the accused committed the crime after taking her to an isolated area on the pretext of playing with her.Victim's father and the accused, both natives of Haryana, were working in the same department and used to live in the same locality. Around 4: 30 pm, the accused went to visit the parents of the victim. After spending nearly half-an-hour with them, he left with the girl on the pretext of playing with her and buying sweets for her and committed the crime.A resident of Baba Budda Colony, Rama Mandi, the accused was identified as Sandeep Kumar. He was working as a Class IV employee at Jalandhar Cantonment Board.Victim’s father and the accused, both natives of Haryana, were working in the same department and used to live in the same locality.As usual, around 4: 30 pm, the accused went to visit the parents of the victim. After spending nearly half-an-hour with them, he left with the girl on the pretext of playing with her and buying sweets for her. He reportedly took her on his bicycle.SHO, Rama Mandi, Sulakhan Singh, said, “After physically abusing the child, he first took her to his rented apartment and subsequently dropped her at her home around 6: 30 pm. Later, when the mother of the victim tried to change her diaper, she found her clothes covered in blood. When she complained of stomach aches, her parents immediately took her to a private hospital, where doctors confirmed rape. The girl is currently undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital.”The accused was absconding and was held near Jalandhar-Ludhiana highway on Tuesday, the SHO claimed. Sandeep was residing here for the past few years with his wife and child, who have currently gone to their village in Haryana.The police have registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act on the complaint of victim’s father.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-for-raping-2-year-old-girl-188309
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||‘Roadways suffering Rs25 lakh loss daily’||As farmers continue to protest against the contentious agri laws on the outskirts of Delhi, Punjab Roadways buses, including Volvo service, has been lying suspended for the last 24 days. As a result, the Transport Department has incurred heavy losses.In March, Volvo bus service along with other buses was suspended due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. However, with the ease in relaxations, the inter-state bus service was resumed in September. And considering rush of passengers, Jalandhar-Delhi Volvo bus service was resumed in mid-October.Harminder Singh, superintendent, Jalandhar bus stand, said, “Volvo buses are plying at the roadways depot, ordinary buses are ferrying the passengers till Panipat. In the absence of sufficient number of trains, passengers are at the receiving end.”On the one hand, the roadways has been bearing a loss of around Rs 25 lakh on a daily basis, due to the farmers’ stir, on the other hand, private bus operators’ revenue has increased manifold as they enter Delhi through other routes.Harminder said, “The Roadways has a fleet of around 10 Volvo buses in the district and fare of one seat is Rs1,050. Besides Punbus, PRTC Volvo bus service to Delhi has been suspended. The PRTC has five Volvo buses in Jalandhar and charges Rs1,100 per seat.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roadways-suffering-rs25-lakh-loss-daily-188311
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||33 session sites identified for administering Covid-19 vaccine||Further stepping its efforts to ensure an effective mechanism for administering Covid-19 vaccine whenever it arrives, the district administration on Tuesday has earmarked 33 session sites (vaccination sites), where the vaccine would be given to frontline health workers under its first phase.Presiding over a meeting of the district task force at the District Administrative Complex, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said these 33 sites include 24 in urban and nine in the rural belt of the district, where a five-member team including one vaccinator, two support staff, security personnel and one person to verify documents for 100 frontline workers would be deputed at each site.He said session sites in the city include Civil Hospital, Urban Community Health Centres in Dada Colony, Basti Guzan, Khurla Kingra, Urban Primary Health Centre Garha, Community Health Centre PAP, ESI Hospital, PIMS Hospital, Guru Nanak Mission Hospital, NHS Hospital, Shrimann Hospital, Capitol Hospital, Gulab Devi Hospital, Bhutani Hospital, New Ruby Hospital, Kidney Hospital, Sacred Hearts Hospital, Patel Hospital, Shingara Singh Hospital, SGL Hospital, Johal Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Charitable Hospital, Ghai Hospital and Joshi Hospital.Similarly in the rural belt, all block-level government hospitals in Kartarpur, Kala Bakra, Shahkot, Bara Pind, Adampur, Jamsher, Jandiala, Bilga and Mehatpur have been identified as session sites for administering the vaccine.He said the site of the session would have three rooms — one for verification, the second for vaccination and the third for observation, where after the immunisation, the person would be observed to check the health status besides ambulance would also be stationed at each site.He said all these activities would be carried out with strict adherence to Covid protocols, including wearing masks properly, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene. He also directed the Health Department to set up additional vaccination teams for smooth conduct of the drive.The DC said a control room would also be set up at district headquarters and block-level, whenever the vaccination drive starts. Ghanshyam Thori further asked all heads of departments to appoint nodal officers for the vaccination drive and give the list to his office within two-day.Prominent among present on the occasion included Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Jasbir Singh, Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla, District Immunisation Officer Dr Seema, District Medical Commissioner Dr Anu Sharma and Epidemiologist Dr Satish Sharma among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/33-session-sites-identified-for-administering-covid-19-vaccine-188312
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||Mandatory RT-PCR tests of UK passengers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mandatory-rt-pcr-tests-of-uk-passengers-188313
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||Relief for leather industry as HC allows trial run||A Double Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday allowed the trial run of the leather industrial units which were lying shut since October 29, 2019.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday had filed an affidavit in the Punjab and Haryana High Court being as the Chairman of the Punjab Effluent Treatment Society for Tanneries (PETS) that an RCC mixing-cum-dilution tank had been constructed in the leather complex at a cost of Rs 1.45 crore.Disclosing more information, the Deputy Commissioner said the Punjab and Haryana High Court had ordered PETS to file a compliance report about the dilution tank on January 6, 2020.The DC said since he joined as the Deputy Commissioner on June 16, he held multiple meetings of the PETS and listened to officials from the PPCB and industrialists.He said that following which he took up the matter with high-ups and the construction of the RCC mixing-cum-dilution tank was initiated and a compliance report was filed in the High Court on October 29, 2020.He said he filed the affidavit in the court yesterday and today, the Double Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court allowed the trial run of the leather industry.Meanwhile, KC Dogra of the Punjab Effluent Treatment Society has said January 19 has been fixed as the next date of hearing.With the High Court’s order, representatives from the leather industry thanked the Deputy Commissioner for his concerted efforts in pursuing the case and filing the affidavit.They said the order had given much-needed relief to them and their workers as the units were lying shut for the last one year. Besides, labourers were facing hardships in the absence of any employment they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/relief-for-leather-industry-as-hc-allows-trial-run-188314
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||Façade improvement of rly station to start soon||The façade improvement project of the city railway station will begin within a few days as the Jalandhar Smart City Limited has transferred funds worth Rs6.26 crore to the Railways.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday participated in the virtual meeting of the Board of Directors (BoD) of Jalandhar Smart City Limited (JSCL), which reviewed various development projects in the pipeline.The DC said funds have been transferred to the railway authorities to build foot-overbridge, civil works for the frontal circulating area, setting up of escalators, and other works to give the city railway station a facelift.The DC said the railway authorities have shortlisted the contractor and the work to begin this month.The BoD further reviewed various project including the smart LED project, construction of trunk storm-water drainage and allied works in the ABD zone of Jalandhar Smart City Limited, development of way-finding, and traffic signage at PAN city of Rs1.98 crore, rooftop solar plants on government building at Rs 17.83 crore, development of smart e-classes at Rs20.32 crore, junction improvement at Rs20.32 crore, green area development Phase-1 at Rs3.90 crore, park development in the Urban Estate at Rs2.40 crore, park development in Tobri Mohalla at 0.42 crore, park development in Industrial Area at Rs1.07 crore, park development at Tankiwala Park at Rs0.62 crore, green area development around Bist Doab Canal at Rs2.78 crore, construction of ICCC building at Rs1.67 crore and city-level disaster management activity plan at Rs20.22 crore.The DC said projects such as augmentation of storm-water drainage system worth Rs20.37 crore, installation of LED lights in the city at Rs49.22 crore, the development of integrated command and control centre at Rs116.94 crore, safety, and security and utility ducting of overhanging electric wires at Rainik Bazaar at Rs2.71 crore, bulk surface water supply scheme at Rs350 crore, development of smart roads at Rs36.16 crore were moving ahead in full swing. He said projects’ detailed project reports (DPRs) were being prepared by the authorities concerned and would be placed before the approval at the earliest.The DC said the administration would start a disaster management audit of all government buildings under the disaster management activity plan. Jalandhar Mayor Jagdish Raja, Chief Executive Officer Jalandhar Smart City Limited Karnesh Sharma and others attended the 11th BoD virtual meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fa%C3%A7ade-improvement-of-rly-station-to-start-soon-188315
23-12-2020||the pandemic changed the education paradigm. Dr Sunil Khosla||‘Colleges in remote areas face internet issues’||How many students are coming at present?As per Panjab University guidelines, there is no physical attendance of the students unlike other university colleges, but online classes are on.What challenges did you face amid the pandemic?Since our college is situated in a rural area, the biggest challenge that came our way was the connectivity with the students. Because of networking issues, the students as well as the teachers faced problem reaching out to each other. Also, many students didn’t even have mobile phones, so, they found it hard to reach us. But still, we managed to meet the challenge successfully with and the issues were resolved with time. Today, the syllabus of every subject has been finished and everything is back on track.Has the pandemic affected admissions?Not at all, we have a total of 870 students at present. Online and offline admissions were done as per the university’s guidelines. We followed the admission procedure by adopting full precautions like distancing and sanitising the premises from time to time.What about the practical teaching?We have computer science as a practical subject in BCA and BA courses in our college. Teachers ensured that they provided practical knowledge to the students even during online mode. However, lab online teaching could not replace lab work, but our teachers did their best to make sure that students didn’t miss out on practical work. Also, the students who didn’t own a laptop or a mobile phone, they had to face trouble understanding practicals digitally.What preparations will you make if the university allows colleges to resume classes?If we get orders for physical attendance from the university, we will have to first check the ordered instructions. When the instructions are out, only then we will be able to determine the steps and course of action to be taken. We will have to see if we receive the instructions to start the college in a phased manner and with restricted number of students.As an expert, what’s in store for education in times ahead?I can see that our dependence will remain on online teaching for a long time. Physical classes won’t be possible till the time this pandemic is dealt with. The focus will remain in rural areas where the problem related to technology arises. But one thing I would like to mention that whatever problems we faced amid the pandemic, our university helped in overcoming those.Do students still share any concerns with you?Yes. Since the students are not economically well-off, they shared that many are deprived of gadgets. Some students brought new phones or laptops, while some said they did not have any means to purchase new smartphones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/colleges-in-remote-areas-face-internet-issues-188316
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||Jio’s loss is rival’s gain||As protests against Reliance Jio continued in Jalandhar and Phagwara today, rival telecom firms have begun taking advantage of the situation. Airtel has started holding camps for registering new subscribers, most of whom were earlier using Jio. In Jalandhar, farmers forced Reliance to keep their stores shut. They marched towards a Jio tower installed in Pholariwal village. Farmers marched to close Jio’s three stores in Phagwara. Deputy Superintendent of Police informed the farmers that the staff had shut the stores. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jios-loss-is-rivals-gain-188317
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||Councillor to gherao Mayor’s residence over garbage issue||Former Senior Deputy Mayor Kamaljit Bhatia and his wife Jaspal Kaur Bhatia, councillor of ward number 45, on Tuesday met Municipal Corporation Joint Commissioner Harcharan Singh and gave him an ultimatum that if garbage problem wasnot resolved in a week’s time, they would gherao the Mayor’s house.The councillor said four safai karamcharis had died in her ward, and after that no new safai karamchari was appointed in her ward. She said the residential areas in the ward, Gobind Nagar and Arya Kanya School-Beria, had become a garbage dump.Recently, during the general house meeting, in the middle of the zero hour, when the agenda branch officials started passing the agendas, an enraged Jaspal Kaur, councillor from ward number 45, came on stage and stopped the official to continue speaking and even snatched the agenda documents from him. This created a drama and she said that she would first want answers to the problems of her ward from the Mayor.Kamaljit Bhatia said that he would be installing a projector outside the MC premises and show the residents how the MC has been duping them in the name of making the city ‘Smart’.“I can name several spots in the city where piles of garbage are lying. There is nothing smart in the city. ‘Sadak tod k navi bana den nu smart city nahee kende’,” he said.Recently, Bhatia had organised a protest against the MC that trash was not being lifted from the garbage dump. He said that no development works had been carried out in his wards for a long time. Now, he had no other option but to hold a protest against the MC.He said the moment he started holding a protest, around 60 per cent of the garbage was lifted. “I just wanted to ask when I was holding meetings with the Mayor and the Commissioner, then nothing happened, the moment I held a dharna the garbage was lifted,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/councillor-to-gherao-mayors-residence-over-garbage-issue-188318
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||Photographers’ club holds  pro-farmer stir||Members of the Jalandhar Photographers Club organised a peaceful protest to support the farmers protesting at Delhi borders for the last one month.Led by club’s working president Kamaljit Bhatia, the members started their march from BMC Chowk and ended at PUDA complex where all protesters sat together to raise their voice against farm laws. They requested the government to take back ‘black laws’ and accept all demands of farmers. Members held placards with the message, ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ and ‘No Farmers, No Food’.Club members from Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur also joined the protest. Bhatia thanked all members for joining the march. The club arranged refreshment for the people gathered at the march.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/photographers-club-holds-pro-farmer-stir-188319
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||Two-day loan fair from today in Jalandhar||To provide financial support to youth for starting their ventures and providing them employment, the district administration will organise a self-employment loan fair-cum-placement camp on December 23 at the office of the District Industries Centre, Focal Point, and at the Adampur BDPO office on December 24.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said self-employment loan fair-cum-placement camp will be organised under the Ghar-Ghar Rozgaar and the Karobar Mission scheme. He said loans would be disbursed by the banks during the camp under various programmes, including the Prime Minister Employment Guarantee Programme, Prime Minister Mudra Yojana and Start-Up India. Thori said the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises had been acting as a catalyst to help the youth in getting loans for self-employment. He said those who cleared Classes X, XII, graduation and postgraduation can participate in the fair.He informed five companies, including Life Insurance Company, Pukhraj Health Care, A-One International, ICICI Prudential and Agile Health Care, will part take in the placement camp. He called upon the youth to register on www.pgrkam.com and call on 90569-20100 for further information. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-day-loan-fair-from-today-in-jalandhar-188320
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||Mathematics Day celebrated||Various schools and colleges across Jalandhar celebrated National Mathematics Day by showing powerpoint presentations to students and holding online quiz, poster-making competitions.The Postgraduate Department of Mathematics of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised online national quiz competition on mathematics. The event started at 10 and as many as 481 students of 18 states of India participated in the online quiz. The main objective behind the competition was to increase knowledge by solving different types of problems in a short span of time. The students who scored 80 per cent and more marks will be awarded with e-certificates. Gaurav Aggarwal of GNDU, and Shikha Verma of GGSSS Barwala, scored 100 per cent. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the department for organising such an event.Maths club of MGN College of Education organised National Mathematics Day virtually. College student Anjali threw light on the life of Dr Ramanujan with her poem ‘Wonderful mathematics’. Shifa highlighted the journey of Dr Ramanujan with a video on ‘Biography of Dr Ramanujan’. Garima and Vidhi reflected upon magical features of Dr Ramanujan’s mathematical concepts. Principal Neelu Jhanji paid tributes to the legendary mathematician.To bring awareness on contributions made by renowned mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan, the Department of Applied Science of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus celebrated National Mathematics Day. Around 60 students from different streams participated in the event. Simran, Shalini and Nakul won prizes in poster-making contest. Manav, Surbhi, Ajayjit and Tamanna won the prizes for powerpoint presentation. Sarthak, Pardeep, Aayush, Vishal and Adarsh Raj won quiz contest.Sukhbir Singh Chatha, Director, Academic Affairs, and Dr SK Sood, Director, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, appreciated the efforts of the staff and students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mathematics-day-celebrated-188321
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||Bhangra included in training schedule||Iqbal Singh Sandhu, secretary, Surjit Hockey Society, said, “On the 89th day of the ongoing hockey coaching camp, we included Bhangra as a substitute to gym. Bhangra has been included in the training schedule to teach kids the steps and get them connected to their culture.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bhangra-included-in-training-schedule-188322
23-12-2020||Phagwara||Webinar on research publication||Best out of waste competitionJalandhar: Ivy World School organised the ‘Best out of waste competition’ for the kindergarten wing. Little hands and imaginative minds came together in a creative burst of energy during the contest. Children used their imagination and creativity to make innovative things from broken bangles, plastic bottles, waste iron nails, peanut shells, beads, thermocol glasses, old CDs etc. All these waste materials were used in a constructive manner and a variety of things were made using them. Students made cloth doll, wall hanging with bangles, doll with tea strainer, night lamp with a bottle and artistically made paper flowers. The criterion for the competition was presentation, use of material, innovation and overall effect. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, appreciated the imagination of kids and motivated them to reduce the waste to save our planet Earth. She also appreciated the ability of the students to organise their thoughts to create such beautiful items4 DAVIET students get job offerFour students from electrical department of DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology were selected for Radsol Design Private Limited at a salary package of Rs 3 lakh per annum. Radsol is a design and consultancy firm which provides third party design services to number of different clients and also drawings in auto cad, do extensive wire calculations in Excel etc. The company has selected the students after rigorous rounds comprising of online test, group discussion, technical and HR interview. The selected students Dimple Verma, Mamta Devi, Amit and Ritik had shared that they had started preparing for the placement drive early and concentrated on developing their interpersonal skills along with the enhancing their knowledge about the core areas. They shared that to suit the needs of the company a special effort was done to learn technical and analytical Skills. Sushil Prashar, head, department of training and placement, along with Vishav Kapoor, Ratish Bhardwaj and Kalpana Sharma appreciated the hard work put in by students and highlighted that special efforts were done to invite companies to hire students of DAVIET in such a pandemic situation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-research-publication-188323
23-12-2020||Jalandhar||Delhi-Adampur flight cancelled||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/delhi-adampur-flight-cancelled-188324
