24-04-2020||Jalandhar||Watch: Coronavirus patient in Jalandhar does 'Bhangra' on Punjabi beats, says 'want to lift spirits'||Videos of patients admitted to the isolation wards in Jalandhar – dancing their hearts out – is lightening the spirits of many and spreading hope amidst the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic in the region.A video of the Jalandhar Mayor’s OSD foot tapping to a peppy Punjabi number in the civil hospital’s isolation ward has gone viral on Friday.The video, which was shared by Mayor’s OSD Harpreet Singh Walia, was aimed  at dispelling COVID-19 myths and telling people it’s possible to defeat it.While the testing positive of Mayor’s OSD Harpreet Singh Walia on Tuesday – had heightened tensions – with many councillors, MLAs and senior MC officials being in his direct contact – the clip has acted as a balm for the stressed-out populace of the district which has been witnessing a dramatic spike in COVID-19 cases.In the hour-long video – part of which has been shared on social media —an energetic Walia can be seen flaunting his Bhangra moves heartily—in a hospital room.Walia soon shared the video with family, friends and colleagues of the Municipal Corporation.While about a week ago, another video of several COVID-19 positive persons had also gone viral on social media, patients have been sharing these from their hospital beds, to propagate a message of hope.Speaking to The Tribune Harpreet Walia said: “I had never hoped the video would get so popular. I voluntarily got myself tested and immediately shared my positive status on social media – the moment I tested positive. The video was shared by me today to tell the world that COVID-19 isn’t a reason to get glum or unnecessarily stressed out as many people are doing. Afterword got out that I was tested positive – some neighbours began treating my family as if I had committed a crime. Some are spreading unnecessary panic and tension. I wanted to dispel the myths.”While the video was shot by another person in isolation in his neighbouring room, Walia said: “I first shared this with my family, then with all the MC groups and then I put in it on FB. I have been overwhelmed with calls as soon as I did. Relatives and friends are calling from the US, Canada, Australia and all across India. I’m happy the video is sending the message COVID-19 is pretty easy to defeat. It’s just that our spirit needs to be right.”Four people of Walia’s family – his mother, daughter and both parents have also been tested and their results are awaited. But Walia said he has asked them to be at ease – as patients are being properly taken care of at the hospital.Isolated at a room at the Civil Hospital’s De-addiction centre – Walia says: “We are all cheerful, abiding by protocol and watching each other’s backs as we undergo treatment. There is no need to worry.”Ravi Chabra, the Nijatam Nagar patient, who got discharged on Thursday and also featured in a previous video, said: “During my time, I was first the only patient at the ward. Later it began filling up. But I noticed everyone was sad. So on a gloomy Sunday – we all lifted our spirits by dancing in the ward. I have recovered. My 72-year-old mother has been discharged from CMC Ludhiana and my 17-year-old is still under treatment. He is discharged soon too. COVID-19 is just a viral. I request people to abide by social distancing and keep spirits high and it is absolutely manageable.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/watch-coronavirus-patient-in-jalandhar-does-bhangra-on-punjabi-beats-says-want-to-lift-spirits-75559
24-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||They reach mandi at 3 am to keep your home stocked with fresh veggies||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 23When almost the entire world is confined indoors, there are some warriors who are leaving no stone unturned to extend help to the needy.Among them is Chaurasiya (47), a vegetable vendor, who gets up early and is at the sabzi mandi at 3 am sharp. While those at home get vegetables on their doorstep, it takes a gruelling 3 am to 5 pm schedule and a lot of courage for Chaurasiya to keep the refrigerators stocked with fresh veggies.Chaurasiya, who has been selling vegetables in the city for the last 17 years, says, “Bahut saal ho gaye kaam karte, par aisa time kabhi nahi dekha” (It’s been many years since I am working, but I have never seen such a time.”He is the only earning member for the family and has three children and wife to look after. Originally from Gorakhpur, UP, he has been in Jalandhar for the last 17 years. When asked if the lockdown has affected his work, his answer is yes.“Earlier, we could buy anything. The market was open and everything was freely available. But now demands have changed during the lockdown so some vegetables supplies have been affected, “ he adds.He further said,”I start from home as early as possible to be at the mandi by 3 am. We stay at the mandi till 11 am. After this I go home at 12 noon and eat. Later, I sell veggies door-to-door and come back home at 5 pm,” he says.Protecting himself with a three-layered black mask, he also keeps a sanitiser handy at the mandi and maintain a 3-ft distance from other vendors. He says, “Earlier, I would be home by 4 am after procuring vegetables. But now things have changed. On certain days, the queue starts from the Maqsudan mandi stretch and continues till Workshop chowk (over a km away). ““Many fellow vendors have stopped selling veggies. I am continuing until now. The administration is also very co-operative,” he said.Ask him if he is not scared of contracting the virus, he says, “Parmatma sab dekhega. (God will watch over me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/they-reach-mandi-at-3-am-to-keep-your-home-stocked-with-fresh-veggies-75208
24-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Lodged at shelter home, they are counting days to go home||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 23Stranded here for over a month now, passengers from various states in the city have certainly been experiencing something they never expected during the lockdown. They have been counting days to join their family members.With no protective gears or timely meals, they want to be evacuated as soon as possible. As many as 25 such passengers from various states, including Rajasthan, Kerala, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, have been staying at a night shelter near the railway station. Among the stranded passengers, some are from Nepal.Manmohan Kumar (27) from Maharashtra, who got stuck here due to the cancellation of his train, said, “For the past 32 days, I have been staying here. I had come to Chandigarh for a job interview before the ‘Janata’ Curfew’. After finishing my interview, I went to Amritsar to board the Golden Temple mail. However when I reached there, I was told that the train had been cancelled. After spending two days in Amritsar, a local transporter told me that there is a direct bus from Jalandhar to Delhi.”He said, “Thereafter, I bought a second-hand cycle to reach here. But after reaching here, I was shocked to know that there was no such bus. Subsequently, with the help of the police I came here. I am dying to go home. Surviving here is like a new challenge every day. I have not had a proper meal for the past few days. Sometimes, we have to stand in queues to get our share of food.” Dependent on NGOs for food, he said the administration should at least do something to provide them regular meals.Similarly, Gyarthi Lal (55) from Rajasthan, who was heading to his village before the lockdown, said, “I never imagined that I would be living my life like nomads.”“After visiting my son and his family in Jammu, I stayed in Jalandhar to visit Devi Talab Mandir. However, I was surprised to know that my train was cancelled. Initially I didn’t even have a soap or access to clean water. Now, we have been counting days to reach our homes safely,” he added.Another stranded passenger from Mathura appealed to the administration to arrange a visit of a doctor as many strange people daily visit the night shelter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lodged-at-shelter-home-they-are-counting-days-to-go-home-75207
24-04-2020||Industry & Lockdown||Govt must boost exports to keep competitors out: Raman Gupta||Industrialist Raman Gupta has been running a herbal pharmaceutical export unit for the past nearly 50 years. He established Hindustan Pharmaceuticals in 1971, which is engaged in the manufacturing of herbal drugs isolated from natural plant source. The unit exports products to developed countries, including the US, the UK, Germany, Egypt, Japan, Hong Kong and Korea. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, he says the present economic crisis has hit the industry, especially the MSME sector, hard and the government response in the form of an economic package is missing. Here are the excerpts:How has Covid-19 hit herbal drug industry?The lockdown to contain Covid-19 has hit the herbal drug industry badly as the raw material for the industry, which is a natural product, is seasonal and the lockdown has brought its collection and movement to a screeching halt.How are you coping with the prevailing situation?Our products are exported mostly to developed countries and they have been badly affected by the pandemic and are under complete lockdown. Therefore, we have shut down our operations for the time being.How do you see the situation post Covid-19?Small-scale units like ours are labour intensive, but a majority of the labourers have left for their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. To engage new workers and train them in a technical industry like ours is a time consuming task.What should the state and the Union governments do to revive the economy?The Union and the state governments should take bold steps exports by hand-holding export-oriented industries, so that countries such as China and Brazil, which are our main competitors in the herbal drugs sector, do not capture the market. The government should release pending GST refunds to ease out the cash crunch. Moreover, banks and other financial institutions should extend interest-free loans to boost growth. The mandatory medical insurance clause for workers and also their wages for the lockdown period should be borne by the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation.When will the industry get back on track?The chances of the herbal industry coming back on track depend on the global scenario which is expected to take long to come out of the woods. Many countries, including ours, have already extended their lockdown||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-must-boost-exports-to-keep-competitors-out-raman-gupta-75206
24-04-2020||Phagwara||Man duped of Rs 1.86 lakh||Two held with illicit liquorPhagwara: The Satnampura police on Thursday seized 24 bottles of illicit liquor from two persons and arrested them. The duo have been identified as Rajesh Thakur of Satnampura and Balwinder Singh, a resident of Thakraki village. The suspects were nabbed at a checkpoint. The police have registered a case under the Excise Act. OCIsolation ward at edu instituteJalandhar: The CT Group of Institutions, South Campus (Shahpur), has offered to set up an isolation ward on the campus. It has offered around 100 beds with basic amenities that are sanitised and set up with the norms of social distancing. With cases of coronavirus increasing in the country, the government has come up with measures including converting a number of places into isolation wards. In view of this, CT Group too converted its hostel into an isolation ward which can help the local administration. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-duped-of-rs-1-86-lakh-75205
24-04-2020||---||Labourers sensitised to Covid prevention||Jalandhar, April 23Health Department teams of the Shahkot block today visited local mandis and fields to educate labourers on prevention against coronavirus. Meanwhile, survey and awareness campaign in villages are continuing by multipurpose health workers and ASHA workers.Dr Amardeep Singh Duggal, Senior Medical Officer, Community Health Centre, Shahkot, said: "The wheat harvesting work is speeding up in the area. Farmers have started reaching mandis with wheat trollies. These are the areas where Covid can spread.”To overcome the risk, Health Department teams have started an awareness drive in mandis as well as fields. Along with the survey, activity in villages are also going on.Chandan Mishra, block extension educator (BEE), said many combines and drivers with other staff had come from other districts to work in the Shahkot area."Hence, labourers working in mandis and using combines need to be sansitised to prevention from the virus," the official said.He, along with other team members, visited mandis and made the labourers aware about the Covid threat and how to save them from the same. During the drive, the team members also provided masks to them.In Kartarpur, announcements are being made in gurdwaras to spread awareness among people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labourers-sensitised-to-covid-prevention-75204
24-04-2020||Phillaur||Smart Card holders to get additional wheat, pulses||To meet the food requirement of people during curfew, the government has decided to distribute free wheat and pulses to all Smart Card holders in addition to the ration they are already getting on regular intervals, said Assembly in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary after a meeting with depot holders here on Thursday.Every family would get 15 kg of wheat per member and 3 kg of pulses, the distribution of which would commence from Wednesday and continue till all beneficiaries receive their allocation.During the meeting, Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary asked the depot holders to ensure that all beneficiaries should receive their allotted ration free of cost and inconvenience. No dishonesty would be tolerated, and any complaint of diversion be taken seriously.Chaudhary instructed the depot holders to take precautionary measures in the wake of coronavirus and sanitise machines, equipment and place of distribution before and after every use.He appealed the people to follow all instructions of the administration and social distancing norms at the places of distribution. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/smart-card-holders-to-get-additional-wheat-pulses-75202
24-04-2020||Jalandhar||50K packets of biscuits donated for policemen||Contributing its bit, Parle-G biscuits, Mumbai, today handed over 50,000 packets to Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal for distributing these among policemen on curfew duty.Amrinder Singh Dhiman of Dhiman Foods (Pvt) Ltd, Nakodar, handed over the packets on behalf of the company. He said this one was one of the consignments as they had pledged to donate over three crore packets all over India. The SSP said this was a humanitarian gesture on part of the company. He said nearly 1,000 policemen of the Jalandhar (rural) police were on round-the-clock curfew duty. He said these biscuits would also be distributed among the needy.Trust provides safety kits to frontline workersA Dubai-based philanthropist Dr SP Singh Oberoi, who also runs Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, on Wednesday said the NGO had sent PPE kits, N95 masks, triple layered masks and sanitisers in large numbers for frontline workers in various districts of Punjab.After providing a financial assistance of Rs 40 lakh to various district administrations in Punjab to fight Covid-19, Oberoi said the sefety kits would help cops, health workers and mediapersons in fighting against the deadly virus. He said the virus had taken the state in its grip and difficult times were waiting ahead for the people of the state, thus, the financial help would assist in dealing with the emergency situations.Oberoi, who is known for his social work, said the Markfed had also asked them to provide masks for labourers working in the grain markets, following which 20,000 masks were supplied to them.8 cops to be honoured for exemplary workEight police officers from the district, who have been working on the frontline amid the Covid pandemic, will be honoured with ‘DGP’s Honour & Disc for Exemplary Seva to Society’.DSP Sarabjit Singh Rai, ACP Om Parkash, Inspectors Rajesh Kumar and Jarnail Singh, Head Constables Avtar Singh and Jaswant Singh, Constables Jasvir Singh and Mangat Ram have been selected for the second award list after meticulous screening and examination of the various nominations sent by the Commissioners of Police and SSPs to recognise the exceptional work done by the Punjab Police and other officials working on the frontline in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/50k-packets-of-biscuits-donated-for-policemen-75201
24-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||7 more test positive in dist, tally reaches 60||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 23From 31 cases on April 16, the number of Covid-19 cases in the district has doubled in the past one week. While 31 cases were reported on April 16, the number has reached 60 on Thursday.With seven new cases today, there seems to be no let up in the Covid-19 count in the district. As of today, there are a whopping 6,357 persons who have been home quarantined in the city. While the majority of those testing positive are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, the Health Department is having a hard time ensuring people to abide by quarantine measures.In the past three days, two district officials have also been included in the total tally. While the Mayor’s OSD had tested positive on Tuesday, the mother of an official in the Mass Media Department tested positive today.So far, establishments affected with Covid in the district include a media house and the local MC. A functionary of the Congress, a mass media official’s mother and a host of other people are also among the positive cases. Following April 13, when a Raja Garden-based journalist had tested positive, many cases from the same establishment has added dramatically to the city tally. Collectively, 23 cases of the district are those of employees of the media house or their further contacts.Meanwhile, the continued ration disbursement in many areas even after lockdown also substantially added to the tally. Those testing positive today include five persons from the local media house and their contacts and two from previous contacts of Covid cases. The five media house contacts include a 31-year-old man, a 30-year-old man, a 39-year-old woman, a 70-year-old male relative of them and a 65-year-old woman from Jwala Nagar in Maqsudan.The other two cases are a 46-year-old woman relative of Basti Danishmandan-based 70-year-old man, who was previously tested positive, and a 55-year-old woman contact of another positive case.One of the women testing positive in the district is also the mother of a block extension educator working in the Health Department’s mass media wing.Nodal officer, Covid-19, Jalandhar, TP Singh said: “We have sealed all areas which have positive cases and all firms where cases have been reported have also been sealed. However, we can’t individually watch each and every person 24x7. Stickers have been pasted outside houses of those who have been placed under home quarantine. At present, there are 70 persons admitted to the isolation unit of the Civil Hospital and we have 75 ventilators at our disposal to treat Covid cases.”Seven recovered so farMeanwhile, after the 72-year-old Nijatam Nagar woman recovered on Tuesday, her son Ravi Chabra was also discharged from the Civil Hospital on Thursday, taking the total number of those recovered in Jalandhar to seven. Those who have recovered so far in Jalandhar now include the Nijatam Nagar mother-daughter duo, four persons from the same family at Virk village and the Lohian-based daughter of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who had been receiving treatment in the city.Hoshiarpur’s fourth patient tests negativeHoshiarpur: Hoshiarpur is on track to win its battle against coronavirus as the report of another patient came out to be negative. Now, only one patient is left and she too is stable. There were six patients who were found positive in the district, of which one elderly Pathi, Moranwali resident Harbhajan Singh, died. After this, three of the remaining five patients have already recovered and returned to their homes, whereas another patient’s report tested negative on Thursday. The said patient, Gurpreet Kaur, who tested negative, is the daughter-in-law of Harbhajan Singh. Confirming this, Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said she would be discharged and sent home on Friday. Now, there is only one positive patient in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital, whose condition is said to be stable.Seven persons admitted to isolation wardMeanwhile, seven persons who had sneaked into the district from Jalandhar were brought to the Civil Hospital for showing Covid-like symptoms. They have been admitted to the isolation ward as they had fever. District Epidemiologist Dr Shailesh said despite the border being sealed, these persons sneaked into Hoshiarpur from Jalandhar and reached Dasuya. On finding out about them, they were caught and taken to Dasuya Hospital, from where they were sent to the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital for examination. Dr Shailesh said due to the symptoms of fever, they had been admitted to the isolation ward. Their samples would be taken for the Covid-19 test tomorrow.— Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-more-test-positive-in-dist-tally-reaches-60-75198
24-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Sanitisation gate installed outside police station||Phagwara, April 23 Satnampura SHO Usha Rani has got installed a sanitisation gate at the entry point of the police station. She spent over Rs 10,000 from her own pocket to facilitate police personnel and people. This gate runs on electricity and has a battery backup as well. The SHO said any person who wanted to get himself sanitised could pass through the gate by pushing an electric switch which was placed over it. The machine had three pressure points which covers and sanitise the body. She said a good quality alcohol-based sanitiser was being used in the machine to keep coronavirus at bay. The whole team of the police station was feeling motivated as they had got a tool to protect themselves from the pandemic. ‘Punjabis stuck in other states will be brought back soon’ Garhshankar: MP Manish Tewari said he was taking up the issue of people stuck in other states of  the country due to lockdown with the Centre, Punjab Chief Minister Capt  Amarinder Singh, and chief ministers of other states. Tewari said they would be repatriated as  soon as possible. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanitisation-gate-installed-outside-police-station-75197
24-04-2020||Jalandhar||Gang involved in smuggling liquor busted||The Jalandhar Police Commissionerate on Thursday busted a gang involved in smuggling illicit liquor in the city amid lockdown. The police arrested three persons and recovered 316 cartons of liquor bottles of various brands.The Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, said the police got a tip-off that Rajinder Kumar of Makhdoompura was supplying liquor in the city during the curfew imposed due to Covid-19, for which he had set up a godown at Raj Nagar.To ensure that no one gets skeptical of this illegal business, Raju kept tenants at the godown, from where the liquor was supplied in a four- wheeler (PB-08 CH 9646).Bhullar said a team of CIA Staff-1 raided the godown and arrested three suspects, identified as Amit Kumar, alias Ajay, Ankit and Ram Sewak, with 316 cartons of illicit liquor.The CPfurther said Amit Kumar was a native of Visholi village in Unnao district of UP; Ankit of Chantpur village in Bihar; and Ram Sewak of Khera village in Unnao district of UP. They were Rajinder’s tenants and were involved in illegally supplying liquor during the lockdown. A case was registered.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-involved-in-smuggling-liquor-busted-75196
24-04-2020||Ashok Kaura||Phagwara couple spent Rs 7L on child’s treatment||Phagwara, April 23The poor Phagwara couple, who lost their six-month-old daughter Ritika to congenital heart disease and coronavirus today, has ended up spending as much as Rs 7 lakh on her treatment in the past few months.FATHERSPEAKSShe was born at the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital. We could sense that she has some problem as we could see some depression in her chest when she breathed. She was underweight, had problems in taking feed and used to sweat and cry a lot. We had taken her to hospitals in Jalandhar and Phagwara too in the past few months before taking her to Ludhiana and finally the PGI on April 9. Even six weeks before the lockdown, I have not been able to go to work as I had to attend to her.Ramu, father of 6-month-old girl who died due to congenital heart disease and coronavirusRamu, father of the baby and a second generation migrant from Nepal, is a machine operator in a valve factory here. He said he sold all jewellery his wife had.“In all, we could arrange Rs 1 lakh from home but hospital bills kept on inflating. We got some help from the factory owner where I and my father work. The rest came from my in-laws’ family and their relatives. We did all we could to save her but have lost the fight,” he shared his grief over phone an hour after the hospital authorities got her cremated in Chandigarh.“We did not see the baby’s body and saw her last on yesterday afternoon. We were not allowed to go near her. Today, we were advised not to attend the last rites of our baby. It was not easy to part with her but we agreed to the doctor’s advice as we also have to go back home and take care for her twin brother Riyan, whom we have not seen since the past three weeks. He is with his grandfather, grandmother and aunt in Phagwara. Fortunately, me, my wife and my in-laws, who are here, have tested negative. We just finished the paper work. The doctors will give us some advisory. The Kapurthala authorities have arranged for an ambulance, which is on the way to ferry us to home as there is no other means to go, he said.He shared his daughter’s medical history.“She was born at the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital. We could sense that she has some problem as we could see some depression in her chest as she used to breathe. She was underweight, had problems in taking feed and used to sweat and cry a lot. We had taken her to hospitals in Jalandhar and Phagwara too in the past few months before taking her to Ludhiana and finally the PGI on April 9. Even six weeks before the lockdown, I have not been able to go to work as I had to attend to her.”“The cause of death was reported to be refractory shock, pulmonary artery hypertension and Covid-19,” read PGI’s official statement.Chander Shekhar Gupta, owner of the factory where he works, said: “This family has been with us for 30 years. Even the baby’s grandfather is our watchman. We have been trying to comfort them with whatever aid we can provide.”Family members of the baby in Phagwara too have been tested. Their reports are awaited and they are in home quarantine.Meanwhile, all 102 Sri Lankan students studying at the LPU, Phagwara, were sent to their native country in a special plane of Sri Lankan Airlines from Amritsar today, said Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal. LPU international affairs in-charge Aman Mittal said the students were sent to Amritsar in special buses of the LPU.PGI Doctors test negativeAll patients’ contacts, family members and healthcare workers reported negative for Covid and have been quarantined. As many as 54 healthcare workers at the PGI Advanced Paediatrics Centre — 18 doctors, 15 nursing officers, 13 hospital attendant/sanitation attendant, two physiotherapist and six technicians — were exposed to the virus while treating the baby girl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-couple-spent-rs-7l-on-childs-treatment-75195
