24-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||London dreams over, he’s now on a mission to replenish Jalandhar’s green lungs||Jalandhar, July 23When Vishkarampal Singh Dhiman returned to Jalandhar three years ago after completing his Masters in Business Administration (MBA) from the University of Greenwich, London, what welcomed him was acute pollution.Places which he remembered as fully green, covered with trees and plants, were converted into commercial complexes. This sight was a turning point in his life, which gave wings to his cherished dream and he kick-started a mission to plant saplings to make Jalandhar clean, green and pollution-free.Aim — to plant 50,000 saplings this yearI never wanted to settle in London, I just went there for my higher education. Jalandhar is my hometown. I was born and brought up here and being a proud Jalandharite, I always wanted to do something for my city. Therefore, here I am, on a mission to make Jalandhar a better place to live. —Vishkarampal Singh DhimanFor the past three years, Vishkarampal has been visiting different locations and open spaces in the town in pursuit of his mission. He carries hundreds of saplings with him to each of these places to spread greenery. So far, he has planted over 18,000 saplings and taken charge of beautification of the bus stand flyover, PAP, open space near Lyallpur Khalsa College and PIMS Hospital among other places.He said he would plant around 50,000 saplings by the end of this year and he was already working on that and had sought permission from the district administration to enhance the green cover.“I am very fond of greenery and have a big garden at my own house, where I spend most of my time nurturing plants. Through this green mission, I aim to inspire people to work for ridding society of environmental degradation and pollution. Also, I am donating plants to different institutions, NGOs and clubs of the city to motivate them to come forward and contribute towards this noble cause,” he said.He said the saplings he donate or plant in the city include peepal, neem, royal poinciana (gulmohar) and ashoka trees. Besides, in many residential areas and in city parks, he is planning to plant fruit trees of guava, mango etc.Sharing his future plans or activities, Vishkarampal said: “I just want to bring back the green cover that has been lost due to urbanisation. I think the seed is the solution for mankind to survive. The people associated with my foundation and I have this aim to increase the green cover. It’s not at all like we plant saplings and forget about its maintenance. We take care of plants and visit the area from time to time,” he said, adding that this pandemic had taught him the value of nature. “So, we should now, at least, learn a lesson and contribute as much as we can to save this environment. Once my target of Jalandhar is achieved, I have plans to expand my mission and cover the entire state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/london-dreams-over-hes-now-on-a-mission-to-replenish-jalandhars-green-lungs-117272
24-07-2020||---||With 63 +ve cases, Jalandhar district tally is 1,836 now||Jalandhar, July 23With 63 positive cases, the district tally of Covid-19 patients reached 1,836 on Thursday. The office of the district nodal officer has been sealed after a journalist, who tested positive on Wednesday, visited the Civil Hospital to get his report.When the report came out, he was tested positive. Reportedly, he had come to know the status of his report when it emerged that he has tested positive.An Additional Sessions Judge also tested positive on Wednesday. The entire staff of the judge was placed under quarantine after he tested positive.Of the total cases reported positive on Thursday, the reports of 52 came from the Faridkot lab, while the rest were from private labs and TrueNat testing. Of these, 44 are contacts of previous patients and 19 are new cases. An Army man, a policeman and a pregnant woman are among those who tested positive on Thursday. Patients are from areas including Sammipur, Laddhewali, Rishi Nagar, Nanakpura, Saifabad, Model House, Kot Pakshian, Raipur Rasoolpur, Dhina, Vikapuri, Rama Mandi, Rohini Colony, Basti Peerdaad, Gopal Nagar, Jalandhar Cantt, New Jawahar Nagar, Maqsoodan, Makhdoompura, Nijatam Nagar, Lakshmipura among others.Finally, Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences begins treating Covid patients1 death, 18 new positive cases in Hoshiarpur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-63-ve-cases-jalandhar-district-tally-is-1-836-now-117273
24-07-2020||---||Notices sent to 212 private schools in city after ad hoc panel’s meeting||Jalandhar, July 23As many as 212 private schools in the city have been issued notices by the Municipal Corporation (MC) and a reply been sought on whether they were running schools according to the rules of the building branch. One of the MC officials said it was for the first time, that notices were issued to schools, that, too, after Nirmal Singh, chairman of the building and roads ad hoc committee, raised the issue with the town planning wing officials. Nirmal Singh during a meeting recently had discussed the issue of private schools suspecting that most of these were not complying with the rules.As per the information, various points have been mentioned in the notice, in which points such as status of change of land use (CLU), whether the school building was constructed according to the map passed by the MC have been covered.A total of 10 days has been given to schools to respond. A reminder will again be sent on July 30, and if the schools fail to reply, action would be taken accordingly.Assistant Town Planner (ATP) Rajinder Sharma said documents will be checked. “Now, we will act according to the guidelines of our seniors,” he said.Chairman Nirmal Singh, while talking to The Tribune, said it was important to keep check on schools. “There are several issues that need proper vigilance of the corporation and I have decided to take on every discrepancy that is being happening in various areas,” Singh said.The chairman, along with other committee members, has also sought the details of the number of challans issued to building owners in the city by the town planning branch along with the details of entries in the logbook. Sources said it would be checked if there was a proper record of challans being issued and if it was being entered in the logbook and no malpractice was being carried out under the garb of issuing challans.It is also reported that since the ad hoc committee has been conducting several meetings with the town planning branch members, the latter have issued a letter and asked the higher officials not to hold regular meetings, as there was a high risk amid the pandemic. However, the ad hoc committee officials on the other hand said the officials were reluctant to hold meetings because the details of so many records were being asked, which was never done earlier. “No matter what, the meetings will be held and answers will be sought,” sources said.Helping residentsThe chairman of the ad hoc committee has made three teams of two members each on his own level. These teams visit the corporation on a daily basis and attend residents and provide solutions to their problems. The chairman said he, along with his team members, got the NOCs cleared of some of the applicants who visited the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/notices-sent-to-212-private-schools-in-city-after-ad-hoc-panels-meeting-117276
24-07-2020||---||Subordinate services federation protests, demands regular jobs||Jalandhar, July 23Members of the Punjab Subordinate Services Federation on Thursday held a demonstration at Guru Ravi Dass Chowk, Ambedkar Chowk, PNB Chowk and in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office.The members showed black flags and wore black masks and black attires. They were led by federation members Jagir Singh of Laghu Udyog, Ganesh Bhagat of Government Teachers’ Union and Inderej Snehi of the Pensioners’ Association. The members have been carrying out protests in all districts since July 20.The leaders said the government had not regularised the services of employees working on contract basis. They were also demanding implementation of the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission and restoration of the old pension scheme.Demand higher payThe leaders said the government had not regularised the services of employees working on contract basis. They were also demanding implementation of the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission and restoration of the old pension scheme||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/subordinate-services-federation-protests-demands-regular-jobs-117277
24-07-2020||---||Army Vice Chief visits his alma mater||Jalandhar, July 23The Vice Chief of the Army Staff, Lt Gen SK Saini, on Thursday visited his alma mater Sainik School, Kapurthala. He was received by Maj Gen Balwinder Singh, Chief of Staff, XI Corps; Brigadier Deepak Sheoran, Station Commander, Kapurthala Military Station; and Col Vikas Mohan, principal of the school.Lt Gen Saini said: “I am proud to be part of the school where each cadet is nurtured, cared for and his persona sculpted to make him a confident person, who is ready to explore diverse opportunities offered by the world.”He said the school had been instrumental in producing innumerable intellectuals and warriors, who had reached the zenith of their careers across diverse professions, and that the school’s contribution to defence forces and the nation was praiseworthy. It had played an important role in shaping the character of youths by instilling in them the value of patriotism, the official said.Lt Gen SK Saini applauded the school authorities and the staff for the improved result in the NDA written exam, as 29 of its cadets qualified the exam and 10 cadets qualified the SSB. He congratulated the school as one of its alumni, Lt Akashdeep Singh Dhillon, bagged the prestigious ‘Sword of Honour’ at the recently-held ‘passing out parade’ at the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun. “My wish is that the school aims to bag the Defence Ministers’ Trophy for sending the maximum number of cadets to the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla,” he said.Speaking about Covid-19, the General said lauded the efforts by the school authorities to ensure uninterrupted study of cadets by using various IT tools during the lockdown.Also present on the occasion included Col Prashant Saxena, principal designate; Lt Col Seema Mishra, vice principal; and Lt Cdr Dil Preet Singh Kang.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-vice-chief-visits-his-alma-mater-117278
24-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Rs 85,000 looted at gunpoint from Gram Suvidha Kendra||Hoshiarpur, July 23Three masked robbers looted Rs 85,000 at gunpoint from Gram Suvidha Kendra (GSK) in Ahirana Kalan village on the Hoshiarpur-Phagwara road in broad daylight. After committing the crime, the miscreants escaped by firing and threatening the people around. On receiving information, DSP Davinder Singh and in-charge of police station Mehtiana Manmohan Kumar reached the spot and started investigation.Suvidha Kendra owner Paramjit Singh said around 2.30 pm, he left his two employees at the shop and went to a local bank in the village for some work. He said during this period three masked men wearing turbans entered the shop, took out their pistols and asked the employees to hand over the cash. They took away Rs 85,000 and fled towards Hoshiarpur on their bike. The police have started investigation.4 shops burgled in one nightGarhshankar: Thieves struck at four shops in Garhshankar town on Wednesday night. In a complaint to the police, grocery store owner Anil Khanna said thieves entered his shop and took away Rs 12,000, two kg of almonds and cigarettes worth about Rs 60,000. In the second theft case, the thieves took away Rs 10,000, eight kg of ghee, cigarettes worth Rs 8,000 and 30 kg of rice from Amit Confectionery. The third theft incident occurred at Sunil Electricals from where thieves stole Rs 4,000.Similarly, in another case the thieves stole Rs 50,000 from Sanjeev Readymade Garments Shop.Meanwhile, the Garhshankar police have recovered a motorcycle lying unattended. The police are investigating the incidents and scrutinising footages of CCTV cameras installed around the burgled shops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-85-000-looted-at-gunpoint-from-gram-suvidha-kendra-117279
24-07-2020||---||Old age home to get revamp worth Rs 12 lakh||Jalandhar, July 23To ensure a homely, better and safer space for the elderly being abandoned by their own families, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori announced a complete upgrade of the Red Cross Old Age home in the Maqsudan locality.During his maiden visit to the old age home, Deputy Commissioner said a grant of Rs12 lakh would be spent on improving the existing infrastructure of the building. He also ordered the formation of a committee to ensure that the renovation is completed soon. He also interacted with people living in the old age home and assured that the district administration was committed towards protecting the rights of the senior citizens.Thori, who is also president of District Red Cross Society, said it was the need of the hour to ensure that senior citizens did not feel left out, adding that it was our moral duty to respect and care for our elders. The DC said the Red Cross Society was a social reformatory movement aimed at mitigating the woes of the ailing humanity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/old-age-home-to-get-revamp-worth-rs-12-lakh-117280
24-07-2020||Our Correspondent||360-kg poppy husk seized from truck||Garhshankar, July 23The Garhshankar police have seized 360 kg of poppy husk from a canter parked outside Sahib Dhaba at Adda Barapur on the Garhshankar-Nangal road. The truck driver managed to escape from the spot. The poppy husk was hidden behind some household good in the truck. A car was also loaded in the truck.SHO Iqbal Singh was patrolling along with a police party at around 2.30 am last night. He was informed by the police station Beenwal's in-charge SI Satwinder Singh that a canter number PB-07-BT-6275 was parked near Sahib Dhaba with poppy husk. Vijay Kumar, resident of village Dallewal is sitting in Tanker to sell the poppy husk.The SHO said he along with SI Satwinder Singh, ASI Jasvir Singh and a police party reached the spot and found a canter parked there having ‘on army duty’ sticker pasted on its wind screen. Seeing the police, suspect Vijay Kumar fled the spot. Getting information, DSP Satish Kumar also reached at the spot. During search, the police found 20 sacks of poppy husk, weighing18 kg each from the truck. The police have registered a case under Sections 15,61 and 85 of the NDPS Act against the suspect, Vijay KuBlock level results of Shabad reciting announced in the educational competition dedicated to the birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/360-kg-poppy-husk-seized-from-truck-117281
24-07-2020||---||Teacher-poetess Gurpreet Kaur Geet dies of cancer on her book release day||Jalandhar, July 23In a tragic incident, a bright young poetess and teacher Gurpreet Kaur ‘Geet’ passed away on the day her first book of poetry was to be released.A teacher at SD Public School, Adampur, 29-year-old Geet was suffering from cancer and breathed her last at a private hospital two days back. Tragically, she could not even see her book titled ‘Supneyan De Dastkhat’ (A signature of dreams). The publisher Soorjan de Waris Publishing House was to release her book after a week but on request it was brought out within hours of her demise. A copy of the book was then put along her body and consigned to flames with her.The poetess hailed from Pandori Nijjran village. She was a postgraduate from Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar. She had been penning her poetry for the past couple of years and used to recite poetry in kavi sammelans. Members of the Punjabi literary circle here have expressed grief on the demise of a young and talented poet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teacher-poetess-gurpreet-kaur-geet-dies-of-cancer-on-her-book-release-day-117284
24-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||120 Feet Road plays protagonist every time monsoon hits bastis||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 23The arrival of monsoon here is looked upon as a curse rather than a reason for merriment. And they have every reason to retire the rains to their apathy, for decades, the bastis — Basti Gujan, Basti Danishmandan and Basti Sheikh — have been deluged in water every time the rain has lashed their dwellings.The 120 Feet Road at Basti Gujan stands out, and is posing as the troublemaker for the surrounding areas. The inundation here impacts the other two bastis directly and severly. The landscape witnessed - homes which have developed cracks, there are areas where people can't walk out and stretches that tax all strength of a car upon wading through them.There has been no reason to enjoy the nature's wonder here till date.Prof Veena Arora, who lives at the intersection of the Basti Gujan and Basti Sheikh, near the Mahant Agya Singh Park, says, "A year ago, I made a video of my house inundated with water, but the situation is exactly the same this year as well." The park is a darling for her. It was built in remeberance of the freedom fighter, who happens to be her relative, but unfortunately it is also submerged."The area is inundated again. We got out on cars and my own car has also been stuck in this water on the 120-feet road once. Despite assurances - and much effort has been put into it - the problem of waterlogging has not been solved. Out on the road it is even worse," she shares, as she tells her side of the story.Gurpreet, a resident from near Babrik chowk, has more to add. "Just a day of rain and area is undated. The lower halves of the houses are forever damp and moist due to the standing water. There are houses which have developed cracks. Even a few hours of rains turn the area in into a living hell," he says, before going on,"Traffic jams are regular. But the administration seems to nap over our problems. We can only go out in four-wheelers, but before we know it gets stuck. Those walking or on a one-wheeler have to compulsively wade through waters." The waters also poses threat of vectors and contamination during the already ongoing pandemic.While a project proposed to drain the waters to the Kala Sanghian drain is ray of hope hope, but tired with decades of politicians' lip service, residents are cynical of the fresh plan. MLA Sushil Rinku says: "The basti area earlier used to have a huge pond where water from three bastis used to accumulate - Basti Danishmandan, Basti Nau and Basti Gujan. This area has 69 inch sewerage pipes from 120 ft road to Babrik chowk and further up. This problem has been here for the past 13-14 years. In 2007, the sewrage pipeline of north constituency was also attached here due to which the overflow happened and problems piled up. Now, a project has been proposed where all water from the area shall be routed via pipes to 10,000 liter capacity tanks at Valmiki Bhawan. All the collected water shall be routed to Kala Sanghian Drain. The process is on. The project is estimated to be completed in an year's time."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/120-feet-road-plays-protagonist-every-time-monsoon-hits-bastis-117292
24-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Raksha Bandhan in knots, mithai, rakhis made at home new fervour||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 23The Raksha Bhandan festival has dropped in at a wrong time. The timing couldn't have been more worse as the coronavirus has shifted the face of spotlight on self leaving only an iota for everything in vicinity.The charm is completely lost. For the brother-sisters living in different states, the celebrations are limited to online mode via video-calling and sending of rakhis possible only through courier or through wired services. Perhaps, those residing locally or within state are better off for they may travel to catch up and spend time with their families together on this special day.But certainly, the losing of charm factor can be plumbed by the nosediving sale of rakhis this time around. So far, there hasn't been much, giving the shopkeepers the blues. Many young girls who would buy fancy rakhis are now making use of the available craft material at home including colourful wool, ribbons, glitters, mirrors, craft paper etc for they do not want to venture into the market at a time when stakes of catching the virus are as high as the sky. "For years, we have learned to come up with one in school as there used to be a rakhi making and thali decoration contests every year. We will put the ideas used then into practical use now", says Sneha Arora, a teenager.In addition to this, many families have been avoiding visiting a sweets shop and have taken to YouTube these days for making mithai at home, say, the homemade kaju barfi or ras malai, too, could be an option this time. "We will prepare mithai on Sunday, a day prior to rakhi, and can use it the next day. Even my brother would be happier getting a pack of sweets made by me," says Divyanshi, a resident of Urban Estate.Ultimately, there are many who feel that instead of slogging in kitchen in the hot, humid weather, buying chocolate packs and tinned sweets could be a better option. Meanwhile, many feel that the festivals should be celebrated with usual fervour with family members — basically, have no fear — and that market stuff purchased and used carefully would do no harm. Distinct may be the opinions, but one should keep in mind the wrath of the virus.SPEAKING OUTI tie seven rakhis on this day including those to my real brother and cousins. I have plans to make some designer threads at home. We are also planning to make sweets of dry fruits and milk at home.Latika SehgalWe will get rakhis two days in advance, sanitise them and keep them safely till Raksha Bandhan. We may get chocolate packets or tinned rasgullas for sweet sharing.Shrishti SachdevaI have three brothers. Two of them are in Belgium and I have already sent them rakhis. I have my cousin in the US. But couriers this time have become very costly, so I may use Amazon this time.Seema ThakurFrankly, I am not scared at all of the spread. So, as usual, we three sisters are already planning to catch up with our brother in Ludhiana, provided they get passes to travel. It will be a routine celebration.Anjana Thatai||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raksha-bandhan-in-knots-mithai-rakhis-made-at-home-new-fervour-117293
