24-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Covid: Due to lack of work, Sachin Tendulkar’s lookalike back at village in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, June 24Having spent 20 years in Mumbai entertaining people because of his resemblance with cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar, Balvir Chand has been forced to return to his native place because of Covid-19.After having worked in films, commercials and as a brand ambassador for a food chain, Chand is back at Sahlon village here after he lost his job four months back owing to the lockdown. “My elder son too lost his job. My younger son, who is a choreographer, was not getting any assignments. Locked up in one room for five months, we had nothing to do. With no work, I was not even able to pay the rent. As the trains started, we decided to come back to our village and spend some time with my brother and nephews,” Chand said, adding that the family, including his wife and daughter, all started the journey homewards on June 10.But fate had other ideas. “Coming on the Paschim Express and landing in Ludhiana, we were tested for coronavirus. Since none of us had any symptoms and we had taken precautions carrying our own food, water, masks and sanitisers, we were confident that we woud not be infected. But after being in home quarantine for three days, we got to know that our reports came positive,” said Chand.He added that an ambulance took them to Guru Nanak Mission Hospital at Dhahan Kaleran from where they have now returned home but will remain in quarantine till July 2.Chand said that a young patient in the hospital asked an attendant how come Tendulkar was also there. Chand then kept the patients busy with tales from Mumbai.“Son of a labourer, I was just matriculate and working as a ward boy at DMC Hospital in Ludhiana since 1992. I got married and had children. Then people began telling me that I resembled Tendulkar. I began copying him. The Hero group in Ludhiana offered me a chance to work in a commercial. I accepted it and in lieu of the same they offered me a trip to England during the 1999 Cricket World Cup. There, Sunil Gavaskar called me in the commentary box and there was a buzz in the media with stories about a second Tendulkar. I stayed in England for three and a half months and enjoyed my popularity as people used to take my autographs and click my photos. By the time I came back, I got to know that I had lost my job in DMC due to absentia. That was the time when I told my family that I wanted to go to Mumbai and reap the benefits of my looks,” Chand said.“I even accepted invitations to attend marriage functions as Tendulkar’s lookalike. I have worked in advertisements of Fevistick and Volkswagen. I have met him 24 times. My first meeting was very interesting. I told him to sign some photographs, which he did thinking that these were his. I had to tell him that it’s me and not him. Later, he called me to a hotel for a meeting. Because of my looks, I also got a chance to work in films. I have written 16 songs on him. When he retired, I too thought that I now needed to stick to one job. But sadly, I lost it due to Covid.”Asked if he intended to work in Punjab, he said, “I will definitely go back. If I remain here, I will only get petty jobs because of no qualification. I do not want to live in penury all over again. Surprisingly, one of my sons resembles Sachin’s son. We shared their pictures on phone. My sons too are growing and have better opportunities in Mumbai. So, I may go back with them after two months and look for jobs again. Other family members can join later.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-due-to-lack-of-work-sachin-tendulkars-lookalike-back-at-village-in-punjab-103837
24-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Phillaur SDM visits flood-prone areas, reviews protection works||Phillaur, June 23On the directions of the Deputy Commissioner (DC), Jalandhar, Ghanshyam Thori, Vineet Kumar, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) in Phillaur on Tuesday visited the flood-prone areas of the Phillaur and reviewed the arrangements for the protection.Kumar visited Dhagara and Gag village in the afternoon to take stock of the arrangements being made. “The district administration is fully vigilant to avert any flood-like situation in the subdivision,” he said.The DC said all necessary work in terms of strengthening of the embankments along the Satluj river were being carried out in the subdivision.“Works worth around Rs 1.60 crore to brace for possible flood are being carried out in the subdivision,” he assured. He also said that massive efforts have been put in place at vulnerable points in the subdivision to avert any sort of loss of lives and destrcution of properties. “I will continue the inspection in the coming days to ensure that the flood-like situation is checked especially with the monsoon arriving,” the SDM was quoted as saying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phillaur-sdm-visits-flood-prone-areas-reviews-protection-works-103323
24-06-2020||---||NIT conducts courses on yoga, mental health||Jalandhar, June 23A series of three short-term courses — “Nano-science for engineering applications”, “Recent trends in textiles and fashion” and “Happiness and yoga in engineering practice” —was conducted at Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT) here.The course “Nano-science for engineering applications” is being organised by NIT, in collaboration with NITTTR, Chandigarh, and was inaugurated by NIT director Lalit Kumar Awasthi (NIT) and NITTTR director SS Pattnaik. Director Awasthi shared his views on the future aspects of nano-science engineering and their applications. He said the course would be beneficial for researchers, academics and those in product-design fields.Director Pattnaik suggested introduction of MTech programme in cyber security at NIT and requested the institute director to take up the matter with the AICTE.The programme on “Recent trends in textiles and fashion’ was conducted by Vinay Midha, Lalit Jajpura and Ghanshyam from the department of textile technology. Director Awasthi inaugurated the event. The inaugural session was conducted by VK Kothari, IIT Delhi, who threw light on reusable and disposable PPE kits and facemasks for protection against Covid-19. The second session was conducted by Gurpreet Singh, senior vice-president of Vardhman Textiles, who said the firm would soon come up with anti-viral yarn which would be helpful in fighting against the coronavirus.The course on “Happiness and yoga in engineering practice” was conducted SK Sinha (dean R&C), Jatinder Kumar Ratan (associate dean (R&C) and Satyender Singh.Director Awasthi said the online courses would help people deal with mental and health issues amid the pandemic. Arun Bhardwaj, a programme expert, said happiness is the ultimate motivation for all human actions. He also explored the engineering happiness framework which helps in nurturing an environment for a happier life.Meanwhile, a webinar titled “Future of quantum computing” was organised by the department of physics. The lecture was conducted by Arvind, director, IISER Mohali. Arvind discussed the history of quantum computing, its theoretical aspects and application to build quantum computers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-conducts-courses-on-yoga-mental-health-103325
24-06-2020||---||Jalandhar MC society relieves 54 Niku Park workers||Jalandhar, June 23A society led by the Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar, running Niku Park here has partially relieved as many as 54 of 72 persons deployed for its maintenance and operation.Since the park was being run on a no profit-no loss bases and there had been no income since March, the society running the park was unable to pay salaries to the employees working here. The society was earning income from the nominal entry and ride tickets, the whole amount of which was being used to pay wages to the employees and maintain it.The park was being run on a 20-year lease by the Lotus Bawa group till mid-September last year, the duration of which had then expired. Since then, the administration and the MC took over the functioning of the park. Harcharan Singh, Joint Commissioner, MC, said, “Since there has been no collection of funds with us for the past three months, we have no sources to pay salaries to the employees who are not even coming. We will get them back to work and start paying them again after Covid-19 outbreak ends and park begins to operate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mc-society-relieves-54-niku-park-workers-103326
24-06-2020||---||Doctors strike work over Clinical Establishment Act||Jalandhar, June 23On the call of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab, doctors running private hospitals, nursing homes, dental and diagnostic laboratories, Ayurvedic and homeopathic clinics held a protest and a day-long strike.The IMA had given a 10-day ultimatum on June 13, asking the state government to withdraw its decision to implement the Clinical Establishment Act from July 1. Since the government failed to respond, the IMA chose to go on a strike due to ongoing Covid crisis.The doctors held a meeting in the IMA office. They also observed a two-minute silence at the entry to the OPD of the Civil Hospital where government doctors also joined them. Since they could not hold the protest owing to the implementation of the Epidemic Act, IMA doctors held a blood donation camp inside the Civil Hospital premises.Dr Navjot Dahiya, IMA President, Punjab, said, “None of the private hospitals even attended any emergency case today. All emergency cases were moved to the PIMS or the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar today.” Injury and delivery cases too were reportedly diverted by the private doctors to the government facilities.He added that a video conferencing of the IMA Punjab with Punjab CM had been fixed for Friday. “We are trying to negotiate with the government. In case it does not work, we will think of the next steps.”Clinics, hospitals remain closed in HoshiarpurAll private hospitals and clinics in the district remained closed today in protest against the Punjab Clinical Establishment Act-2020 on the call of IMA Punjab. President Dr Harish Bassi said the act was enforced in a haste without consulting IMA, which has been affected by it affected by it. “We have asked the government through elected members and Deputy Commissioners to withdraw this law but the government did not pay any attention to our demands. It seems that the government is not serious about the health problems of the people and in this situation, to make the government realise its mistakes, we had to close our hospitals,” said Dr Bassi. Secretary Dr Taru Kapoor said, “If the government still does not take hold of the real situation, we will be forced to increase the intensity of our movement. If we still have to do this, then the government will be responsible for the impact of the people.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctors-strike-work-over-clinical-establishment-act-103324
24-06-2020||---||Transporters protest hike in fuel prices||Jalandhar, June 23The All Punjab Truck Operators Union today burnt an effigy of the Modi Government over rising fuel prices and staged a protest against the government at the District Administration Office. Happy Sandhu, president of the union, said the truck operators had already been hit due to lack of work and now, the soaring fuel rates have only added to their woes.“After the increase in excise duty imposed by the Union Government since the Covid outbreak, the Punjab Government has also increased the excise duty on crude oil in the past few days, owing to which the price of diesel has gone up by Rs 10.50. During Manmohan Singh’s tenure, crude oil price was Rs 120 per barrel and at that time the price of diesel was Rs 56 per litre. However, presently, the price of crude oil in the international market stands around Rs 50 per barrel, while the price of diesel today is Rs 72.43 per litre. Both the governments have been trying to fill their coffers,” added Sandhu.Agitated members of the union also said if the Central Government has directly linked the price of diesel to the international market, its price should be lowered locally. “The Central Government raises the excise duty even when the price of crude oil is low. When the price of oil goes up, the rate of diesel also goes up, which indicates the double standard of the government,” said Jaswinder Singh, a member of the union.He added that no relief was given to farmers and truck operators after the Covid outbreak. Farmers and transporters are suffering due to the apathy of the government. It would be difficult for most of the operators to run their business. Hence, we appeal to both state and the Centre to withdraw the excise duty, so that the sinking business of farmers and truckers could be sustained. The union also demanded that the rate per kilometre fixed by the authorities should also be lowered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/transporters-protest-hike-in-fuel-prices-103321
24-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Mann flays Centre for ignoring food growers||Phagwara, June 23Former Punjab Minister and Chairman, Punjab Agro Industries Corporation, Joginder Singh Mann, on Tuesday, slammed the BJP- led Union Government for ignoring the interests of the food growers of the country through three ordinances.In a statement issued here today, the Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation said to secure the interests of the farmers the need of hour was to make the purchase arrangements in the grain markets vibrant. However, he said unfortunately through these ordinances the Union Government had envisaged the dismantling of the grain markets which was not acceptable.Mann said this could be drastic for the state as the grain markets had been giving impetus to the development of the rural economy.Mann said Punjab had one of the finest network of mandis with robust infrastructure, where a number of jobs were generated in the form of aarthiyas, supporting staff, labourers and transporters. He said with the passing of these ordinances all these would be rendered jobless thereby giving a major blow to the economy of the state.Mann bemoaned that it was unfortunate that instead of safeguarding the interests of the food growers of the country, the Union Government was hell-bent upon breaking their backbone with these ordinances.Mann said the state was predominately an agriculture state and these ordinances could prove to be fatal for its economy. He said the need of the hour was to save the agriculture from being dominated under the control of the private companies thereby ruining the farmers of the countries. Mann said these ordinances needed to be opposed vehemently by one and all to protect the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mann-flays-centre-for-ignoring-food-growers-103322
24-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Monsoon round the corner, Jalandhar MC yet to revamp major roads||Jalandhar, June 23Even as the monsoon is round the corner, the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation seems to have failed to do the needful. A majority of the roads in the city are in a pitiable condition and a light shower is enough to turn them into a virtual lake.We have a budget of nearly Rs15 cr approved for repairs and construction of roads. Work amounting to Rs1.80 crore is still going on in the city on various roads. We have repaired one side of the BSF-PAP road, Patel Chowk road and other streets and intend to complete the rest within a month or two. — Jagdish Raja, Mayor Resentment is brewing among city residents against the lackadaisical attitude of the authorities concerned who have failed to recarpet or repair roads on time. Residents say that it is a nightmarish experience to pass potholed roads, especially in the night. Besides, on a rainy day, they get hidden under dirty water. These hidden potholes have led to many road accidents in the past. Some roads are scattered with small pebbles or silt.The roads which are in bad shape are: Railway station road to Damoria Flyover, Guru Nanak Pura Road, 66 Feet Road in front of Curo Mall, Ladowali Road (from Alaska Chowk to Madan Flour Mill Chowk) and even some patches or places on the Pathankot bypass and the GT Road.Commuters complain that only patchwork is being carried out to fill potholes and repair broken stretches, which does not last beyond a month due to the poor quality of work and lack of proper supervision. They say despite raising the issue, the officials concerned hardly pay heed to damaged roads, posing a serious threat to their lives.“The government seems to be more interested in issuing challans, rather than spare a thought for the safety and convenience of people. If you don’t wear a helmet, you will be challaned. But what if the person is wearing a helmet and following all the rules and still meets with an accident due to the bad condition of roads. Will the government give compensation or pay hospital bills of the injured person,” asks Sunita Sachdeva, a resident of Punjabi Bagh, adding that the civic body should keep a count of poor roads and repair them on priority.“At many times, vehicles get stuck on broken roads. Potholes add to the woes of commuters. People riding two-wheelers were injured on bad roads in the past. On a rainy day, rainwater gets accumulated for a long time. There is no use lodging a complaint with the MC as we know nothing would be done,” said Manoj, a shopkeeper at Alaska Chowk.HS Narula, a resident, said if the government does not carry out development works on time, it has no right to collect development tax from us. “Patchwork on the 66 Feet Road near Curo Mall had been done twice or thrice last year, but it hardly lasted a month or two,” he added.When contacted, Mayor Jagdish Raja said in the month of January the MC had chalked out a plan to repair almost all the broken roads in the city and even began work at some stretches in the same month, however, the Covid-19-induced lockdown played a spoilsport.Roads crying for attentionThe roads which are in bad shape are: Railway station road to Damoria Flyover, Guru Nanak Pura Road, 66 Feet Road in front of Curo Mall, Ladowali Road (from Alaska Chowk to Madan Flour Mill Chowk) and even some patches or places on the Pathankot bypass and the GT Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/monsoon-round-the-corner-jalandhar-mc-yet-to-revamp-major-roads-103314
24-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Finally, dine-in resumes today, restaurant owners a happy lot||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 23Quenching your dine-out dream will no longer be a dream. Following the state government’s fresh orders on allowing restaurants and hotels to reopen their ‘dine-in’ facility, eateries in the town are all set to greet food lovers with thermal scanners and sanitisers along with their special cuisines.After the unprecedented three months of lockdown, hotel owners and other stakeholders are quite excited about unlocking their dining halls for residents, who were missing the relaxed experience of dining out and hanging out with their friends and families.Though the delivery options were already active in most of the eateries, and food delivery partners were having their share of business even in the later lockdown days, residents were reluctant to order or bring food from outside. Following the same reason, uncertainty about the count of people lurking to eateries is still there.While the lockdown has made many budding chefs try their hands at cooking, but the joy of getting to one’s favorite eating joint is what they have been longing for. Monika Pandey, a resident, said: “It’s been long since I went out to satiate my taste buds at restaurants. However, one thing that I don’t want to compromise on is whether my favourite restaurant is following all Covid-related safety measures or not. Besides, proper hygiene is what I am looking for in any restaurant before ordering food.”Meanwhile, elated over resuming their usual business, restaurants owners are also making some changes in their kitchens and dining rooms. Rohit, one of the owners at Express Vegetarian, said: “We will have to reset our sitting arrangements as only 50 per cent of our usual sitting capacity is permissible. Since the first phase of relaxations, we had only been taking packed orders. So now, we will have to deploy one worker at the entrance to check the temperature of visitors and more number of sanitisers will be kept. Only limited number of people will be allowed to sit at once and others would be directed to wait for their turns at the waiting area. At buffets also, we will now have to give duties to workers to serve food, so as to limit the contact. Besides, we are also chalking out ways to deny entry to the elderlies and children, who are more likely to contract the disease.”Similarly, Tarun Arora, owner at Oriental Kitchen, said: “Keeping in view the safety of guests, all precautionary measures will be implemented from Wednesday. Cooks and other workers have been asked to strictly abide by the norms. The owner at a pizza restaurant at Kapurthala Chowk, said, they were still unsure as to how long the customers would be exempted from removing masks.Hotel, restaurants allowed to operate in KapurthalaPhagwara: Kapurthala District Magistrate Deepti Uppal on Tuesday allowed hotels, restaurants and marriage halls to operate at 50 per cent capacity while strictly following social distancing norms and other health protocols. The orders were issued here on Tuesday evening. As per the orders, the restaurants in the district are now allowed ‘dine-in’ facility till 8 pm, with 50 per cent occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less.Keeping in view the concerns of the industry and the MHA instructions, it was decided to reopen hotels, restaurants, marriage halls and other hospitality services at 50 per cent capacity. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/finally-dine-in-resumes-today-restaurant-owners-a-happy-lot-103315
24-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Not on ground, but players getting training online||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 23Over the last three months, the coronavirus pandemic has changed everything. People have adapted to new ways of leading their lives. As washing hands, sanitisation, physical distancing have become a new normal, changes have been observed in every area, be it education, business or manufacturing sectors. Even in the field of sports, coaches are training players online and it has become a new normal now.Coaches feel it would be continued for long until the situation becomes normal. Former international wrestler Jagjit Singh, who is in the Punjab Police and posted in Ludhiana, has set up a wrestling academy. Mandeep Sharma, an international coach from this academy, said since the lockdown started, he has been sending wrestling videos to players, so that they could practise daily. Players also send their videos of practising at their homes.Mandeep said: “This is the only way possible now, as wrestling is a game where close contact is required. But we cannot take any risk and instead are providing training online.”Sudhir Kumar, physical education teacher from Senior Secondary School for Girls, Nehru Garden, said he sends online links to players in an interval of two days, so that they can hone their skills in judo by watching videos with full concentration.“We started with online training because we didn’t want players to run out of stamina which they have gained over the years by practising, and it is also important that they don’t become lazy. It is difficult, but then we don’t have any other option,” said Kumar.“I check their videos and advise them what improvements can be made. I have been doing the same under the guidance of our school principal Gurinderjit Kaur,” Kumar said.Payal, a judo player, said online training was being given and she has been quite active ever since the classes started.Despite dwindling income of families of many players, all players are focusing entirely on their practise, so that they can do well in the game once the problem ends. Many sportspersons don’t have proper equipment such as mats at their home, but they practise on the ‘kutcha’ floor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/not-on-ground-but-players-getting-training-online-103316
24-06-2020||Our Correspondent||10-quintal poppy husk seized, 2 held||Hoshiarpur, June 23The Tanda police have seized 10 quintal of poppy husk from a truck and arrested two persons. Forty bags of poppy husk were hidden under the garlic sacks in the truck. The arrested suspects are residents of Jammu and Kashmir. Providing details, SP (Investigation) Raminder Singh said a team led by Tanda DSP Daljit Singh Khak and SHO Hargurdev Singh had laid a trap to arrest the alleged smugglers.The police said they had information that a large quantity of poppy husk was being smuggled from Jammu and Kashmir in a truck containing garlic. A truck coming from Mukerian side was stopped at the checkpoint and during search 40 bags, weighing 25 kg each, containing poppy husk were found hidden under the garlic sacks. Two persons in the truck, including its driver were arrested. The suspects have been identified as truck driver Muhammad Asif and Mehrajuddin, both residents of Shaar Sali, Khari Upam Pur, Pulwama, Jammu and Kashmir. The police were trying to find out other persons involved in this business and to whom the poppy husk was being supplied. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-quintal-poppy-husk-seized-2-held-103317
24-06-2020||---||38 new +ve cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 23As many as 38 cases of Covid-19 were reported from Jalandhar today. There have also been three fatalities of women due to the infection since yesterday.Of the total cases reported positive today, 20 are contacts of the previously positive cases and 17 are new cases. One of them is a foreign returnee who is in institutional quarantine here. Patients who have reported positive are from Sainik Vihar, Deol Nagar, Basti Nau, Arjun Nagar, Surya Enclave, Maharaja Garden, Kalia Colony, Reru, Adampur, Pucca Bagh, Sidhartha Nagar, Sansarpur, New Hardyal Nagar, Rehmanpur, Hardeep Nagar Lamma Pind, Preet Nagar, Urban Estate Phase 2, Dilbagh Nagar, Kadiana, Adarsh Nagar, Amrit Vihar, Basti Sheikh and Amar Garden.In Kapurthala, four positive cases were reported, including one of a person with travel history to Bangladesh. A Merchant Navy employee was also reported positive in Hoshiarpur. A positive case of a bus driver has been reported from Nawanshahr too. He had returned from Bihar on June 18. The town has 12 active cases now.Meanwhile, health officials pasted a sticker of home quarantine outside the residence of Jalandhar West Congress MLA Sushil Rinku at Guru Ravidass Nagar. Since he was in contact with Congress worker Anmol Grover, who had tested positive for the infection yesterday, Rinku chose to be quarantined.Khanpur villager tests +ve, tally reaches 165Hoshiarpur: With another patient reporting positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the number of positive cases in the district has risen to 165. The person found positive today is a 29-year-old resident of Khanpur village. He tested positive in Ludhiana and has been isolated there. Dr Jasbir Singh, Civil Surgeon, Hoshiarpur, said 427 samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Tuesday. The total number of samples taken in the district till date has reached 10,760, of which 9,718 have been found negative and the reports of 857 samples are awaited. The number of positive patients is 165, while 27 samples were found invalid. As many as five deaths have been reported. A total of 20 cases are active, while 140 patients have recovered. He appealed to the people to follow the social distancing norms and wear masks. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/38-new-ve-cases-in-jalandhar-district-103318
24-06-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Centre must come up with transparent biz policies’||AMIT KAPUR, one of the proprietors of Adison Pharmaceuticals and also general secretary of the pharmaceutical manufacturers' association, believes that when it comes to offering a relief package to MSMEs, the government has no funds to offer to them. However, when heavy industries and big corporate houses need financial help it offers them a big relief package. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, Amit shares the impact it left on his business. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?There has been a sharp decline in the sale of ethical products as the clinics and OPDs were closed and timings of the medical shops were fixed.We have future plans to start a new segment in the pharma sector. However, things can be different if Sino-China relations deteriorate further and raw material does not come from China as 70 per cent of active pharmaceutical ingredients or bulk drugs used by the Indian pharma industry comes from there. — Amit Kapur, proprietor of Adison PharmaceuticalsDo you expect any of your businesses will resume in the near future?Yes, as we deal in life-saving drugs we have future plans to start a new segment in the pharma sector. However, things can be different if Sino-China relations deteriorate further and raw material does not come from China as 70 per cent of active pharmaceutical ingredients or bulk drugs used by the Indian pharma industry comes from there.Have you paid salaries to your workers during the lockdown?We are paying full salaries to our employees every month.What is the share of online trading in your profession?An exact number cannot be given but there is a small market in online or e-commerce pharma retail and mostly B2B trading is done.What have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?There are a plenty of lessons for entrepreneurs in the lockdown. One of the most important things is inventory management like raw material stocks and finished goods should be given more and more focus so that the needs of the market can be fulfilled.How do you consider the current crisis — as a challenge or an opportunity?It's more of a challenge for us to sustain in these hard times. Running a business on a micro or small scale without any external financial aids is no longer a cake walk.What are your expectations from the government?We urge the government that at least its policies should be clear and transparent as these come with so many terms and conditions that most industrialists either avoid them or fail to take the benefit of such policies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/centre-must-come-up-with-transparent-biz-policies-103320
24-06-2020||Kapurthala||Documentary on Moorish Mosque released online||A documentary based on the historical Moorish Mosque of Kapurthala was released by lawyer Harpreet Sandhu on Tuesday. It was launched online by Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Punjab Tourism Development Corporation Limited, from his office at mini-secretariat, Chandigarh. The officer remarked after previewing the film it will be captivating for every resident of Punjab as it depicts the beauty and architecture of this arresting monument, a replica of the Koutoubia Mosque of Marrakesh in Morocco. Sandhu’s passion for photography of heritage sites encouraged him to utilise his time during the lockdown and he visited Moorish Mosque. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/documentary-on-moorish-mosque-released-online-103328
24-06-2020||Phagwara||Motorcyclist dies, suspect flees||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/motorcyclist-dies-suspect-flees-103329
