24-08-2020||According to residents||An extra degree of caution is required||Govt must enforce directions sternlyCovid-19 has confronted the governments around the world with unprecedented challenges to their economies and healthcare systems. In the absence of any vaccine, a major policy response worldwide had been the implementation of safety precautions, including mask, sanitisation and practising social distancing to keep the virus at bay. In a country like India with huge population, the situation is getting alarming day-by-day despite increased testing and contact tracing. Reason: People do not fully comply with the safety guidelines due to weak social fabric of society, lack of trust in institutions and awareness about the severity of the pandemic. Amid an exponential spike in the Covid cases and fears of an impending peak in the next few weeks, the Punjab Government has imposed the statewide night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am. The government has again announced a slew of other measures and urged people to stay indoors, avoid unnecessary movement and socialising, and ensure full compliance of health guidelines, especially in malls, restaurants, hotels and marriage palaces. Looking at the trajectory of cases, an extra degree of caution is required. People should behave responsibly and avoid indulging in unethical practices and contribute to collective fight against the virus. The authorities should sternly enforce its new directions and punish violators. If not, our healthcare services will be overwhelmed and we will miserably fail to prevent the crisis. QUESTIONAccording to a survey by the NCERT, at least 27 per cent students do not have access to smartphones to attend online classes. Though the state government has started distribution of smartphones among government school students, only Class XII students will get the devices in the first phase. Do you think the lack of phones hinders access to education? What steps can be taken to make education reach every student?DS KangCurfew only at night an ‘idiotic’ decisionThe decision of the state government to impose the night curfew in from 7 pm to 5 am in all cities and towns is idiotic. The government is imposing curfew only in the night, but during daytime, everyone is free to go anywhere. It seems Covid-19 gets active only at night. I would like to emphasise on Rainik Bazaar of Jalandhar and Guru Bazaar of Amritsar, where massive crowd can be witnessed during the daytime. Nobody bothers about that.Saahil HansImposition of night curfew welcome stepThe decision of the state government to impose night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am in all cities and towns is right, but it should have been implemented much earlier. As the Unlock 3 was announced by the Central Government, people started moving from one part of the state to the other. As a result, Covid-19 cases increased. Cities such as Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Sangrur are experiencing surge in the number of positive cases and more fatalities. “Punjabi swag” is visible just on the ground. People are not only carefree, but also careless. In spite of the government imposing fine for not wearing mask, people hardly wear them. Experts have clearly stated that wearing mask is the only vaccination and protection from the pandemic, but nobody cares. Social distancing rather physical distancing to be exact is the other shield of protection from the virus. As the curve has not flattened yet and there can be a second wave as well, imposition of the night curfew is a welcome step. Awareness should be created among residents.Dr JS WadhwaJust a drama, govt least botheredThe state government’s decision to impose night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am is just a drama. The government is just trying to show that they are worried about the masses, but in reality, the government is least bothered. There is a huge rush during the daytime in markets and nobody is there to keep a tab on violators. At night, when maximum people are at their homes, the government has imposed the curfew. If the government really wants to impose the curfew to contain the virus, then it should be imposed during the daytime as well.Shailja ThakurWill help keep a tight rein on hooligansAs Covid-19 positive cases continue to surge, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced to impose the night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am in all cities and towns of Punjab to tackle the pandemic. One cannot say if the decision would combat the pandemic, but it would rein in hooligans and anti-social elements for sure. During the daytime, one can see numerous people in malls and shopping areas without a mask, which can prove disastrous. More cops should be deployed, especially during the daytime and violators should be penalised heavily for not following the health guidelines.Shashi KiranMeasure seems to be taken in desperationThe state government has imposed the night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am to combat the Covid-19 outbreak, but the measure seems to be taken in desperation and is void of seriousness of dealing with the crisis of such a magnitude. It may help the police personnel in checking anti-social elements and other illegal activities, but not the spread of the virus. Earlier, the government had shown undue haste and mishandled the process of Unlock 3. It was a blunder in allowing running of private and commercial passenger vehicles to their full capacity. Opening of shopping malls, relaxation in social and religious gatherings and allowing street and market vendors are premature steps, which need to be reviewed in the light of threatening postures of deadly virus.Jagdish ChanderSuggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk @tribunemail.com by Thursday (August 27).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/an-extra-degree-of-caution-is-required-130653
24-08-2020||Jalandhar||Arpinder ‘unhappy’ as wasn’t included in National Award list||Asian Games gold medallist Arpinder Singh (27) expressed his anguish over not being considered for a national award.The triple jump champion said despite winning so many awards for the country, why his name wasn’t included in the list. Singh has claimed bronze medals at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow and at the World Continental Games. “Even the Athletics Federation of India nominated my name in athletics (triple jump), but still, I wasn’t given any award,” he lamented. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/arpinder-unhappy-as-wasnt-included-in-national-award-list-130652
24-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Garbage heaps raise a stink  outside Qazi Mandi entrance||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 23There seems no end to the garbage-ridden roads in the city. One can see heaps of waste dumped here and there on the roads and vacant plots. One such affected area is Qazi Mandi near the railway station. Visitors are welcomed with garbage heaps at the entrance with dogs, stray cattle and pigs feeding on it. The area, one of the busiest in the city, leads to the railway station, Kishanpura, Devi Talab Mandir, Doaba Chowk and other residential areas.A dhaba owner in the area said, “The non-lifting of garbage leads to recurrent traffic jams here. Being one of the busiest roads in the city, the Municipal Corporation must install a bins and ensure timely lifting of garbage,” the owner said.Deepak Verma, a resident, said, “The unbearable stench from wet trash is a nightmare for commuters and residents of colonies and nearby markets.”Avneet Anand, a student, said, “I live a bit far from this dumping yard, yet I feel nauseated in the evenings due to the stench. During the rainy season, it is impossible to walk through these roads, as the trash gets flushed right onto the main roads.”Area residents demand that either proper bins be installed in the entrance of Qazi Mandi or regular lifting of garbage be done to avoid inconvenience.Karamvir Singh, a commuter, said it has also been noticed that Municipal Corporation workers empty trolleys filled with waste in empty plots lying adjacent to the road. Hence, the MC workers should be put to task.Mayor Jagdish Raja said the area sanitary inspectors would be roped in to eradicate the garbage mess from the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garbage-heaps-raise-a-stink-outside-qazi-mandi-entrance-130651
24-08-2020||---||College welcomes freshers via online orientation programme||Jalandhar, August 23An online orientation-cum-interaction session was organised at KMV College here today for the new- comers with the aim to apprise them of the college, its new courses and curricula.In her address principal of the college, Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the newcomers on becoming the part of this historic institution.She acquainted the newcomers with the rich legacy and glorious present of KMV by telling that the college was one of the 19 institutions in the country to be awarded the ‘Heritage’ status and it also had ‘Autonomous’ status and ‘Star College’ status from the Union Government.Motivating the students, she said, “Higher education is very important in one’s life, as it enables one to take decisions, realise one’s potential, develop one’s personally, shows the direction to find one’s goals and how to achieve goals.”She further apprised the newcomers of the upgraded syllabus and the life skills programmes that the college had started which promised professional growth and overall personality development. “The college also time-to-time organises various seminars, webinars and other cultural events to infuse practical knowledge amongst students”, she said, adding that recently a seven day International Conclave on the subject “Education in Covid-19 times” was organised and academicians from Europe, USA, Africa and Asia participated as the key speakers.Dr Dwivedi also said the college had International tie-ups with US Universities like Chatham, Boston and Lesley University which played a pivotal role in evolving KMVites into global citizens. “Such wide variety of meaningful programmes reiterate our commitment to the students meaningful futures”.She also encouraged the students to join the NCC as the college had a rich tradition of students joining the NCC and the Armed forces.Dr Madhumeet, Head, PG Department of English was the moderator for the session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/college-welcomes-freshers-via-online-orientation-programme-130650
24-08-2020||---||Veda promotional week held||Jalandhar, August 23Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya (HMV) organised Veda Promotional Week with enthusiasm. The Sanskrit department and the Vedic Adhyayan Society of the college organised various competitions on the occasion, which included Vedic mantra recitation competition, importance of Veda and Vedic quiz.A feature film on the life and teachings of Maharishi Dayanand Saraswati was also shown to the students. Head of Hindi department Dr Jyoti Gogia told the students about the life of Mahatma Hans Raj and encouraged the students to follow in his footsteps.Head of Sanskrit department Dr Meenu Talwar gave her talk on ‘Importance of Vedas’ and answered the queries of the students. History and Sanskrit departments jointly organised Vedic quiz for the students. The students participated in this competition with enthusiasm and they also made posters of Vedic shalokas. Chahat got the first prize in poster making competition, Harshita came first in Vedic quiz and Khushi and Komal got first prize in mantra recitation competition.Principal Ajay Sareen congratulated the Sanskrit department and the Vedic Adhyayan Society for organising the competitions successfully. He said, “Our institution has maintained a balance between Vedic traditions and modernity”.Dean Vedic Adhyayan Society Mamta said it was important to assimilate Vedic teachings. She also congratulated Dr Meenu Talwar, Dr Prem Sagar, Dr Jyoti Gogia and Protima and Pawan Kumariwere also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/veda-promotional-week-held-130649
24-08-2020||---||Panchayats can sublet stubble machines||Jalandhar, August 23To tackle the problem stubble burning, the state government had been introducing several innovative measures such as providing subsidy on straw management machines.This year, the Agriculture Department has been giving in-situ and ex-situ machines to farmers. Also, for the first time, the panchayats are allowed to directly apply with the department to get machines to manage crop residue and then sublet it to farmers at affordable rates.As per the information, the panchayats from only three villages in the district have approached the department, however, there is a three-fold rise in the applications to get the machines as compared to last year. According to the information, as many as 807 farmers have applied with the department individually, while 763 farmer groups have also approached the department for the machines, and a total of 30 cooperative societies have applied too.Officials of the department said the machines will be given to the villages where these were not provided last year or villages where paddy straw burning cases were reported maximum last year. Assistant Agricultural Engineer Navdeep Singh said the maximum cases of stubble burning were reported from Lohian, Nakodar and Shahkot blocks.Panchayats from Nakodar, Shahkot and Nurmehal blocks have approached the department. According to department officials, 50 per cent subsidy will be given to farmers applying on individual level while 80 per cent subsidy will be given to others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/panchayats-can-sublet-stubble-machines-130648
24-08-2020||---||Award winning surgeon listens to tales of Indian wildlife||Jalandhar, August 23The Jalandhar Rotary Club organised an informative and an educational online meeting with Padma Shri Dr Prakash Amte, an award winning wildlife saviour and a surgeon. Winner of the prestigious Mother Award for Social Justice, Lokmanya Tilak Award, Ramon Magsaysay Award for Community Leadership, Dr Amte is known for his selfless and dedicated service towards wild animals. A surgeon by profession, he is equally well known for his charitable medical work and his contribution towards wildlife.Nupur Sandhu, the project coordinator the interaction with Dr Amte, while secretary Mandeep Singh coordinated the online proceedings.“My aim is to make sure that no poor patient suffers due to lack of treatment,” said Dr Amte. The meeting was widely attended by Rotarians and non-Rotarians from all parts of the country and even Lahore. More than 75 members were present from Rotary Clubs of Jalgaon, Lahore, Bengaluru, Chennai and other places.“It was indeed interesting and extremely informative to hear about the tales of the widespread Indian wildlife and its various facts and features,” stated Prabhpal Singh Pannu, president. The members also got to see and enjoy a series of videos depicting Dr Amte’s involvement with some of the most exotic species of wild animals.“My aim is to treat them like my own children. It is quite fascinating to see how my kids are attracted to these animals and play with them like friends, fearlessly,” added Dr Amte.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/award-winning-surgeon-listens-to-tales-of-indian-wildlife-130647
24-08-2020||---||223 persons challaned in Jalandhar for not wearing masks||Jalandhar, August 23Cracking a whip against people violating curfew norms, the city police on Sunday issued 129 traffic challans on violators, who were venturing out even during the curfew hours.Besides, 223 persons were held for not wearing masks. A fine worth Rs1,11,500 was imposed on violators.In its drive against people who were found without masks, the Jalandhar Commissionerate has so far issued 33,324 challans, under the ‘Mission Fateh’ initiated by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. A fine of Rs1.60 crore has been imposed on violators since March 23.Divulging details, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the police have so far issued 33,324 challans on those not wearing mask and collected a fine worth Rs1, 60, 07,600 from violators.He said a fine worth Rs86,000 has been imposed so far for 46 violations of home-quarantine instructions, adding that 453 persons have been fined Rs1,16,100 for spitting in public places.Shopkeeper booked for attacking ASI Hoshiarpur: The Mehtiana police have registered a case against a shopkeeper for allegedly attacking an ASI for being asked to close his shop during the curfew. According to the information, police officer Hargopal Singh said the ASI was getting the shops closed in Adda Ispur with his team as per the government’s orders on Saturday evening. When ASI Chaman Singh asked Ashok Kumar to close the shop, he started arguing with him. It is alleged that Ashok Kumar tore Chaman’s uniform and picked up a sharp weapon from the shop and attacked Chaman Singh, leaving him seriously injured. Chaman was taken to the Civil Hospital, from where, considering his serious condition, he was referred to a private hospital in Hoshiarpur. The Mehtiana police, on the basis of the complaint, have booked him under Sections 307, 186, 332, 188 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/223-persons-challaned-in-jalandhar-for-not-wearing-masks-130646
24-08-2020||---||Man stabs younger brother to death over petty dispute||Our CorrespondentDasuya, August 23A quarrel between two brothers over a water tank in Bala Kullian village took a turn for the worse when Kuldeep Singh, alias Bittu, stabbed his 42-year-old younger brother Sukhdeep Singh, alias Sukha. Seriously injured Sukhdeep Singh was brought to the local Civil Hospital, where doctors declared him dead. Ranjit Kaur, wife of the deceased, told the police that her husband Sukhdeep Singh had returned from Italy after 14 years. For the last four-five days, there was a quarrel between her husband and his elder brother Kuldeep Singh over water tank installed in house. This morning at 11.30 am they again started quarreling. Kuldeep picked up a khukri lying in the house and stabbed the victim, Ranjit Kaur said.“After hearing a loud noise I came forward to save my husband. My sister-in-law, Baljit Kaur of Nainowal Jattan village, pushed me down and asked Kuldeep to teach a lesson to Sukhdeep. My husband fell on the ground. Meanwhile, village residents also gathered after hearing a loud noise. My sister and brother-in-law fled the spot. I along with village sarpanch took my husband to the hospital in my car where the doctors declared him dead”, Ranjit Kaur informed the police. The Dasuya police have registered a case against Kuldeep Singh and Baljit Kaur under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-stabs-younger-brother-to-death-over-petty-dispute-130645
24-08-2020||Jalandhar||With 70 fresh infections, Jalandhar tally reaches 5,252||Jalandhar Round-Up||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-70-fresh-infections-jalandhar-tally-reaches-5-252-130644
24-08-2020||---||145 beds added to fight Covid in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 23With August cases averaging over 100 per day, the District Administration added 75 more beds for level-II and 70 beds for level-III category patients on Sunday.Along with upgrading the health infrastructure for those affected with Covid, the move is aimed at minimising the case fatality rate (CFR), which has seen some dramatic patterns in the past few days. Contact here The additional new beds have pushed the capacity to 629 beds for the level-II category and 240 beds for level-III category patients in Jalandhar. Giving further details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said 12 new private hospitals have come forward for the treatment of Covid patients besides some health institutions have increased their bed capacity.Among new private Covid treatment facilities, he said, Mann Medicity Hospital along with Altis Hospital, Bath Hospital, Vasal Hospital, Apex Hospital and Ghai Hospital have jointly given 30-beds for level-II and 40-beds for level-III patients on the premises of Mann Medicity Hospital, while Aastha Neuro Centre has provided five beds for level-II and one for level-III, Central Hospital has agreed on four beds for level-II, while Akem Hospital has given three beds for level-II, Vasal Hospital has offered four beds for level-II and two for level-III on its premises. Doaba Hospital has earmarked eight beds for level-III patients and three beds are for level-II in Handa Neuro Hospital, four beds for level-II by Nupun Nanda Hospital, two beds for level-II by Randhawa Child Hospital and two beds for level-II and Level-III category patients at Goodwill Hospital.Thori said now the PIMS has also offered to strengthen its bed capacity for level-II category patients from 14 to 30 beds, Kidney hospital has given two more beds for the same category, Noble Mission Hospital has augmented bed infrastructure for critical patients and added new 11 beds for level-III patients and Innocent Heart Hospital along with Vedanta Hospital have arranged six more beds of level-III patients.He said complete details of bed occupancy and ventilators have been provided on Live Covid-19 dashboard on www.jalandhar.nic.in and one can also contact on 0181-2224417 helpline and seek information about the availability of beds in the Jalandhar government and private hospitals.The Deputy Commissioner said private hospitals would charge on the maximum rates as fixed by the Punjab Government for the treatment.He said Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Civil hospital has 284 beds for level-II and 56 beds in ICU for the treatment of level-III category patients. He said more high flow nasal oxygen therapy machines, multipara monitor, pulse oximeters, infusion pumps, suction machines and others are being purchased for the Civil Hospital to ensure best possible care for serious patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/145-beds-added-to-fight-covid-in-jalandhar-130643
