24-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jalandhar's sports industry battles post-lockdown blues||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 23A town of great antiquity, Jalandhar is world famous for its sports industry. Goods manufactured here are supplied across the length and breadth of the country as well as abroad.However, when the lockdown was imposed in view of the Covid outbreak, just like every other sector, the sports industry was badly affected, and is still struggling hard to be back on track.Ravinder Dhir, a manufacturer and trader of sports items, says the industry had a tough time during the lockdown, but the ordeal has not ended here. “The actual impact of the pandemic will be seen now. Sports items are a luxury, so no one wants to purchase these amid the uncertain situation. We have seen tough times in the past seven months and the situation is nowhere becoming normal in the coming days,” he said, adding besides gym equipment, no other sports item was in demand.Traders said raw material for certain sports equipment was procured from other states. Wood for making cricket bats came from Kashmir and solid cane from Singapore. For indoor games such as carrom board, wood was procured from nearby states. But owing to the restrictions in the past, the supply had been badly affected. The cost of raw material had also escalated.One of the traders said although demand for certain products had started picking up pace, they were facing a shortage of raw material. “Neither the state government nor the Centre has extended support to the industry. Several state, national and international sports events have been cancelled amid the pandemic. Children who would play cricket with their friends now do not venture out as part of safety measures. The sale of items remain negligible,” he said.“To add to our problems, the Excise and Taxation Department has started sending us notices to submit C-forms. We are already suffering because of the current situation, but the government has opted to turn a blind eye to our woes,” rued an industrialist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-sports-industry-battles-post-lockdown-blues-160155
24-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Dodging potholes on this stretch a back-breaking exercise for motorists||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 23Travelling on the stretch of road from Transport Nagar to Bulandpur village is nothing short of a nightmare for people travelling on this path. An interaction with people residing in the nearby areas highlighted the pitiable state of the road. Reaching the other side of the road is a back-breaking exercise for the commuters. The vehicles are likely to take a toss due to the bumpy road.It seems that the road was never constructed. The residents living nearby said they were wary of crossing the road and most of the time avoided going to the other side even if there was work.It is as if the residents of Bulandpur are completely cut off from the entire city. They have to find other ways to reach various parts of the city.A shopkeeper, Pankaj Kumar, said he had witnessed several people falling off their vehicles and then complaining to the councillor of the ward. “One can imagine the sorry state of affairs with the fact that a truck going to Bulandpur takes longer than usual to reach there. I have to go there several times to sell things, but it is such a painstaking task that I have to think twice before going to Bulandpur,” he said.He said people who are suffering from cervical and back pain don’t even dare to pass this road. Risha Saini, councillor of the ward, said the tender for the construction of the road has been already floated. “The project will be completed within a budget of Rs 75 lakh and the work on the same will be started in a month or so,” she said. The councillor said the residents of the area were a harried lot due to the battered state of the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dodging-potholes-on-this-stretch-a-back-breaking-exercise-for-motorists-160156
24-10-2020||---||Five held with 2.75-kg opium, drug money||Jalandhar, October 23 Tightening the noose around drug peddlers, the Commissionerate Police on Friday arrested five drug peddlers and seized 2.75-kg opium and drug money worth Rs 80,000 from their possession in separate incidents. The accused peddlers have been identified as Satyapal (28), Ajit Kumar (29), Abhay Gautam (22), all originally from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh and residing in Sherpur, Ludhiana; Rajinder Singh (44) of Shiva Ji Nagar and Azad Singh (41) of Dahar village in Panipat district of Haryana. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a team of CIA-1 was carrying out checking in Ranjeet Nagar T-point on Ladowali Road and frisked Satyapal, Ajit Kumar and Azad Singh and recovered 2.5 kg of opium from them, besides Rs 80,000 as drug money. The Commissioner of Police further said that similarly, another team of CIA-1 stopped Activa (PB08-BE-5377) driver for checking in Kamal Hotel Palace Chowk for checking who revealed his identity as Rajinder Singh of Shiva Ji Nagar. The cops frisked him and recovered 250 gm of opium from his pocket and on his instance, Azad Singh was nabbed from Lamba Pind Chowk. He said Rajinder was a property linker and was receiving opium from Azad who in turn was getting a supply of the contraband from Uttarakhand. Both were already facing criminal  continued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-held-with-2-75-kg-opium-drug-money-160157
24-10-2020||Jalandhar||E-conference at NIT dwells on challenges posed by Covid-19||The Centre for Continuing Education, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, on Thursday started a two-day e-International Conference on ‘Socio-Economic and Health Challenges due to Covid-19 and Mitigation Strategies’. The event aims at providing a forum for accessing the most up-to-date developments pertaining to novel coronavirus, sharing authoritative knowledge from both commercial and academic worlds which would be fruitful in mitigating the current and aftermath of this pandemic. Anurag Thakur, Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, said: “We need to re-balance, re-image, re-create and re-start our life with an emphasis on a new normal while living with pandemic and planning one’s future with health as a priority”.  He talked on numerous initiatives taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi such as setting of coronavirus emergency relief fund by bringing together SAARC state heads together, only country in the world to offer free food grains to 800 million people, six-month moratorium period, becoming the second largest PPE Kit manufacturer in the world, rebooting and researching on the path of Atam Nirbhar Bharat for the economic revival.  Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director NIT, said: “Researchers across many disciplines are working hard for the development of new binding technologies and medicines to control the spread of Covid. Despite the continuing efforts, there is a requirement for faster, more sensitive and reliable technologies to counter this pandemic.”  Conference members  shared that the conference has witnessed a huge participation across the globe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/e-conference-at-nit-dwells-on-challenges-posed-by-covid-19-160158
24-10-2020|| ---||Diploma in organic farming at HMV draws good response||Jalandhar, October 23 A UGC-sponsored skill-based course on ‘Diploma in Organic Farming’ is getting a good response at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya.  The course got started two years back. The students of this course from session 2019-20 have qualified the NSQF level-IV exam conducted by the Agriculture Skill Council of India with ‘O’ grade. Coordinator Community College, UGC skill-based courses, said that after completing diploma in organic farming, students are able to set up their own organic farms/kitchen garden/terrace garden and harvest chemical-free produce which is in high demand in today’s era of pollution.  In addition to this, some of the students have also set up vermicompost/compost unit at their home and produce compost from kitchen waste. Dr Anjana Bhatia, head, PG department of botany, emphasised that by setting up the compost units, students prove to be responsible citizens and provide help to Municipal Corporation by managing their own waste.  Dr Nitika Kapoor, course coordinator, informed that to create awareness among the students about latest techniques of organic farming, college has collaborated with Kheti Virasat Mission, Jaitu, Faridkot and other local nurseries. Various tours to different organic farms and workshops/extension lectures are also arranged to inculcate good practices of organic farming among students.  In continuation to this, PG department of botany organised workshop on organic farming under industry-academia interface (Community College Scheme), where Umendra Dutt (Executive Director) from Kheti Virasat Misssion was a resource person. He discussed in detail about the need of organic farming in today’s time and explained that organic farming is ecological production management system that promotes and enhances biodiversity, biological cycles and soil biological activity. It is based on minimal use of off-farm inputs and on management practices that restore, maintain and enhance ecological harmony. The use of chemicals and genetically modified organisms is totally prohibited in organic farming.  Instead of these the use of natural preparations like Jeev Amrit (cow urine), Beej Amrit (cow dung+ urine+roasted lime), neem leaves, and garlic powder are promoted to protect the crops from pathogens and to enhance their yield. Prof Adarsh Pal Vig, Director, HRDC, GNDU, Amritsar, explained the students about vermincompost and its use in organic farming. Besides, students of organic farming also visited Bhagat Puran Singh Organic Farm, Jandiala Guru, Amritsar, where Dr Rajbir Singh, director of farm, elaborated about various organic farming techniques.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/diploma-in-organic-farming-at-hmv-draws-good-response-160159
24-10-2020|| ---||Environment campaign: MC honours KMV principal||Jalandhar, October 23 Kanya Maha Vidyalaya (KMV) participated in a district-level function organised by the MC Jalandhar (MCJ) to mark the ending of a month-long campaign under ‘My waste my responsibility’, here on Thursday. On this occasion, the MCJ honoured the contribution of Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi to the cause of Smart City ranking by virtue of regular awareness campaigns and drives. Notably, KMV has been spreading awareness on various environmental issues in the society by organising cleanliness and tree plantation drives and using social media platform to spread awareness on these issues.  Along with the principal, Harpreet Kaur, Head, PG department of fashion designing and NSS In charge Ashima Sahni were also felicitated for their contribution to this campaign. The principal averred that the people of the country need to follow Gandhi’s ideology of cleanliness and we at KMV always strive to sensitise students and citizens of Jalandhar to become better citizens and contribute to the welfare of the society and also to make  the city best and a role model of clean and green city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/environment-campaign-mc-honours-kmv-principal-160160
24-10-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi---||Uncommon teaching methods at schools ripening into normalcy||Hoshiarpur, October 23 The schools reopened recently after having remained shut for about seven months. The teachers are there to perform their duties and students to pick up learning; although in scarce numbers, however, the scenes witnessed before the pandemic, and now, are like chalk and cheese.      The conditions are completely different in the classrooms. Masked faces, equally concentrating on the task at hand and safety from contagion, teachers following suit and mingling formal teaching with the technology are the present times’ way to go about education. The same old blackboard is there but recorded videos, animated videos and graphics — once a distant thing — have become the normal supplements making the lessons more effective. It’s almost like a sneak peek into the future of education. Raghuraj Verma, a social studies teacher at DAV Senior Secondary School, Hoshiarpur, for more than 20 years, throws light upon what was considered abnormal a few months back is now common. “There’s a massive turn in the outlook. Earlier, we used to ask students to not bring mobiles to the classrooms but now the studies are completely dependent upon it and we keep asking our students to keep their mobiles on, keep batteries duly charged etc. The videos, animations and graphics that were earlier considered as distractions, have now become the tools of discoursing. Teachers have upgraded themselves in terms of use of technology and these upgrades have become new normal not only for the students but also for us,” he says. For higher education teachers and students it’s a new experience that has added many new things like e-content, e-books, integrating the teaching-learning process with help of technology and the level of teachers’ interaction with students. The online classes and teaching have made the e-resources an essential part of the teaching. It is being felt that sharing of resources, e-libraries and development of web content as essential part of the curriculum.  Krishan Gopal Sharma, English lecturer at the Government Senior Secondary School, Shergarh, says, “Students are continuing their studies online and for it we have upgraded ourselves.” He used to refrain from technology for use of computers, mobile apps and e-contents were a kind of mission impossible for him but now all his fears are allayed and he’s at it.  “I have learned to cope with it. All these things have emerged as a new normal and I may not have imbibed much to make the technology move according to me but have learned to move along with it. With a little number of students coming, the classes have become not just a tool of teaching but the sessions are now more interactive, problem-solving than ever.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/uncommon-teaching-methods-at-schools-ripening-into-normalcy-160161
24-10-2020||---||IKGPTU offers ‘Kindle’ service to students, faculty members||Kapurthala, October 23 IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKG PTU) has taken initiative to improve the reading habits of their students and teachers. The university has started ‘Kindle’ service for its campus students and faculty members.  This is the way to develop new interests in the teaching and learning schedule of students and faculty members.  This initiative has been taken by the university's Knowledge Resource Center (KRC) of the academic department. Vice-Chancellor Ajay Kumar Sharma launched this scheme and inaugurated the first device. Kindle is an electronic device on hand to read books. It was developed by an online retailer private company in 2012. Anyone can download and read books on Kindle via wireless technology. An infinite number of books can be read on this device. Apart from this, there is a digital dictionary also available in it. On this occasion, the VC said that the need was felt during the time of Covid-19 pandemic. In such a situation, KRC of the academic department of the university took this digital initiative and made it available through a proposal. The VC said that this device would also increase the reading habit of students and faculty. It will be made available for university campus students and faculty. A separate scheme will be chalked out for associate affiliated colleges. During the launch of device, University Registrar Sandeep Kumar Kazal, campus director Dr Neel Kanth Grover, KRC in-charge Madhu Midda and Vice-Chancellor secretariat in-charge Dr Hitesh Sharma were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptu-offers-kindle-service-to-students-faculty-members-160162
24-10-2020|| ---||Farmers burn effigies of Adani, Ambani||Jalandhar, October 23  Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee today burnt effigies of Gautam Adani and Mukesh Ambani. Opposing the farm laws, farmers gathered at Lohian and burnt effigies of the corporate houses under the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee district president Salwinder Singh Jania and zone president Gurmail Singh Rehrwan.  Addressing the gathering, state cashier Gurlal Singh Pandori said the anti-farmer policies of the Modi Government were an attack on the democracy. To protest against these laws, effigies of the corporate owners would be burnt in all villages by farmers on October 25, he said.  He also said the state government was merely pretending to back the farmers. Farmers asserted that the Rail Roko dharna at Devidaspura would go on for an indefinite period.  Farmers further reiterated that they would not back down on their protests until their demands are met by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-burn-effigies-of-adani-ambani-160163
24-10-2020||---||LPU student wins laurels for film on drug-free India||Jalandhar, October 23Lovely Profession University’s B. Design student of TV and Film Production programme has won National Short Film competition. The government of Manipur’s Social Welfare Department has issued a winning certificate to the student in this regard. The competition was based on the theme ‘Nisha Leitaba Manipur/Eramdam’ under national Nasha Mukt Bharat Campaign 2020. Hailing from Manipur, B.Design student Wattaba Sanasam has been awarded second prize. Ngangom Uttam Singh, Director Social Welfare of Manipur, and Commissioner H Gyan Parkash honoured the Student.“Nasha Mukt Bharat annual action plan (2020-21) for 272 most affected districts” was e-launched by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, Rattan Lal Kataria, on the occasion of ‘International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking’. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal has congratulated the student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-student-wins-laurels-for-film-on-drug-free-india-160164
24-10-2020||---||Jalandhar DC assures opening of generic drug centre||Jalandhar, October 23Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has assured the management of Sant Baba Nihal Singh Charitable Hospital for the appointment of a gynaecologist and opening of a generic drug centre at its premises soon, to benefit the women especially, and people in general visiting daily.The DC on Friday visited the hospital and held a meeting with the management’s office-bearers who explained to him about the unavailability of a gynaecologist at the premises and a generic medical store which is a cause of concern for the women and people of the area who visit the hospital for medical examination and have to go to other health institutions. They said that it was an impending demand of the people.The DC assured officer-bearers of fulfilling the requirement and rang up the drug department to explore the feasibility of the centre here so that formalities can be worked out soon. He said that these facilities would benefit the women and other residents of the area.Apart from this, he also inspected various wards in the hospital and interacted with the patients. Thori also paid obeisance at Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Nihal Singh Talhan. He said that the administration was duty-bound to ensure foolproof arrangements for the pilgrims that converge to offer their prayers. He further added that in the coming years, more facilities would be added to its premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-assures-opening-of-generic-drug-centre-160165
24-10-2020||---||Doaba farmers appeased with new potato seed Bill||Jalandhar, October 23While the Punjab farmers are sore over Farm Acts passed by the Centre, the potato farmers of Doaba region have a reason to go upbeat.Once the Punjab Vidhan Sabha recently passed the Punjab Tissue Culture-based Seed Potato Bill, 2020, becomes an Act, the Doaba-based farmers will not just be able to multiply the potato seed using the rapid tissue culture and aeroponics techniques, but also will be able to get it certified and export it to the European countries.Gurraj Singh Nijjer, president of the Jalandhar Potato Growers’ Association, said the Potato Act was last passed in 1961 and since then there had been many changes in production and cultivation techniques. “For the past four years, five modern plants multiplying potato seeds using the new biotechnological procedures had been set up in Punjab but none could export the seed as there was no system for validation or traceability of the products,” he said. The five plants include three private, one of the association and another of the horticulture department.He added: “Now, we will have a proper certification regime after thorough traceability and pathological tests. There will be QR coding. Source of potato will be earmarked. We will be able to get our potato seed certified from the Seed Certification Authority, Punjab Agro and Horticulture department. The new system will also be relative cost effective as we will be able to have rapid multiplicity growing as many as 80-100 tubers out of single potato as against just four-five as in traditional procedure. The best part will be that the new potato will be disease and virus free and its saplings will be readied in an infection-free environment. Punjab needs 4 lakh metric ton quality seeds each year, which we cannot get through traditional methods of propagation”.Pritpal Singh Dhillon, general secretary of the association, said: “We were a part of the draft committee of the Bill along with the scientists from ICAR, PAU and the horticulture department. The new Bill is completely as per our satisfaction and we are thankful to the state government for keeping us in loop all through the process.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doaba-farmers-appeased-with-new-potato-seed-bill-160166
24-10-2020||RAJESH BALI contracted Covid-19 during the days when he was taking care of his father in August. Though his father tested negative||‘I tackled virus with resilience, positivity’||All three family members have now recovered.The first thing he did upon recovery, was share a video with all acquaintances and loved ones, apprising them of the unpredictability of Covid-19 and also sharing the ways it can be fought. Speaking to The Tribune, Rajesh Bali, who is in his 50s, says, “I am fit and active. So is my family. My wife and daughter stayed asymptomatic while I got symptoms – fatigue, cough and loss of appetite. But with the help of good medical care and patience, I soon healed and now I want to share my experience with others. It cannot be stressed enough that staying in a positive frame of mind and being optimistic is probably one of the biggest pre-requisites one can have in the fight against Covid.”The family went to the Covid testing centre at PAP to get tested and their report came out positive on August 12. Advised home quarantine, the family stayed at home until Bali’s fever persisted and he was shifted to the hospital for several days.Bali added, “I did not watch TV nor indulge in any major diversion during the isolation period. The things that kept me most busy was Hindi film songs. I caught up on old collection of golden classics and listened to the radio to pass my time while recovering. I received two shots of Remedesivir on the very first day. I also extend hearty thanks to the Health Department teams which tracked me and regularly checked on me to keep apprised of my health. The department is doing a commendable job.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-tackled-virus-with-resilience-positivity-160167
24-10-2020||The Pushpa Gujral Science City||Pushpa Gujral Science City to roll out Two galleries||Cracker sale: Apply for Licence at Sewa KendrasThe license to apply for the sale of crackers in Kapurthala shall now be available at the Sewa Kendras in Kapurthala. Deputy Commissioner, Kapurthala, Deepti Upal said those applying for licenses can visit the Sewa Kendras to apply for the licence. Forms can be filled which could be downloaded from the website www.punjabgov.in for this purpose. The Sewa Kendra manager would ensure that the cases of applications hence sent, are forwarded to the DC office’s PLA branch. A fee of Rs 100 shall also be deposited by those wishing to apply for the license. The DC would decide the last date for the submitting of application for the licenses.Kapurthala remembers martyrs on shaheed diwasPolicemen who laid their lives for the peace and unity of the country were honoured at Kapurthala on October 21 duirng an event at police lines. SSP Kapurthala Jaspreet Singh Sidhu, among other dignitaries, were present on the occasion. SSP Sidhu said on October 21, 1959, the sacrifice 10 CRPF who lost their lives in an attack on the Indo-China border - began being observed as 'Shaheedi Diwas'. Since then, the day has been religiously observed. He said 1,784 Punjab Police personnel have laid their lives in the line of duty - including 2 DIGs, 3 SSPs, 5 SPs, 12 DSPs, 32 Inspectors, 61 sub inspectors, 112 ASIs, 269 head constables, 817 soldiers and home guards. He said the Kapurthala police have also started an initiative in which gazetted police officials will meet the families of 40 policemen who died on duty. SSP Kapurthala also paid a visit to the family of SP Baljit Singh who was killed in a terrorist attack in Dinanagar. Sessions Judge Kapurthala Ram Kumar Singla, DC Deepti Uppal, SP mandeep Singh among others were also present on the occasion||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pushpa-gujral-science-city-to-roll-out-two-galleries-160168
