24-12-2020||---||Filmmaker delves into psychological aspects of pandemic, wins IFP award||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23A city-based filmmaker and photographer, Arjun Suri (31), recently won the ‘Platinum Film of the Year’ award by the Indian Film Project (Season 10) in professional category held at Mumbai.Suri was the director and writer of the film for his team Zagnaut Studio. Back home at Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar here, he shared the challenge involved in the contest.“We just got 50 hours to shoot and screen a 7-minute film. The on-the-spot topic that we got was ‘Brave New World’. We evolved the theme around the psychological effect of the coronavirus pandemic and gave it our own title ‘Seven Feet’. We set the movie in a situation where it has been two years since the pandemic got over, but a young woman is still paranoid. A doctor uses a few tricks to come and treat her.”Asserting that the award would help him in his film career, Suri says: “It is indeed a big recognition for our work and strength of our crew. The jury of the 50-hour film making challenge comprised Ashwiny Iyer Tiwari. So, wherever we go, people will look forward to what we write and direct.”Son of a city-based doctor couple, he narrates how he shifted his career from a medico to a filmmaker: “Having passed from Apeejay School, I joined MBBS at Manipal University. I completed the degree while retaining my passion in photography and filmmaking. But then, I switched over to joining a film direction course at Whistling Woods International, Mumbai, founded by ace director Subhash Ghai. Later, I also joined Indiana University.”He said his medical background also helped him in directing this film in a better way. The young filmmaker says: “Prior to this award, my achievement was getting selected for a US-funded scholarship programme-cum-workshop, in which 15 Indian Punjabi and 15 Pakistani Punjabis were selected.Suri shared how he and his crew returned to Jalandhar from Mumbai by car. “We spent good 25 days on our journey. We had a longer halt in Rajasthan, where we also did some shooting.”About other projects, Suri says: “I have a feature on my agenda, which I had planned for 2020, but could not shoot owing to the Covid outbreak. In March 2020, I was also planning a film Nepa virus showing how the public sector works during epidemics. Prior to this, I have already shot 25-30 short films. A web series is also on our plan in a year or two.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/filmmaker-delves-into-psychological-aspects-of-pandemic-wins-ifp-award-188787
24-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Catch me if you can!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23While it was common to hear college students marking proxy attendance of their classmates during roll calls in online sessions, this trend has now percolated the primary class level as well.It is common for schoolteachers to discover almost every second day that a family member or a sibling or a friend has been calling proxy for the student concerned. Since classes for schools are still being digitally run, it is not always students who join in – at times, it is their parents, elder brother or sister or a friend substituting for them.Giving excuses such as internet connection not being good enough, students are notorious for entering the virtual classroom and then disappearing soon. Some even doze off or indulge in mischief or move away from the system asking their parents or siblings to handle their roll calls.While some teachers take screenshots for attendance, others do a proper roll call and some ask to fill up the Google form. It is during roll call, an ominous time in the middle of the class, or when teachers ask students to switch on videos or some simple questions related to class that they often get caught with proxies.A student of Class V of Apeejay School, shares: “A girl student was known to have a very good, peculiar accent in class. When a teacher was taking the attendance, she noted the changed voice. This raised her suspicions and asked a question from her. The girl had always been very interactive and upfront with the answers, but she left the Google Meet immediately. So, our teacher became furious and we all had got a stern talking-to from her.”Similarly, a Class IV boy of St Joseph’s Convent School, said: “I had to go to market with my dad. I asked my brother to attend my class and simply type in ‘yes ma’am’ when my name came. But the teacher asked my brother to come on the video, and he put in ‘bad network excuse’. The teacher was unrelenting. So, she asked him my roll number, which he did not know and hence caved in.” The teacher had marked him absent and sent a note to his parents over the phone asking them to ensure he was attentive in future.”A teacher from Police DAV Public School, revealed: “It was extremely difficult to cross-check that the actual students were really attending the class. Proxies in attendance were very common and children were reprimanded for this. When we ask them to switch on their mikes and respond, only a few of them responded, while the rest were missing or dozing off.”Winter-time classes often turn out to be infuriating. “Classes are far more difficult to handle as kids are often seen taking classes lying in their beds! And it is really annoying,” the teacher adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/catch-me-if-you-can-188758
24-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Broken wings: Trapped under the weight of the world, paralifter Ramandeep Kaur is trying everything to wriggle out||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23The struggles of life should have dissipated a long time ago for polio-hit lifter Ramandeep Kaur, instead the baggage has only gotten heavier with time.In spite of having two international golds to her credit – in Commonwealth Para Powerlifting Championship and Benchpress Championship in 2017 – she has to push herself every single day to survive.There was a time when the 32-year-old made a wave in the news. That was back in 2018-19 when her performances, unable to yield any reward or recognition from the government, she bade Navjot Singh Sidhu and Rana Gurmeet Sodhi to bestow a cash prize at least in order to ease the weight on her shoulders. But as destiny would have it, nothing ever happened. Following this, sans any government help, she had participated in international tournaments taking loan from her relatives and mortgaging her gold ornaments.Hailing from Ghorewahi village near Bhogpur here, she says, “I have applied several times for the job of coach in powerlifting but got no response. For any other government job, I needed graduation which I completed in 2013. I have also done courses in accounting and Tally. But my sporting achievements, disability certificate or SC category status have so far proved useless of date and I continue to live my life in penury.” Recently, she also applied for the job of Naib Tehsildar and is still waiting for a “response”.Till the last few years, she had set up a gym at her place for private coaching. “Two boys who trained under me made it to Punjab Police in the sports quota. I myself never had a coach to help me practice in the 82 kg category contests which I used to take part in. So, at that time I had thought that till I get a job, I will continue giving private coaching and make a small earning. But I had to discontinue that as well,” she shares.Today, Ramandeep lives in a 50-yard house and runs a small shop selling sweets, chips and biscuits. Already upset with the government’s indifference, another personal setback pried open the wounds. “I got a baby boy in January this year. But I lost him in April owing to an unexplained disease,” she tells, before her mind darted back to the unforgettable day, “he was crying a lot one day and we took him to a private hospital, where he died.” The infant was suffering from a heart disease. “I could not come out of the shock for at least four months. My parents got me to Ludhiana so that I don’t plunge into depression and could restart my life.”Her husband is now working for a factory here as she runs the shop to make ends meet. And in the 50-yard house, there is unquestionably no room for gym equipments. “It is all getting corroded in my Jalandhar house,” she adds, then is sucked into a numbing muse, “I now feel that my stint in the game and time as coach is over and will have to move on like that with struggles being a part and parcel of my life.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/broken-wings-trapped-under-the-weight-of-the-world-paralifter-ramandeep-kaur-is-trying-everything-to-wriggle-out-188759
24-12-2020||Our Correspondent||3 die, 20 test +ve in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, December 23With 20 new Covid positive patients reported in Hoshiarpur district on Wednesday, the number of positive patients has risen to 7,601. With three new deaths, the toll also went up to 302.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 1,380 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Wednesday, taking the total number of samples taken in the district to 2,25,499. According to reports received from the laboratory, 2,17,051 were negative, whereas the reports of 2,195 samples are awaited and 149 samples were invalid.Today, the reports of 1,174 samples were received, of which 20 new cases were traced. The number of active cases is 186 so far, while the number of patients who have recovered is 7,113. Civil Surgeon said of the 20 positive cases detected in the district, five were from Hoshiarpur city, while the remaining 15 were from various other health blocks in the district.Of the three deaths reported on Wednesday, a 66-year-old resident of Bhunga died at a private hospital in Mohali, while a 60-year-old woman of Tulowal village died while going to the hospital and a 57-year-old patient of Bambowal villages died at a hospital in Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-die-20-test-ve-in-hoshiarpur-188761
24-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Farmers’ stir: Gurpreet’s sacrifice won’t go waste’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23Gurpreet Singh turned 22 in the month of June this year. He was unfortunately among those 24 farmers in the state, who died amid the ongoing protest against the ‘contentious’ farm laws.The inconsolable family members of Gurpreet said while their loss was irreplaceable, the sacrifice of their son would pay off only when the black laws would be repealed.Born and brought up in a family of farmers, Gupreet was the youngest of the present generation. While his elder brother and two sisters are settled in Australia, he was the only one in his family who was doing farming. Contrary to the trend of youngsters migrating to foreign countries to start a new life, Gurpreet was passionate about cultivating crops. He wanted to remain associated with agriculture only and had also brought a new happy seeder tractor recently.His father Jagtar Singh (61) recalls the day when his son left for Singhu border: “On December 12, Gurpreet left for the protest site with his friends and other villagers. Expert in driving tractors, he had gone on his own tractor-trailer. He was happy to make his contribution in the protest and also insisted me to join. But fate had something else in store for us. As I was planning to go to Delhi-Haryana on the night of December 16, I was told that my son has passed away. A heavily loaded canter hit his tractor-trailer from the rear side near Karnal, while he was coming back with other villagers.”A resident of Makkowal in Tehsil Balachaur, the deceased was pursuing graduation. To continue with farming and spend his life in his village, he was also aspiring to join the Punjab Police. His brother Gurmukh Singh (30) says: “Despite having a three-year visa, Gurpreet never wanted to settle abroad. He came to Australia once and when I asked him to stay and pick an educational degree prior to settling, he said, instead of working hard here, he would prefer utilising his skills and retain his farm in the village. As he was 6 feet 2 inch tall, he was preparing to take part in the upcoming Punjab Police recruitment drive.”Gurpeet’s body was cremated yesterday after his brother and sisters arrived from Australia. Mourning over his sudden demise, villagers said the young blood of their village was a martyr, who lost his life while protecting their rights.Jagtar said it’s high time the government withdrew farm laws so that farmers don’t suffer more. Besides, he demanded that their tractor-trailer must be returned to them which was still in possession with the Haryana Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-stir-gurpreets-sacrifice-wont-go-waste-188763
24-12-2020||---||MLA opens Baupur bridge in Mand area||Sultanpur Lodhi, Dec 23The Baupur island of 16 villages in Mand area, also known as ‘Sri Lanka’ of Punjab has been connected with the mainland after 180-metre bridge was opened for public on Wednesday.Though the SAD-BJP government had laid foundation stones twice, but the work on this project started in 2018 under the Congress on the 549th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev.Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema termed the bridge as a game changer. He said it would help around 8,000 people get rid of social stigma being faced by them since decades.Thanking Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for this project, the MLA said it was a matter of great satisfaction that it had become a reality. “We will request the Punjab Government to further connect Sultanpur Lodhi to Tarn Taran via this bridge as it will reduce distance by 30 km between these two religious cities,” said Cheema.Harnam Singh (61), a resident, said, “I almost spent my life struggling to reach the city for day-to-day jobs. Now, there is a sigh of relief that at least our children will not have to face such hardships.”Residents of island villages, including Baupur Jadid, Baupur Kadim, Sangra, Mand Mubarakpur, Ram-Thepur Guara, Bhaini Kadar Baksh, Mand Sangra, Kishanpur Gatka, Muhamdabad, Bhaini Bahadur, Mand Dhunda, Mand Bhimlald Jadid and Alamkhanwala have benefitted from the bridge.Moreover, around 5,000 farmers having 30,000 acres will also be major beneficiaries. SDM Dr Charumita, DSP Sarvan Singh, SDO Balbir Singh, Sultanpur MC chief MC Lodhi Ashok Mogla and chairman market committee Parvinder Singh, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-opens-baupur-bridge-in-mand-area-188764
24-12-2020||---||Maths gallery to come up at science city||Kapurthala, December 23Pushpa Gujral Science City in association with the Himachal Pradesh State Council for Science, Technology and Environment, celebrated National Mathematics Week by organising online workshops.Around 900 students from different schools of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab participated in various events.Kamlesh Kumar Pant, Principal Secretary, Environment, Science and Technology, Government of Himachal Pradesh, was the chief guest.He said the Himachal Government was conscious of the need to strengthen teaching of mathematics in schools as the subject cuts across all other subjects, including science, engineering, economics, commerce and social sciences.He said the main objective of organising this event was to highlight the development, assembly, implementation of teaching and learning materials for mathematics and other related areas in research.SK Mokhta, Member Secretary, and Nishant Thakur, Joint Member Secretary, Himachal Pradesh Council for Science, Technology and Environment, were the guests of honour at this occasion.Mokhta said most important reason to celebrate the National Mathematics Day was to raise awareness among people on the importance of mathematics and the integral part it plays in the development of humanity.Thakur spoke on the impact of Prof Srinivas Ramanujan’s work on development of mathematics.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, informed that the PGSC has been working to set up a mathematic gallery which would clear different concepts and allow visitors to get involved and experience mathematical phenomena themselves. It would also be helpful in improving the mathematical skills among students and teachers.She said as per the National Achievement Survey (NAS) conducted by the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) to assess competency levels in mathematics, only 44 per cent students from Class V and 32 per cent students from Class VIII could respond to questions meant for class-appropriate competencies correctly. Hence, increase in non-formal methods in mathematics education is especially critical at this point of time, not only to help students understand mathematical concepts and apply skills to everyday situations, but also to reduce anxiety of children towards mathematics, she said.Dr Amit Kulshreshta, Associate Professor and Head, Mathematical Sciences, IISER, Mohali, was the keynote speaker and he highlighted that mathematics was much beyond numbers and is related to patterns, formulas and functions. He explained difficult mathematical concepts in very easy terms to the students who evinced a keen interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/maths-gallery-to-come-up-at-science-city-188765
24-12-2020||Jalandhar||Only 3 trains operate from Jalandhar city railway station||Many trains are still cancelled and many others are being short-terminated due to the farmers’ sit-in dharna on the railway tracks in the region. The Northern Railway operated only three trains — the Paschim Express (02926), the Saryu-Yamuna Express (04650), and the Golden Temple Mail (02904) —from the city railway station.Last month after the farmers ended their “rail roko andolan” before heading to Delhi, the Railways had resumed the passenger, mail and express trains from the city railway station. However, with the farmers intensifying their protest against the three contentious far, laws passed by the Central Government, train services have reportedly been hit.As per officials, most of the trains starting from Amritsar have been cancelled due to the blockade on the Jandiala-Amritsar section.Earlier, the Paschim Express terminated its journey at the Chandigarh railway station, but now owing to its new schedule, it has been extended till Amritsar. In addition, now onwards it will run daily from Amritsar to Bandra Terminus via Jalandhar City, Ludhiana, Chandigarh, Ambala and New Delhi. Now there is no other train service being operated from Jalandhar City to New Delhi due to the suspension of the Shaheed Express and the diverted route of the Saryu-Yamuna Express. The Golden Temple Mail still runs up to Nizamuddin. Now with the resumption of the Paschim Express, passengers going to New Delhi will be relieved.Passenger and goods trains running from Amritsar are still running via the Beas-Tarn Taran route. Owing to long journey, all the trains running from Amritsar are reaching Jalandhar around one hour behind schedule.The Amritsar-Ajmer (09612) will remain cancelled tomorrow and the Amritsar-Darbhanga Express (05212) on December 25. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/only-3-trains-operate-from-jalandhar-city-railway-station-188766
24-12-2020||Jalandhar||Santa soiree at Ivy world school||Christmas card craftThe Nobel School celebrated Christmas in all its joy and happiness. In this celebration, a card making activity was held for grade I-V in which the students were supposed to make a beautiful Christmas card for their dear ones in order to inculcate the spirit of sharing among them and then they send the picture to their respective class in-charge. For the students of grade VI-XI, Christmas tree decoration activity was held in which they were supposed to decorate a Christmas tree and send the picture to their respective class in-charge. The Nobelians clicked the picture while wearing fancy attire. The boundless joy of celebrating the festival was visible on the faces of all Nobelians. And at last three best participants were chosen from each class. Professor CL Kochhar and managing director Kumar Shiv Kochhar and Principal Dr Jyoti Verma appreciated the new unfolded adorning skill of Nebelians and also wished the students for the upcoming New Year.Christmas celebrationsChristmas was celebrated with full zeal in St Soldier Group of Institutions. Due to safety concerns, chairman Anil Chopra, vice-chairperson Sangeeta Chopra, pro-chairman Prince Chopra and their family members and children were virtually present on the occasion. Children were dressed up as Santa Claus and fairies. Anil Chopra gave the message of unity, happiness, smile, peace and brotherhood and advice to celebrate the festival with family.Results of BSc non-medical declaredThe result of BSc non-medical semester-VI of PCM SD College for Women has been remarkably outstanding. Priya bagged first position in the college by scoring 1877 out of 2400 marks, Diksha stood second in the college by getting 1809 marks and Manpreet secured the third position in the college by scoring1805 marks. The Principal of the college, Dr Kiran Arora, congratulated the students on their success and wished for their bright future.Workshop on ‘Catch a Big Idea’The department of design of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, organised a workshop on ‘Catch a Big Idea’. Budi Loonen (senior art director, NO TOMATO advertising firm, Netherlands) was the resource person of the day, who inspired the students to design a product which will be helpful to prevent the spread of Covid-19. As many as 16 groups from department of design presented their unique products, out of which three were selected as winners. These included Tanavpreet Batra and Chandni Bahri of BD, semester VII, designed skates with vacuum and sanitisers, Harshita Chawla of BD, semester V, designed sanitised tables, Suhani Dhwan and Bhavya Aggarwal of BD, semester V, designed glove dispenser. Budi Loonen appreciated the efforts and ideas of other students as well. He particularly appreciated sanitised shoe machine, lamp purifiers and sensor belts. Principal Neerja Dhingra awarded the students with certificates and appreciated their enthusiasm and spirit they had shown during this workshop. She acknowledged the efforts of Rajni Gupta and Rajni Kumar for successfully organising this workshop.Building inaugurationDr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology is organising an online event for inauguration of two newly-constructed buildings. The Minister of Education, Ramesh Kumar Pokhriyal, has given his consent to do the virtual inauguration. Sanjay Dhotre, Union Minister of State for Education, will also join the inauguration ceremony. The institute was lacking a designated space for basic recreational facilities like students’ activities club, training and placement cell, gymnasium and canteen and the demand for the same was pending for a long time. Looking at the extreme urgency of the situation, Prof LK Awasthi, Director NIT Jalandhar, after joining the institute took a swift action to address these vital needs and with the full support of Ministry of Education in releasing the sufficient funds, he took the task on war footing. The institute has come up with a student welfare centre housing modern facilities for students as well as faculties of the institute.National Mathematics WeekNational Mathematics Week was celebrated by Delhi Public School as the birth anniversary of renowned Indian mathematician, Dr Srinivasa Ramanujan Aiyangar. Numerous activities were organised for the students of classes I to IX. A special assembly was organised under the guidance of in-charge Principal Ritu Kaul. The week began with a prayer and students took pledge to observe maths in their daily life. Students were told about the life and the amazing findings of most famous and respected mathematician of India – Dr Srinivasa Ramanujan, who has gifted so many substantial contributions to mathematical analysis, number theory, continued fractions and solutions to the mathematical problems that seemed unsolvable by other genius of those times. Students were enthusiastic to explore the world of Math. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/santa-soiree-at-ivy-world-school-188767
24-12-2020||A three-day workshop for government school heads concluded here on Wednesday. Under this mega exercise||Three-day workshop concludes||The school principals and headmasters presented their PPTs and new ideas, practices and innovations for accomplishing the Mission Cent Percent in the ensuing PSEB examinations. Extension of infrastructural facilities with the active community participation were discussed and shared for replicating the same in other schools."The education department officials and school heads were imparted training regarding systematic data analysis for meticulous planning for the purpose. They were trained to prepare PPTs on comparative analysis of the performance of the students in different subjects during the house examinations conducted in the current academic session," said Jagjit Singh, District Education Officer, Nawanshahr. Deputy District Education Officer (SE) Amrik Singh, Dr Surinder Agnihotri, in-charge Zila Sikhiya Sudhar team, Parmod Bharti, media coordinator, among others, also gave valuable tips to the school heads for accomplishing the ‘Mission Cent Percent’ and other projects to give a fillip to quality improvement drive in school education.Covid test scare not over "People are still scared to get themselves tested even if they develop symptoms, " Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal shared a concern today."People believe that if the reports come positive, they will have to get admitted in the hospital. They must understand that nobody will be admitted in the hospital forcefully," the DC said. She also said that a new strain has been identified in UK, so, anyone who has come in contact with NRIs who have come from UK in the last one week, must get themselves isolated and take precautions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-day-workshop-concludes-188769
24-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||Flour mill godown goes up in flames||Cops nab four drug peddlersHoshiarpur: The police have recovered narcotics and arrested four peddlers, including a woman in different incidents. The Model Town police arrested Manpreet Singh, alias Monu, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagar, Bhogpur, and recovered 140 sedative pills from him. The Mukerian police have nabbed Varinderpal alias Bablu, a resident of Mukerian, and recovered 100 sedative pills from his possession. The Tanda police have arrested Rajrani alias Raju, a resident of Kainthan Mohalla, Dasuya, and recovered 48 gm of intoxicating powder from her. The Talwara police have recovered illicit liquor from Inderpal, a resident of Rakri village. The accused have been booked under relevant Sections of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flour-mill-godown-goes-up-in-flames-188772
24-12-2020||Jalandhar||‘Amendment in Consumer Act a milestone’||A day ahead of National Consumer Day, Surinder Mittal, former presiding member, District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Kapurthala and Jalandhar, on Wednesday said the latest amendment of the Consumer Protection Act can be considered a historic milestone in consumer movement in the country.Mittal said: “The specific theme of this day is to make people aware and educate them about their rights and protection. The Act aims at providing consumers with effective safeguards against different types of exploitation, such as defective goods, deficiency in services and unfair trade practices. Under this, Consumer Disputes Redressal Protection Commissions, Consumer Protection Councils, Mediation Centres have been established. In this Act, there is a provision for punishment and product liability for manufacturer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amendment-in-consumer-act-a-milestone-188773
24-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Ghadarite’s nephew reaches Singhu on foot from Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23Holding an iconic picture of five ghadarites and walking on foot continuously for four days, a marginal farmer, Gurtej Singh, from Mehatpur village reached Singhu border to support protesting farmers on Monday.Gurtej Singh is a grand nephew of Ghadarite Santa Singh, one of the five Ghadar revolutionaries who were arrested and shackled to chains at the Amritsar railway station during a protest of the Kisan Morcha for the farmers’ rights in 1938.Gurtej said he had grown up listening to great stories of his grandfather’s brother ghadarite Santa Singh.When the state-level farmers’ protests were held in Punjab, great-grandnephews of Santa Singh joined them in Jalandhar.Gurtej shared that he covered 300 km. “I walked 70 km during the day and slept at dhabas in the night. On the way, I was amazed to meet so many people who were more than aware of the Central agriculture laws. Everyone showed their solidarity with farmers,” he said.Gurtej said it was unfortunate that farmers were still fighting for their rights for which his elders raise their voice in 1938. He had also been embarking on a 20-km journey on his cycle every day to spread the word on the Central laws in remote areas before the Delhi protest started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ghadarites-nephew-reaches-singhu-on-foot-from-jalandhar-188485
