25-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Doc couple aims to keep city in pink of health||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 24Ever since the outbreak of deadly Covid, Dr Harjot Kaur and Dr Manpreet Singh, a doctor couple, have been part of a mission to check the spread of the virus.Dr Harjot Kaur serving at the Lamba Pind dispensary here remains on her toes round the clock.She starts her day with giving instructions to Asha workers assigned various areas to spread awareness and trace Covid suspects. Besides Covid duty, she has also been attending to patients with other ailments.She said there was so much panic among people that they treat even normal ailment as suspected corona. She said it had become a challenging task for her to convince them not to panic. “There are several queries that these patients come with everyday and I always tell them that all they have to do is take precautions. I try to convince them that every flu is not Covid,” she said.Dr Harjot said she would like to request everyone to be responsible at this time and listen to Asha workers and health officials. “There are some people who don't cooperate and understand that surveys that are being done is for their own safety,” she said.She said the door-to-door survey was being carried out since April 13. There are several challenges that a doctor has to face at this time. She said some days ago, an asthmatic patient died and people thought he was a Covid patient. “It took us some time to make them understand that it was a different case and the death did not occur because of coronavirus,” she said.Dr Manpreet Singh, a dentist, too, has been risking his life by providing oral care to patients. “My father was in the BSF. I have learnt from him how to defeat the enemy from front. This time, the enemy is a virus, but we will definitely defeat it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doc-couple-aims-to-keep-city-in-pink-of-health-75722
25-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||This Punjabi author gets ample time to complete her two books||Jalandhar, April 24“In the past many years, I could not complete my book, ‘Translation’, which is all about the invention of translation, its background, concept, aspects and importance, due to my other work commitments. However, the lockdown has proved to be a blessing in disguise for me as I have not only completed the book but also written another one ‘Guru Mahal’,” said Jagdish Kaur Wadia, a noted Punjabi author.She said besides reading and writing books, she has been cooking food for her grandson. “These days, I spend time with my grandson and talk to him about Punjabi virsa (heritage), culture and traditions. I also look after my garden,” the author said.She said once the lockdown was over, getting both books published would be her priority. “My book, ‘Guru Mahal’, is about families of 10 Sikh Gurus. It is my research on the lives of mothers, sisters and wives of Sikh Gurus as they are the epitome of courage and inspiration for many,” Wadia said, adding that an author could never be bored as they have the best company of books and their thoughts.Wadia, who has been retired as deputy director from the Language Department, is still associated with various NGOs. She is the vice-president of the Punjabi Likhadi Sabha.“Recently, we had organised our ‘kavi darbar’ online in which poets and writers from across the state participated. We will soon organise it again," she said, adding that she had got around 60 books published so far, which include her original writings, research work, translations and a book on renowned Lebanese writer Kahlil Gibran. “I have lived the time of pre-Independence. At that time, there used to be no comforts or luxuries. But the life was much better and easier. Nowadays, people have become so busy that they have forgotten to live life, which is one of the reasons for stress," she said.AchievementsNoted Punjabi author Jagdish Kaur Wadia has been honoured with several awards, including Punjabi Heera Samaan award in 1991, Punjab Ratan Samaan (1993), Vishesh Sahityakar Samaan (1998), Punjab Putri Samaan (2000), Lifetime Achievement Award (2013) and Dr Amrita Pritam Literary National Award (2014), for her contribution to Punjabi literature. Besides, she was presented the Ambassador for Peace award in 2006 and the Sahitya Sagar Award for Literature in 2015.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-punjabi-author-gets-ample-time-to-complete-her-two-books-75721
25-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||10 shanties gutted in fire||Stay at home, scribes toldPhagwara: The Health Department has asked four scribes to stay under home quarantine as they visited the house of Ganesh Lal, uncle of six-month-old Ritika, on Thursday. Ritika died at the PGI, Chandigarh, due to coronavirus and refractory shock. Phagwara SDM Gurwinder Singh Johal said a case under Section 188 of the IPC for the violation of the curfew orders had been filed against Ganesh who was already been home quarantined. OCMasks, PPF kits distributedPhagwara: During the ongoing fight against Covid-19, Phagwara Improvement Trust chairman Sohan Lal Banga provided 105 PPE kits, 2,000 surgical masks and 1,000 gloves to the police personnel and safai karamcharis from his own pocket at a function here. Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, SP Manwinder Singh, DSP Surinder Singh Chand and SHOs of all police stations besides representatives of safai karamcharis were also present. At another function at nearby Palahai village, MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal distributed 218 kits of ration among the needy. Dhaliwal contributed 50 ration kits from his pocket, 100 ration kits were donated by Basra families, 10 kits were donated by a local resident, Sansaar Chand, while 58 kits were donated by the panchayat of Palahai village. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-shanties-gutted-in-fire-75720
25-04-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||Rubber industry will take long to get back on track: Harvinder||Harvinder Singh Chitkara, president, Rubber Association, Punjab, has been into the business since 1989. In conversation with Aakanksha N Bhardwaj, he threw light on problems of the rubber industry. The excerpts...How has the lockdown impacted the rubber industry?The lockdown has hit the industry badly. Apart from financial losses, there are other losses as well. Rubber manufacturing is a long process. Some products take seven to 12 days to get manufactured. Every step during the manufacturing process takes a particular time. Since the lockdown was announced, the whole process has been delayed. If some products such as auto tube are not used within suitable time, their performance will be affected. So, the products, which have already got manufactured, have been lying. Now, these are inefficient. In the long run, the rubber industry will face big issues. Even machines have been lying unused for the past one month. These could break down when we will start them after a long time. The machines require proper maintenance and service.What problems the industry will have to face after the lockdown?We get raw material for rubber products from other states. Like we get rubber from Kerala, chemicals from Mumbai or these are imported from China and Korea. So, the availability of raw materials will be the biggest concern for us.Do you have any plans for industry's revival after the lockdown?We will have to revive our marketing network. There is fear that there might be a situation when we won't get our pending payments. In that case, we will suffer a big loss. To avoid it, the plan is to focus on building a new network.The rubber industry is concentrated in Jalandhar. What about small rubber units?There are more than 200 rubber-manufacturing industries in Jalandhar. If the lockdown extends, it will be a double whammy on the small units. These will suffer a lot that one cannot even imagine.What lesson the lockdown has given you as an industrialist?I have seen several ups and downs in the rubber industry. But this is a problem which we had never expected and it will take long to get back on track. Despite that, I think we will overcome. The lockdown has given us a chance to be prepared in tough times of life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rubber-industry-will-take-long-to-get-back-on-track-harvinder-75718
25-04-2020||---||Testing for sanitation workers begins in city||Jalandhar, April 24The ad hoc committee of sanitation and health in an initiative today decided to conduct tests for Covid-19 for all sweepers and sanitary workers in city.In the first phase, the tests of sweepers of as many as six wards (four of Jalandhar Cantt and two of the Jalandhar West constituency) were conducted.Councillor Mandip Jassal, assistant heath officer Raj Kamal and sanitary inspector Ajay Kumar, along with supervisors, also gave samples for the testing. A Civil Hospital team comprising Dr Harish Bhardwaj, Dr Raman Gupta and Dr Priya, along with other staff, conducted the tests.Balraj Thakur, chairman of the ad hoc committee, said tomorrow, another round of test would be conducted for fire brigade staff.“The test of fire brigade personnel, along with sanitisation workers, would be continued in the coming days,” he said. The chairman said it was important to conduct the tests of these frontline warriors as they had been working day and night for city residents.“The move will boost their morale. They must know that we are here for them and they must not worry for anything,” Thakur added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/testing-for-sanitation-workers-begins-in-city-75717
25-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Hoshiarpur woman discharged||Hoshiarpur, April 24 Hoshiarpur is on its way to  be coronavirus-free as the report of another  Covid-19 patient in the  district was reported negative on Thursday. She was today discharged from the isolation ward at the Civil Hospital. Six patients were found  positive in the district, of whom an elderly Pathi-Moranwali  resident, Harbhajan Singh, had died. Three of the patients had already recovered and  returned to their homes  whereas on Thursday, Gurpreet Kaur was tested negative. She was the daughter-in-law of the Covid victim deceased Harbhajan Singh.  Now, only one patient is left in the city and her condition is also stated to be stable. Samples of seven persons taken for testing Meanwhile, seven persons who had reached the district from  Jalandhar had been admitted to the isolation ward due to Covid-like symptoms. District   Epidemiologist Dr Shailesh said their samples had been sent for testing. Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said 364 samples had been taken so  far by the Health Department for testing,  of which 314  samples had been reported negative while 21 samples were sent today. He said due to awareness among people, the district was one step away from becoming coronavirus-free. In Amritsar, 4 discharged  Amritsar: Apart from a fresh case being detected in Amritsar, there was some good news for holy city residents as four persons, who earlier tested positive, were discharged on Friday. They were put under observation at the isolation ward in Fortis hospital. Dr HP Singh, medical director of the hospital, said the four patients have recovered and were discharged.  Three of them were relatives of Darshan Singh Raagi, who was a close contact of Padma Shri Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple, Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who died of Covid.  Those recovered and discharged are Darshan Singh’s wife Sukhbir Kaur, his son Palwinderpal Singh and grandson Taanbir Singh. Darshan Singh is yet to be released as his final reports were awaited. The fourth patient discharged from hospital was Gurmit Kaur, Khalsa’s aunt.  Dr HP Singh said the reports of four patients who were discharged on Friday came negative twice.  There are seven cases under treatment at present, of which six were admitted to the isolation ward of Government Medical College and Darshan Singh is at Fortis hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-woman-discharged-75716
25-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Wedding bells amid lockdown||Phagwara, April 24 In an exemplary way, while obeying curfew orders and maintaining social distancing, a marriage was solemnised here on Wednesday. Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Nawanpind village, near Goraya, took curfew permission and reached Phagwara with his family members on Wednesday. He got married with Khushbir Kaur, a local resident, at the Bhagatpura gurdwara in the presence of only 10 family members from both sides. Satnampura  Station House Officer (SHO) Usha Rani honoured both families for obeying the lockdown orders by organising a simple wedding. The SHO arranged a special cake for the couple, who cut the same in the presence of police personnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wedding-bells-amid-lockdown-75715
25-04-2020||---||District worst affected; count mounts to 63||Jalandhar, April 24Jalandhar is now the worst affected district in the state with the total number of positive cases reaching 63. As many as 2,010 samples have been taken so far, while 6,514 persons are home-quarantined.Of the positive cases, seven have recovered. There has been a jump of 1,000 in the number of samples taken in the past four days. The number was 1,032 on April 20.The most affected areas include Mittha Bazar, Purani Sabzi Mandi, Maqsudan, Raja Garden, Basti Shiekh, Basti Danishmandan, Basti Bawa Khel, Pucca Bagh, Laal Bazar, Neelamahal, Nijatam Nagar and Jwala Nagar. The cases reported from Virk village and Lohian have recovered while those from Shahkot are under treatment.For the past few days, five to six positive cases are being reported on an average, and with this the testing in the district has also been increased. The DC attributed the increase in the number of positive cases to more testing.Namesake confusionThere have been at least three times, that confusion regarding namesakes or addresses has caused a mix-up in those being tested. While health teams on Thursday went to bring back a woman who had tested positive from Lasuri Mohalla, the woman said she had only been under quarantine and her sample was not taken, following which health teams traced the patient to Basti Sheikh. Several days ago also, the Health Department went to take another patient at a house, which belonged to someone else.Another patient, who had tested positive, said while staff kept addressing him as Surjit, he expressed doubts that he was often confused with other patients.Nodal officer, Covid-19, Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh, said: “We only have the names of the patients on the files of those tested positive that we receive. In the cases of namesakes, this sometimes creates confusion. However, these are just regular hiccups in view of a long list of patients.”Aggressive testing leads to rise in casesThe Deputy Commissioner and the Commissioner of Police had said on Thursday that the rising Covid-19 cases in the district are due to aggressive testing. Till Thursday, 1,400 tests had been conducted in the district. Both officers said 54 of the cases found positive for Covid-19 were asymptomatic as they were totally fit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-worst-affected-count-mounts-to-63-75714
25-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Dancing his heart out to dispel myths about Covid||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 24Videos of patients, admitted to isolation wards in Jalandhar, dancing their hearts out, are boosting the spirits of many and spreading hope amid the ongoing pandemic in the region.A video of the city Mayor’s OSD, Harpreet Singh Walia, foot-tapping to a peppy Punjabi number in the Civil Hospital’s isolation ward went viral on Friday. Posted by himself, the man says: “It’s aimed at dispelling Covid-19 myths and telling people that it is possible to defeat it.”After he tested positive on Tuesday, there were heightened tensions among many councillors, MLAs and senior MC officials, who were in his direct contact. But the video acted as a balm for the stressed-out populace of the district, which has been witnessing a dramatic spike in Covid-19 cases. In the hour-long video, a part of which has been shared on social media, an energetic Walia can be seen flaunting his bhangra moves heartily in a hospital room. Walia soon shared the video with family, friends and colleagues of the Municipal Corporation.About a week ago, another video of several Covid-19 positive persons (including the recently discharged Nijatam Nagar man Ravi Chabra) had gone viral on social media, where patients shared these from their hospital beds to propagate a message of hope.Speaking to The Tribune Harpreet Walia said: “I never hoped the video would get so popular. I voluntarily got myself tested and the moment I tested positive, I immediately shared it on social media. The video was shared by me today to tell the world that Covid-19 isn’t a reason to get gloomy or unnecessarily stressed out as many people are doing. After the word got out that I was tested positive, some neighbours began ill-treating my family as if I had committed a crime. Some are spreading unnecessary panic and tension. I wanted to dispel the myths.”While the video was shot by another person in isolation in his neigbouring room, Walia said: “I first shared this with my family, then with all MC groups and then I put it on FB. I was overwhelmed with calls as soon as I shared it. Relatives and friends are calling from the US, Canada, Australia and all across India. I’m happy the video is sending out the message that Covid-19 is pretty easy to defeat. It’s just that one needs to be in high spirits.”Four people of Walia’s family — his mother, daughter and both parents — have also been tested and their results are awaited. Walia said he had asked them to be at ease as patients were being properly taken care of at the hospital. Isolated at a room at the Civil Hospital’s de-addiction centre, Walia said: “We are all cheerful, abiding by the protocol and watching each other’s backs as we undergo treatment. There is no need to worry.”Ravi Chabra, a Nijatam Nagar patient who got discharged on Thursday and also featured in a previous video, said: “During my time, I was the only patient at the ward. Later, it started filling up. But I noticed everyone was sad. So, on a gloomy Sunday, we all started dancing in the ward to lift each other’s spirits. I have recovered. My 72-year-old mother has been discharged from CMC Ludhiana and my 17-year-old son is still under treatment. He will be discharged soon, too. Covid-19 is just a viral. I request people to abide by social distancing and keep spirits high and it is absolutely manageable.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dancing-his-heart-out-to-dispel-myths-about-covid-75713
