26-05-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab reports 25 new cases, state tally now 2,106||Punjab reported 25 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's COVID-19 infection tally to 2,106.Jalandhar (10), Pathankot (5), Hoshiarpur  (4), Amritsar (2), Ludhiana (2), Faridkot (1), and SBS Nagar (1) reported new cases, Punjab's COVID bulletin showed.All 10 cases of Jalandhar's were contacts of already diagnosed cases. Four of Tuesday's cases were people who worked in the civil hospital---two nurses and two Class 4 employees.  Sources said the health workers who tested positive had been given duties in three wards at the hospital---the emergency and tuberculosis ward and flu corner--- causing health authorities to worry about the spread of the virus.Sources said the health workers were symptomatic.Cases in Pathankot and Hoshiarpur were also contacts of already diagnosed cases.Cases reported from Amritsar, Faridkot and SBS Nagar were new cases. Amritsar's cases were self reported, the bulletin said.Ludhiana's cases were people with a travel history to West Bengal. The state's COVID-19 break is as follows: Amritsar (331), Jalandhar (230), Ludhiana (175), Tarn Taran (154), Gurdaspur (132), Patiala (108), Hoshiarpur (110), SBS Nagar (106), SAS Nagar (103), Sangrur (89), Muktsar (66), Faridkot (62), Ropar (60), Moga (59), Fatehgarh Sahib (57), Ferozepur (46), Pathankot (44), Fazilka (42), Bathinda (42), Kapurthala (36), Mansa (32) and Barnala (22). Eight districts---Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Patiala, Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar, SAS Nagar---that have over 100 cases account for 68 per cent of Punjab's cases. Over 91 per cent of Punjab's 2,106 cases cases have recovered. Punjab now has 148 active cases. The state's death toll stands at 40.Amritsar (6), Jalandhar (5), Ludhiana   (7), Gurdaspur (3), Hoshiarpur (5), Kapurthala (3), Pathankot (2), Patiala (2), SBS Nagar (1) SAS Nagar (3), Ropar (1), Ferozepur  (1) and Barnala (1)  make up for Punjab’s death count.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-reports-25-new-cases-state-tally-now-2-106-90186
26-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Hours after arrest, MLA Sukhpal Khaira released||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 26 Hours after his arrest for violating the Covid-19 lockdown norms, Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira was released from the police station.While the police maintained that Khaira and his supporters were released on bail, the MLA claimed that he refused to sign on the bail bond.“I refused to sign the bail bond even though the police was asking me to do so,” Khaira told The Tribune. “Some of them who accompanied me have signed some papers but I didn’t sign any bail bond. I am now heading back to my village,” he added.Rashpal Singh, SHO of police station number 4, said, “Everyone has been released after signing a bail bond.”Khaira was detained by the Jalandhar police while he was at the Desh Bhagat Yadhgaar Hall to hold a candle march in support of kabaddi player Arvinderjit Singh Pehalwan in Jalandhar on Monday. The march was being held to “demand justice for Arvinder Pehalwan killed by police”.An FIR was filed against 30 people under Section 188 of the IPC and 31(2) of Disaster Management Act and 3(2) of Epidemic Disease Act for organising candle march without prior permission. Messages had also been sent out on WhatsApp seeking support for the march.Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh said the MLA or any other person had neither applied for any permission nor they were allowed to hold such a gathering.His detention comes hours after he held a press conference at Jalandhar demanding a CBI enquiry into “politician-drug-liquor mafia nexus damaging the youth of Punjab”.He sought enquiry into revelations made by a recent ‘chitta’ peddler arrested at Kapurthala, alleging that he was close to a senior Congress leader.During the press conference, Khaira also alleged that the murder of kabaddi player Arvinder Pehalwan was also connected to the illegal liquor sale mafia.Earlier in the day, he also sent across messages stating, “I’m surprised that despite assuring Jalandhar administration that we’ll maintain proper social distancing norms, the government is hell bent not to allow peaceful candle light march at Desh Bhagat Yadgaar hall at 5 pm. This amounts to gagging our voice to speak against police brutality. I request you to please be present at 5 pm to highlight the dictatorial attitude of the police.”Khaira earlier said, “I was holding a peaceful march along with 15 to 20 of my supporters within norms. We have been brought to the police station number 4.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hours-after-arrest-mla-sukhpal-khaira-released-90156
26-05-2020||There are plans to start a Jaipur-Adampur-Delhi flight. Is this the right time to start flights to a new destination when the state governments have already announced 14-day home quarantine for all domestic flyers? Suggestions||Open House||jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by thursday, MAY 28||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-90093
26-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Significance of mother highlighted by students||Hoshiarpur, May 25Kalpana Chawla Women Development Club of DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised an online video shooting competition starting from Mothers’ Day.Club coordinator Dr Monika, along with teachers Prof Roma Ralhan, Prof Archana Vasudeva, Prof Chetna Sharma, Prof Poonam Mehta and Prof Indu Sharma organised the event online and students were asked to shoot a video along with their mothers.With the help of videos, students highlighted the significance of their mother in life. They also highlighted the difficulties faced by mothers in society. Declaring the results of the competition here on Monday, Dr Monica said Mandeep, a student of B.Ed, semester-II, came first, Arshpreet of semester-IV and Sona of semester-II came second, while Navdeep and Simran of semester-II came third and Anchal and Harneet Kaur of semester-II received the appreciation prizes.Principal Dr Shyam Sunder Sharma congratulated the winners and the members of the club for the success of the event. He said: “A mother is the epitome of love, affection, sacrifice and generosity. Her presence in the world provides solace to the suffering humanity.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/significance-of-mother-highlighted-by-students-90092
26-05-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Returning migrant labourers narrate their tales of sorrows||Hoshiarpur, May 25Migrant labourers enroute to Bihar on Hoshiarpur’s first Shramik Express had their own stories of pain. If some were returning home for the reason of shops remaining shut, others because they had no work as all construction activities have stopped. Some children had to leave their studies to return home along with their families.Santosh Kumar, a labourer, said he had come to the state as he was hopeful of getting work during the harvesting of the sugarcane crop. He said he had been stuck here for the past two months without work.Satinder Tiwari said he had come to support medical expenses of a seriously-ill relative. Now that the state has started trains for migrants, he too wants to return home, he said, adding that he had no work and nothing to eat.A student Kumar, returning to Gopal Ganj, said as all his family members were returning home, he too was going along with them, discontinuing his education. He says if the family returns in future, he will come back and resume studies.Looking distressed, Manoj Kumar Yadav, who came to the station to catch a train for Muzaffarpur, said he had been living here for the past 20 years and ran a small shop. “Due to the continuous lockdown, my business came to a standstill. Some payments were stuck but I didn’t get those. I had no money to survive so I decided to leave for home,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/returning-migrant-labourers-narrate-their-tales-of-sorrows-89883
26-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Man who conceived Mela Gadri Babeyan Da dies at 84||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 25Back when the rear side of the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall was an abandoned house referred to as “Badrinath Ki Kothi”, nets were erected by sportspersons who played there. It was Comrade Naunihal Singh who first floated the idea to tell the youth the historical significance of the place.The Mela Gadri Babeyan Da – a concept envisioned by Comrade Naunihal was the first idea to- engage youth in the pursuit of history - and promote Yadgaar hall as cultural hub.Having dedicated half his life to the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee, the demise of 84-year-old Comrade marked the end of a glorious chapter. It was with heavy hearts that committee members witnessed the passing of their eldest member and a vocal critic of fascist and communal elements in politics.Naunihal Singh was credited with shaping the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall as a literary and cultural hub and involving students in the process to conserve and propagate the historic importance of the Ghadar ideology. He faced injury for standing with Phagwara mill workers and was among those arrested in 2008 for demanding martyr status for those killed during Komagatamru incident and Kooka Lehar.Cultural wing convener of Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall Amolak Singh said, “With him an era has ended. He was among the three pillars of the committee. The others two, Baba Bhagat Singh Bilga and Comrade Gandharva Sen Kochar, had passed away. He dedicated half a century to the Yadgaar Committee. The arena which houses the rear side of the hall today was earlier an abandoned house called “Badrinath Di Kothi”. It was Comrade Naunihal’s initiative to start Mela Gadri Babeyan Da in this arena. He was acutely aware that youth had to be mobilised and taught lessons of history they were at perils to forget. Two years before an event he would ask us to prepare the mela on historic themes. He started the tradition of announcing the mela’s next year theme a year in advance.”“Due to his resolute resistance, the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar hall also managed to avoid many instances aimed at politically diluting it. Naunihal Singh stood in the way many times. While he was a proponent of the need to remember the importance Komagatamru martyrs, Kerti Lehar, Ghadar movement, Babbar Akalis, Jallianwala Bagh Massacre etc turn by turn, it was also his and Comrade Sen’s idea to start Sikhiyarthi Chetna camps and involve students in the process,” adds Amolak Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-who-conceived-mela-gadri-babeyan-da-dies-at-84-89879
26-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Hockey legend Balbir Senior remembered||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 25Veteran and young hockey players from the city remembered legend Balbir Singh Senior (96) as he passed away early Monday morning.His namesake Olympian Col Balbir Singh (74) who hails from the city, recalled the days when he was a coach and Balbir Singh was the manager of the Indian team.“When we paired as manager and coach, the Indian team won the bronze medal in the Champions Trophy in June 1982, a silver medal in the 1982 Asian Games and a silver medal in the 1982 Esanda World Hockey,” said the retired Army officer. He recalled the days when he organised a get-together of Olympians at Sansarpur village in the district in 2008 and Balbir Singh Senior had especially come to attend it.About his senior, Col Balbir Singh says: “Balbir is to India what Sir Donald Bradman is to Australia and Fele to Brazil. A disciplinarian to the core, he believed that commitment and dedication are the foundations of success. No sportsman in my living memory has contributed as much as him to raise the sporting image of the country.”An Arjuna-awardee, he laughed, “There was always confusion about names. There were five Balbir Singhs in hockey and four of us were Olympians. I even attempted to eliminate doubts at that time by adding Kolar as surname, there was another Olympian Balbir Singh Kolar from my native village. Interestingly, when he passed away earlier this year, someone wrote a beautiful obituary on me and I had to clarify that I am alive. Even today, my son has got a few calls from people expressing condolences.”Olympian and Congress MLA Pargat Singh went to Chandigarh to attend the last rites. He said: “ When I was the Director of Sports, I used to meet him at least once a month and seek his guidance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hockey-legend-balbir-senior-remembered-89880
26-05-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘New strategies will have to be framed to survive in market’||Rajesh Mayor, managing director, Mayor and Company, Jalandhar, talks about challenges being faced by the sports goods industry and MSMEs in the current scenario. In an interview with Ajay Joshi, he throws light on steps being taken to cope with the issues arose due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Here are the excerpts...How has lockdown impacted your business?Apart from various sports organisations or groups, schools and colleges buy equipment from us. As all educational institutions have been lying shut since the Covid-19 outbreak, the demand for sports equipment has sharply declined, leading to a financial loss. At present, there is zero business. Despite negligible supplies, we have to make statutory payments and PF settlements.The business will resume only after devising new strategies. So, we are looking for different avenues and trying to get customers. After framing out plans with marketing teams, we are focusing on taking concrete steps to increase the consumers' demand. Moreover, we have now learnt about more technology-driven avenues that will help increase sales and fetch more customers. — Rajesh Mayor, managing director, Mayor and Company, JalandharHow will the sports business revive after the lockdown?We don't see any hope in near future. Our business will likely to see a turnaround after a year or so. However, it is also uncertain as customers will first purchase essential items. Looking at termination of sports events nationally and internationally, we cannot expect demands in a bulk.When do you plan to resume work?The business will resume only after devising new strategies. So, we are looking for different avenues and trying to get customers. After framing out plans with marketing teams, we are focusing on taking concrete steps to increase the consumers' demand. Moreover, we have now learnt about more technology-driven avenues that will help increase sales and fetch more customers.How are you dealing with a shortage of labourers?Amid the lockdown, we have now realised that labourers are the backbone of any industry. We are now left with only 50-60 per cent of our labour. All our trained labourers have gone to their native places. We are in a mode to increase the labour force. We may have to increase their wages as well.How have you managed to pay the salaries to your workers?We never let salary become an issue. Salaries were paid to the workers in advance. We have also helped them with other things as well.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?As we faced this unexpected loss, the lockdown period will always be remembered as the biggest crisis. We are seeing it as a challenge to re-establish our firm. In fact, all companies are jostling up with the same. New strategies will have to be framed to survive in the market. Besides, with more and more companies re-establishing in other Asian countries, we will have to maintain our pace. With no support from the government, it will be tough to remain in the competition.What are your expectations from the government?We believe that the government should give relaxations in bank loans and provide a financial package for MSMEs. We want that the government should support workers and waive statutory payments when the industry is in loss due to any national crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-strategies-will-have-to-be-framed-to-survive-in-market-89881
26-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||To stay afloat, city’s famous juice corner mulls going online||Jalandhar, May 25As restaurants, cafés and food joints across the country have been ordered to keep their dining rooms shut to slow the spread of novel coronavirus, contactless delivery seems to be their only chance to stay open and avoid wholesale layoffs.The city’s famous Ganga Juice Corner, located at Company Bagh Chowk here, which has been savouring fresh juices and shakes to its customer for the past 40 years now, say they are forced to tie-up with food delivery apps as the footfall of customers is negligible these days.Talking to The Tribune, Ranveer Kumar Sood, owner of the juice corner, said after remaining shut for almost two months, he was happy to return to the business. He said he had called just three of his workers as of now and had put in place all safety measures as asked by the administration.“I have replaced all juice glasses with disposable ones. Customers are not allowed to enter the shop as we have blocked the entrance. We have assigned a boy to take orders from a safe distance while no one is allowed to come near the counter", said Sood said, adding that some customers take away juice glasses while others drink it the same moment sitting on their vehicles at some distance from the shop.He says every morning he sprays disinfectant in the shop before starting operations and ask workers to wear gloves, mask and cover their heads before arranging the fruit stock or touching crockery.Sharing his market strategy to survive the coronavirus crisis, he said he was looking forward to hiring his own delivery boys or partner with Zomato and Swiggy to deliver fresh juices on the doorstep of clients. “Our sales were good in the past years and we never ever felt the need of home delivery. But as residents are reluctant to visit markets due to the Covid-19 fear, it's the need of the hour to go online,” he said.On losses he suffered in the past two months, Ranveer says profit and loss go side by side in the business, but it's for the first time he has seen real tough times. “Covid has badly affected all sectors. But I feel we should not lose hope and keep our faith intact. I am hopeful that the business will revive in the coming four to five months,” he added.Adjusting to the new normalSharing his market strategy to survive the coronavirus crisis, Ranveer Kumar Sood, owner of Ganga Juice Corner, said he was looking forward to hiring his own delivery boys or partner with Zomato and Swiggy to deliver fresh juices on the doorstep of clients. “Our sales were good in the past years and we never ever felt the need of home delivery. But as residents are reluctant to visit markets due to the Covid-19 fear, it's the need of the hour to go online,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-stay-afloat-citys-famous-juice-corner-mulls-going-online-89882
26-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Demand for courses will change post-Covid-19, says this principal||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 25Rashmi Vij, principal, Police DAV Public School, has been busy these days with organising webinars with career counsellers, getting video modules prepared and conducting live classes for students.As my senior students need to be mentored and I often get queries from parents asking me to guide them about the stream that their children should take. I have also organised webinars on career counselling. I have told students that there will be an increasing demand for microbiology, biotechnology, pharmacy or paramedic subjects post Covid-19. Hence, they should take the medical stream. — Rashmi Vij, principal, Police DAV Public School“As a principal, I need to keep an eye on all updates related to changes in the academic calendar and curriculum for my staff and students. Besides, I need to work in liaison with principals of other schools, CBSE officials and accordingly modify changes in teaching. Thankfully, all my teachers are young, well-trained in technology and have been making lively videos and interactive programmes for students, which make them thoroughly understand the new topics. Even students are responding well to these classes,” said Vij, adding that the last three months were spent in re-inventing new ways to run the school through a remote system.The principal said, “As my senior students need to be mentored and I often get queries from parents asking me to guide them about the stream that their children should take. I have also organised webinars on career counselling. I have told students that there will be an increasing demand for microbiology, biotechnology, pharmacy or paramedic subjects post Covid-19. Hence, they should take the medical stream.”“About 10-15 years ago, the demand for these courses had soared, but these saw a gradual decline as career options. I have told the students of the non-medical stream that it is not necessary to become an engineer as they can also go for creative courses like web designing and artificial intelligence as these too have a great scope in the years ahead. For commerce students, specialisation in e-trading and e-commerce will be futuristic courses everyone will now be more technology dependant even from the business point of view. For humanities students, clinical psychology will be the new in-thing,” she added.Vij, who is also assistant regional officer, DAV Schools, said, “We need to specially take care of students studying in Classes X to XII. We have been conducting online classes them from 8:30 am to 1:30 pm everyday with a 30-minute break in between. Senior students are smart and responsive as they do their assignments and send these back to their teachers for checking.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/demand-for-courses-will-change-post-covid-19-says-this-principal-89884
26-05-2020||Our Correspondent||7-year-old dies in freak mishap while playing||Talwara, May 25A 7-year-old Class III student died after being strangled with the ribbon of an identity card with which she was playing at Rally village falling under Hajipur block.The Hajipur police have registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC. The school identity card became the cause of death. Jasmeet Kaur was playing at her home. She climbed onto the bed and tried wearing the ribbon of her school identity card around her neck. The i-card was hanging on the wall. Meanwhile, its ribbon got stuck in her neck and she died. The girl was alone at home. Jasmeet was staying at her maternal grandmother’s house. Her father Balwinder Singh lives in Pathankot with his family. He is a carpenter there. His wife is the only child of her parents. Her grandmother wished to keep their daughter with her as she lived alone. So, she was staying with her at Rally village.At the time of the incident, girl’s grandmother Kanta had gone to feed the animals in the cattle shed. During this time, she did not take Jasmeet with her as it was quite hot outside. When she arrived back home, she found Jasmeet hanging from the peg. The girl was taken off the peg and a doctor was called, but by then she had died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-year-old-dies-in-freak-mishap-while-playing-89873
26-05-2020||Our Correspondent||First Shramik train leaves from Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, May 25The first Shramik train from the city with 1,600 migrant workers left for Vaishali in Bihar on Sunday night. It was the first train from the city railway station that will cover such a long distance. Earlier, trains that covered the maximum distance were run between Hoshiarpur and Delhi.Officials of the district administration and Red Cross Society provided specially prepared food packets to the workers. Besides, biscuits, water bottles and fruits were also provided to all passengers.Chabbewal MLA Dr Rajkumar provided sanitisers and masks to the workers. DC Apneet Riyait said this was the first Shramik train, which departed from Hoshiarpur. She said earlier, workers were sent to Jalandhar and Ludhiana by buses.She said of the 1,600 persons, 760 were from Hoshiarpur subdivision, 327 from Mukerian, 139 from Dasuya and 111 persons from Garhshankar. The DC said more trains will depart from Hoshiarpur in the coming days.SDM Amit Mahajan said about 2,600 workers, who have registered online to go to their native places, have been contacted by phone and their consent has been obtained. He said thereafter, arrangements are being made to send them to their native places by train. All of them were medically examined. BJP national vice-president Avinash Rai Khanna was also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/first-shramik-train-leaves-from-hoshiarpur-89874
26-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Local labourers demand double wages: Farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 25Farmers are suffering because of the dearth of labourers as scores of migrants have already gone back and there are several who are wanting to come back from Bihar and UP, and are still finding ways to reach Punjab. Now, the farmers are left with no option, and are approaching local labour to help them during paddy season. But the farmers say this time the local labour is demanding double the normal rate.Gurtej Singh from Mehatpur said the local labourers were demanding between Rs 5000- 6000 for the work, while earlier the rate was Rs 2,500-3,000.“We knew that we would have to face several problems, but this is something that was never expected. The rates this time are quite high, because they know that we don’t have any other option but to ask them for help,” he said.Jaswant Singh, a farmer from Jalandhar, said he had been getting calls from his labourers who were in Bihar as they wanted to come back, but he said that in the absence of his migrant labourers, he was asking the local labour but the rates were high. Sarabjit Singh, a marginal farmer of Shahkot block, said they would take the decision on sowing paddy after waiting for some more days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/local-labourers-demand-double-wages-farmers-89875
26-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||No flight takes off from Adampur||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 25Contrary to the announcement made on Saturday, air services from the Adampur airport remained suspended here on Monday. The only Delhi-bound flight from the region was scheduled to resume today after its suspension over the past two months ago due to the Covid-19 outbreak.As the official confirmation of the discontinuation of the domestic flight could not be received, a passenger who was to arrive here from Delhi informed that there were only six passengers for Adampur from Delhi in the 90-seater SpiceJet flight. Apart from Delhi, the Jaipur-bound flight also remained suspended. The flight is likely to resume from Tuesday, an official on condition of anonymity said.As per the schedule set by flight operator SpiceJet, the flights were planned to take off from Jaipur at 7.20 am and reach Adampur at 8.50 am. Then, it would leave Adampur at 9.10 am and reach Delhi at 10.25 am. It would again take off at 10.55 am from Delhi and reach Adampur at 12.10 pm. At 12.30 pm, the flight would take passengers from Adampur to Jaipur, culminating there at 2 pm.Meanwhile, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said every passenger arriving at the Adampur airport via domestic flights would be tested for Covid by the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test at the airport itself.“After the test, passengers would be allowed to go home and their name, address, mobile numbers and other details would be penned down by the authorities here. If any passenger tests positive, then he would be shifted to the government isolation ward, as per health protocols. However, if tested negative, the passengers would be kept in home quarantine for 14 days. Such passengers would self-monitor their health status and would report to nearest government health facility in case of development of any symptoms of Covid,” said Sharma.He added that as many as 3,000 persons stranded in other states were expected to return to the district. In this regard, all officers concerned had been directed to ensure a meticulous implementation of the directions of the state government.Only 6 passengers arrived to board flight from Delhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-flight-takes-off-from-adampur-89876
26-05-2020||---||Helpline for women facing domestic violence starts||Jalandhar, May 25In a unique initiative aimed at mitigating the woes of women facing domestic violence during lockdown, the Jalandhar Police Commissionerate has started the facility of online counselling helpline for such women through teleconferencing.Divulging the details, the Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said due to lockdown the complaints regarding domestic violence against women have surged. Hence to redress such complaints and ensure the safety and security of the women, the city police have constituted a special panel under Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP) D Sudharvizhi.A Sub-Inspector rank officer Monica Arora would be heading the panel with two Assistant Sub-Inspectors Asha Kiran and Suman Bala. Besides, three psychiatrists Dr Jasbir Kaur, Dr Sarabjit Singh and Rajbeer Kaur would also be holding the counselling of the complainant.Bhullar said due to the lockdown it was not possible for the complainant to move easily and register a case, so this decision was taken on Monday by the Commissionerate Police. If any woman complaints about her problem to the Commissionerate, then this panel would contact her on the phone. The CP further added that through conference call the panel would undertake counselling of the aggrieved woman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/helpline-for-women-facing-domestic-violence-starts-89877
26-05-2020||Nakodar||3 held for selling illicit liquor||BeeHive Boxes reduced to ashesPhagwara: A total of 20 beehive boxes were reduced to ashes in a devastating fire that broke in the fields of a farmer Satnam Singh Virdi of Khangurra Village on Sunday evening. Firefighters had to make hard efforts to douse the fire. The exact cause of fire is not known yet. OCPhilanthropist passes awayNakodar: Philanthropist Madan Lal Dhir died after suffering a cardiac arrest here on Sunday. Representatives of various political, social, and religious organisations attended his cremation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-held-for-selling-illicit-liquor-89878
26-05-2020||Jalandhar||Comrade Naunihal passes away at 84||Comrade Naunihal Singh, last of the three men considered three pillars of the Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Committee, has passed away. He breathed his last at 9 am on Sunday at the Yol Cantonment in Dharmsala. He was 84. He is survived by daughter Kirat, son-in-law Major General Kulwant Singh Nijjhar, son Karan, daughter-in-law Roop and his grand-children.He had donated his body to the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences in Jalandhar for scientific research. However, due to the Covid lockdown, none of the Himachal Pradesh hospitals claimed his body and it was cremated at Chaminda Devi Shamshan Ghat last evening.With Naunihal Singh, an era of ideologues committed to the cause of liberty and Ghadar has also ended. Baba Bhagat Singh Bilga and Comrade Gandharva Sen Kochar, who died in 2018, were the other two pillars. He was the eldest surviving member of the yaadgar committee. He had been the cashier and general secretary of the committee. Be it the concept of starting the historic Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da, call for the martyrdom status of those who died during the Kooka Lehar or the Komgatamaru incidents, or speaking up against the dilution of Jallianwala Bagh as a mere tourist spot, Naunihaal Singh, a steadfast leftist, was the foremost proponent of these movements. He is also credited with shaping the Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Hall as a literary and cultural hub. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/comrade-naunihal-passes-away-at-84-89850
