26-09-2020||Jalandhar||Protests bring normal life to a halt in Jalandhar||The call of protest against the three contentious farm legislations given by farmer organisations brought life to a complete standstill in the district on Friday.All markets of the city, including those selling essential commodities, chemists, etc, remained shut for the whole day. Fruit and vegetable markets and mandis also remained closed. The bus stand wore a completely deserted look with buses parked in the depots. Rail services remained completely paralysed. SAD Ex-MLA Sarabjeet Makkar faces backlashMilkmen, however, delivered supplies in some areas in the morning. Since internal roads of the city were not blocked, some vehicles could be seen plying, but the overall traffic flow remained thin.All national and state highways across the district were blocked by farmers with the biggest show held at PAP Chowk. The intersection is crucial as all traffic from Jalandhar towards Amritsar, Phagwara and Ludhiana gets stuck with a blockade here. Local representatives of 31 organisations held a protest here as Congress and Aam Aadmi Party leaders supported them with protests.Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, district Congress women wing chief Jasleen Sethi, director of the Punjab Medium Industries Development Board Malwinder Lucky, AAP leaders Sanjeev Sharma and Shiv Dyal Malli were among those who extended support to the farmers.Besides PAP Chowk, protests were held on highways connecting Jalandhar with Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Kapurthala, Nakodar, Shahkot and other neighbouring towns. Akali MLA Pawan Tinu addressed two gatherings of farmers at Adampur and Bhogpur. SAD district chief Kulwant S Manan held a show near Lidran on the Amritsar highway. A massive demonstration was held at Guru Ravidass Chowk.PSPCL engineers wear black badges in officesOther than politicians, youth and social activists, farmers also got a massive support from engineers of the PSPCL. The engineers wore black badges in their offices and said they were in support of farmers who were their potential customers. Harjinder Bansal, Deputy Chief Engineer, PSPCL, Jalandhar circle, said technocrats of the PSPCL, including SDOs and Chief Engineers, were in favour of the farmers as the Centre had not taken them into confidence before bringing out the Bills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protests-bring-normal-life-to-a-halt-in-jalandhar-146829
26-09-2020||Avneet KaurJalandhar||Youths go full throttle in protest against farm Bills||The state-wide bandh call given by the farm organisations today over three farm bills that were passed in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, recently, received an overwhelming support from youngsters who were seen dominating the agitations with their participation.#Isupportfarmers was all over social mediaScores of school and college going students, under the leadership of youth leaders, belonging to different political parties attended the protests organised today at various locations in city including- Pathankot-Jalandhar bypass, PAP, Ravidas Chowk and among other places. Moreover, the youngsters also helped the farmer organisations by posting on their social media accounts for live updates.“This is for the first time that the youths in the city have been actively participating and thronging the protest sites. They have not only given a great response to the bandh call today, but have also been regularly participating in the protests and supporting farmers against the contentious farm legislations,” said, Youth Congress President Angad Dutta, adding that of the total gathering at protest sites today, almost 40 per cent was youth.The protest witnessed the participation of not only youngsters belonging to the farming community, but also from those belonging to the teaching field, unemployed men and women and students and research scholars who came out in large numbers and held bike rallies across the city, said Dutta.Vikram Singh, an engineering student, who was spotted capturing the protest live on Facebook, at the Ravidas Chowk here, said, “I do not belong to any political party or organisation, I am here for the ‘Annadata’ (farmers) of our state. I, along with a few of my friends, decided to participate in the protests today with the sole motive of making the city residents aware of the plight of farmers in the state via social media,” he said, adding that despite Covid-19, the farmers are out on roads. The fact is they are not protesting just for their rights, rather, these laws are harmful for every citizen of India, and it will force us to buy even the cheapest farm produce in almost four times of the cost of its production.He further said technology plays a crucial role in getting huge response from people. Thus, it is time that we all stood together against these draconian laws and show the people in power, the strength and unity among the youths.Another youth Paramjit, a resident of Maqsudan, said, “Though my parents were scared and asked me not to participate in the protest fearing any untoward situation, I assured them that it was not an individual matter, but it belonged to every Indian who is a part of the democracy,” he said, adding, “We should not simply sit inside our homes accepting injustice with the farming community, we must raise our voices.Meanwhile, Balwinder Kumar, General Secretary, Bahujan Samaj Party, Jalandhar, said hundreds of BSP supporters and youth across the region came on streets against the three farm Bills, passed recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youths-go-full-throttle-in-protest-against-farm-bills-146831
26-09-2020||Jalandhar||Doctors, teachers support bandh in Jalandhar||Teachers, doctors, traders, labour unions and the Muslim Brotherhood, among others, backed farmers during Punjab bandh. Members of the Medical Practitioners Union joined the protesting farmers in Lohian and activists of the Masjid-E-Kuba took out a protest rally in Khambra.The protests also marked communal bonhomie. Muslim residents said farmers had backed them during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) protests and it was the time for them to reciprocate.Mazhar Alam, chief, Masjid-e-Kuba, said, “The Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens ke virodh ke samay tamaam kisan tanzeemon ne hamara saath diya (various farmer outfits supported us during the protests against the CAA/NRC). Now, it is the time to reciprocate. We took out a rally in favour of farmers today.”He said, “The farm Bills are detrimental for farmers. It will destroy small-scale farmers and will pave the way for corporates to exploit them.”Dr Harjit Singh, an ayurvedic medical practitioner from Lohian, said, “Asi jattan de putt haan, ki assi kisan da saath nahi devange? (We are children of Jatts, won’t we back farmers?). We are medical practitioners, but we understand the pain of a farmer. We participated in a dharna held at Lohian. There are assurances that minimum support price will be given, but after couple of years, corporates will start underpaying farmers. We cannot let that happen.”The Government Teachers Union, Democratic Teachers Front and ETT teachers Union (Sahota), also backed the bandh. Karnail Phillaur, chief, Government Teachers Union, said, “We are always with farmers. The farm Bills will adversely impact farming sector and will lead to exploitation of farmers.”Farmers also received support from the Naujawan Bharat Sabha, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Naujawan Sabha, Dehati Mazdoor Sabha, Pendu Mazdoor Union and Punjab Subordinate Services Federation, among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctors-teachers-support-bandh-in-jalandhar-146833
26-09-2020||Jalandhar||22-yr-old languishes at ESI Hospital Jalandhar for six months||Denied shelter by at least three shelter homes in the district, a 22-year-old mentally challenged woman has been putting up at the ESI Hospital in Jalandhar for the past six months amid the pandemic.She bows her head and does namaste, whenever she meets a stranger. She spends most of her time gazing out of a window in search of familiar faces. The hospital authorities have written at least six times to the Deputy Commissioner and the Station House Officer to shift her to an orphanage (Pingalwara), but to no avail.The official concerned at the ESI Hospital wrote to the SHO of police station number 4 on July 13 and September 2 and to the Deputy Commissioner on July 22 and September 3. The matter was referred to the District Programme Officer (DPO) by the Deputy Commissioner on September 16, but the post of the DPO is lying vacant.Brought with fractureInitially brought for treatment – the ESI Hospital has now become her house as no shelter home is willing to accept her.Referred as Kiran by hospital staff, repeated efforts to trace her family has proved futile. Found in tattered clothing – she was admitted to the hospital with a limb fracture by 108 ambulance in April.A polythene bag full of clothes lies next to her, filled with suits, brought for her by staff nurses. The authorities have run Covid-19 and pregnancy tests on her– all of which has come out negative.“She tried to run away. We are concerned about her safety as she does not understand anything and gets very aggressive. She casts off her clothes and runs away repeatedly. We have brought her back many times,” said a staff member. Prodded by little they understood, health teams have searched Dhina village to look for her relatives.OfficialSpeakMS Dr Loveleen Garg said, “We have six unidentified or destitute patients. At least three shelter homes have refused to take the 22-year-old woman. Repeated letters to the Deputy Commissioner have not brought any positive results. There are all kinds of elements around the hospital. She tries to escape when she gets angry. One of the shelter homes first asked us to get her tested for Covid-19 but didn’t take her in even after she tested negative. We have also tested her for pregnancy. We need to shift her to a shelter home.”Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “At present, I don’t have details of the 22-year-old woman. We will shift her through the Red Cross Society once we get all the information.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/22-yr-old-languishes-at-esi-hospital-jalandhar-for-six-months-146839
26-09-2020||Jalandhar||Grappling with inflow  of destitute patients||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a different kind of emergency haunts the ESI Hospital in the city. Increasing number of destitute patients had been admitted to the hospital. At one point, there were eight unidentified patients at the hospital. At present, there are such six patients, including three men and three women.As the shelter homes and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) refuse to take accept the patients, they are referred to the ESI Hospital.An elderly COPD patient who tested Covid-19 negative has been at the hospital for the past many days. Another 12-year-old child, who was stabbed, has been here for more than a week. Operated upon by Dr Mukesh Chandra and Dr Rajiv Sharma, the child is still serious.Raju (60) and a 15-year-old Bikram, who was abandoned at Domoriah Bridge, have sordid tales. Raju used to stay on the footpath in Adarsh Nagar and was admitted to the hospital after he fell into a manhole and injured his pelvic bone. His injury has healed but his back is still riddled with sores.Bikram said he used to work as a labourer and he suffered injury after entering into a scuffle. His phone got damaged in the melee, which was his only means to connect with his family in Bihar. He came to Punjab around two months ago. The hospital also has patients from the well-to-do families.Dr Loveleen Garg said, “Selective surgeries have been stopped due to Covid-19, but was conducted in the case of 12-year-old child as it was an emergency. We are grappling with a steady inflow of underprivileged patients. These patients are fed by our staff. Requests to the shelter homes and NGOs are proving futile.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/grappling-with-inflow-of-destitute-patients-146841
26-09-2020||Jalandhar||Adampur woman held for murdering 12-year-old son||The Jalandhar rural police on Friday arrested Gurmeet Kaur, an Adampur resident, on the charge of murdering her 12-year-old son, whose body was found in the fields of Padhiana village in Adampur on September 17. A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered against the woman.On the complaint of the victim’s mother the police started investigation of the case. On September 24, Gurmeet’s father-in-law (boy’s grandfather) alleged that his daughter-in-law had murdered the boy and sought detailed investigation.The police said during investigation the woman confessed her crime. Gurmeet lived with her three children at Padhiana village, while her in-laws lived next door in another house. Her husband Amarpreet Singh lives in Dubai. The police said the boy had seen his mother with her paramour. The boy threatened to inform his father about his mother’s affair. Enraged over this, the woman killed the child. DSP Harinder Singh said, “During interrogation, her replies did not satisfy the police. She took her son to the fields, mixed sulphas tablets in the drink and hit his head with a brick.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adampur-woman-held-for-murdering-12-year-old-son-146843
26-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Weapon used in crime recovered||The CIA staff of the police have recovered three live cartridges and a double-barrel gun used in an encounter in March on the basis of information procured from a gangster brought from Ludhiana jail on a production warrant.During investigation of gangster Mandeep Singh, a double-barrel gun and three live cartridges were found hidden near the bridge at Arniala Choe. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/weapon-used-in-crime-recovered-146844
26-09-2020||A three-day migratory pulse polio drive was held at Kapurthala from September 20 to 22||Pulse polio drive held amid precautions||ASI makes youth cycle their way to changeIn August this year, a Kapurthala police ASI Gurbachan Singh started convincing hundreds of youth cycling across city streets each morning, to accompany him to various villages to spread awareness about drugs. Since August they have visited over a dozen villages spreading awareness on various issues from drugs to Beati Bachao, among others. On September 22 - the ASI spent the entire day on cycle to spread awareness on pollution. Around 30 other youth also accompanied him. The unusual bonhomie between an ASI and a group of youths has become a harbinger of change as they are mobilising may to quit drugs and plant trees, save environment. ASI Gurbachan Singh says, “I conveyed the idea to them and they began to accompany me.Construction of National Highway to impact wildlifeFarmers of the Talwandi Paain and Mithra village participated in a meeting with Environmentalist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal and Chief Wildlife Warden Punjab Kuldip Kumar Laumis to discuss the adverse effects of the National Highway from Delhi to Katra via Amritsar which would pass through several water sources. The adverse impacts of the project on wildlife, water resources, aquatic life and birds and how to stop these were taken up during the meet. From Delhi, the highway shall be passing near the Kang Sabo village where it will split into two branches. Laumis said Beas River supports precious wildlife like Dolphins, crocodiles and beavers. The dolphins come all the way from Harike Pattan to Goindwal bridge. (Contributed by Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pulse-polio-drive-held-amid-precautions-146845
26-09-2020||Jalandhar||Farmers make announcements from gurdwaras to solicit support for stir||Endless meetings, numerous teams interacting with villagers, distribution of brochures and non-stop announcements from gurdwaras, were some of the methods adopted to highlight how the farm Bills passed by Parliament would harm the farming community.A lot of preparation was done for the success of Punjab bandh. A mass movement was started in the state and farmers had done immense work on the ground to reach out to every person who didn’t knew about the farm Bills, said protesters. Kirpal Singh (50), a member of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba), said days have passed since he interacted with his family as he was busy forming strategy for Punjab bandh.“A lot of hard work has gone into making Punjab bandh a big success. We are getting huge support from every sector. Our unity showed everyone that farmers are not alone,” he said.Satnam Singh Sahni, spokesperson of the union, said for the last two days, a van with loudspeakers was sent to villages in remote areas to ensure that every person comes out in the support of farming community and join the mass movement.“The most difficult task for organisations was to come on a common platform and fight in unison. This happened for the first time as every union has a different ideology. The Centre’s anti-farmer Bills made us one,” he said. In Nawanshahr, announcements were made from gurdwaras to support farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-make-announcements-from-gurdwaras-to-solicit-support-for-stir-146846
26-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Roads wear deserted look in Hoshiarpur||All shops and business establishments on Friday remained closed in protest against the Central Government’s agricultural Bills. Different political parties also extended their supports to the agitating farmers. Dana mandi and sabzi mandi also observed a complete bandh today.Arhtiyas and labourers also supported the strike. City banks also closed their branches in support of peasant groups. There was no vehicular traffic on roads as all roads were blocked by the protesters.Peasants groups led by Harpal Singh Sangha of the Azad Kisan Committee, Manjit Singh Rai, president of the Indian Farmers Union Doaba, Jagtar Singh Bhinder Badla, president of the Kisan Kirti Union and president of the Punjab Kisan Sabha, Punjab, blocked the traffic at Purahiran bypass on the Hoshiarpur-Phagwara road. In Dasuya, a joint protest under the chairmanship of Ranjit Singh Bajwa, senior vice- president, Doaba Farmers Committee, was organised in which farmer organisations, arhtiya association, teachers union, anganwadi union, khet mazdoor union and other labourers unions participated. In Tanda, farmer organisations blocked the Tanda-Hoshiarpur road in protest against the farm Bills.It Garhshankar, hundreds of Congress activists assembled at Gurditta Singh Park and raised slogans against the Central Government. PPCC general secretary and former MLA Love Kumar Goldi was also present on the occasion.In Chabbewal, the situation became tense when Akali leaders, who came in support of farmers, slammed by the protesters. In Talwara, the bandh call received a wide support from shopkeepers, farmers and various political parties. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roads-wear-deserted-look-in-hoshiarpur-146847
26-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Plasma therapy may shorten duration of Covid, says expert||“The data from small clinical trials have revealed that plasma therapy may lessen the severity or shorten the duration of Covid-19. More research is needed to determine and gather more evidence,” Dr Sachin Verma, diabetes and infectious disease specialist at Ivy Hospital said this during an online session. He said it was not the first time that plasma therapy had been recommended for treating viral infections. The list includes rabies, hepatitis B, measles, influenza, Ebola, and haemorrhagic fevers for which this treatment was recommended for.Dr Sachin said, “The procedure takes about one to two hours to complete. This procedure is like blood donation wherein the blood groups and Rh compatibility is taken into account. One can donate or receive blood if and only if the blood group matches. The donor undergoes stringent examination and testing for certain mandatory factors including hepatitis, HIV, malaria, etc. to ensure that the unintended pathogen is not passed on to the receiver”.“The blood is drawn from a previously infected but completely recovered patient and then the blood is processed to remove blood cells, leaving behind liquid plasma and antibodies. This plasma is injected into an infected person’s body that will fight the virus and neutralise it from spreading,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/plasma-therapy-may-shorten-duration-of-covid-says-expert-146848
26-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Do not charge extra for Covid tests: DC to private laboratories||In compliance with the orders issued by the state government to cap the charges of RT-PCR, TrueNat and CBNAAT tests, Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Thursday asked private laboratories not to charge more than the prescribed rates for Covid-19 tests.Jal toll stands at 357In Jalandhar, 240 people reported positive on Friday and the total cases reached 12,318. Six people succumbed due to the virus and the toll reached 357. Active cases stand at 2,022. The health authorities discharged 9,939 persons after treatment so far. As many as 70 people tested positive in Kapurthala on Friday.Laboratories have also been instructed to display rates of Covid-19 tests in a visible manner for facilitation of masses. The Deputy Commissioner said no private laboratory should charge more than Rs 1,600 for RT-PCR test including the GST. She said charges for TrueNat were fixed at Rs 2,000 and Rs 2,400 for CBNAAT test, including the GST.She pointed out that private laboratories should strictly adhere to the testing protocols laid down by the ICMR, the Centre and the state government and share the data pertaining to the COVID-19 tests with the govemment, upload it on the ICMR portal and send it to the Civil Surgeon through e-mail with a copy to the IDSP cell. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/do-not-charge-extra-for-covid-tests-dc-to-private-laboratories-146849
26-09-2020||Jalandhar||Onilne event held at Jalandhar's HMV||KMV selects new NCC cadetsJalandhar: The NCC unit of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya under the aegis of 2 Pb (Girls’) Battalion NCC Jalandhar enrolled first year cadets in the batch of 10 each. All the new cadets observed the protection against COVID-19. The cadets were also enrolled through Zoom interview as they were not able to come to the college campus. Selection was held on the basis of their communication skills and cultural interests. Commanding Officer of the battalion Col Narinder Toor, Major Pratima, Lieutenant Seema Arora and other staff members were present as part of the Selection Board. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/onilne-event-held-at-jalandhars-hmv-146850
26-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Great-grandsons of Ghadarite join farmers' cause||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 25During a protest by the Kisan Morcha in 1938, five Ghadar revolutionaries fighting for the rights of farmers were arrested and tied in chains at the Amritsar railway station. They were Sardar Santa Singh, Sardar Sohan Singh Bhakna, Darshan Singh Pheruman, Fauja Singh and Karam Singh Cheema.Keeping legacy aliveMy children have heard stories of their great-grandfather, who did not fear anyone and fought for farmers’ rights and went to jail. They are so inspired that they often say they would keep his legacy alive. — Gurtej Singh, Santa Singh’s grandsonAfter 82 years, great-grandsons of Sardar Santa Singh have joined the farmer protests in Jalandhar.Like their great-grandfather, Gurshaan Singh (13) and Paramraaj (10) have also resolved to fight for the cause of farmers. “Mere dada ji kinne saal kisaana de hak layi lade si, te ajj mere bête vi ladan ge. Par kisaan da haal ajj vi ohi e’ (My grandfather fought for the rights of farmers for years, and now my sons are doing the same. The condition of farmers remains unchanged),” Gurtej Singh, Sardar Santa Singh’s grandson, said.A farmer from Mehatpur, Gurtej said his sons told him they wanted to join the protests. he said both his sons knew that nobody would purchase their crop if the farm Bills were passed.Chiranjilal Kangniwal, a research scholar and librarian at Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall, said Santa Singh had started the Kirti Kisan movement in Punjab after returning from abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/great-grandsons-of-ghadarite-join-farmers-cause-146696
