26-10-2020||---||Raid against illegal power connections||Jalandhar, October 25The enforcement wing of PSPCL, led by Senior Executive Engineer Enforcement, Hoshiarpur, today raided a farm house in Dallewal village of the district. The team found gross misuse of domestic electricity connection by the consumers.A dairy farm with hundreds of cattle was running on the domestic supply of power. The consumer had installed a large number of machines for processing, packaging of milk and preparation of sweets and other milk products in four different sheds of his premises. The tariff for such kind of electricity use falls in the non-residential or commercial category and is on the higher side than the domestic one.The sanctioned load of the consumer was 25 kW, while 50 kW additional load was found connected in his premises. Misuse of an AP motor installed in the same premises was also detected. Later, the enforcement team also raided a bakery and a sweets shop of the same consumer in Hoshiarpur, where there was also an excess load of 20 kW.Deputy Chief Engineer, enforcement wing, Rajit Sharma, said a fine of Rs 10 lakh has been levied on the consumer for several infringements. PSPCL, CMD, A Venu Parsad has directed the Enforcement Wing to fully ensure implementation of rules and regulations of the corporation and implementation of zero tolerance policy towards electricity theft and corruption.In another raid led by Harjinder Singh Bansal, Distribution Circle, PSPCL, Jalandhar, in various areas of the district, including, Model Town, East, West, Cantt and Phagwara division, Rs 13.06 fine was slapped on 30 consumers found involved in power theft and metre tampering. As many as 2,048 connections were detected during the raid. An FIR under the Electricity Act, 2003, has been registered against the defaulters.Gross violationThe sanctioned load of the consumer was 25 kW, while 50 kW additional load was found connected in his premises. Misuse of an AP motor installed in the same premises was also detected. Later, the enforcement team also raided a bakery and a sweets shop of the same consumer in Hoshiarpur, where there was also an excess load of 20 kW.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raid-against-illegal-power-connections-161275
26-10-2020||---||Effigies of Modi, Amit Shah burnt in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 25Celebrating Dasehra as the ‘Mahila and Dalit Atyachar Divas,’ members of the District Mahila Congress activists on Sunday burnt an effigy of Narendra Modi in place of the Ravana. Mahila Congress District President Jasleen Sethi, along with other members of the Mahila Congress, held a rally from her office at 60 Link Road to the Nakodar Chowk where she burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to mark protest against atrocities on Dalits and women.Activists of the Youth Congress also burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah at the Babu Jagjeevan Chowk on 120-feet road to mark the occasion. Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku and Youth Congress leader Karan Mallie led the protest against the farm laws, at the end of which effigies of the duo were burnt on Sunday.Farmers flay Modi’s moves in NawanshahrNawanshahr: The farmers, who have been protesting against the farm Acts over the past fortnight, burnt an effigy of Narendra Modi at the Behram toll plaza here on Sunday. They also raised slogans like “Modi sarkar murdabad” and “Kisan ekta Davinder Singh, who was leading the protest at the toll plaza, said as Dasehra signified the triumph of good over evil, they burnt an effigy of the Prime Minister to spread the word that eventually the farmers would win.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/effigies-of-modi-amit-shah-burnt-in-jalandhar-161276
26-10-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar tally reaches 14,751, one dies in Kapurthala||With 30 new cases of Covid-19 reported in the district on Saturday, the total positive cases rose to 14,751. No death was reported today.As many as 13,813 people have been discharged till date, 479 are active cases and 401 people are undergoing home isolation. The negativecases in the district now stand at 2,37,625.In Kapurthala, 13 people tested positive, of which, one succumbed. The deceased has been identified as a 58-year-old woman from Nawa Thatta village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-tally-reaches-14-751-one-dies-in-kapurthala-161277
26-10-2020||---||Covid casts shadow on festivities||Jalandhar, October 25The Dasehra festivities remained a low-key affair as unlike every year only Ravana effigy was installed and put to flames in the city on Sunday. Obviously, owing to the spread of the virus, Meghnada and Kumbhkarana effigies were not installed by most committees this year.Days before the festival, the Mahkali Committee had sent a message, “As per the instructions imposed by the district administration, the Shri Mahakali Mandir Dasehra Committee is not celebrating the festival by burning the effigies of Ravana, Kumbhkarana and Meghnada.”The city, which organises the Dasehra festivities at around 20 places, witnessed only a couple of Dasehra celebrations this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.However, the Dasehra Club, Basti Sheikh, celebrated the festival with fervour. A majority of other committees observed a low-key festival with some burning little Ravana effigies and others just marking the day with pooja. A 40-foot tall Ravana effigy was burnt at Ghaas Mandi, Model House, to mark the festival. The lone Ravana effigy was not accompanied by Meghnada and Kumbhkarana effigies Though only 200 people were permitted to enter the Dasehra grounds by the administration, thousands flooded the spot to enjoy the festivities.The Shri Mahakali Mandir Committee burnt only a 6-foot tall Ravana effigy with no effigies of Meghnada and Kumbhkarana being installed. The event was attended by 50 to 60 people with no outsiders invited except committee members.Tarsem Kapur, Life President, Shri Mahakali Mandir Committee, “Huge rallies in Bihar are being held, farmers converge in huge numbers. It seems only Dasehra celebrations can lead to the spread of the virus. Over 50,000 people converged on the place to watch the event each year. This year the administration had asked us to limit gatherings to 200. Since that was not possible, we did not hold a formal ceremony this year.”Kapur said it was a lusterless Dashera for artisans, effigy makers, cracker sellers, event organisers and vendors who converged around the Dasehra venues.“It’s a huge loss for cracker sellers in Amritsar. They sell the best firecrackers for Ravana effigies. Sucha Singh from Amritsar sells these. But this year no one had ordered firecrackers due to the Covid protocols.”Pradeep Kumar, secretary, Dasehra Club, Basti Sheikh, said, “We did not build Meghnada and Kumbhkarana effigies to celebrate a muted Dasehra as per the guidelines. We had closed gates of the area at 4 pm.”“Many slipped in despite our best efforts. Better arrangements by the administration would have helped in preventing crowds congregating on the venue,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-casts-shadow-on-festivities-161278
26-10-2020||---||Cops had a tough time||Jalandhar, October 25Dasehra celebrations remained a low-key affair this year due to Covid-19 outbreak. The celebrations were restricted only to a few areas of the city. Dressed in their festive attires, people attended Ramlila functions across city where artistes enacted the scene of the Ramayana where Lord Ram kills Ravana. In some areas, artistes, who had performed in the Ramlilas for nine days also visited residential areas, where they were welcomed with garlands. This year, the Dasehra committee also refrained from setting the 10-headed effigy of the demon king on fire and instead only small and single headed effigy of Ravana, Meghnad and Kumbhkaran burnt with crackers. Giving two hoots to social distancing and other Covid norms, devotees in large numbers were seen in various temples across the city. Shobha yatras were carried out by some Dasehra committees.Amid high security and deployment of forces at various sensitive locations of the city, Dasehra committees had organised a Vijayadashmi function for devotees. Nearly, 1,500 cops, including senior officials maintained a strict vigil to ensure safety and security of the locals. Challans were also issued to the offenders. DCP (Investigation), Gurmeet Singh said, around nine different committees had observed the Dasehra celebrations in the city and police in large number were deployed at all the places to avoid any untoward incident. Notably, compared to last year (40-50 committees), this year, only 12 committees received permission for holding small events due to Covid spread. Gathering of people was also limited and they preferred to celebrate it in their residential areas. Security measures were stepped up in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-had-a-tough-time-161280
26-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Pandemic dims Diwali sparkle for traders||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 25This is the time of the year when the probable of raising profits is about to unfurl. On the contrary, due to the pandemic, the peak season of profit-making this year is apparently witnessing a huge loss. The financial slump triggered due to the virus has majorly hampered the festival spirits of shopkeepers ahead of Diwali, as the demand in the market has declined by 40-50 per cent.After having suffered losses during the lockdown, the shopkeepers were expecting to see a sizeable expansion of domestic consumption by the approaching Dasehra or Diwali, however, they are still awaiting some presence in their shops. Suresh Gupta, general secretary, Jalandhar Electricity Traders Welfare Association, who himself is a wholesale and retail dealer of electricity appliances, said, "The business is still on standstill. This time there is no excitement in the market and no investment. The retailers are very apprehensive before making any kind of purchase as they don''t want the goods purchased in bulk for Diwali sale would remain stored in the shops. Presently, we are witnessing sluggish economic activity, and the investments have dipped to 20-30 percent.”Last year, by this time, the retailers and small shopkeepers would make their demands in advance. Payments also used to be made beforehand to ensure that the products reach in time. However, these days, they are very careful before striking a deal for many had already gone through a cash-curtailing period during the lockdown, and recovery is still impending.Seems as if it is going to be a dark Diwali for most of the traders at Phagwara Gate Electricity Market; no glitters, no chandeliers to their content have been sold. As customers are happy to use last year''s lights and lamps and they are estimating it to be lowest profit season ever.Amit Sehgal, president, Phagwara Gate Electricity Market Association, said, whether it''s a customer or retailer, the main focus is on buying only the selective items. "While retailers are confused weather to place the demands or not and customers are only drawn to essential goods,” added Sehgal.Likewise, Suresh Kumar Mehmi, owner of Mehmi electricals, Nakodar road, stated that the sale is definitely slow as only 50 per cent of customers are there in the market. “Till last year people used to buy goods two-three months prior to Diwali but there was no such frenzy period this time around and physical store owners were not sure of the expected sale,” he said.Perhaps, one can surely expect giftsWhile the sale of electrical and decorative goods is sluggish, the expectation of gifts from their loved ones is the same. Ajit Mandal, owner RCMP, said that though the income of people remained affected due to the Covid, the demand of gifts hasn’’t been much impacted. “The demand for gift items is slowly picking pace and we are hoping that the sale would gain normalcy by the time Diwali arrives,” added Mandal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-dims-diwali-sparkle-for-traders-161281
26-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Father-son duo held for firing at woman, her son||Dasuya, October 25The Dasuya police arrested a father-son duo for firing at a woman and her son and seriously injuring them at Mand Pandher village here on Saturday night. The police have lodged an FIR in this regard nominating three persons, including the two arrested, and two-three unidentified persons.According to information received, Rajwant Kaur (44), wife of Paramjit Singh, along with her son Harleen Singh Chahal (21), had come from Phagwara to attend the wedding of her brother’s daughter. On Saturday evening, when she was attending a phone call outside the house, Tarsem Singh, his son Lovepreet Singh, alias Raja, Amritpal Singh and two-three other persons came there with weapons and opened fire on them with a rifle.Sukhdeep Singh, a resident of Mand Pandher village, told the police that his sister’s marriage was scheduled to be solemnised on Tuesday and a DJ party was held on Friday night. As some village residents (who were invited to the party) were teasing girls, pushing them and hurling abuses during the party, the DJ was stopped which infuriated them to leave the party. The bangle ceremony was underway on Saturday evening when his maternal uncle called from abroad. His aunt Rajwant and her son Harleen went out of the house to attend the phone call. Four persons arrived there with weapons and fired indiscriminately at his aunt and her son and fled the spot. The injured were admitted to the Dasuya Civil Hospital. Both of them suffered bullet injuries on their legs.Dasuya DSP Munish Sharma said two of the accused, Tarsem Singh and his son Raja, had been arrested and the single barrel 12 bore rifle used in the crime recovered from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-son-duo-held-for-firing-at-woman-her-son-161282
26-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Family back home celebrates Rachna Singh’s poll triumph in Canada||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 25“There could be no better day for the victory than Dasehra day as it marks the victory of good over evil,” says Rachna Singh’s Jalandhar-based brother-in-law Monty Sehgal.Rachna (47), who has roots here, has been re-elected as MLA from Surrey-Green Timbers for a second term. She is among the eight Indo-Canadians; of which three hail from Jalandhar and its periphery, from the New Democratic Party (NDP) which has secured an absolute majority in the 87-member Assembly of the British Columbia province in Canada with 55 seats. One of the three women NDP candidates to have won the elections, Rachna is also among the four who secured wins in the Indian-dominated city of Surrey.Labour Minister Harry Bains who has been re-elected from Surrey-Newton, hails from Hardaspur village in Phagwara. Jinny Sims, who has again won at Surrey-Panorama, comes from Pabwan village in Jalandhar.Surinder Kaur, Rachna’s mother-in-law, celebrated the occasion by offering prayers at the local gurudwara this morning. On the auspicious day, the mood at her in-laws home here is overflowing with hurrahs. Brother-in-law Monty Sehgal, who is a spokesperson for Petrol Pump Dealers Association Punjab, said, “It is a very big moment for us. There could be no better day than Dasehra. Greetings and congratulations have poured in from all the near and dear ones. My mother is beaming with pride. First thing she did in the morning was visiting the gurduwara to thank the heavens. We are looking forward that she will achieve even greater heights in her second terms.”Schooled at Government School in sector 35 in Chandigarh, Rachna pursued her MA in psychology from the Panjab University. While she was in India she worked with the Red Cross Society in India and also served as a counsellor at a drug de-addiction centre. She moved to Canada along with her husband and children in 2001 and worked with CUPE as a social worker before being nominated as candidate for Surrey-Green Timbers by NDP.Speaking about her social works, Sehgal added, “She was born to serve society. Our entire family has been keen on philanthropy. She was chosen by the NDP as a candidate in Surrey-Green Timbers due to her popularity as she had been engaged in many social activities.”Rachna’s husband, Gurpreet Singh, is a broadcaster and human rights activist in British Columbia. Her elder son is pursuing engineering in Bio tech and daughter is a Class VIII student. Every time she comes to India, she has never forgotten to pay a visit to her hometown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/family-back-home-celebrates-rachna-singhs-poll-triumph-in-canada-161283
26-10-2020||Avneet Kaur||Cracks appear within four months of repair||Jalandhar, October 25Shopkeepers as well as commuters are a harried lot as the recently repaired road near Darshan Singh Kaypee Chowk, Model Town, has developed cracks at several places.Local residents said the road was repaired nearly four months ago, but it started peeling off within a few days due to "substandard material" used in re-carpeting.They said the patchwork had been carried out a number of times to fill potholes and repair the broken stretches, but it did not last even a month due to poor quality of work and lack of proper supervision.“Though it is one of the busiest roads in the town having a large number of commercial outlets and restaurants, a long stretch on either side of the roundabout is lying peeled off.Commuters on two-wheelers face a tough time crossing the uneven surface scattered with stones”, said Kavita, who works at a saloon in the area.She said the road was the main route to Gol Market, Green Model Town locality and other residential colonies, but the Municipal Corporation had failed to maintain itCommuters said despite repeated complaints regarding the poor condition of the road, nothing had been done so far. “Vehicles often get stuck leading to a traffic jam. Accidents, including fatal ones, have become common on this stretch. Even light showers lead to waterlogging in the area. The councillor has taken up the issue with the civic body on several occasions, but to no avail,” said Archana Singh, a commuter.She said people continued to pay taxes, but the government had failed to provide safe roads.Councillor Rohan Sehgal too complained of the "lackadaisical" attitude of the authorities concerned and said though the road was repaired just four months ago, it had peeled off at several places. Shopkeepers in the area had complained to him about the poor quality of material used. “I brought the matter to the notice of the XEN concerned, but no action was taken," he added.Rajnish Dogra, Superintending Engineer (B&R), could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. However, Mayor Jagdish Raja said the civic body had carried out the re-carpeting work with the utmost sincerity and proper supervision. “There is no point of low quality material used. The road has been broken by the MC for laying the rain harvesting system. We will look into the issue," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cracks-appear-within-four-months-of-repair-161285
26-10-2020||Parents scared||Reopening of schools is fraught with risk of Covid spread||Since the Covid has wreaked havoc across the globe, parents are totally flummoxed about sending their wards to school despite the decline in ongoing cases. Undoubtedly, they want complete safety of their children and taking even a single risk may cost dear. Thus, there is no better solution than to let the homeschooling go on but in such a way that the monotonous online classes do not get under their skin. An initiative can be taken by parents living in close geographic proximity to co-host some activities with proper safety measures so that youngsters can procure those moral values of togetherness and team work. Though everyone is bracing themselves to adapt the new version of normalcy, parents need to become more forbearing and creating an environment in helping them learn real life problems. Moreover, timely feedback from teachers can allow them to reflect more on their wards thus creating a positive relationship amongst them.Tanya VermaReopening should have been delayedThe forced closure of universities, colleges and schools during the pandemic has seriously disrupted our education system. Realising its potential for employment generation and holistic growth of the country, the Centre first permitted online teaching-learning process. But, it deprived poor and marginalised students and those from rural, remote areas who had no access to digital resources such as smart phones, laptops and internet connectivity. Traditional classroom teaching in schools helps in a child's cognitive development and saves him from multiple socio-economic, physical and psychological threats. Moreover, it is necessitated by laboratory and project management requirements. The Punjab government, in line with the Union Ministry of Education, has issued guidelines for partial reopening of schools for Classes XI to XII in a graded manner. Notwithstanding reduced strength in classes, shorter hours, morning and evening shifts, flexible attendance norms, mandatory thermal checking, cleaning and sanitisation of school facilities, wearing face masks and social distancing, a majority of parents or guardians are not keen to send their wards to schools. In the given scenario, most schools are ill-equipped and ill-prepared for usual functioning maintaining safety protocols will be a daunting task for the administration. Though there is a limited community transmission at present, the virus may rear its head again during the upcoming festival season and winter months. Undernourished and physically and mentally stressed children have a weak immune system and are susceptible to viral infection. Keeping in view the public health perspective, the government should have ignored the commercial interests of big private players and delayed the reopening of schools for some time more. It would have saved students and teachers from unnecessary exposure to the deadly risks.DS KangDigital mode of classes is reliableThere is no denying the fact that the Covid-19 induced lockdown has affected the life of every sector, including the education sector. Both the faculty and learners are going through a difficult phase. The parents and guardians are in a fix and majority of them are not at all willing to send their wards to school. After all, it is a matter of safety and security of their children, which of course, no parent can ever think of putting at risk. As far as the students are concerned, their school days are full of glory, playfulness and mingling together along with studying. But sadly, the mask wearing, distancing and other strict regulations will certainly not let them exercise their free will. They may feel to be fettered and bound in a classroom. Moreover, imparting teaching with a mask on their face can drain out the teachers for sure. The biggest concern is if a single student comes in contact with any symptomatic person (the school staff members come from diverse backgrounds and localities), the consequences can be quite detrimental. So, I believe most of the parents will avoid digging at their own heels by ticking the correct option of not sending their sons and daughters to school in these trying times. For the time being, online mode of teaching is the most preferred and only viable option left. It will be really kind and nice of the government if it can bail out the education sector financially. I mean both the schools and students need a financial incentive and booster to keep pace with the mainstream online teaching-learning environment.Simranjeet Singh SainiOnline classes should continuePunjab government decided to reopen schools after taking approval from the Health Department and SoPs issued by the Education Department. Only students of class XI to XII are permitted with parental consent and the attendance will not be compulsory. Online classes should continue. Arts and Commerce students can study online but Science students need a laboratory for experimental work. Wearing of masks, maintaining social distance, provision of thermal scanning and use of sanitiser shall be mandatory. However, it's a matter of concern that reopening of schools can lead to a sudden increase the number of virus cases causing major health crisis, so the school authorities must consult the state Health and Family Welfare Department.Jagdish ChanderAdmn should keep a close watchIn view of overall improvement in the current scenario, the government has initiated the process of relaxing the constraints, including opening of schools in the state. The decision to seek mandate from the parents of students could not evoke adequate response as majority of them have preferred not to send their wards. It is unfortunate that the public lack trust in government’s initiatives but the process of normalisation cannot be derailed and any obstacle needs to be analysed for immediate remedial measures. In the given situation, the administration should continue monitoring the situation very closely while ensuring that all necessary precautions at the schools are being taken seriously to win the confidence of reluctant parents. Once it is palpable to the parents, the attendance of students is expected to rise in coming days.Jatinderpal SinghA premature step of the governmentThe Punjab Government’s decision to abolish night and Sunday curfews is a welcomed one as the general public was inconvenienced without yielding matching results. But, upward revision in limit of gatherings at marriages and funerals up to 100 is a premature step and could be avoided in view of available statistics relating to existing status of the pandemic. It is generally observed that distancing norms and other basic precautions are not strictly followed by the participants at such occasions. Moreover, the society had already adapted to the restrictions as social acceptance for greater cause. The step should have been deferred till the next unlocking phase for taking appropriate decision according to prevailing scenarios.Jagdish ChanderTough but it's time for regular classesRemaining closed for more than six months due to the lockdown, schools and coaching institutes in Punjab started functioning in a graded manner from October 15. The State announced that it would allow the partial reopening of schools and coaching institutions with strict protocols. Teachers have done magnificently during the pandemic, because the sudden transition to online teaching, learning how to use software tools to prepare and present teaching materials is a difficult task. Tests are being conducted and the school management as well as the teachers are doing a remarkable job. If the schools throughout the world reopened a few months ago, our country can also follow suit. Reopening, even in a phased manner, poses a lot of challenges for school managements given that enforcing discipline among people like distancing and wearing of masks is still a difficult proposition. It is also difficult for teachers who would have to get used to wearing masks while teaching and keep a check on for the same during class hours. At the same time, they will have to continue with the rigors of online teaching like preparing material online, correcting homework and internal assessments. As of now, the SoP by the government clearly says that students from Classes XI-XII can go to school on a voluntary basis to clear doubts. However, most parents in urban area are planning to wait for another ten days for sending their wards to school. Physical presence of students in class enhances confidence of students as well as teachers. Online education was right, but it is not a long term solution. Too much exposure to screens of mobiles and laptops leads to a feeling of isolation and anxiety in the current scenario. This can have an adverse physical impact on children. Now, it is time to shift it to regular classes.Amarjit KalsiWhy putting more lives at risk?The basic difference between imparting of education at school and college is that all students at a school come at a fixed time and leave the premises also at a fixed time, whereas in colleges, student's arrival and departure varies according to their periods. So, gathering at the beginning and finishing time at schools is unavoidable. Also, most of the school students make use of the school bus, where physical distancing is not possible. Moreover, formula of 50 per cent occupancy in classrooms is not possible. The choice of online study or physical attendance is out of question because it involves huge financial resources. Above all, when online studies are giving satisfactory results why state government is putting efforts to venture into this risky step. Both the stakeholders, school managements and parents are not favouring starting of schools at this stage. Although the cases are declining, but still, the disease has not disappeared. Many countries in the world are facing the second wave. Instead of putting efforts in this venture, the state government should make efforts to revive tourism in the holy city as whole of the economy depends heavily upon this single sector.Naresh JoharQUESTIONPeople are developing complacency during the festival season. Experts have warned of another Covid wave in the winter season. What measures the Punjab Government should take to curb the second surge?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 29).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/reopening-of-schools-is-fraught-with-risk-of-covid-spread-161287
