26-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||Farmers adamant, head for New Delhi on tractor-trailers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 25Despite the Delhi Police denying permission to farmers’ organisations and the Haryana Government sealing the Haryana-Punjab borders to stop them from entering Delhi, hundreds of farmers from around the region commenced with their ‘Delhi Chalo Andolan’.A huge gathering of farmers (on tractor trailers) was witnessed at Phagwara on Wednesday, it later moved towards Delhi. An equal number of farmers under the banner of various farmer outfits from Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr, Kapurthala, Tarn Taran and Phillaur also assembled at Ladhowal toll plaza in Phillaur. Braving the chill, the elderly group of farmers also expressed anger against the controversial farm laws passed by the Centre. “We are aware that the Delhi Police have rejected our requests and threatened us of legal action against our protest in the national capital, but nothing can stop us now. It’s about our rights and we can’t allow the government agents to act as a barrier in safeguarding these,” said Lakhbir Singh (65), a Phillaur-based farmer.Nearly 300 farmers under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba and Rajewal) marched from Phagwara to join other farm unions in Ludhiana.The protest by farmers went on peacefully on Wednesday. A posse of police was deployed to keep a check on any untoward incident. The highways were open and farmers were systematically sent to avoid any inconvenience to commuters. —Sanjeev Kumar, SHO, PhillaurSatnam Singh Sunny, general secretary, BKU, said: “Along with ration and supplies for two months, farmers started with their ‘Delhi Chalo Andolan’ on around 150 tractor trolleys. If the government tried ceasing our movement, which would end at Ramlila ground and Jantar Mantar in Delhi, it will only bring inconvenience to the general public. We won’t discontinue with our agitation and will block the national highways. Only the government will be held responsible in causing trouble to commuters.”experts to say whether there is a mutation or not. But the only change we see is a reduced capacity to retain oxygen levels in the blood in several serious patients. Additionally, there have been a sizeable number of young people without known co-morbidities in whom also this same dip in oxygen was observed.”Urologist Dr RS Chahal says: “It is possible that a mutation might be witnessed in the second wave of Covid. The number of deaths could be expected to be higher. Delay does remain our prime concern and often the severity of symptoms among patients are aggravated by delay. Patients are still refusing to take Covid seriously. If they are asked to take precautions in the early stages, they treat it very lightly. It is only when things get very serious that they understand the seriousness. When Cytokine storm (an aggressive inflammatory response – a reaction to external stimuli which if accompanied by Covid could be fatal) occurs, health can get worse within hours. People need to realise that precaution, and timely treatment are key to fighting the virus.”Convoy leaves from Lachowal toll plazaHoshiarpur: Protests at the Lachowal toll plaza continued for the 46th day on the call of 30 farmer organisations against the agricultural laws passed by the Central Government. A large convoy of tractor-trailers led by leaders Gurdeep Singh Khun-Khun, Omkar Singh Dhami, Randhir Singh Asalpur, Parminder Singh Lachowal, Swarn Singh Dhugga, Parminder Singh Pannu and Harpreet Singh Lali, including a large number of farmers from the area left for Delhi on Wednesday. The farmer leaders in the convoy, Jasvir Singh Chakkowal, Akbar Singh Bure Jattan and Davinder Singh Kakkoan said farmers have prepared for a long struggle and they are taking along two months’ ration, medicines and other essentials for the ‘Delhi March’. He said the news related to the movement will be updated on social media regularly and they have also arranged for WiFi facility for it. A large number of area residents also joined hands together for financial assistance. The residents of Sherpur Katcha, Kothe Jattan, Muradpur Nariala, Dhugga village and Begumpur Jandiala collectively contributed Rs1, 03,900 for farmers’ struggle. OC...abandon Behram toll plaza after two monthsNo farmer was seen at Behram Toll Plaza, as protesters started with their journey towards New Delhi on Wednesday. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) along with other unions were protesting at toll plazas for the past two months. Ajaib Singh, one of the protesters at the toll plaza, said it was now or never like situation for them. “We have now started towards the capital and will hold dharnas there. No one can stop us. We are ready for the big fight now. No matter what, we are not going to stop and the Centre will see our strength,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-adamant-head-for-new-delhi-on-tractor-trailers-176049
26-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||Red flags amid 2nd wave: Experts warn of change in Covid pattern||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 25With the city Covid numbers rising to 17,310 on Wednesday, and the second wave expected in a matter of days, expert warn citizens of a second wave, which might be mutated or more severe than the previous.A reduced oxygen retaining capacity in the new wave of serious Covid cases has left experts worried.So far, there have been 541 deaths in the district and the deceased include a sizeable number of young people.While the number of Covid patients has rapidly risen in the past few weeks, there is a dramatic rise in the number of deaths as well. However, one of the most bothersome aspects is the severity of symptoms and the death of people with no co-morbidities. The recent deaths of the CDPO’s office staff among others are the case in point.While one of the two assistants who died had only a 43 per cent oxygen saturation levels while being treated at the hospital, his family said he had mild sickness for months.Months after attending his office and weeks after he recuperated from cough, the 50-year-old patient, who finally got his Covid test done, died within 24 hours of getting tested.Mandeep Singh, the deceased’s relative, said: “He was 50-year-old and very active all through the lockdown. Subsequently, he had cough some time ago and saw a local doctor, after which he was diagnosed with typhoid. But when the symptoms died down, he kept going to office again. When I met him a few days ago, I could tell something was wrong with his health. While he kept attending office, disregarding his symptoms and considering these mild, eventually when he was taken to the hospital, he was diagnosed with third-stage pneumonia. He reported of shortness of breath and died within a day of being hospitalised.”District nodal officer for Covid Dr TP Singh said: “While a majority of the cases are still asymptomatic, it is certain that the oxygen carrying capacity seems to be getting affected in the new wave. A sudden dip in oxygen saturation level of many serious cases is being witnessed. So much so that ventilator support is sometimes unable to aid recuperation of stabilisation. While the number of asymptomatic cases is as much as before, the new trend in symptomatic cases is certainly worrisome. It is for Similarly, Amreek Singh, district vice-president, BKU, Kadian, said: “On Wednesday, all farm outfits met in Ludhiana and spent the night at Fatehgarh Sahib gurdwara, where local farmers had made arrangements for lodging and langar sewa. Afterwards, as per the scheduled date, farmers will move towards Delhi on Thursday. Farmers from Haryana will also join in. The counterparts in Haryana will help us with milk and other supplies.”The leaders of other farm unions said farmers would cross the state in a phased manner. Around 400-500 trolleys with a capacity of 20 farmers left Phagwara and Phillaur on Wednesday, Amreek said.While farmers remained undeterred of the subsequent warnings by the Delhi Police and Haryana Government, social media is flooded with posts by the Delhi Police refuting farmers from assembling in the national capital.The Delhi Police said legal action would be taken against farmers if they enter Delhi amid Covid-19 spread. Farmers also expressed their apprehension against the same.Three die, 145 test positive in districtJalandhar: With 145 new cases surfacing in Jalandhar on Wednesday, the Covid tally reached the 17,310 mark. Three deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 541. Notably, while there were 17,071 cases in the district on Monday, the past three days alone have seen the district piling up 239 new cases. As many as 15,696 people have been discharged so far. There are 1,073 active cases in district. As many as 696 people are also under home isolation in Jalandhar. Meanwhile in Kapurthala, six people were tested positive for Covid-19. With the cases peaking yet again, the district administration has busied itself with preparations in the anticipation of a second wave. Following testing of staff members at the Gandhi Vanita Ashram after the demise of two CDPO staff assistants due to Covid, the inmates were also tested on Tuesday. While CWC members had raised concerns over the testing of ashram and shelter home inmates putting up at the Children Home for Girls, Children Home and Observation Home as well as Widows’ Home, DC Ghanshyam Thori had assured their testing. Over 193 inmates of these homes were tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday morning. TNSDISTRICT ROUND-UPSamples collected 3,61,574Negative 3,24,691Positive 17,310Active 1,073Discharged 15,696Deceased 541Sample inappropriate 3,045Results awaited 3,489Home isolated 696DC asks pvt hospitals to increase beds Jalandhar: DC Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday exhorted three major private hospitals of the city to increase the bed capacity in their institutions for the level-II and level-III Covid patients at least by 50 per cent. To review the preparedness by the health institutions to deal with the fresh surge of infections, the Deputy Commissioner visited Capitol Hospital, Shrimann Hospital and NHS Hospital and took the stock of the arrangements. Thori said as per experts, the second wave of contagion would be more intense and that the district administration was duty-bound to ensure the availability of an adequate number of beds with ICU facilities and oxygen support to save each and every life. He said Jalandhar had 575 level-II and 253 level-III beds in 51 private hospitals out of which 467 level-II and 192 level-III beds were still available in these institutions. The Deputy Commissioner said there was a need to increase the bed capacity to deal with the second wave by ensuring quality treatment to patients and reducing mortality. Dr Sandeep Goel from the NHS Hospital said, “We have now 16 level-III beds in the hospital.” He said, “We can scale up the capacity to 70 beds if the second wave of Covid hits in the coming days.” Dr Harnoor Singh Pruthi from Capitol Hospital and Dr VP Sharma from Shrimann Hospital said they would cooperate with the administration to double the level-II and level-III beds capacity in their hospitals. Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Jyoti Sharma said the administration was constantly in touch with all private hospitals on the Covid-19 board and would tackle the fresh spike of infections effectively. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/red-flags-amid-2nd-wave-experts-warn-of-change-in-covid-pattern-176050
26-11-2020||---||Ad-hoc panel unearths scam||Jalandhar, November 25A scam has been unearthed by the Building and Roads ad hoc committee. Nirmal Singh Nimma, chairman of the ad-hoc committee, alleged that only one coloniser has carved out as many as 18 illegal colonies on 105 acres in Jalandhar Cantt constituency.Vicky Kalia, a member, said the coloniser only paid Rs8 lakh for the same, while more than Rs20 crorewas due, which he has to pay to the MC’s Town Planning Department.Kalia said there was a possibility that many such other colonies were being developed without anyone’s knowledge. “We will go and check the 18 illegal colonies on Thursday and take measurements. Then, we will get to know the actual amount the coloniser has to pay to the MC,” he said.Earlier also, Nimma had raised an issue, in which 82 colonisers had approached the department for the regularisation of colonies from 2013 to 2018, of which 42 were regularised, while the remaining requests were rejected because these did not fulfil the terms and conditions set by the state government.Nimma said 40 colonies were established even after being denied permission by the MC.“This is a big scandal. The 40 colonisers didn’t pay even a penny to the MC during the five years, leading to a loss of around Rs6.15 crore to the civic body. On the other hand, the 42 colonies that were regularised, paid only 10 per cent of the total amount and the remaining 90 per cent was still pending. They (42 colonisers who got approval) owe Rs2.25 crore to the MC. The total outstanding amount, along with interest, is a whopping Rs18 crore,” Nimma said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ad-hoc-panel-unearths-scam-176053
26-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Court to consider accused’s bail plea||Hoshiarpur, November 25The case of rape-murder and burning of the dead body of a 6-year-old girl in a village of Tanda on October 21, was heard on Wednesday in the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Neelam Arora through video conferencing. The court fixed December 7 as the next hearing date of the case. Meanwhile, the court heard the arguments over the bail application of the accused and fixed tomorrow’s date for considering the application.Advocate Naveen Jairath, counsel for the victim, told the media that the accused Surjit Singh was produced before the court from Gurdaspur jail through video conferencing. The jail administration informed the court that accused Surpreet Singh, was still undergoing treatment at a hospital in Amritsar due to which he could not be produced before court today.The caseOn October 21, a half-burnt body of a 6-year-old daughter of a migrant labourer, living in a village of Tanda, was recovered from the cattle shed of the accused. The police had arrested Surpreet Singh and his grandfather Surjit Singh after registering an FIR, charging them of rape, murder, criminal conspiracy and destroying the evidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/court-to-consider-accuseds-bail-plea-176056
26-11-2020||---||24-yr-old shot dead in salon, 6 booked||Jalandhar, November 25The police have booked six persons for killing a 24-year- old youth at a salon in Adampur and grievously injuring another person on Wednesday.Sagar Kataria (24), a resident of Reru, Jalandhar, and Sunil Kumar, a resident of Haripur, were at a salon situated on Truck Union road.Two men wearing masks entered the salon while one of their accomplices waited outside on a motorcycle. The duo started confirming names and as soon as Sagar revealed his identity, the duo fired at him. After the incident, the accused fled from the spot with their accomplice.Revolver used by the accused to commit the crime fell on the road outside the salon as they tried to escape from the spot. The police have said gang rivalry may be the reason behind the incident.An FIR has been registered against Simar, a resident of Haripur, Sheepa and Tanna, both residents of Jandu Saingha, and their three unidentified accomplices under Section 302 of the IPC at Adampur police station.Adampur Deputy Superintedent of Police Harinder Singh said, “A case had been lodged against Sagar in 2019 for thrashing Simar and his associates. This incident is a fallout of an old rivalry. Only two men entered the salon and their accomplices were waiting outside on two bikes. Another motorcycle can also been seen near the spot in in CCTV footage.”Adampur Station House Officer said, “Sagar was shot on head and he died on the spot. Sunil is receiving treatment. Last year, Simar and his friends were attacked and an FIR was also registered. Simar was among those who shot Sagar.” He said out of six people, only two went inside the salon while others kept waiting outside. Body of the deceased has been sent to the Civil Hospital. The police are scrutinising CCTV footage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/24-yr-old-shot-dead-in-salon-6-booked-176061
26-11-2020||Jalandhar||‘Skill centres helping youth earn livelihood’||Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal on Wednesday reviewed the launching of the third phase of Prime Minister Kaushal Vikas Yojna in December to make youth more skilled and ensure adequate workforce to the industrialists.Presiding over a meeting with the executive committee and industrialists in the district administrative complex, the Additional Deputy Commissioner said skill centres were playing a pivotal role in making our youth skilled in various fields so that they can meet the market demand and can earn a livelihood.He said the district administration was committed towards ensuring the skill development of the youth by enroling them in several job-oriented courses in the centres so that they can become self-reliant.Sarangal mentioned that the skill development was the need of the hour in the present competitive world because most of the job creations are skill-oriented, besides emphasising the soft skill training for the overall personality development of our youth.The ADC called upon the youth to join any soft skill course along with their skill development course so that they were able to understand the market requirements and communicate better to the various employment opportunities.He also took suggestions from the industrialists to provide them with skilled and educated manpower as per their desires. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/skill-centres-helping-youth-earn-livelihood-176064
26-11-2020||---||Freight trains set to bring 25 lakh gunny bags for rice||Jalandhar, November 25With the freight trains having resumed operations on Tuesday in Jalandhar, the Food and Civil Supplies Department is set to get the supply of 25 lakh gunny bags, which were stuck in West Bengal due to the halting of trains.The Jalandhar district has procured a record 11.42 lakh MT paddy from the grain markets in this paddy season and the same figure was around 10 lakh MT paddy during the last year.The district had a need of around 5,000 bales of new gunny bags (500 gunny bags in one bale) and officials and rice millers were concerned about the procured paddy as the shelling was also started by the latter.However, the almost entire paddy crop has been procured from the markets in Jalandhar by procurement agencies with the Food and Civil Supplies Department managing the situation effectively by allowing the use of the gunny bags of the previous procurement season.A spokesperson said the 25 lakh new gunny bags would be used to pack the rice following the shelling of paddy which would be sent to the other states. He said only new bags can be used to pack the rice and the gunny bags would be reaching Jalandhar within a day. A major chunk of the procured paddy would now be sent to the other state via specials after the milling, he added.The millers of the region expressed gratitude towards the state government for the restoration of the goods’ train services as the new gunny bags would be available within a day.Trains rescheduled||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/freight-trains-set-to-bring-25-lakh-gunny-bags-for-rice-176065
26-11-2020||Jalandhar||Vadhaiyan — A song dedicated to Guru Nanak Dev released||The Punjabi department at DAV College, Jalandhar, has released a song titled ‘Vadhaiyan’ dedicated to the 551st Guru Nanak Jayanti celebrations.Associate Professor of Punjabi department, Rajan Sharma, popular as ‘Moody’, has not only composed the song, but lent the voice as well. Last year also, he was appreciated for his song devoted to the 550th Guru Nanak Jayanti celebrations. He made his contribution to the Parkash Utsav of the first Sikh Guru by making a devotional song based on the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev. He gave a musical tribute on the Parkash Utsav.The promo of the song has also been released on social media and it has already crossed 50,000 views. Followers of the Sikh guru residing across the world appreciated the song devoted to Guru Nanak Dev.Sharma said: “Under the aegis of DAV College and Three Octave Records, UK, this musical performance was composed by Mani Kumar and the credit for the filming goes to Shankar.”Mayor Jagdish Raja was present as the chief guest during the release ceremony of the song, which was presided by SK Arora, principal of the college.Arora, while congratulating the team, said: “There is a unique reference to humanism, globalism, karma and spirituality in the holy speeches made by Guru Nanak Dev. His life-philosophy is providing a direction to the entire world even during the current time. While presenting a musical tribute to such a unique event, the entire DAV family is very happy.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vadhaiyan-%E2%80%94-a-song-dedicated-to-guru-nanak-dev-released-176067
26-11-2020||---||Jalandhar girl takes part in Hult Prize Championship||Jalandhar November 25Tanishka Anand, a second year student of B Com Financial Services from DAV College, Jalandhar, has added another feather to her cap by becoming the only student from Punjab to join the next round of national level Hult Prize Championship.She is participating as the representative of the Guru Nanak Dev University after passing the first stage for the Hult Award, supported by the United Nations and Clinton Foundation.Elated over her achievement, Anand said, “The Hult Prize is a year-long competition in which MBA and college students participate. The ultimate prize to the winning team is in the form of a seed capital of one million dollars. It is seeded in the new startup which the winning team will run. It promotes entrepreneurship and is a huge platform to increase communication skills in the corporate world which is the need of the hour for a commerce student or any field student who wants to enter the corporate sector.”The Hult Prize is a year-long competition in which MBA and college students participate. The ultimate prize to the winning team is in the form of a seed capital of one million dollars. It is seeded in the new startup which the winning team will run. It helps in promoting entrepreneurship. —Tanishka Anand, DAV College“This competition challenges the participants to solve a pressing social issue like food security, water access and energy,” she added.On this occasion, Principal Dr SK Arora expressed his happiness and congratulated Tanishka. He said it was a matter of great pride that a student of their college would compete with the best participants of the world for the International Award such as Hult Award. He wished good luck to Tanishka Anand for the competition ahead.In the month of June this year, she also cracked an online test to be the brand ambassador of the United Nations Indian Team V Force for the Covid-19 group.Aspiring to become a successful entrepreneur, she has been selected to make masses aware of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-girl-takes-part-in-hult-prize-championship-176069
26-11-2020||Jalandhar||Health centre, park in Haripur||Pond water irrigation projectKapurthala: To save the ground water from contamination, the state government has selected the Kapurthala Assembly constituency for the pilot project, under which the village ponds would be cleaned and realigned to further use their water for irrigation. The government has also sanctioned Rs7.37 crore for the purpose, of which MLA Rana Gurjit Singh and Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal has distributed grants worth Rs1.49 crore to five village panchayats. MLA Rana Gurjit Singh said he had raised the issue with proper plan in the Punjab Assembly two years ago and Finance Minister Manpreet Badal had promised to implement it in Kapurthala. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-centre-park-in-haripur-176074
26-11-2020||Jalandhar||NSS volunteer in R-Day parade||Students get jobsAs many as 50 companies have done virtual recruitments for the students of DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology (DAVIET). After SAP, ST Microelectronics, Grey B Research Ltd, Jaro Education, Zscaler, TCS, Paxcom, Capital Via, GNA Udyog, Mount Blue Technologies and Pay Packet.The students selected by various companies will join the organisations in June 2021. The selected candidates were offered a pay package starting from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 12 lakh. Students were recruited after passing through meticulous selection rounds comprising of online test, written test, group discussion, technical and HR interview. Sushil Prashar, Head, department of training and placement, appreciated the hard work of Vishav Kapoor, Ratish Bhardwaj and Kalpana Sharma for inviting companies to hire the students of DAVIET in such a pandemic situation. Dr Manoj Kumar, principal DAVIET congratulated the students on their success.IKGPTU results declaredStudents of Lyallpur Khalsa College outshined in the result declared by IK Gujral Punjab Technical University. Nine students Ruby Kala (9.45 SGPA), Avneet Kaur (9.23), Karandeep Singh (9.23), Manpreet Kaur (9.18) are among the merit holders of Computer Science and Engineering department. From the Department of Civil Engineering, six students Jasmeen 9.54 (SGPA), Muskan 9.39, Poonam Kumari 9.25, Ekta Khanna 9.25 and Mutaza Kamal 9.25 gave outstanding result. Four students of ECE (Sem VIII) namely Anjali Bargota, Sunidhi Srivastava, Akriti Srivastava and Harwinder Singh secured outstanding result by scoring SGPA 10 in their end semester. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) congratulated the students and their parents. TNSNCC cadets plant saplingsJalandhar: NCC Air Wing students of Police DAV Public School planted saplings on the school campus. They were accompanied by NCC Officer Group Captain SK Sharma and principal Dr Rashmi Vij and the school NCC in charges Deepak Mehta, Manpreet Singh, Sudha Malhotra and Amardeep. Dr Rashmi Vij gave plants to the students as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nss-volunteer-in-r-day-parade-176075
26-11-2020||Fearing a rise in dengue cases in the coming days||Observe ‘Dry Day’  to check dengue||Placement camp for unemployed youthAdditional Deputy Commissioner Aditya Uppal asked the employees from the District Employment Department to ensure that the unemployed youth were given employment under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojna. He asked the officials to do partnership with industrial companies located at Baddi and Nalagarh and then organise placement camps.For now, a placement camp was held at the employment office, Nawanshahr, on November 25 from 10 am to 2 pm. Notably, scores of youth looking for the employment opportunities participated in the camp. It proved to be of great help to the youth who lost their jobs during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/observe-dry-day-to-check-dengue-176077
