26-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||One succumbs  in Hoshiarpur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-succumbs-in-hoshiarpur-189602
26-12-2020||Jalandhar||Christmas celebrated virtually||Online expert talk on human valuesThe department of computer science and engineering, Lyallpur Khalsa College, Technical Campus, Jalandhar, organised an expert talk on “Human Values and Professional Ethics” with an aim to inculcate human values in students that can help them to become good human beings along with good professional engineers. The resource person of the day was Col SK Sharma. He advised the students to apply human values in their lives as human values get multiplied as they are used, expressed and acted upon. They benefit both giver and recipient. He highlighted that education in human values and professional ethics is essential to nourish the moral capabilities in the students and ultimately in society in a positive way. He encouraged the students to dedicate themselves for the betterment of the society and the nation they are living in.Saplings planted at Surya Enclave ParkThe managing director of Aakash institute Aakash Chaudhary encouraged students to plant trees to save the environment from pollution and hazardous effects. Aakash Institute, Jalandhar, organised an event “Green Jalandhar Clean Jalandhar” at Surya Enclave Park where IPS Harsimrat Singh (Assistant Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar) presided as the chief guest of the event and Maj Vinay as the guest of honour, Sr Asst Director Ashish Deorani form Aakash Institute, all the staff and students were also present on the occasion. The students were motivated to plant trees, 367 trees were planted equal to the number of 367 selections of the students in prestigious institutes of India such as IITs and AIIMS.Online Fancy Dress CompetitionUnder principal Neeru Nayyar, Shiv Jyoti Public School, during the lockdown period, provided online platform to its students to take part in various activities. Online inter-house fancy dress competition for Classes Ist & IInd was held. The final judgement was made by Bhavna Sabarwal and Sangeeta Sareen. In Class Ist: Pranjal Sharma bagged the first position, Parth Tondon stood Second, Pragun Grover got the third position and Bhumika Sharma got the consolation prize. In Class II - Kani Madan bagged the first position, Aaradhya and Pihu Taneja (2-C) stood second, Divit and Mayank remained third. Saanvi Dogra got the consolation prize. Overall activity was conducted by the activity coordinator Veenu Aggarwal. Krishna Jyoti (chairperson), Dr Vidur Jyoti (chairman trust) and Dr Suvikram Jyoti (manager, managing committee and general secretary trust) principal Neeru Nayyar, vice-principal Parveen Saili acknowledged the efforts of the students, parents and staff members.Langar organisedRamgarhia College of Education organised a langar to commemorate the Shaheedi Divas of Sahibzada Ajit Singh, Sahibzada Jujhar Singh, Sahibzada Zorawar Singh, Sahibzada Fateh Singh and Mata Gujri ji. Speaking on the occasion principal Dr Surinder Jit Kaur highlighted the history of martyrdom. She remarked that Baba Fateh Singh who was cruelly and mercilessly martyred at Sirhind along with his elder brother Zorawar Singh was the youngest recorded martyr in history. He knowingly and consciously laid down his life at very tender age of six years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/christmas-celebrated-virtually-189601
26-12-2020||---||100 pc tap water connections for  anganwadi centres||Jalandhar, December 25In a major achievement, Jalandhar district has become the first in the state which has ensured a 100 per cent piped water supply connection to all anganwadi centres of the district.Disclosing more information, the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal, who led a team of various departments, including the Department of Social Security, Women and Child Development, Department of Water Supply and Sanitation, and Rural Development and Panchayat Department, said that this 100-day special campaign on providing safe and adequate water to all anganwadi centres was initiated on October 2, 2020, under Jal Jiwan Mission (JJM) programme.He said that the campaign was aimed at ensuring piped water supply to all centres for protecting the health of the children and others with access to potable water in the centres.He informed when the campaign was launched, a field inspection was conducted and he got a report that 184 anganwadi centres in Jalandhar were without tap water connection.The ADC (D) stated that following the directions of the state government, the work was immediately kickstarted on all 184 sites, and progress was constantly reviewed with the departments’ heads.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) said that ensuring safe water to children was the top-most priority of the government as the kids are the most vulnerable to water-borne diseases.He said now with the work has been completed in 184 anganwadi centres; all 1,654 anganwadi centers of Jalandhar have tap water connections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/100-pc-tap-water-connections-for-anganwadi-centres-189600
26-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Former District Science Supervisor to join farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 25Baljinder Singh, former District Science Supervisor, said he would be going with his daughters to support farmers in their protest. He had earlier gone a week ago and spent two days at Singhu and Tikri borders.He will now leave for Delhi on Friday and will be staying for a night with his family. Baljinder said he also belongs to a farmer family and could very well understand the pain and concerns. He said it was beyond politics or any political party, but it was for the farmers and every normal person.Singh said his daughters Navroz Kaur (19) and Komalpreet (15) asked him to go there and support the farmers. He said his daughters have motivated him to go and show solidarity with the farmers. “It is because of their pursuance that I visited the border, now again, I will take them along just because they insisted and told me that even they wanted to see the situation there,” Singh said.“My daughters have seen children and elderly going there, which is why they also wished to go there. Apart from protest, I have seen an amalgamation of every culture. There is no discrimination among people there. Children belonging to poor families in Delhi have been coming and eating langar which the farmers have organised,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/former-district-science-supervisor-to-join-farmers-189599
26-12-2020||---||Ind Min Arora gives Rs10 lakh to kin of Covid victim scribe||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 25In pursuance of the decision of Punjab Government to provide a compensation of Rs10 lakh to the family, if any journalist dies of Covid-19, the Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Friday handed over a cheque for Rs10 lakh to the family of journalist Ashwani Kapoor, who succumbed to the virus on September 29.Accompanied by the Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, the minister went to the residence of Kapoor family at Bishambhar Nagar where he handed over the cheque to Veena Kapoor, the wife of journalist Ashwani Kapoor.Describing Ashwani Kapoor an upright and dedicated journalist, Arora said that the journalist was a fine human being too, who was committed to the field of journalism for over four decades.Pertinently, Kapoor was working as senior correspondent in a vernacular daily at Hoshiarpur. Arora also recalled Kapoor’s remarkable services in journalism besides assuring the family of full support from the state government in future too.Meanwhile, the Industries Minister reiterated Punjab Government’s commitment towards welfare of journalist fraternity. Notably, the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced to extend a relief of Rs10 lakh to the accredited or yellow card holder journalists in case of death due to Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ind-min-arora-gives-rs10-lakh-to-kin-of-covid-victim-scribe-189598
26-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Sankalp reaches finals of state TT C’ships||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 25Sixteen-year-old Sankalp has lived up to the billing by reaching the finals of the state table tennis championships in the U-18 category held at the Hansraj stadium here.His game had already been reflecting all the positives as he came into the tournament on back of winning prizes in all three categories during the recently concluded district championships at the same venue. A Class XI student at La Blossoms School, Sankalp was the winner in the youth boys’ category, competed in the men’s category ending as a runner-up at the district level. In junior boys, however, he trailed as a semifinalist.Sankalp had been preparing for the tournament, which began on Thursday, for a while now. Running hot, he has his eyes set on the glory. Nothing less than that shall do for him. “Since top four players in the district category can participate, I will be playing in all three categories. I want to give my best this time. Last year, I had participated in the junior category in the state championships and came second. I want to improve my overall performance this year,” he says.A resident of Shiv Nagar here, he shares: “I am maintaining a fixed routine for the past four years. I wake up at 5:30 am and go for cycling to the Old Baradari park. There, I run long distances between 6 am to 7 am to improve my stamina. I go for running again in the evening from 5:30 pm to 6:30 pm. In the daytime, I practice at the stadium under the guidance of coach Manish Bhardwaj. I have also taken training from Vaneet Chopra, chief manager, SBI, who has really helped me improve my game.”Asked how he was coping with his studies, Sankalp says: “My elder sister, who is doing BSc (economics), helps me with my studies.”Sankalp’s father Manish Kashyap said: “I, too, have been a table tennis player. I played national championship in Goa in 1984. I was in a marketing job and left the game. Seeing my son’s interest in the game, I made him take proper coaching. I have also left my job and am now run a canteen on contract at the stadium itself, so that I can take care of my son.” He, too, has his fingers crossed for the upcoming finals, scheduled for tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sankalp-reaches-finals-of-state-tt-cships-189597
26-12-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Healthcare sector keeps it real with patients||Hoshiarpur, December 25Ever since the pandemic hit, functioning of hospitals has revolved around the dreaded virus. From check-up of the patients to pre-operative diagnostics and post-operative care, the surgeons have brought in a myriad of changes. Not only have the tests for Covid become a must but the viewpoint towards the radio diagnostics, too, changed.The temperature check before a normal check-up has become essential for every patient, apart from going through his/her clinical history; even family’s, is now taken into account which was earlier unruffled.Surgeon Dr Rajinder Sharma told The Tribune, “Checking temperature of each and every patient in OPD and getting their hands sanitised has become a common thing. The testing before surgeries are performed has become an essential part of pre-operative procedure. Separate sanitiser and a thermometer are provided to every in-house patient. In OPD social distancing, sanitising is a must and masks are provided to every patient who enters without one.”Orthopaedic surgeon Dr Sanjay Narad, said, “The Covid has changed the viewpoint towards diagnostic techniques. Testing has become essential for everyone, the chest X-ray has become all the more important and more careful observation is there because its reports contains indications of Covid. The clinical history of not only the patients but of their family members is sought to ascertain that if the patient or anyone in the family is suffering from Covid already. The post- operative care has to be done mindfully and prophylactic treatment is also provided to prevent any complications if the virus threatens at a later stage. Most of these things are new and were not there before the outbreak.”Surgeon Dr. Rajesh Mehta said, “Thermal scanning and sanitisation along with masks and distancing is normal in OPD now and testing for Covid before routine non-emergent surgeries as well apart from use of not only masks, but also face shields and even the PPE kits by the surgeons. If anyone comes with flu-like symptoms and needs to be admitted for hospital care or surgery, he or she is kept in a pre-emergency ward where primary aid is given and the patient is tested for Covid. If reports are negative, patient is sent to the emergency or the OT, as the case may be.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/healthcare-sector-keeps-it-real-with-patients-189596
26-12-2020||---||B&R ad-hoc panel one-man show, alleges councillor||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 25Jaspal Kaur Bhatia, councillor of Ward No.45 and member of the Building and Roads (B&R) Ad-hoc Committee, raised several questions in its meeting held here on Thursday evening.The councillor said complaints regarding the poor condition of roads were being received which must be checked from time to time but the complaints were being ignored.Jaspal Kaur asked during the meeting what actions were taken against the contractors and the officials because of whom, several newly constructed roads were in need of repairs again in the city.Jaspal Kaur targeted the chairman of the committee, Jagdish Gag, saying the committee was like a one-man show because the chairman was not taking along the members of the committee.“We are not invited to any of the events or even the inauguration of the project. This is not fair. I do not understand what our role is then,” she asked Jagdish Gag, the chairman of the committee.Mired in controversiesThe lack of an adequate number of safai karamcharis in the wards had led to the resignation of Satinderjeet Kaur, a member of the Health and Sanitation Ad Hoc Committee.Chanderjit Kaur, a member of the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Ad hoc Committee, resigned from the committee citing that there was no point in remaining a part of the committee when nobody was going to listen to their members. Some chairmen and members of the Municipal Corporation’s ad-hoc committees have also shared openly that they were furious over being ignored repeatedly by branch heads of the civic body.According to the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, the Municipal Corporation has to constitute the committees on water supply and sewerage disposal, building and roads, and house tax assessment, etc, but since the time these committees came into existence, controversies have been erupting because either the committee members are upset with the branch heads or friction is visible between the members and the chairman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/br-ad-hoc-panel-one-man-show-alleges-councillor-189595
26-12-2020||---||Farm unions decide further course of action||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 25During a meeting held under Hans Raj Pabwan, Bibi Surjit Kaur and Devinder Basra members of the Kirti Kisan Union and young students organised a joint meeting here to exhort villagers to participate and play their own roles to extend solidarity to the farmers protests at Delhi.Kirti Kisan Union leader Makkhan Singh Kandola, youth wing leader Devinder Singh Basra and Pendu Mazdoor Union leader Tarsem Peter said during the meeting it was decided that area wise village lists shall be made and in those villages farm-labour women and men 5 to 10 member teams shall be made through which support would be mobilised for farmers’ protests. Speakers shall be put at village saths, chowks and gurdwaras to lend support.At toll plaza, Phillaur, every day one village will be deputed. It was also declared that products of Jio, Ambani, Adani, Ramdev and Patanjali shall be boycotted and on the morning of December 27 at 11 am, PM’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ address shall be opposed by banging thalis.Villagers from various villages gathered to extend full support to the movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farm-unions-decide-further-course-of-action-189594
26-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Power supply to seven Jio towers snapped in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 25As many as seven Jio towers have been closed in the ongoing angst against the Jio network amidst the farmers’ protests going on in the district. While at least seven towers at Jandiala, Shahkot and Lohian have been closed, farmer unions looked set to close down more at Jamsher and neighbouring villages until the filing of this report. At a time when many cultivators are busy protesting at the Delhi borders, many union activists have stayed back just to ensure the closure of towers across the state.Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU Rajewal) severed electricity wires and cables of various Jandiala towers. As a result of the campaign sim cards in huge numbers are being ported out from Jio. Jandiala is now left with only one Jio tower.Amarjot Singh, youth leader of BKU Rajewal, who has been stalling his Delhi visit to get Jio towers closed, said, “At least 600 to 700 people have switched networks in Jandiala alone. Only one tower is left and we plan to get that closed too. In the coming days we shall shut more towers. Towers at Jamsher and Bhode Samrai villages have also been closed today. At Jandiala, the network provided by the one remaining tower is no good to use. ” They are identifying more towers.Amrjot added that during a campaign being run for the coming three days, the farmers of the union shall also get screens put on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee closed, gherao the residences of BJP leaders on December 26 and PM’s Mann Ki Baat address will meet the clamour of thalis on December 27.The gherao of BJP leaders and the ‘thali-battering’ protest are action points were listed in the farmers’ protests bi-weekly newspaper and mouthpiece ‘Trolley Times’ already.Meanwhile, in Jalandhar, three Jio towers were closed by farmers at Jandiala, one tower at the Panchayat ghar of Samrai village was shut off by the members of the union. Also, members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee got three towers closed at Shahkot, Lohian and Mallian Khurd village.Rajodh Singh, press secretary of the committee, said, “We are here at the Singhu border but our activists are on the job. Towers at various villages have been closed and work is on to get many more closed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/power-supply-to-seven-jio-towers-snapped-in-jalandhar-district-189593
26-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||‘Lost husband, but zeal to pressurise Centre alive’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 25Around 20 km ahead of Nawanshahar lies Hasanpur Khurd village in Balachaur. Surinder Singh (55), of this village is among one of the casualties, which took place during the farmers’ stir on Delhi border. The deceased had joined the protest on November 30.With a little landholding, Surinder used to grow crop for 10 family members and a dozen head of cattle.Now, his son, Manpreet Singh (29), has taken the baton to continue farming. Manpreet said, “My father used to wake up at dawn to work in the fields and feed cattle.”Having left for the protest site with fellow villagers, Surinder succumbed to his injuries on December 4, after a speeding tractor-trailer hit him near Tikri border while he was answering the call of nature.Shattered by his sudden demise, his wife, Balbir Kaur (54), blamed the Centre for enacting such laws that has forced farmers to camp on the roads.“Though he has left for heavenly abode, our zeal to pressurise the Central Government to revoke the farm laws is unshakable. In fact, it has doubled with the sacrifice of my husband.” she said.Furious over the government’s attitude towards their agitation and casualties, villagers said they won’t come back till the farm laws were withdrawn added Balbir, whose one hand had got chopped off in a fodder machine a few years ago.The death of Surinder has shocked Gurdeep Kaur (80), whose another son had died around two years ago in an accident. Narrating the importance of farming for development of the country, Gurdeep said these days there’s a different kind of hustle in villages. Kindly stand with farmers to protect their rights, she appealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lost-husband-but-zeal-to-pressurise-centre-alive-189592
26-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers block Som Parkash’s route to BJP event venue||Hoshiarpur, December 25Hoshiarpur MP and Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash had to change his route to reach the venue to attend a function organised by the BJP on the occasion of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birthday here on Friday.Earlier, the event was to be held by the BJP in the Shastri Market area but later the venue was shifted to the Valmik janj ghar. When the protesters came to know that the function would not be held at the district BJP office (Shastri Market), they marched towards the Valmik janj ghar at Bahadurpur, the new venue of the function. The minister had to pass streets to reach the venue.As the farmers approached near the venue, they were stopped by the police personnel but they were adamant that they would not let them hold the function. Hoshiarpur SSP Navjot Singh Mahal rushed to the spot and tried to persuade the protesting farmers. The farmers then staged a dharna at Bahadurpur Chowk and raised slogans against the BJP. They said the BJP leaders would be opposed till the agriculture laws were repealed.They said the Narendra Modi-led NDA government at the Centre was bullying the farmers which would not be tolerated at any cost. Meanwhile, the Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry wound up his speech in a few minutes and left the venue.Gurdeep Singh Khun Khun, Harbans Singh, Gurmesh Singh, Gurnam Singh Singriwal, Dr Majhail Singh, Parminder Singh Sajjan and others were leading the farmers on the occasion.Effigy burntThe farmers’ movement is gaining momentum with each passing day here. Protests, songs, poetry, nukkad nataks, and what not! It’s almost 30 days and not only in Delhi, Punjab’s every district is witnessing protest by the farmers. On Friday, the farmers of Kirti Kisan Union burnt an effigy of Som Parkash, Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, at Daulatpur village in Nawanshahr. The farmers along with members of the Physically Handicapped Association marched in the village by holding the effigy of Som Parkash and then burnt it.The members of the unions said that the minister was not supportive of the movement and was not speaking well of the farmers who are taking part actively in the movement. “The place has been chosen because the minister belongs to this village,” Surinder Singh Bains, district president of the Kirti Kisan Union said. Amolak Singh, president, Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch, who had spent more than 15 days with farmers protesting at Singhu and Tikri borders, is organising nukkad nataks to make people aware of the issue. Several poems and songs are also being written for the farmers.Tributes paid to VajpayeeHearty tributes were paid to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary here on Friday. Under district president Sushil Sharma, an event was organised at the Jalandhar North constituency, mandal number 2, wherein floral tributes were paid to Vajpayee by garlanding his photo. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to farmers was also heard across 13 mandals in Jalandhar virtually. BJP leaders Anil Kala, Rajesh Mohan, Anuj Sharda, Vinod Saini, and Vijay Gulati were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-block-som-parkashs-route-to-bjp-event-venue-189591
