27-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Shopkeepers up in arms against odd-even system||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 26The odd-even rule to curb the spread of Covid-19 has irked shopkeepers in the city. Already reeling under heavy losses, traders have appealed the government to withdraw it.Arjun Papneja, owner, Rehmat Collections, said, “It will difficult for us to survive as shops will open for only three days in a week. Our trade has already suffered due to the lockdown. Now, when we are managing to get our business back on track, the government is implementing such unrealistic restrictions. Besides, even if we open our shops for a limited number of days, our expenses would not reduce. We still have to pay salaries to our staff and settle our loans and expenses.” We are following govt norms: tradersNotably, there are around 3000-4000 shops in the Rainak Bazaar, Sheikha Bazaar and other surrounding markets. And in every shop, on an average there are three to four workers for dealing with customers. Shopkeepers claim in order to provide salary to the staff and recover the losses, they are defying the odd-even rules and protesting against it. They, however, claimed that they abide by all safety rules before letting the customers inside their shops.Similarly, Munish Mahendru, president, Rainak Bazzar Market Association, said, “Will the government waive our taxes, our bills and other expenses? Of course not, then why should we be the subjected to further losses. There is no curb on wine shops and vegetable markets then why such restriction on us. We are ready to open our shops only till 5.30 or 6.30, but we should not be forced to follow the odd-even rule.”It will become difficult for us to survive as shops will open for only three days in a week. Our trade has already suffered due to the lockdown. Now, when we are managing to get our business back on track, the government is implementing such unrealistic restrictions. —Arjun Papneja, owner, Rehmat CollectionsNotably, there are around 3,000-4,000 shops in the Rainak Bazaar, Sheikha Bazaar and other surrounding markets. And in every shop, on an average there are three to four workers for dealing with customers, therefore, the government’s move to retain the odd-even formula for commercial establishments was being defied by the traders, who also claimed that they abide by all safety rules before letting the customers inside their shops.Protest against moveA large number of shopkeepers today held a protest march at Jyoti Chowk. The agitators demanded that the administration should allow them to operate on all days and assured that they would close their shops on weekends. Harpreet Sachdeva, president, Seikha Bazaar Association, said consumer demand has dipped by 40 per cent and they were hardly able to make up for their expenses. If, the government didn’t pay heed to our appeal we would intensify our protest, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shopkeepers-up-in-arms-against-odd-even-system-132059
27-08-2020||---||KMV Principal bags Saahas Award-2020||Jalandhar, August 26Atima Sharma Dwivedi, Principal, Kanya Maha Vidyalaya (KMV), has been presented with WISCOMP Saahas Award-2020 for her work in gender equality in higher education and initiating projects for safe environment and places in higher education for women.She has been working on gender equality through Conflict Management and Peace for Women in Society. Divulging details, she said the award recognises work of individuals who have provided inspiring leadership at their institution and have worked with WISCOMP as partners to promote the idea of Gender Audit Templates.She further said that she has been working for women empowerment for the past 40 years through higher education and has extensively worked for the welfare of army families and civilians in the remote areas of North East and J&K.She added that KMV is the first and only college to be awarded the Women Studies Centre and under Women Empowerment Cell, around 4000 women who belong to the underprivileged society have been imparted skill development training.KMV management, faculty and students congratulated Dwivedi on her achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kmv-principal-bags-saahas-award-2020-132060
27-08-2020||---||Centre selects Jalandhar for Stage-II of PM award on service delivery||Jalandhar, August 26In recognition of speedy delivery of the citizen-centric services in a time-bound manner, the Central Government has selected the Jalandhar district, sole in the state, for the Stage-II of the coveted Prime Minister’s Awards in the category of improving service delivery.Now, the district administration will give web-based PowerPoint presentation to the screening committee of Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, Government of India, on August 28.We have been constantly monitoring the functioning of Sewa Kendras. A weekly review of the Sewa Kendras’ performance was being done to facilitate the general public —Ghanshyam Thori, DCOfficials claimed that the district has the lowest pendency rate of 0.08 per cent. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said it was a matter of great pride that the dedication of the team had been recognised at the national level. Thori said, “We have been constantly monitoring the functioning of Sewa Kendras. A weekly review of the Sewa Kendras’ performance was being done to facilitate the general public”.He said the Sewa Kendras in the district received as many as 3,01,119 applications till date and the total pendency was only of 245 applications. The Deputy Commissioner told that the Sewa Kendras were opened by the state government to facilitate the people with more than 200 citizen services under one roof and any sort of laxity in delivery of said services would not be tolerated at any cost.The Sub-Divisional Magistrates had also been tasked to carry out inspections in Sewa Kendras to take stock of the functioning of these centres in larger public interests, said Thori. He said that Sewa Kendras were acting as a facilitating agency for the people coming for their routine administrative works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/centre-selects-jalandhar-for-stage-ii-of-pm-award-on-service-delivery-132061
27-08-2020||---||Ralhan assumes charge as  chairperson of NIT Board||Jalandhar, August 26 The Ministry of Education and Department of Higher Education have nominated Subhash Chandra Ralhan, Managing Director, Sri Tools Private Limited Ludhiana, as the Chairperson of the Board of Governors (BOGs) of Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar. He was welcomed by Director LK Awasthi. On the occasion, Awasthi briefed him about the institute and shared the recent academic and research developments at NIT, Jalandhar. He apprised him about the initiatives taken by the institute during pandemic and filing of 26 IPRs from the institute. The chairperson shared his vision with the director and told that his main focus will be on better interaction between the academia and industry. He expressed that the goal of the institute should be to produce competent professionals to meet the requirement of Industry and capable of starting their own ventures. Dr S K Mishra, Registrar, Dr R K Garg, Dean Faculty Welfare, and Dr Anish Sachdeva, Dean Students Welfare, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ralhan-assumes-charge-as-chairperson-of-nit-board-132062
27-08-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Mayor warns of action against ‘erring’ workers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 26Taking cognisance of the ‘irregularities’ in the customer complaints resolution process, Mayor Jagdish Raja has asked MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma to summon and seek reply from the Complaint Cell staff on how pending complaints were marked as resolved by their staff.“They have given fictitious information and show-cause notices will be sent to them,” the Mayor said.Notably, the Mayor had pointed out that the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Department and the Streetlight Wing had given wrong information by showing pending complaints as resolved. He also added that the Complaint Cell did not check the data provided by the departments. He said that he would first ask the Complaint Cell officials that how did they marked the complained as resolved, if they name the staff of other departments (O&M and Streetlight wing), then they will also be asked the same.The Mayor had directed his office staff to call each complainant and ask whether their problems have been resolved or not. It was found out that there were several discrepancies in the data of resolved complaints given by the departments. Lapses in grievance redressal mechanismFrom August 1 to 24, as many as 178 complaints were registered with the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Department and all complaints were shown as resolved. But, as per the information, only 90 complaints got resolved and the rest 88 were still pending.Similarly, of the 980 complaints related to streetlights, only 775 were resolved.“I will send show-cause notices to those who have done this. This is not acceptable at all. How could they commit such a mistake when city residents are still grappling with the problems,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mayor-warns-of-action-against-erring-workers-132063
27-08-2020||---||Without mask? Be ready to face the wall!||Jalandhar, August 26Strange are the times and so will be the punishment for not wearing a mask! The Punjab Roadways authorities, on Wednesday, announced to impose heavy fine on those found without a mask at the bus stand. Not only this, the offenders will be punished by being asked to sit in front a wall for an hour to make them realise their offence.In view of the increasing number of Covid cases and a sizeable footfall of passengers and locals at the city bus stand, the Roadways officials decided to take stern action against offenders breaking Covid norms. Taking assistance from the cops posted at the bus stand police choki, the Roadways employees would punish people if spotted without their face being covered.The initiative was taken only to sensitise people. We are forced to take such an unusual step. The drivers and conductors have also been directed to not give tickets to people without masks and those who remove their masks inside the bus would also be dropped at the nearest station before their destination. —Tarsem Singh, bus stand supervisorTarsem Singh, bus stand supervisor, said: “The initiative was taken only to sensitise people. Through this, they will be asked to strictly abide by safety rules. Many times, it is observed that passengers either hang their mask in their neck or remove these while sitting and boarding the buses. Meanwhile, social distancing also goes for a toss. Subsequently, we are forced to take such an unusual step. The drivers and conductors have also been directed to not give tickets to people without masks and those who remove their masks inside the bus would also be dropped at the nearest station before their destination.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/without-mask-be-ready-to-face-the-wall-132064
27-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Mutation in strain? August sees surge in Covid deaths among young with no co-morbidity||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 26With 13.53 per cent of the district Covid deceased comprising young people and four of them in August with no known co-morbidities, there are speculations whether there is a change in the strain of the virus.While the Health Department does not officially declare a mutation in the virus yet, it admits there is a 15 per cent death rate in the state among those who are not co-morbid.Worries abound over the death of healthy people in whom so far no known co-morbidities exist.Of the 133 total deceased in Jalandhar, 18 deaths have been of people up to the age of 40 in the district since the Covid pandemic started. Of these, the highest number of deaths – 12 – in August have become a cause for concern for the Health Department. Of these 12, at least four people who died in August have no known co-morbidities.It will be too early to say whether there is a mutation or a change in strain. However, the young deceased being reported without a co-morbidity is a cause for concern. Lack of proper precautions and delayed treatment are worrisome factors. —Dr TP Singh, Nodal officer, Covid, JalandharNotably, the deaths of young (even those with co-morbidities) also saw a rise in August. While in August there were 12 deaths of those till age 40 in the district; only one person died in May, 3 people died in June and 3 people of the age group died of Covid in July as well. One of the deceased, a 38-year-old woman, also had no listed co-morbidity in June.These deceased include a 36-year-old man, who died on August 5; a 26-year-old youth, who died on August 11; a 40-year-old, who died on August 22 and a 39-year-old, who also died on August 22. The 39-year-old had obesity, but no other pre-existing health problem.Additionally, in Kapurthala two young people died of Covid recently and both of them had co-morbidities. A 25-year-old youth from Raipur Peer Baksh village had died on August 20. Another 29-year-old woman also died in Kapurthala in August, who had blood cancer.OfficialspeakAround 80 to 85 per cent deaths being reported to us are of co-morbid people. There are about 15 per cent in whom no immediate co-morbidity can be traced. But most of these deaths are due to delay in reporting for treatment. We don’t believe there is mutation in the virus. The proportion of deaths has risen across the state in August, which includes the young. But the young need to abide by protocol and advisories and need to report for treatment, lack of which is causing Covid fatalities among the youth. —Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, State Nodal Officer Covid-191 dies, 116 people test +ve, dist tally reaches 5,689Jalandhar: After Nakodar MLA Gurpratap Singh Wadala, Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh also tested positive for Covid-19. Pargat is among the 116 people, who tested positive for the coronavirus in Jalandhar on Wednesday. With the 116 people tested positive today, the district tally has risen to 5,689. With one more death, the toll in the district has reached 145. BJP leader Vijay Sampla’s nephew Ashu Sampla and from Kapurthala Akali leader Bibi Jagir Kaur’s daughter had also tested positive from Jalandhar among key leaders and their kin, in the past few days. From the Congress, Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit’s staff tested positive. While contacts, kin or neighbours of MLAs Sushil Rinku and Bawa Henry also tested positive, this is the first time that two Jalandhar MLAs have tested positive on the same day. They are among the 22 MLAs, who have tested positive across the state. Meanwhile, three people died of Covid in Kapurthala on Wednesday. They include a 45-year-old woman, a resident of Darbans, Phagwara, who was admitted to GMC, Amritsar; a 74-year-old man from Guru Hargobind Nagar Phagwara, with a history of hypertension, diabetes admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar and a 71-year-old man from Bholath admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar with the history of diabetes and hypertension. TNSOne death, 79 new infections reported in Hoshiarpur districtApart from one more death, as many as 79 new positive patients were reported in the district on Wednesday. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the report of 1,313 samples was received on Wednesday, of which 79 tested positive, taking the total number of positive patients to 1,224. The total number of deaths, due to the death of another Covid-19 patient in the district, has gone up to 33. The city had the largest ever spike today with 48 new cases. On Wednesday, samples of the Civil Surgeon’s office staff were also taken and all employees tested negative. The Civil Surgeon said out of the 79 patients found positive on Wednesday, 48 were from different areas of Hoshiarpur city, while five were from Harta Badla, three from Budhawar, four from Posi, six from Garhshankar, one from Tanda, four from Dasuya, two from Chakkowal, one from Bhunga, three from Hajipur and two cases from Mahilpur health block. Meanwhile, a Covid-positive patient from village Lolta, Hajipur, died on his way to Chandigarh due to serious illness. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mutation-in-strain-august-sees-surge-in-covid-deaths-among-young-with-no-co-morbidity-132066
27-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||When computational thinking becomes the order of the day||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 26As the pandemic has made entire learning system go digital, computational thinking and programming have become the order of the day.The entire scenario has led to increase in the overall demand for coding courses, which are being offered by various online platforms these days.The craze for the course has increased so much that while it was earlier only senior secondary students or B Tech students who were learning coding or computer programming courses, now many parents of even primary class children are pushing them into taking these courses.A number of portals have been widely promoting the concept of learning coding for children from the age of 9 years and above. These are even conducting one-on-one free trials for children and their parents demonstrating the advantage of learning coding at an early age.Harjit Singh, whose 10-year-old daughter is pursuing such course, finds it the most useful in-thing. “Our children are growing up in a world which has become completely digital. I made my daughter take the course as I am told that even a Class V child who has taken a course in coding can develop own mobile portal. She already is a YouTuber and has a lot of interest in computer technology. So, I felt this is the best time for her to learn something that will further enhance her skills,” he said.Nidhi Sharma, another parent, believes coding to be the new form of literacy for the 21st Century. “My son who is in Class VI has also begun learning coding. It has been just a few days since we enrolled him in the course, he is really enjoying it. He wants to use it for creating animations. A friend of mine told me about the course. Then, I held a long online session with the company staff that told me that coding will nurture a child’s analytical and mathematical skills, while improving upon his self-expression and communication skills. Quite convinced, we just thought we could give it a try,” she said.Most companies advertising the courses have set up classes for four levels – beginners, intermediate, advanced and professional. The companies are in fact not just targeting children, but also young lawyers, architects, videographers and even artists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/when-computational-thinking-becomes-the-order-of-the-day-132067
27-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||In home isolation, community help comes as a big morale booster||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 26As home isolation has become common for Covid-19 patients, community help is turning out to be a big solace for those in quarantine.While earlier gurdwaras were preparing special meals and sending these for Covid patients, now people in neighbourhood, friends and NGOs are extending help to Covid patients needing cooked food, medicines, fruits, pulse oximeters, steamers, extra thermometers and any specific diet required by them at home.Vandana Bali, an entrepreneur based at Mithapur, said: “At a time, when three of us including my husband, daughter and I tested positive for Covid-19, it were our neighbourers, who came as the biggest help. My father-in-law was unwell and we told our maid not to come. The entire burden passed onto my aging mother-in-law and my 16-year-old son. My neighbours quickly realised our problem and told my mother-in-law not to worry and that they would provide us cooked meals in disposal utensils every day till my quarantine period ended. I cannot forget their gesture, especially the fact that they even baked a cake for my son on his birthday that fell in days when we were all ill.”I never expected so much help during my illness. Five of my friends used to ask me if I needed something every day. They were just a call away and would provide medicines or anything that I needed, when I was suffering from Covid and my family was in quarantine. Even in case I said no, they would leave fresh fruits or coconuts outside my flat and give me a buzz asking me to get it picked. —Surinder Pal, A resident of Silver Residency Those having been through home quarantine believe that had their friends or some NGOs not extended the much-needed support, it would have become quite difficult for them to handle sickness, isolation and trauma — all at one go.Surinder Pal, a resident of Silver Residency here, said: “I had never expected so much help coming my side during my illness. Five of my friends used to ask me if I needed something every day. They were just a call away and would provide medicines or anything that I needed in days, when I was suffering from Covid and my family was in quarantine. Even in case I said no, they would leave fresh fruits or coconuts outside my flat and give me a buzz asking me to get it picked.”At a time, when my husband, daughter and I tested positive, it were our neighbourers, who came as the biggest help. My father-in-law was unwell and we told our maid not to come. The entire burden passed onto my aging mother-in-law and my 16-year-old son. My neighbours quickly realised our problem and provided us cooked meals in disposal utensils every day till my quarantine period ended. I cannot forget their gesture, especially when they baked a cake for my son on his b’day. —Vandana Bali, an entrepreneur The helping gesture on the part of the community is also bringing in a lot of hope and proving to be a morale booster.Rajesh Kapil, a do-gooder, says: “I helped a lot of friends who suffered from the coronavirus in these days. My small gesture of providing them milk, cheese, curd, bread and some confectionary items in their troubled days is bringing smiles on their faces. I pack up all items and leave these outside their doors. I give them a call and ask them to pick stuff from outside their places. I keep standing at some distance from their house till they take those items in. Sometimes, I even put in chocolates, chips, juices and cookies for kids in the house who have not had a chance to go to the market for 15 days and missed all this stuff.”Kapil, who extended help to his friend and advocate Mandeep Sachdev, says: “I suffered from the virus last month and ever since I have been getting calls from people asking me how I dealt with it at home. It becomes difficult to face the illness at home, where private doctors do not visit and government doctors do not respond to phone calls. So, I keep sharing small tips about my personal experience on taking care of the throat and congestion and at times even provided contacts of doctors, who can help patients on video calls.”Pankaj Mehta, who runs NGO Flying Udaan Zindagi Ki Trust, says: “It is so satisfying providing ration and cooked meals to someone who needs your help in distress.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-home-isolation-community-help-comes-as-a-big-morale-booster-132070
27-08-2020||Dasuya||Illicit liquor seized in raid||teams. OCMan’s Body found, murder suspectedHoshiarpur: The body of a man was found hanging from a tree near the outdoor stadium here on Wednesday. Morning walkers saw the body and informed the police. Senior Congress leader advocate Naveen Jairath said an elderly man who was walking through the road told him about a body hanging from the tree and he immediately informed the police. A police party, led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Munish Sharma, reached the spot and took the body in its custody. The victim has been identified as Kuldeep Singh, son of Ajit Singh, a resident of Baba Budh Nagar, Dakoha in Jalandhar. The police said deep cuts were there around Kuldeep’s neck and it appeared the victim’s body was hanged from the tree after killing him. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illicit-liquor-seized-in-raid-132071
27-08-2020||The Nawanshahr Municipal Council has scored a hat-trick by retaining the first position in the Swachh Survekshan Awards-2020 in the 25||Civic body scores hat-trick in cleanliness||When sarpanch went all out to curb virus spreadPathlawa village which grabbed the headlines when the state’s first Covid-19 casualty was reported from here is now getting back to normal. Sarpanch Harpal Singh, whose mother had also tested positive for Covid-19, is making every effort to make sure that no one at his village contracts the virus again. He is making people aware of the disease and ensuring that medicines are available to patients suffering from other ailments so that they don’t have to go out of the village. “Now, things are getting back to normal here but we are still vigilant. The virus is still there and I want that no one in the village contracts infection,” Harpal said.Work on projects worth Rs26.69L beginsUnder the urban environment improvement programme, work on as many as six projects worth Rs26.69 lakh started in Nawanshahr today. Areas being covered in the first phase include Ward Nos. 4, 6, 7, 11 and 13. In Ward No. 4, Rs4.50 lakh will be spent on development works. While various works worth Rs2.69 lakh, Rs5.04 lakh, Rs1.27 lakh and Rs7.64 lakh will be carried out in Ward No. 6, 7, 11, 13, respectively.Eye donation: DC shows the wayNawanshahr DC Shena Aggarwal filled the eye donation form and marked the beginning of eye donation fortnight today that will conclude on September 8. Dr JD Verma, president, Eye Donation Organisation, Nawanshahr, had formed a team of 18 members that had been encouraging people to donate their eyes. He said that eyes of as many as 535 donors have been donated to the needy. He said apart from Punjab visually impaired persons in other states have also been helped.Sugar mill gets some green lungsThe Agriculture and Farmer Welfare Department with the help from sugar mill staff started a plantation drive in Nawanshahr. Over 50 saplings were planted on the campus. The drive was started under the Agriculture Technology Management Agency scheme. Officials also guided the staff of the mill to take care of the saplings and said the drive would be continued in coming days. “It is very important that we breathe fresh air and that will only be possible when we plant trees around us,” officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/civic-body-scores-hat-trick-in-cleanliness-132074
