27-04-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Real estate sector will bounce back quickly’||AS the pandemic has hit markets hard and businesses all across the globe have been lying shut to contain the spread of Covid-19, it is difficult to think of a sector that has not been affected. In an interaction with Avneet Kaur, Sukhdev Singh, managing director, AGI Infra Limited, one of Punjab's leading builders and developers and a member of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India (CREDAI), shares ramifications of Covid-19 on the real estate sector and plans to refurbish it in near future. Here are the excerpts:How has the Covid-19 affected the real estate market?Well, it is too early to comment on the impact of Covid-19 on the real estate market given that the situation is still evolving. But as the construction work has come to a complete standstill, possessions as well as other projects will get deferred. However, we are confident that once the situation normalises, sales will resume.The government support is indeed important to bring the business back on track. A few revisions in GST, stamp duty and registration charges can be helpful. Besides, interest rates can be slashed. - Sukhdev Singh, MD, AGI Infra LimitedDo you expect a strong realty rebound in the near future?Yes definitely, the real estate market will bounce back quickly. During the lockdown, the entire world has understood that home is the safest place for all human beings and no investments in stocks or gold work held during such events. At an online meeting with CREDAI, various requests have been put forward to the Centre, state government, RBI and national housing bank in context of loans and relaxation on EMIs. Therefore after the lockdown, it will be the golden period to buy a home.By what margin has the pandemic hit construction activities? What measures will be adopted to counter-balance the impact?Construction activities have been hit to a great extent. Many projects of AGI have been put on hold which includes, AGI Maxima flats, Urbana and AGI Sky Garden on the GT Road. However, we expect relaxation will be given soon. As we have our labours with us at our respective sites, we can easily start with the work and cover up the delay. We have already received a guideline from the Centre for measures to be taken post lockdown. We will cooperate with our investors who have to pay EMIs in the time to come. Besides, sanitation, social distancing, masks and gloves will be part of every work culture now.How many employees do you have at present? How are you dealing with wages?Nearly 1,800 to 2,000 employees are associated with AGI. Our office staff have been working from home and focusing on digital marketing. We have also been receiving enquiries from customers. At present, approx 1,500 labourers are with us at different sites. They have been provided accommodation and food at the sites itself and project heads have been ensuring their safety. All employees, including labourers, have been getting their wages on time.Do you think the lockdown will hit prices of new or resale commercial units in state?There will be no change in the prices and these will resume at the same level after the lockdown. However, there can be an increase in the cost of raw materials as India imports steel, iron products, plastic and fibre from China.What measures are you expecting from the government to help realty revive quickly?The government support is indeed important to bring the business back on track. A few revisions in GST, stamp duty and registration charges can be helpful. Besides, interest rates can be slashed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/real-estate-sector-will-bounce-back-quickly-76703
27-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Chairs replace cots for farmers at mandi||Chabbewal , April 26With the opening of grain markets (mandis) by the state government, crowd at mandis has gradually swelled. To help farmers during their visit to mandis, Raj Kumar, MLA, Chabbewal, has launched ‘Mandi ch Manji'campaign in the Chabbewal-Jian grain market.The MLA has been running this campaign for the past three years in every harvest season. However this year, manjis (cots) have been replaced with chairs and peehris. This has been done to ensure social distancing in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Also hand-held fans (pakhis) have been provided for the comfort of peopleUnder this, along with common facilities at the mandi, he arranges fire brigade van. An ambulance is also made available in case of any emergency. Dr Raj assured farmers that “each grain of their produce would be procured” and if faced with any problem, they should contact the MLA. He also took stock of arrangements made at the mandi in the wake of Covid spread.He appealed to all farmers to follow social distancing norms. A sanitiser machine has also been kept permanently in the mandi, to be used to sanitise the mandi at regular intervals. A medical team will conduct health check-up of farmers, arhtiyas and labourers from time to time.SMO Sunil Ahir; Dr Himani; Sucha Singh, the secretary to Market Committee, Dr Pankaj Shiv, Dr Pal, Shivaranjan Romi, Dr Anil, Comrade Santokh Singh, Ranveer Singh, Dilbag Singh, among others, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chairs-replace-cots-for-farmers-at-mandi-76701
27-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Valuables looted from NRI’s house||Phagwara, april 26Thieves struck at the house of US-based NRI Manjit Singh near the Tehsil complex here on Saturday.Mohan Singh, a resident of Lallian village near Goraya, a close friend of Manjit, told the police that locks of the door were found broken and on entering the house it was found ransacked.The burglars took away valuables, including a 32 bore revolver. The police said they have registered a case and started investigation into the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/valuables-looted-from-nris-house-76700
27-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar cops bring birthday cheers for 12-yr-old girl||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 26Making the birthday of a girl special, who turned 12 on Saturday, the city police surprised her with a birthday cake and a complementary gift hamper. In these times of the lockdown, several celebrations, including birthdays, anniversaries and marriage parties, have come to a standstill and people are restricted only to digital platforms to exchange wishes. However, policemen on duty are making sure that the children won’t be frozen out from their birthday celebrations.Amid tensions prevailing due to Covid pandemic, the Saturday evening brought cheers for Japneet Kaur, who was celebrating her 12th birthday today. In a noble gesture, the policemen, led by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh, made her day special by celebrating her birthday.Unlike every year, Roopneet Singh, Japneet’s father, was helpless this year in making his daughter’s birthday special due to the curfew. However, taking a hint from the videos surfacing on the social media, exhibiting cops delivering cakes amid the lockdown to help children celebrate their birthdays, Roopneet, a resident of the Vikaspuri area in the city, also sent an SMS to the Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar.Moved by his request, Bhullar immediately deputed Assistant Commissioner Randeep Singh Gill and Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh to ensure the birthday celebrations of the girl in a befitting manner.Subsequently, the birthday girl and her entire family was taken to surprise when the cops knocked Japneet’s door with the birthday cake and a gift hamper. The cops, including two women sub inspectors, wearing masks and gloves sang birthday songs for the girl.The girl’s parents thanked the civil and police administration for making the special day of their daughter a wonderful one and expressed their gratitude.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-cops-bring-birthday-cheers-for-12-yr-old-girl-76690
27-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Helpline for NRIs stuck abroad launched||Hoshiarpur, April 26A WhatsApp helpline for NRIs has been started in the district to help those stranded abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said the service would help students of the district who had gone abroad for higher studies and expatriates stranded abroad due to the cancellation of flights due to the lockdown. If they are willing to come back now, they should contact the helpline number — 62836-68484 issued by the district administration through WhatsApp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/helpline-for-nris-stuck-abroad-launched-76689
27-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Youth booked for raping minor girl||Hoshiarpur, April 26A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a youth in Kasrawan village under the Hajipur police station. Earlier, the suspect had tried to rape girl’s mother when she was sleeping in a rice mill shed.The victim’s mother, a native of Bihar, in her complaint to the police said, she along with her children was sleeping in the mill shed on Friday night while her husband was away for work at the local Dana Mandi. At 1 o’clock in the night, a youth tried to rape her while she was sleeping. She freed herself from his clutches and ran towards her husband working in mandi and narrated the incident. On returning back at the mill they found their five-year-old girl missing. The couple went out in search of their missing daughter. They heard that the victim was crying for a help from a nearby farm. When they reached there they saw that the same youth was committing the crime and on seeing them he fled the spot.Giving information, Hajipur SHO Lomesh Sharma said the youth had been identified as Dhanak Lal, a native of Bihar, presently residing at Cheema Traders, Behbal Manjh. The police have registered a case and raids are being conducted to arrest the accused, the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-booked-for-raping-minor-girl-76688
27-04-2020||---||Sanitary workers, sewer men get masks, PPE kits in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 26In a noble initiative aimed at ensuring the safety and security of sanitary workers and sewer men deployed on the frontline, Chairman of Jalandhar Improvement Trust, Daljit Singh Ahluwalia, on Sunday distributed 3,000 masks and 54 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits among sanitary workers and sewer men.After handing over 2,500 masks and 40 PPE kits for sanitary workers to Chandan Grewal, president of the Punjab Safai Mazdoor Federation, and 500 masks and 14 PPE kits for sewer men to Pawan Baba, president of Punjab Sewer Men Union, Ahluwalia, accompanied by his son and youth Congress leader Kaku Ahluwalia, said the entire society was indebted to these Covid warriors who were performing their duty diligently without any fear. He said in consonance with the directions of Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh and Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, the Jalandhar Improvement Trust had considered it as their moral responsibility to ensure the security of these frontline soldiers, for which the masks and kits were distributed. Ahluwalia said the masks were for sanitary workers and sewer men who were on general duty in the city, whereas PPE kits were for those who render their services in and around containment zones of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanitary-workers-sewer-men-get-masks-ppe-kits-in-jalandhar-76687
27-04-2020||New Delhi||Railways starts ops at RCF in Kapurthala||The Railways have restarted production at the Rail Coach Factory (RCF) at Kapurthala (Punjab) after 28 days. The work was suspended because of nationwide lockdown, which was clamped on April 23 on account of the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.In less than two days, the RCF produced an LHB high-capacity parcel van and a luggage-cum-generator coach. The LHB parcel vans are attached with Rajdhani and Shatabdi trains.In all, 3,744 employees have been permitted to join duty. They are residing on the RCF premises. The employees have received a safety kit, comprising a mask, a bottle of sanitiser and soap.Hands-free liquid soap dispenser and washbasins have been installed on the shop floor, the Railways said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/railways-starts-ops-at-rcf-in-kapurthala-76707
27-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Koka fame singer Sarvjeet devoting time to granddaughters, yoga||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 26Famous Punjabi folk song Koka kadva de ve maiya koka fame Sarvjeet Kaur has been spending free time with her granddaughters. Besides, she has been practising yoga asanas daily at her home.Sarvjeet, an “A” Grade artiste of All India Radio and Doordarshan who has a career that spans over 45 years, said, “Amid the lockdown, I have also been doing household chores. My granddaughters now ask me to play with them and I join them.”“Being a diabetic, I have made sure that I give time to my health as well. I have seen numerous positive changes in my health after I started doing yoga,” she said.Sarvjeet began her singing career at the age of 13 years. The singer, who has been a playback singer in more than 60 Punjabi movies, said these days she has been giving online training to her students who are interested in learning music.“There are several girls who want to continue their practice and thus I make sure that whenever there is appropriate time, I give them online lessons,” she shared.Apart from performing in a number of states, she performs in various countries, including the US, Canada and European nations.A recipient of the prestigious Kala Shree Award from famous actor Raj Kapoor in 1986, she said she devotes some hours to practising ragas and singing ghazals, along with folk songs.Her wedding folk song Ghori in Mamla Gadbad Hai became an instant hit. She said, “Music is a way to forget all worries and be happy. It is important to listen to the administration and the government to combat Covid-19. It is very important to take extra precautions at this tough time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/koka-fame-singer-sarvjeet-devoting-time-to-granddaughters-yoga-76702
27-04-2020||Nakodar||Man held for illegal mining||Cops distribute baby productsPhagwara: The Satnampura police, headed by SHO Usha Rani, distributed diapers and other baby products among parents of newborn baby girls at Mohalla Preet Nagar here on Friday. The SHO said as people were not allowed to go out of their houses, we tried to contribute by gifting baby products to these families. OCWoman held with 9 liquor bottlesNakodar: The Mehatpur police on Saturday arrested a woman and seized nine bottles of illicit country liquor from her possession. Investigating Officer Tirath Ram said the accused had been identified as Surindar Kaur, alias Chhindo, a resident of Mohalla Shah Salem Pur in Mehatpur. A case under Sections 61,1 and 14 of the Punjab Excise Act has been registered. OCMotorcyclist killed in mishapNakodar: A motorcyclist was killed in an accident near Malsian village on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Rohit Mehato (33), a native of Jharkhand and at present living at Pati Sahla Nagarin in Malsian village. Rohit was returning home when his bike hit an electric pole and died on the spot. The body was handed over to family members after post-mortem examination, the police said. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-for-illegal-mining-76699
27-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Away from kin, these unsung heroes work 24x7||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 26In the war against deadly coronavirus, not only health workers and doctors are taking the lead, but ambulance drivers who are always on the move to attend medical emergencies are also on the forefront.Since the lockdown, both government and 108 ambulances have been crisscrossing the district 24x7 bringing in infected persons to the Civil Hospital and shifting the suspected patients to isolation centres. Subsequently, the ambulance drivers and the attendants play a vital role in making the district Covid-free. Amid a shortage of drivers in smooth running of government ambulances, the administration has even roped in contractual drivers.Gurdev Singh (42), a roadways driver, works 12 hours everday these days as a government ambulance driver. Unresentful of this untimely inexperienced work, Gurdev says that he is happy that he is making his contribution in fighting against the virus. However, what bothers him is packing himself inside the plastic PPE gear that leaves him full of sweat. He said, "It's very hot inside the PPE kit and sometimes it becomes really uncomfortable to drive the ambulance with the PPE gear and mask on. But as the doctors have instructed us that we are the first people who get in contact with the Covid patients, so we have to be extra cautious and don the safety gears".Ever since he has been called for this special duty, he hasn't gone to his house and residing at the temporary accommodation of the Civil Hospital.Like him, there are around 14 more roadways drivers who are working in different shifts these days. Though they are doing their jobs with full responsibility, back in their mind they say they also feel scared whenever they are called to take any Covid patient to the hospital. Besides, drivers and attendants of 108 ambulances are also on the same boat and working day and night to assist the health department.Spokesperson of the 108 ambulance service Saikat Mukherjee said 72 drivers and attendants were currently operating in Jalandhar.Engaged in fight against covid-19 pandemic||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/away-from-kin-these-unsung-heroes-work-24x7-76698
27-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Inderjit, a Khalsa Aid volunteer who lived to help others||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 26On April 20, 2020, a 25-year-old Khalsa Aid volunteer died in a road accident at Bajakhana village.He was on his way to give PPE kits to doctors fighting Covid-19. The same volunteer was providing relief to the flood affected here a year ago. When Khalsa Aid volunteers camped in Jalandhar for over a month during the 2019 Punjab floods, Inderjit Singh was at the forefront in the relief operations in countless villages across Nakodar and Shahkot. Touching lives across Kashmir, Orissa, Punjab and Kerala among other places, his death has left countless people heartbroken.Whenever Inder was sent on a mission, his passion and energy were contagious. He went on back-to-back missions since 2019. He started from Assam, then Kerala, Orissa, Maharashtra, Punjab, again Kerala, Indore and finally Delhi riots last month. He made friends everywhere he went. From little children to elderly, he made a fan base across age groups. Wherever he went, he made a new family. A family that he protected and cared for. - Nazia, a fellow Khalsa Aid volunteerWhile colleagues rue the loss of a kind and passionate worker who turned things around during adversity, social media was also flooded with messages expressing gratitude to him from those who were helped by him.The Tribune had also published his interview in September last year in which he constantly raised concerns not only about providing ration or relief to the flood hit but also the disappointment about the dreams that many had lost due to the natural calamity. A service engineer by profession hailing from Dehradun, Inderjit was among the first two persons from Dehradun to voluntarily join the Khalsa Aid relief team, eventually leading to many following suit.He was also part of the team that came to the safety of Kashmiri students in distress in Dehradun after the Pulwama attacks and extending monetary help and recourse to those trying to reach their families after the abrogation of Article 370.His colleague Nazia, who also works with Khalsa Aid and accompanied him during the flood relief operations, said: "Whenever he called from the field, his voice had an extra energy and hope that even his darkest and most difficult days in field sounded like our mission would be successful. He used to video call from Orissa and make us talk to little friends he made in the community. They were in awe of him, literally. Despite language barriers, he would manage to crack jokes with the host community with ease."Nazia said Inderjeet was fond of dressing in choicest of clothes and known for going the extra mile. During the Nakodar flood relief operations, he kept working for a week without seeing a doctor amid knee pain so that the relief work would not suffer. He also accompanied an all-woman team of Khalsa Aid during a mission to provide relief to women stuck in flood-hit areas.Inderjeet Singh while speaking at a Khalsa Aid warehouse in Malsian on September 1, 2019, had said: "There are many people who lost livelihoods, homes and cattle due to floods. At Mandala Channa, a man who was banking on his agricultural produce this year to finally fulfill his dream of building a house lost all his crops. At Khaira Majha in Ropar, a man, who incurred huge losses during the Partition and in the 1988 floods, lost his house again this year. Some of them lost all their earnings and hopes too. Along with losses of money and property, they have lost dreams too. We are making detailed assessments on the basis of which aid would be provided."The J&K Students Association also rued the loss by tweeting: "Veerji's loss has left an indescribable void which we can never overcome. His loss really left a big void which world can never forget. We all remember and memorise movements of life spent in his company with love, affection, respect and peace."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inderjit-a-khalsa-aid-volunteer-who-lived-to-help-others-76696
27-04-2020||Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr administration tightens curfew norms||From today onwards, no one is allowed to leave or enter the district without informing the district administration. The order was issued by District Magistrate (DM) Vinay Bublani on Sunday, a day after a trucker tested positive in Nawanshahr, breaking the 30-day Covid-free lull in the district.The order applies to all residents, except government employees, medical emergencies and government-approved activities.The DM said any person coming to the district from other states would have to remain under quarantine for 14 days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-administration-tightens-curfew-norms-76695
27-04-2020||---||No end to +ve cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, April 26With nine more positive cases in Jalandhar, the district tally has reached 78 now. Three persons (including a deceased) had been confirmed Covid positive in Jalandhar late last night. An additional nine were confirmed to be Covid-19 positive on Sunday.Five of the nine are confirmed to be direct or indirect contacts of the media house, while the status of the remaining is being ascertained.Those from the media house include a 78-year-old male employee; two (54-year-old and 67-year-old) male employees who are residents of Karol Bagh and Sant Nagar, respectively (both new cases), and a 52-year-old man and an 11 year-old boy from Raja Garden (relatives of the mediaperson who tested positive on April 13).The other four include 65-year-old woman, 20-year-old woman and a 9-year-old girl from Raj Nagar and a 22-year-old female from Basti Sheikh.Notably, the late evening/ night admissions into the Jalandhar lists have been a regular feature for the past one week – sometimes adding to confusion.While the total cases were listed at 68 in the district and 2 deaths in the list this evening, it was only the state list which confirmed that the number had risen to 69 and the deaths to 3.This is despite the fact that the Amritsar-based private lab released the status report of the positive patient last night — a fact confirmed by the proprietor of Johal hospital.The six people tested positive on Saturday also included five direct/indirect contacts of employees of the media house and one 48-year-old, who died at the private hospital last morning.Of the total six, the 48-year-old migrant, originally from Maharashtra, died due to complications relating to Covid-19 and extremely low haemoglobin. Two others who were reported late last evening included a mediaperson (60), resident of Bhagat Singh Colony, and another relative (37) of the three people who had tested positive earlier in the day. Meanwhile, the 48-year-old migrant resident of Basti Gujan had been living in rented rooms with 40 to 50 people. He was taken to a private hospital on April 22 with 3-gm HB. While his blood samples displayed peculiar pattern, the suspicious hospital authorities isolated him and sent his samples for testing at a private lab in Amritsar. Late last evening, his sample was confirmed to be positive.Health teams have placed Basti Gujan among other areas under a contamination plan and also placed under quarantine 35 people of the private hospital who treated the deceased.Nodal officer, Covid-19 Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh said: “Nine people tested positive today. The 48-year-old deceased was not included in the district list this evening because until then, we were awaiting confirmation from the state. Independently, we couldn’t add the person to the list merely with a private lab’s report.”The Amritsar based private lab is authorised to carry out Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-end-to-ve-cases-in-jalandhar-district-76691
27-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Advocate strangled to death at home||Hoshiarpur, April 26A lawyer has been allegedly strangled to death in a nearby Hargarh village. According to information, Malkit Singh lived alone in the house. His wife had died long ago, while his son lives in Chandigarh.On Sunday, when he did not come out of the house till late night, neighbours went to his house to know about his wellbeing. They found his hands and legs tied with cot and his throat was strangulated with cloth.The neighbours found household articles and items were scattered all over the house, due to which it is apprehended that the robbers may have killed him for the purpose of looting.Deputy Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh said, “Prima facie, it appears a case of robbery-cum- murder and investigation is being done.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/advocate-strangled-to-death-at-home-76686
