27-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Couldn’t wait for tractors, so cousins decide to reach Singhu border by Activa||Tribune News ServiceSinghu, December 26Tejinder Singh stands beneath an Airtel umbrella at the Singhu border to get his SIM ported out. A while later, his cousin Manpreet, all drenched in sweat as he was helping out at a langar nearby, also joins him. Jalandhar cousins Tejinder Singh and Manpreet Singh drove 348 km from Jalandhar to Singhu border on their Activa to join farmers’ protests.Hailing from Kandola village at Nurmahal, a spur of the moment plan led the duo to undertake a day-long journey to Singhu to express solidarity to farm protests.While tractor-trailers have been leaving for Singhu from their village, the duo said they made an instinctive decision to head out to the protest site as they wanted to join farmers in their struggle.Tejinder said: “We felt an emotional connect with protests. We are from farming families and hearing the elderly men slug it out in the winter chill on the Delhi border stirred us from within. We wanted to put in our bit in the movement. Although tractor-trailers have been going out from our village, we didn’t want to wait that long. So, we picked our Activa and headed for Singhu.”While Tejinder heads to an Airtel stall to get his number ported out, Manpreet, too, joins him. Tejinder adds: “We are with farmers. It is hard for them already, they are doing this to secure the future of coming generations. Since there are many Airtel stalls here, I decided to get my number ported out too!”While the duo headed to Delhi with little belongings, they camped with farmers and did sewa on langars at the border. Manpreet said: “We have fields back home. Our families are into farming. We know how high the stakes are. We feel it is important for young people like us to do our bit and be a part of protests. We are glad we made the decision to come here. It is a happy occasion for us. The energy of the elderly farmers and the congregation of men here is infectious.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/couldnt-wait-for-tractors-so-cousins-decide-to-reach-singhu-border-by-activa-189909
27-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Government school gets new washrooms, kitchen, courtesy former alumnus||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 26A US-based NRI has changed the picture of Government Primary Smart School, Village Virk, as he has got nine washrooms and one modular kitchen built in the school.Gurmail Singh, a native of the same village and former student of the school, has been helping the school by donating various items which students need the most.So far, nearly 254 students of the primary classes of the school, situated in Phillaur tehsil, used to share only two washrooms — one each for girls and boys. As per information, the existing washrooms were in a deplorable state and students mostly preferred not to use them. However, with the help of the NRI, the school now has nine washrooms, four each for girls and boys and one for five staff members of the school.The school was established in 1976 and the building was wearing out with time. The poor condition of the school was also taking a toll on the results of school and its strength was decreasing rapidly. Therefore, the NRI kept on providing funds to the school for its development. He had earlier donated a 20-kW generator for the school, for which he also provides 200 litre fuel every month.During the inauguration of the washrooms and the kitchen, school principal Surinder Pal said: “Gurmail and his family are in contact with the school for the past few years. Being the alumnus of the school, he considers it his responsibility to provide better atmosphere to students at the school. During extreme weather conditions, students used to face difficulties, but ever since the NRI has come in contact, the scenario has changed.”While Gurmail donated Rs30 lakh for the construction of the new washrooms and kitchen, the members of ‘Shaheed Bhagat Singh Young Sports and Lok Bhalai Club’, a village-based social welfare club, lent support in the construction work. Within four months, all construction work was completed.Ashok Bangar, chairman of the school management committee, appealed to all NRIs to donate more for the development of schools in villages. Laadi Basra, of the welfare club, has promised to install one LED TV at the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/government-school-gets-new-washrooms-kitchen-courtesy-former-alumnus-189910
27-12-2020||---||3 fall prey to virus in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 26The health authorities reported 37 new Covid-19 cases in Jalandhar on Saturday. As a result, the total number of positive cases in the district reached 19,732.The health authorities reported three deaths today. With this, the toll reached 634.As many as 18,670 people have been discharged while 260 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar. At present, there are 428 active cases in the district.In Kapurthala, nine people tested positive for Covid.DISTRICT ROUND-UPSamples collected 4,61,360Negative 4,22,229Positive 19,732Active 428Discharged 18,670Deceased 634Sample inappropriate 98Results awaited 1,657Home isolated 260||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-fall-prey-to-virus-in-jalandhar-district-189912
27-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Ravaged by floods, villagers now struggle for their rights||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 26“Haraan ton baad, utthan di aas si, ennan kanoonan ton baad tan sabh kujh chal jana (we had hope to rise up after the floods. But these laws will leave us with nothing),” believes a Shahkot-based farmer.While several villages in the Shahkot and Lohian belts were devastated due to the floods last year, villagers from the same stretch are at the forefront for participating in the protests at the Delhi borders.While many farmers are still coping with the losses they incurred in 2019, forgetting the pain of the past year, they are now extending enthusiastic support to the farmers’ protests. Thousands of farmers from flood-hit villages including Janian, Janian Chahal, Chak Wadala, Gatta Mundi, Mundi Shehrian, Mundi Chohlian, Madhala Channa, Nal, Manak, Gidderpindi and Naseerpur among others, have reached the Delhi borders in hordes to lend support to the ongoing protest.Among the first huge congregations of farmers of about 300 tractor-trailers, trucks and jeeps, which headed out to the Singhu border from Jalandhar recently, a majority were from Shahkot and Lohian blocks. While subsequently huge jathas from other areas began going to Delhi, both residents and citizens from flood-affected areas have been unfazed by the losses they incurred only last year.Salwinder Singh Jania, district president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said: “Har vich taan kheti, karobar thapp ho gaye, par asi sochde haan sadi zamin na rahi tan asi ki karange (floods claimed our crops and trades, but we think what will we do if our lands our lost)?” The floods set us back by two to four years. But the ordinances will set us back by generations. It will impact our kids and the coming generations. In villages that were hit by floods, unsurpassed enthusiasm has been witnessed to participate in protests. The Lohian and Shahkot belts, which were impacted by floods, have been among the most active belts where many people are headed for protests in Doaba. Two-two tractor-trailers full of farmers headed out for the border from the flood hit villages where one was expected. Vehicles still continue to join in with rations and help.”Kabal Singh, a resident of flood-hit Gatta Mundi Kasu village who incurred loses worth Rs8 lakh during the 2019 floods, tends to the fields of his associates away in Delhi. From his village, 10 to 12 men have headed to the Singhu border. He says: “It is a unanimous sentiment among farmers of the belt that the ordinances will be more detrimental to the farming community than floods have ever been. We farmers prepared this land which used to be a hostile jungle into a crop producing fertile belt by working hard for years. We have battled many floods. But we have always stood up because subsequent yields would pay dividends. But this law will hamper the very system that paid us. I incurred Rs8 lakh loss in my destroyed wheat crop during floods and my recent cauliflower farm paid me nothing. But after these laws, we will have no hope to get a fair price for our yield. No one knows this better than farmers of this belt.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ravaged-by-floods-villagers-now-struggle-for-their-rights-189913
27-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Regional cold storage facilities reviewed in Hoshiarpur district||Hoshiarpur, December 26Reviewing the preparedness of Covid vaccination to be received in future and storage facilities in the district, Principal Secretary (Health) Hussan Lal said that the regional vaccine store in the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, would supply vaccine to Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts.Accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait and SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, the Principal Secretary, who presided over a meeting in the District Administrative Complex, said that in the first phase of vaccination drive, the health workers, frontline workers and those above 50 years of age would be covered. He said that data of 8,000 health workers had been registered so far in the district and vaccine would not be administered without registration.36 Covid vaccination sites identifiedHussan Lal said that in Hoshiarpur, 36 sites (vaccination sites) including Civil Hospital, three sub-divisional hospitals, 12 community health centres and health institutions empanelled under Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna, had been earmarked for covering 100 persons daily under the vaccination drive. He ordered the district administration and the Health Department to ensure the sampling of UK returnees amid the new variant of coronavirus detected in the country. He further asked them to trace testing and isolate the persons returned from the UK from December 21 to 23.The Deputy Commissioner informed that the Health Department had already trained 264 employees for administering the vaccine who would be deployed as vaccinators at these sites. She said that apart from health workers, the vaccine would be administered to frontline workers including officials from police, MC and sanitation employees who remained forefront during the pandemic. Informing about vaccine storage arrangements, the Deputy Commissioner said the Civil Hospital had capacity of storing 15-16 lakh doses with facility of walk-in refrigerators.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said elaborated security arrangements would be made in and around the sites besides during transportation.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said an effective mechanism had been mapped out for the administration of Covid vaccine at all sites and ambulances would also be stationed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/regional-cold-storage-facilities-reviewed-in-hoshiarpur-district-189914
27-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Two killed in road accidents||Hoshiarpur, December 26Two persons were killed in separate road accidents in the district during the last 24 hours.According to information, Lakhvir Singh (25), a resident of Tanuli village, was going on a motorcycle when he suddenly hit a tree and died on the spot. On the information of the victim’s brother, the police recorded proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC and handed over the body to the family members.In another case, Abdul Mabood, a resident of Muzaffarnagar, told the police that his cousin, Aas Muhammad, a resident of Muzaffarpur district of Uttar Pradesh, was standing near his truck near Garna Sahib when a car hit him killing him on the spot. The police have registered a case against the accused driver, Avtar Singh, a resident of Jhanda Lubana village in Gurdaspur district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-killed-in-road-accidents-189915
27-12-2020||---||Surjit Hockey stadium to get new AstroTurf||Jalandhar, December 26Thanks to the hard work and sincere efforts of Surjit Hockey Society, the Punjab Government on Saturday floated tenders for the installation of new AstroTurf at the local Surjit Hockey Stadium.The Sports Department, Punjab, has issued tenders (January 15) for the construction of four new AstroTurfs at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Satdium, Ferozepur, Marar village (Gurdaspur), Jalandhar and Dhudike (Moga).Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghansham Thori, who is also the president of Surjit Hockey Society; Iqbal Singh Sandhu, secretary; and Surinder Singh Bhapa, chief PRO of Surjit Hockey Society, had taken up the demand of hockey players to replace the new AstroTurf at the stadium with Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Sodhi and, taking personal interest, has made it possible to install a new AstroTurf.In the meantime, Iqbal Singh Sandhu and Surinder Singh Bhapa suggested Minister of Sports, Punjab, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, that the AstroTurf to be replaced at Surjit Hockey Stadium can be reused for three six-a-side grounds. As such, two at Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, and Kukar Pind can be replaced. This would be the best use of the replaced AstroTurf and maximum players would get the experience of playing on it.Meanwhile, players participating in the Surjit Hockey coaching camp, which has been going on for the last 93 days at stadium, were overjoyed to hear the news.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-hockey-stadium-to-get-new-astroturf-189916
27-12-2020||---||Char Sahibzaade remembered||Jalandhar, December 26The District Cultural and Literary Society on Saturday organised a programme to commemorate the martyrdom of Chaar Sahibzaade of the 10th Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh at Virsa Vihar here.GoG Jalandhar head Maj Gen Balwinder Singh (retd) said the programme was held to pay tribute and raise awareness about the unparalleled valour of the Chaar Sahibzaade, who sacrificed their lives for the cause of justice and freedom of religion.He said the sacrifices of Chaar Sahibzaade at a tender age gives us strength to fight against oppressors and have faith in the Almighty and will continue to guide all of us for centuries. Singh, who is also the executive member of society, said it was unfortunate that most Indians have forgotten the significance of the sacrifices and these incidents no longer find a place in the history books of schools other than Punjab. Among those present were secretary Virsa Vihar Capt IS Dhami and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/char-sahibzaade-remembered-189917
27-12-2020||---||Suhan does it again, wins state TT c’ships||Jalandhar, December 26City’s Suhan Gulati (13) once again brought laurels as he won the state table tennis championships in the junior (U-18) as well as sub-junior (U-15) category underway at the Hansraj stadium here.In the U-18 singles finals, Suhan faced a familiar foe in Sankalp and won 3-0. Meanwhile, in the U-15 boys’ singles finals, he rocked Patiala’s Harshit 3-0.A student of Cambridge International School, Suhan had come into the tournament on the back of nearly a four-year winning spree. He was No. 3 in the ranking charts at the national level in 2018 in the cadet category (U-12) and had also participated in an international tournament held the same year. A resident of New Vijay Nagar, he has been taking training from district coach Manish Bhardwaj. His father Sachin Gulati, who is imparting IIT coaching and is also a founder of app Truemath, said, “It is a proud moment for us as my 13-year-old son has been doing exceptionally well. Owing to Covid, his training remained a bit affected. Since he has been covered under the Centre’s ‘Khelo India’ programme, we were looking for the services from the nominated academies under the programme for him but the pandemic had dashed all our plans.”Meanwhile, in the U-21 boys’ singles finals, Nikhil Saini from Patiala defeated Amritsar’s Sarthak 3-0. In the semifinals, Nikhil had breezed past city lad Sankalp in a 3-0 triumph, while Sarthak overcame compatriot Rakshit Mohla 3-1.In the U-21 girls’ singles finals, Aarushi from Jalandhar defeated Mohali’s Ananya 3-0. In the semifinals, Aarushi triumphed over Ludhiana’s Sehajpreet Kaur in a 3-1 win as Ananya blanked Patiala’s Prabhsimran 3-0.In the junior girls’ singles finals, Ekta from Amritsar defeated Ludhiana’s Hargun 3-1. In the sub-junior girls’ singles finals, Sehajpreet defeated Ekta 3-1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/suhan-does-it-again-wins-state-tt-cships-189918
27-12-2020||Jalandhar||Farmers gherao residence of MP Hans Raj Hans||As part of their ongoing plan to gherao leader of the BJP, members of the BKU (Rajewal) gheraod the residences of BJP leader and singer Hans Raj Hans and party leader KD Bhandari here on Saturday.While the protest on Friday led to a standoff between the police and protesters due to barricades put outside the house of Manoranjan Kalia – no barricades were put to obstruct farmers today who held a peaceful protest outside the BJP leaders’ residences. The farmers forced closure a Reliance godown at the Pathankot Chowk on Saturday. While goods were being brought to the godown, which was officially declared closed, famers stopped all activity at the godown. Carrying flags and posters, farmers went across in files outside the leaders’ residences raising slogans against the Central government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-gherao-residence-of-mp-hans-raj-hans-189919
27-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||One held with 50-gm heroin||60-yr-old Woman attempts suicideJalandhar: A 60-year-old woman attempted to commit suicide by jumping into the Devi Talab temple lake, near Doaba Chowk, on Saturday. The incident took place around 1.30 pm. The woman had come to pay obeisance at the temple. Devotees present there also jumped into the lake to save her. Kamaljit Singh, SHO, police division eight, said, as soon as she jumped, the visitors in the temple also jumped to rescue her. However, her condition is still critical. TNS45-yr-old man commits suicideHoshiarpur: Sham Lal (45), a resident of Mohalla Prem Garh, consumed some poisonous substance under some mental stress. Seeing his deteriorating health in the evening, his family members admitted him to the hospital where he died. Police officer Nanak Singh, who is investigating the case, said on the basis of the information provided by Lal’s relatives, proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC had been recorded and the body handed over to the family members. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-held-with-50-gm-heroin-189922
27-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||16 test positive in Hoshiarpur, no death||With the arrival of 16 new positive cases in the district, the total number of patients has increased to 7, 648 while 304 affected by the virus have lost their lives to date. However, there was no death reported on Saturday. Civil surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 1,180 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken, while the number of positive patients increased after receiving reports of 1,213 samples. He said the total number of samples taken till date in the district has gone up to 2, 28,792. According to the reports received from the lab, 2, 20,949 samples are negative, while reports of 1,763 samples are awaited and 149 are invalid. The number of active cases is 144 and patients recovered is 7,200. Out of today’s 16 new positive cases in the district, six are related to the city while remaining ones are from various other health blocks of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/16-test-positive-in-hoshiarpur-no-death-189923
27-12-2020||Jalandhar||Virtual Baby Show Organised||Graduation ceremony organisedTo acknowledge the efforts of the tiny toddlers and celebrate their new journey of primary school life of UKG, a graduation ceremony along with prize distribution was organised by State Public School, Jalandhar Cantt. The idea behind the organising the event was to make tiny tots proud of journey they experienced in kindergarten and move to next level of education. They were all adorned in academic gown and cap aiming higher and higher. The celebrations started after the felicitation of president of Group of State Public School Dr Narotam. Students, along with parents, received certificates honouring their success of passing to next level of education and efforts of parents. The Santa Claus did presented gala performance by thrilling the stage with the tip tap of their nimble feet on Christmas. Students received gift from Santa. Principal Savina Bahl congratulated all the winners and wished everyone Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.Christmas celebratedSoaking in the spirit of Xmas, Tagore’s Interational Smart School celebrated Christmas with great fervour and enthusiasm. Chairman Abhay Kumar Jain and Dean Vinod Shashi Jain addressed the students and extended their heartfelt wishes to the students on the occasion. Tiny tots wore a festive look with bells, streamers and a beautifully decorated Christmas tree. Several activities such as decorating Christmas trees and stockings, making Christmas cards and hand-crafted bells were organised online on digital platform. The children were told about the birth of Lord Jesus and the legend of Santa Claus. The spirit of giving and sharing was inculcated among the students. They were attired as Santa Claus and wore masks, carried bags full of goodies and distributed candies in neighbourhood.Annual Appreciation Day heldApeejay School, Mahavir Marg, solemnised its Annual Appreciation Day through virtual media which was streamed live on Facebook. Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy Commissioner, Dr Jai Inder Singh, SDM-1, graced the occasion. Aditya Berlia, co-promoter Apeejay Stya and Svran Group, presided over the function. In his speech, he stressed upon the fact that Apeejay family believes in stronger connection and deeper partnership and values and character building will always continue to be the essence of Apeejay. A short film ‘The Golden Odyssey’ based on the prosperous journey of the legacy named ‘Apeejay’ was also shown. Principal Girish Kumar, read out the annual report highlighting students’ achievements. The annual appreciation day, through a bilingual play ‘Sahar’, delivered the message that trying times always offer learning. The programme culminated with the vote of thanks proposed by Virender Kumar Khanna, vice-principal.Students given certificatesHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya is running a one year Diploma in Journalism and Media under Community College Scheme of UGC and three year B Vocational degree in Journalism and Media. The students of this course are not only evaluated by the college or university but also by Sector Skill Council for the skill part. Any female of any age group and from any stream with a minimum qualification of SSC-II pass can take admission in this course. The diploma and B Vocational students of Journalism and Media were awarded with sector skill council certificates after the completion of the course. After the course, the students are working as entrepreneurs and sub-editors, reporters with various media houses. The students were awarded with certificates by principal Prof Ajay Sareen in the presence of Community College coordinator Meenakshi Sayal, course coordinator Rama Sharma and Asst Prof Jyoti Sehgal. The principal appreciated the efforts of the students.Webinar on corporate interviewsTo acquaint the students with the real time scenario of corporate job interviews, the academic department of Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised a webinar on ‘Strategies to crack corporate interviews’. The resource person for the webinar was HR interview expert Prerna Mahajan (Assistant Manager, HR, Bangalore-based Fortune 500 company). The session started with a welcome speech of speaker for the session by Dr Gagandeep Kaur (Academic Coordinator, Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions). During the webinar, the resource person stated that interview is a criteria to examine candidate’s knowledge, behaviour, experience and communication skills to meet the job requirement. Dr.Shailesh Tripathi (group director, Innocent Hearts) presented a vote of thanks to HR expert Prerna Mahajan.Xmas at Cambridge Int’l SchoolPhagwara: Cambridge International School, Phagwara, celebrated Christmas with great gusto and fervour. The online classes wore a festive look. There was a special assembly to mark the celebrations. The assembly began with a thought by Shristi followed with topic by Jehnaz Kaur Virk. There was a dance performance by Snidhi Jain. Chairman KS Bassi, principal Jorawar Singh and chairman Sanjeev Vasal of Vasal Group of Education congratulated the students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-baby-show-organised-189926
