27-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||A year that failed to bring cheer to festival committees||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 26For 52 years the Upkaar Ramlila Committee has been holding the Ramlila at the Dhandar Mandir at Basti Gujan, but this is the first year the gala celebrations have been muted. Except a marginally ambitious celebration at the Ghaas Mandi on Sunday, all the Dasehra grounds and Ramlila venues across the district were cloaked in an uncanny silence.Yogesh Anand, a banker, who has been playing Ravana for past 38 years across district Ramlilas, felt such a tinge of nostalgia for the character that he dressed up in his elaborate gold Ravana costume and cut a cake at home to celebrate Dasehra. “I have played Raavan at dozen of venues in my life. As the virus muffled revels, so my bank colleagues came home and cut a cake for me and I dressed up like a Raavan to celebrate the occasion,” he quips, before going on, “we can’t go outside but at least we can pay our tributes from home.”However, it’s not only Dasehra. Some of the committees involved from Holi to Diwali all have had an uneventful year. An entire system of artistes, technicians, costume makers, event managers, light and sound providers, make-up artistes and temples have felt the chills down their spine due to the pandemic.Sandeep Bali, who has been playing Lakhshman for the past 20 years at the Upkaar Ramlila Committee, said, “It has been a very hard year for us. We get clothes made from our own tailors. Despite that, the costumes, mukuts (crowns), gotas (golden lace) and other items required for the Ramlila made it necessary for us to buy at least Rs30,000 to 50,000 worth of items till now. At other Ramlilas the cost skyrockets. Right after Rakhsbandhan we used to tie gandhas on each other’ hands and pledged to carry out a successful Ramlila, but this year we didn’t do that either many were apprehensive.”Ramlila is just one of the festivities entailing the Upkaar Committee observes. In March, it celebrates the region’s first flower Holi (a tradition started at the Dhandar mandir with others following suit), in autumn they celebrate Ramlila andDasehra, a shobha yatra on Valmiki Jayanti and on Diwali they hold a bharat milap shobha yatra. Unfortunately, these were scraped off the calendar due to the Covid.Bali adds, “My father refused to hold flower Holi due to the huge crowds which would turn up. Ramlila permissions were denied due to similar reasons. It didn’t even feel like Dashera was here. Temples are sans devotees who earlier flooded on Ram Navami, Janma Ashtami, Holi and Diwali.”Rajesh Malhotra, who runs Mangi Lal Malhotra Gote Wale store, laments the glummest year he has seen since the setting up of store in 1975, “Our business has been reduced to 20 per cent. Only people paying tributes to temples with costumes of gods or wedding clients are left. From Dasehra to Ramlila to Valmilki Jayanti, all festivals, shobha yatras and school functions kept us busy. But this year we didn’t even get half the usual customers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-year-that-failed-to-bring-cheer-to-festival-committees-161733
27-10-2020||---||Residents dump waste into Bist Doab Canal, set it on fire||Jalandhar, October 26Caring two hoots for the pollution norms, the residents of areas around Bist Doab Canal have been dumping waste into it and then even setting it on fire, adding to the problem of already prevalent smog like condition in the city.Various localities including Janta Colony, Kalia Colony, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony, Guru Amar Dass Nagar and Maqsudan fall near the banks of the canal, which is used as a distributary by the irrigation department for the farmers during paddy sowing season.Now that the water supply through the canal has been stopped, some residents of these areas and passers-by have converted it into a garbage dump. The shopkeepers of sabzi mandi and fish market, too, are in the habit of dumping waste into the canal.Rag-pickers are seen daily walking in the concrete-lined canal, picking polybags, paper and recyclable stuff. The irrigation staff deploys MGNREGA workers to clean up the canal ahead of monsoon season and then leaves it unattended for the rest of the year.Baljit Singh, a resident of Kalia Colony, said: “The filth piling in the canal has become a perpetual problem. The garbage piling makes us prone to diseases while smoke emanating from it is further aggravating the problems. The authorities concerned have only been passing a buck on the issue while we are suffering. The irrigation department blames it on the Municipal Corporation while the MC authorities say that it was the duty of the irrigation department to keep the canal clean.” An irrigation department official shared that there was a plan to do fencing around the vulnerable points of the canal after its proper cleaning, which could take some more time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-dump-waste-into-bist-doab-canal-set-it-on-fire-161734
27-10-2020||Avneet Kaur||English Booster Club at govt schools draws good response||Jalandhar, October 26The Education Department’s new initiative — English Booster Club (EBC) — at government schools has generated a good response in the region. As per reports from schools in Jalandhar, Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur, students have been taking part enthusiastically in various activities conducted under the EBC.The videos of students communicating in English and performing various tasks are being shared widely on the social media. Amandeep Kaur Bhatti, who teaches English at Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Urapar, Nawanshahr, said, “We have formed Super6 groups in each class from VI to XII. The students have been leading the activities and drawing inspiration from them, even other students are themselves coming forward to avail the benefits of the club.”“Though in the second phase, all students will be a part of the club, the purpose of the Super6 group was to motivate them to come forward themselves and show curiosity to learn the language,” said Bhatti, adding that she has been receiving calls from parents as well students, seeking information about the EBC.She further added that the results of the EBC were evident from the fact that students’ speaking competency has improved and they no longer feel shy or anxious while conversing in English. “We will soon cover the whole class under this project,” she added.Another English teacher Mandeep Kaur of Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, PAP, Jalandhar, said, “EBC is getting popular among students. They discussed various activities among themselves and come up with great solutions. They perform English speaking activities with great confidence,” she said.Chander Shekhar, state resource person, said, “Various activities devised by the Education Department under the EBC have been attracting students towards the language. With the help of this project, students are able to explore and understand the language with more curiosity.”He said the EBC was helping students to overcome real life challenges and issues such as pronunciations, accent, fluency and above all, the confidence to speak and learn the language.Divulging details about the type of activities being conducted under EBC, Shekhar said the dedicated team of the Education Department has planned various activity based learning, for example, making scrap files, working models etc. He said through this model and files, students explain their topics in English.“Other activities include giving speech for two minutes on any subject, recitation of poems and stories from syllabus or any theme of students’ choice, dialogues and conversations, learning five words of vocabulary every day, sentence formation with the help of learned vocabulary words, talking about themselves in English and speaking on the environment related issues . Besides, all the students are asked to record their voice while reading a chapter in order to improve their accent and pronunciation,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/english-booster-club-at-govt-schools-draws-good-response-161735
27-10-2020||---||Mizoram woman held with 1-kg heroin||Jalandhar, October 26 A woman from Mizoram was held with 1-kg heroin on Monday. The alleged drug peddler was held outside the PIMS Hospital, near Garha road. The accused has been identified as Lalrimawii (19), a native of Aizawal, who was residing at Delhi. A case has been registered against her at the police division number seven under various Sections of the NDPS Act.  Briefing more about the arrest, the Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a police team led by ASI Kamaljeet Singh, received a tip-off that a woman was going to deliver a drug consignment outside the PIMS Hospital, following which SHO Police Station-7 Ramandeep Singh, along with lady cops, laid a naka there. Afterwards, the team spotted that a woman holding a purse, tried to flee away from the spot. Subsequently, the police nabbed her after a short chase. During frisking, a lady constable recovered 1-kg heroin from the handbag of the accused and was immediately taken into custody.  “Accused Lalrimawii was living with her cousin in Delhi after the death of her father in Mizoram. She met an African citizen during an event and later on started selling drugs with him. She was getting Rs 15,000 for each consignment,” Bhullar added.  A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mizoram-woman-held-with-1-kg-heroin-161736
27-10-2020||---||AAP MLAs demand fast track court||Jalandhar, October 26Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) deputy leader of opposition Sarabjit Kaur Manuke and MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby today demanded that the perpetrators of the Tanda incident be ‘hanged’ publicly and that a special fast track court be set up for speedy trial of the case, adding that the government should provide special prosecutors and police protection to the family of the victim.Manuke, while addressing a press conference here today, along with MLA Rupinder Ruby and District Urban President Rajwinder Kaur Thiara said the Tanda incident went to show how police only protected VIPs, while the little girls weren’t safe in the state.She said heinous crime committed on a 6-year-old innocent girl of a poor family of Jalalpur village in Tanda, was a stigma on the face of police dispensation and the government. She said the police was for ministers, CMs and bureaucrats in the state and not for little girls. She said the streets were not safe for the girls and that the crisis had been created by the ruling dispensation in the state.Addressing the press, Sarabjit Kaur Manuke said thousands of security guards were deployed to protect police officers, officers and politicians and their loved ones. But who would protect ordinary people, especially women? She alleged 70 per cent of the total 5,058 victims of such heinous crimes, such as rape in 2018-19, had been running from pillar to post in search of justice.Rupinder Kaur Ruby said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh was responsible for the steady spurt in such crimes in the state as he had failed as head of the state. Ruby sought clarification from the Punjab Government as to how many funds from the Nirbhaya Fund account, floated by the Union Government after the Nirbhaya rape case, had reached the state government and were used for the protection of women.Manuke also condemned Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s ‘picnic’ jibe on Congress President Rahul Gandhi. While Nirmala Sitharaman had said “There has been no tweet on the Tanda issue by Rahul Gandhi,” Manuke said, “Nirmala Sitharaman is herself a woman. She’s the Finance Minister. She could have called a meeting and issued a grant. But she shouldn’t have done politics over such an issue. As long as policy makers are not serious over rapes and don’t get worry over the scenario – rather than indulging in politics – such incidents will not stop.”The AAP leaders and workers also took out a candlelight protest march in Jalandhar on Monday, seeking justice for the victim and the award of exemplary punishment to the perpetrators of the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-mlas-demand-fast-track-court-161737
27-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Checking intensified to curb food adulteration||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, October 26Adopting zero-tolerance towards adulteration in view of the festival season, a food safety team comprising Assistant Commissioner (Food) Manoj Khosla and Food Safety Officer Bikramjit Singh, has been carrying out regular checks at dairies, sweet shops and other eateries. Recently, 10 samples were taken from various eateries for analysis.Khosla said the samples of milk, khoya-based sweets, edible oil and desi ghee had been taken from various local shops on the directions of the higher authorities.Khosla said sweets shop owners had been directed to display best before on the trays. Permitted food colours could be used only in the prescribed limits ie only 20 gram in 100 kg of sweets. “Shopkeepers have been told to use fresh khoya and not that kept in cold stores,” he said.He said a fine of Rs 5 lakh would be imposed for selling adulterated food items, up to Rs 1 lakh for preparing food items under unsanitary conditions and a fine of Rs 2 lakh would be imposed for not following the directions under the food safety Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/checking-intensified-to-curb-food-adulteration-161738
27-10-2020||---||Scholarship schemes not benefitting poor Dalits, says expert in seminar||Jalandhar, October 26 A seminar on Dalit issues was organised in Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Hall here today in which Dalit intellectuals from all over Punjab participated. Rajinder Shah, a practising lawyer in the Supreme Court, explained how the constitutional provisions, if implemented, can remove injustice being done to Dalits. He said: “Reservation is for posts/appointments. Appointments may be of minister, Governor or CM/PM etc. Constitution says reservation at every level. Interpretation of Constitution is not done in its spirit.” Dr Piare Lal Garg, former Registrar of the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, was very vocal when he said the successive governments fail to implement their own schemes as they use the Dalits only as vote banks and don’t want their all-round development. “Even scholarship schemes are allowed to be misused by private educational institutions and benefits don’t percolate to the poor Dalits. Education has become so expensive that only 2 per cent Dalits are able to pass graduation level”.  Dr Sumail Singh Sidhu, a historian from JNU, explained how Guru Nanak Dev and Guru Granth Sahib laid the foundation of casteless society in India. The principles of equality, fraternity and justice enshrined in the Constitution of India were propagated by Guru Nanak to whom the seminar was dedicated, he said.  SR Ladhar said the Dalits have highest population of 32 per cent in Punjab but they own just 3 per cent land. “The reservation policy is faulty. The government has notified 25 per cent reservation in jobs instead of adequate representation as per population. Promotion in jobs is much lesser at 14 per cent and 20 per cent for class one/two and class three/four jobs, respectively. The 85th constitutional amendment is not being implemented by the Punjab Government. Contrary to the UPSC and Constitution, the Punjab Government has imposed 45 per cent marks condition to qualify in PCS judicial examination. Bogus SC certification in Punjab is again a serious issue, which have further reduced the chances of Dalits to enter into professional colleges and jobs reserved for them.” Sant Seechewal and Budhist monk Bhante Samedo also expressed their views. Jagtar Singh and Amarjit Singh, retired IRS officers, Surinder Kumar, retired IPS officer, Onkar Nath, retired IAS officer, Dr Sawraj Singh, writer, and many Dalit intellectuals attended the seminar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/scholarship-schemes-not-benefitting-poor-dalits-says-expert-in-seminar-161739
27-10-2020||Our Corre3spondent---||Hoshiarpur records 16 Covid, 5 dengue cases||Hoshiarpur, October 26 The district on Monday reported 16 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally of the infected persons to 6,034. One more person succumbed to the deadly viral infection. The death toll stands at 206 while the number of active cases is 217. A total of 5,610 persons have recovered so far. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of the 16 cases, five belonged to the city while 11 were from other health blocks of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-records-16-covid-5-dengue-cases-161740
27-10-2020||Jalandhar||‘Suspension of goods trains to hit industry’||Leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal on Monday said that the BJP-led Centre was bent on causing a huge loss to the industry of Punjab by stopping the movement of goods trains.SAD leaders including Jagir Kaur, MLAs Pawan Tinu, Baldev Khaira and Gurpartap Wadala said that it was so ironic that while the Punjab farmers had said that they would allow the goods trains to shuttle to and fro in Punjab, the Centre had decided to keep the movement scuttled. They said the decision would have long detrimental effect on the trade and industry of Punjab, which is already battling after lockdown issues. The SAD leaders also said that Capt Amarinder Singh and the Congress had ditched the farmers by getting a Bill passed only with regards to keeping an MSP for wheat and paddy while choosing not to safeguard the interests of farmers selling maize, cotton, sunflower and other crops. The Akali MLAs said they had taken a joint stand with the Congress and met the Punjab Governor with other party leaders but now they realised that it is not in the interest of the farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/suspension-of-goods-trains-to-hit-industry-161741
27-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||His organic garden gives sustainable goals to others||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 26With a mission to increase the green cover in the city and plant over 50,000 saplings in a year, Vishkarampal Singh Dhiman (29), a city resident is giving sustainable goals to others through his lush green garden at his home.Home to various medicinal plants, including giloy, tulsi, insulin, moringa tea (a herbal tea with anti-cancer properties, beneficial to digestion and skin) and others, Dhiman’s garden indicates that he is an ardent nature lover. He has also planted different varieties of fruits, vegetables and decorative plants in his lawn. He says he got inclined towards environment when he returned from London, after completing his higher studies.“When I came back from London around three years ago, what bothered me was acute air pollution and dying green cover. When in abroad, I used to find myself surrounded with plants and trees and the fresh air always used to lift my mood. However, it was exactly opposite here. Though we already had old trees, I tried to utilise more space for expanding the green cover. I began by planting pine trees, neem, lemon, mini oranges and ferns. I took care of my plants with the help of our gardener and saw them growing into trees. The air quality near my house is much better and there is nothing better than breathing better air. Recently, I also added papaya and mango trees in my garden and I am also planning to cover the rest of the space with branched plants,” added Vishkarampal, a resident of Lajpat Nagar.Notably, executing his plans, that he nurtured around two years ago, he also launched his ‘Vish Foundation’ this year, for the beautification of chowks and flyover. With the help of his team, he planted hundreds of saplings.Besides this, he also turned the vacant area in his ancestral house into an organic farm. Promoting organic farming and shunning chemically- produced vegetables, he grows all kinds of seasonal vegetables and some seasonal fruits in his organic farm.While he already has a dedicated space for vegetables including, brinjal, bitter gourd, ridge gourd, green vegetables, lemon, chillies, pumpkin and radish and green vegetables, he is now planning to include dragon fruit, avocado and lettuce in his farm.“Surrounded by lush green trees is seems like being in a wellness retreat. Through this green mission, I will inspire people to work towards ridding the society of environment degradation,” added Dhiman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/his-organic-garden-gives-sustainable-goals-to-others-161742
27-10-2020||---||20 temporary licences issued for sale of crackers||Jalandhar, October 26Following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the district administration today issued 20 temporary licences to fire cracker dealers in the city ahead of Diwali. As per the court guidelines, only 20 per cent of the total licences can be issued.  A total of 310 applications were received this year while the number was 200 last year. The draw of lots for issuing the licences was held at Red Cross Bhawan in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and other officials. No licence was issued for the sale of crackers in rural areas outside the jurisdiction of the Police Commissionerate.In view of the Covid threat, the dealers have been directed to adhere to social distancing norm. President of the Cracker Dealers’ Association Rakesh Kumar Bahri said the dealers would set up their stalls in the 'patakha' market from the next week. “Only green crackers will be sold," he added. The dealers whose names did not figure in the draw of lots would continue to sell their stock in partnership with the selected dealers. Sale likely to dip this yearAs the earnings remained low this year due to the Covid-induced lockdown, cracker dealers aren’t hoping to earn good profit this Diwali. Bahri said, “People, including dealers, do not have money to buy crackers. There is an economic slump this year, so we are not expecting enough footfall of buyers. Besides, in the absence of labour, the manufacturing of crackers was hindered. Every year, the stock is prepared at least six months prior to the festival. However, we neither got time nor the labour this year."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-temporary-licences-issued-for-sale-of-crackers-161744
27-10-2020||---||Dug up to lay cables, repair work falls victim to official apathy||Jalandhar, October 26The road leading to the Verka plant, Salempur Musalmana and Baba Mohandass Nagar is in a utter state of neglect. Local residents said the road was dug up to lay power cables. However, the re-carpeting work carried out post laying of cables was not up to the mark. Within a few days, the road developed cracks and potholes at several places.Commuters, especially pedestrians, are the worst affected. When it rains, the motorists fail to judge the depth of the pothole and meet with accidents. An auto-rickshaw driver said they suffered the most due to the poor road condition. Their vehicles often developed snags.Major Singh Kahlon, a local resident, said the area councillor had taken up the matter with the civic authorities on several occasions, but to no avail. “When the authorities are not paying heed to the complaints of their councillors, then how can we tell them about our issues. We stand no where," he rued.“Despite several complaints, no official has even taken stock of the situation. We feel so helpless. My shop is situated on the roadside. I see several people risking their lives on this stretch everyday. Besides, potholes filled with sand has made it difficult for me to sit at the shop," said Deep Singh, a shopkeeper.Another resident, Avtar Singh Bains, said they could not allow their children and elderly to use the stretch. During rain, the situation turned worse as potholes were filled with water.Sushil Kumar, area councillor, said long traffic jams on the stretch had become a routine affair. “The civic body was supposed to carry out re-carpeting work, but nothing has been done so far. Officials are giving only verbal assurances and nothing is being done on the ground level."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dug-up-to-lay-cables-repair-work-falls-victim-to-official-apathy-161745
27-10-2020||---||Support pours in for Jalandhar’s first bike-taxi driver Kanta Chauhan||Jalandhar, October 26Help has poured in for city’s first woman bike-taxi driver Kanta Chauhan, who was forced to sell ‘paranthas’ to make both ends meet. This impact comes following a news item highlighting her plight that was published in these columns recently.After the entire country went into the lockdown amid the Covid-19 outbreak, her job of bike-taxi driver was affected due to social distancing norm. The earnings remained nil for almost five months, though she played a Good Samaritan during the lockdown by extending help to the stranded people.As her family was finding it difficult to meet both ends meet, she opened Parantha Junction. But due to low customer turnout, she was forced to shift it to the bus stand, near the Indo-Canadian office.Impressed by her efforts to stay afloat amid the tough times, members of the Youth Congress on Friday met Kanta and offered her financial help to set up a dhabha.Angad Dutta, a Youth Congress leader said, “Along with senior leaders, we met Kanta and extended her help. She is an inspiration for many who want to be independent. We have shared her story on our social media pages and are hoping that more people will come forward to help her.”Meanwhile, Mandeep Singh, Superintendent, Municipal Corporation, has waived the rent for the space allotted to her so that she can run her dhabha.Rent waivedMandeep Singh, Superintendent, Municipal Corporation, has waived the rent for the space allotted to the city’s first woman bike-taxi drive so that she can run her dhabha. Impressed by her efforts to stay afloat amid the tough times, members of the Youth Congress on Friday met Kanta and offered her financial help to set up a dhabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/support-pours-in-for-jalandhars-first-bike-taxi-driver-kanta-chauhan-161746
27-10-2020||---||Can’t compare Hathras, Tanda cases: Women panel||Jalandhar/Hoshiarpur, Oct 26Two days after having met the family of six-year-old Tanda rape-murder victim, Punjab State Women Commission chief Manisha Gulati today said even though it was an unfortunate incident, it could not be compared with the Hathras episode.AAP MLAs seek public hangingSupporting the state government on the incident, she said: “Punjab can never be as unsafe as UP and Bihar. Our state police arrested the accused in no time and are working on expediting the delivery of justice to the victim.” Gulati said: “If we tell our girls about good and bad touch, we also need to educate our boys on moral issues. We need to stand against vulgarities and rape scenes in movies and songs.”Meanwhile, Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairman Rajinder Singh today directed the Hoshiarpur administration to provide a plot to the victim’s family.The chairman, vice-chairman Sebi Thomas along with member of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) Yashwant Jain visited the family and later met Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait and SSP Navjot Singh Mahal to review the progress in the case.The SSP informed the commission the challan would be presented in court in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cant-compare-hathras-tanda-cases-women-panel-161492
