28-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||A hamlet that has lost its peace to rowdy city visitors during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 27A steady train of the affluent city goers threaten to disrupt the tranquility of Kukanet, a forest village in the Shivalik Hills in Hoshiarpur district.This little paradise has suddenly become a tourist hotspot in the midst of travel restrictions amid the pandemic. Its sudden convenient accessibility for the well-heeled, rather “uneducated” city lot, who are unable to go to faraway exotic destinations, now threatens its ecology and beauty.Kukanet is a picturesque place with a stream flowing in the middle of the village. It is a birders’ paradise and a haven for those who love wildlife, but sudden interest of city folks in the village threatens to alter the ecology irretrievablyIn the five months of the lockdown, villagers had to lodge a police complaint after spending sleepless nights with noisy disruptions and booze parties in their backyard and also getting exposed to dramatic ecological changes caused by a string of leftovers, polythene bags, beer bottles, cans, disposable cups.According to sources, several VVIPs, bureaucrats, officials, businessmen, and some with their own security vehicles from Jalandhar, Ludhiana and other neighboring cities, were among the visitors to the area.Eco degeneration startsSimilar degeneration is also being witnessed in other forests and ‘khads’ (gorges) across the Shivalik Hills in Dholbaha, Maara Dam (forest area), Chak Sadhu khad and Narrud among other places.Despite complaint, no let-up in stream of visitorsIn May, hours after some villagers asked city goers not to litter their village, visitors, relenting to the request left, but returned within hours accompanied by 10 to 12 youths, some of them armed with sharp weapons. Villagers complained to the police. The district police now holds a naka at the village very Sunday. However, villagers say there was no let-up in the stream of visitors.Gurbachan Singh, sarpanch, Kukanet, says: “A huge footfall of visitors to the village was witnessed in the lockdown. Our village is secluded, but they come without masks and often in rowdy groups, big vehicles and playing loud music. They drink, cook non-veg, carry cylinders and litter the stream, leaving a trail of garbage behind. Villagers can no more walk barefoot because the entire area is littered with broken bottles and cans. Visitors also damage the crop by the stream. The stream is still clear, but if this goes on, it won’t remain so. Many times, sound systems blare until late night and when we stop them from doing so, they don’t listen. Rather, they start fighting with us if we say anything.”“In May, we lodged a complaint with the police. I walked to the thana myself. Later, these men relented and said they won’t repeat the mistake. We also plan to complain to the SSP. Our lives have changed and a majority don’t pay heed. Small vehicles can’t come this deep into the forest. A majority of the visitors are affluent, well-connected people, who don’t care about rules or ecology, it seems,” he said.Forest Range Officer Jaspal Singh said: “We have been constantly working on preventing visitors. Forest guards are without weapons and a handful of us can’t prevent so many visitors. But the police have started holding nakas on Sundays and signboards shall be put up soon declaring fines for those found littering the jungle or harming trees.”Hoshiarpur, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, said: “A lot of people from the cities have been coming here. And, it’s true that those coming to the forests should exhibit some civil sense in the forest areas. We are planning to take some strict steps, which act as a deterrent for those littering or causing harm to the forest.”Nikhil Senger, Honorary Wildlife Warden and an expert on man-animal conflict, who is a regular rescue worker in the forests of the belt, says: “Only the affluent afford the vehicles — Scorpios, Thars and Fortuners among others — needed for this terrain. At times, hundreds of vehicles are parked in eco-sensitive areas, dams, rivulets and beautiful villages. However, the lack of civic sense in these affluent city goers is staggering and will give way to huge man-animal conflict due to the amount of litter strewn around. Wild animals have a tendency to gorge on easy foods and many also fall prey to injuries caused by scrap such as broken bottles, cans and ingestion of plastic. Animals and ecosystems are changing. Jungle streams across foothill forests are being riddled with garbage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-hamlet-that-has-lost-its-peace-to-rowdy-city-visitors-during-lockdown-132327
28-08-2020||Avneet Kaur||After founding IT start-up, this 24-year-old Phillaur boy is touching new heights||Phillaur (Jalandhar), Aug 27At 24, Vishal Kalra decided to make a job, rather than look for one, by founding Designistic (an IT start-up). In just nine months, he not only achieved various international projects for himself, but has also earned a whopping revenue of over Rs15 lakh. And that’s not it. Vishal on Monday bagged the Indian Achievers Award for Young Entrepreneur, 2020, for the impeccable feats in the category of IT and creating a pristine online space.Running an NGO to help patientsBesides his IT startup, Vishal Kalra (in pic) has also been running his own NGO named Apra Blood Sewa since 2017. He says: “I was inspired to start this NGO after seeing one in Phillaur dedicatedly working to reach out to patients in case of any emergency.” While working with that NGO he understood the importance of social service. “Therefore, I decided to start the same for the people of my village. I now organise blood camps and also arrange blood for the needy patients”, he adds.Qualifications and achievementsVishal has done his Bcom from DAV College Phillaur, while he pursued MBA in marketing and finance from GNA University. Also, he is a certified adobe expert, AWS business professional, associate android developer and mobile web specialist.Besides, he has been nominated for the Entrepreneurship World Cup 2020 (an international contest for entrepreneurs from across the world).Talking to The Tribune, Vishal said he has been running an internationally accredited website — Designistic — from his residence in Apra village in Phillaur. Although, he hasn’t employed anyone on salary, he is associated with 28 freelancers across India and has been paying them for the amount of work they do for him.“Becoming a young entrepreneur is not a piece of cake. It all started way back in 2018 when I was in my third semester of MBA and got pre-placement at ‘Justdial’. I was hired for the post of sales executive and worked to the best of my ability, but had a penchant to do something of my own since the very beginning of my graduation,” he says.As a result, within the three months of joining, he left the job. Afterwards, in April 2019, he joined Kantar IMRB, a market research, survey and business consultancy firm as field in-charge and was looking after states Punjab, Himachal, Jammu and Kashmir and Chandigarh.“I learnt through this job different concepts of marketing and other business aspects, but I could not continue here too for more than five months and in September, I resigned”, Vishal expounds, son of Rakesh Kalra, a bank employee. Later that year, he started working on his entrepreneuring dream and in November developed his own website and expanded his reach.He has a slew of clients lined up now. “Majority of them are from foreign nations. I have developed billing and database software and desktop software for Hobart Beauty Salon and Desi Grocers in Australia, respectively. I have also worked for RP Impex in the USA and Anakh Productions in England. Besides, I have developed softwares for renowned jewellery firms, Shaheed Bhagat Singh park, political softwares for MLAs regarding data entry and have been handling social media accounts of many government and private officials as well as NGOs”, he shares.Challenges and future plansWhen asked about the challenges he faced, he explained, “Starting your own business and being an entrepreneur is not really glamorous. In fact, entrepreneurs have to take a great financial risk to get the ventures off the ground and create their own path. But in my case, I did not have to make a big investment as it’s just a laptop that I invested in. When I started my journey, my ambition was to provide quality, affordable, innovative and high-end sales service to my clients. I am looking forward to making more positive contributions towards that.”The award is an honour for the young entrepreneur and an important milestone that validates his beliefs. But according to him, it’s just a glimpse. He has more on his mind. “There’s lot more to attain and I will work with all my determination and zest for the same. I aim to make ‘Designistic’ a brand in the world of IT startups,” he says. The services his company provides includes website designing, mobile application development, graphic and logo designing, software development, market research and online promotions etc. “These have covered so many milestones in a very short span”, he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-founding-it-start-up-this-24-year-old-phillaur-boy-is-touching-new-heights-132328
28-08-2020||---||Jaffarpur villagers say no to Covid test||Nawanshahr, August 27Residents of Jaffarpur village here refused to give their samples to the health team after two deaths were reported in the village due to Covid-19. Residents said the Health Department was not efficient enough to save lives and they had no faith in the system. After deaths were reported, the health team had gone to the village to take samples of the residents, but they refused and gave it in writing that if they observed any symptom, they would get themselves tested on their own.Sarabjit Jaffarpur, former sarpanch of the village, said he had no trust on the test results. “One of the persons in our village was tested positive while his family members who were living with him were negative, how is this even possible? We doubt whether the reports are correct,” he said, adding that it was because of such instances they decided not to go for test.They said in case they felt the need to get tested, they would do it on their own. The former sarpanch said two villagers died due to the negligence of the health teams and poor health infrastructure.“The first death reported was of a 72-year-old, but strangely nobody in his family contracted the virus. I don’t get this. It is said the virus gets transmitted if a person comes in close contact with another person. How come his family members didn’t contract the virus?” he asked. About second Covid positive patient who died later, he said he was not attended properly at the hospital where he had gone for treatment and he died in the evening.The residents said they did not trust the health system and would stand by their decision.197 +ve in JalandharAs many as 197 persons tested positive for Covid in the district on Thursday, taking the tally to 5,886. With two more deaths, the death toll reached 147. Many bank officials among other residents tested positive for the virus on Thursday. In Kapurthala, two Covid patients died and 37 tested positive. The deceased include a 55-year-old woman from Dayalpur village admitted to Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, and later shifted to GMC, Amritsar. She had diabetes. The second deceased was a woman (55) from Jabbowal admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar. She had history of cancer. TNS2 deaths in HoshiarpurThe district received 103 new positive cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,327. With two more deaths, the toll reached 35. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 1,100 persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were tested. Out of 103 cases found positive on Thursday, 46 are from Hoshiarpur city, two from Hajipur, three from Budhawar, 13 from Mukerian, four from Harta Badla, nine from Tanda, nine from Dasuya, four from Chakkowal, five from Talwara, one from Garhshankar 1 and seven from other districts. A 60-year-old Jalalpur resident died at the Military Hospital, Jalandhar, while Sudha Singh (76) of Garhshankar died in Mohali. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jaffarpur-villagers-say-no-to-covid-test-132329
28-08-2020||---||Capturing the glory of Cleanest Cantt of India||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/capturing-the-glory-of-cleanest-cantt-of-india-132331
28-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Year after floods, Lohian residents struggle to stay afloat||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 27A year after massive floods wreaked havoc in their villages, Lohian residents recall the nightmarish experiences they went through during the turbulent times when Sutlej waters washed away their crops, belongings and animals, and damaged their houses.The residents shared their experiences on how they are trying to start their livelihood once again and slowly recovering the losses they had incurred. They say the compensation of Rs 12,000 per acre that came their way was too little to recover the actual damage.Tarsem Singh, a resident of Janian Chahal village, said, “Though I got Rs 12,000 compensation for the crop loss on my 1-acre land, nothing came our way for the damaged verandah. There are cracks all over my house and I need Rs 1.5 lakh to repair it. I sought help from various sources, but to no avail. My biggest support was my younger brother Nirmal Singh in Dubai, who was to return this year and help me, but he passed away in May this year because of Covid.”Like Tarsem, Manjit Kaur of the same village says she is badly hit after the floods damaged her crops. “I got a compensation for my 1-acre land. Last year, my 17-year-old son started helping me in the fields. I had taken 2 acres on contract. I had paid Rs 45,000 in advance to the land owner but got nothing in return as the entire crop got damaged,” she said.Major Singh, whose house faced the maximum impact as it was located right in front of the breach point in the river, says the horrifying scenes still send jitters up his spine. “My house had developed cracks all over and I had to spend nearly Rs 2 lakh for its repair. The compensation came only for the crop loss, but that was miniscule as compared to the actual input cost,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/year-after-floods-lohian-residents-struggle-to-stay-afloat-132400
