28-06-2020||---||Create quarantine facility of 700 beds, Jalandhar SDMs told||Jalandhar, June 27Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has asked all Sub-Divisional Magistrates (SDMs) to create an additional quarantine facility of 700 beds in the district under ‘Mission Fateh’.In a communiqué to all SDMs, the DC categorically said the SDMs Jalandhar-I and Jalandhar-II would create an additional facility of 200 beds each for quarantine at the district. Likewise, he said the SDMs of Nakodar, Shahkot and Phillaur would create an additional quarantine facility of 100 beds each in their sub-divisions. Thori said vulnerable population groups (those with co-morbid medical conditions, above 60 years of age, pregnant women, persons with immune-compromised conditions) were more prone to serious Covid illness. Therefore, for containment and micro-containment zones, where there was cluster of cases, steps need to be taken for reducing mortality.The DC said this quarantine facility would be used for accommodating high-risk individuals, adding that high-risk individuals in containment and micro-containment zones would be offered accommodation out of the containment zone till their area of residence comes out of the containment zone. He said this facility would be optional and such person coming in high-risk category would be allowed a caretaker from home to look after him/her.Thori said medicines and consumables available in the essential drug list of the Health Department would be provided at the quarantine facility along with diagnostic services as per government norms and medical care would be provided by the Health Department. He said Senior Medical Officer of the nearest government health facility would ensure morning and evening rounds of medical officers in these facilities as per the duty roster along with the nursing staff and helpers or any other category of paramedical manpower.1 succumbs to virus in Jalandhar districtJalandhar: A death of Covid patient was reported on Saturday along with 20 fresh cases, taking the tally of infected persons in the district to 691, while the death toll had reached 20. A 66-year-old man of GTB Nagar died at a private hospital in Ludhiana on Saturday. He was referred to Ludhiana several days ago with breathing problem. Several children, one of them five-month-old, are among the cases reported today. Cases from Ram Nagar, Santoshi Nagar, Mohammed Nagar, Lamma Pind, New Hardyal Nagar, Dashmesh Nagar, Pachranga, Swaraj Nagar, Arjun Nagar, New Gobind Nagar, New Deol Nagar, etc were reported today.3 from Algeria among 5 test positive in Hoshiarpur districtHoshiarpur: With five more Covid positive cases on Saturday, the number of patients affected by the virus has reached 174 in the district. Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said of the five positive cases found on Saturday, three came from Algeria. One is a resident of Roorkee village, while other is a resident of Aslamabad locality in Hoshiarpur city. The third one is from Saidpur village. The fourth patient is a resident of Bahiran village and the fifth virus infected persons is a resident of Nasrala village. He said the number of active cases was 16 while 153 patients had recovered in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/create-quarantine-facility-of-700-beds-jalandhar-sdms-told-105520
28-06-2020||Avneet KaurKapurthala||Down but not out: Teacher turns into labourer to keep wolf from the door||Nishant Kumar, who is a teacher, has also worked as an auto-rickshaw driver and a vegetable vendor. As he strives hard to make both ends meet amid the lockdown, he has now chosen to work as a daily-wage labourer at a grain market in Kapurthala. With options shut, his meagre salary of Rs 6,000 is not enough and it is the only way he can feed his family of five, he feels.Talking to The Tribune, he said that before the lockdown he was working both as a teacher and a part-time auto rickshaw driver, however, the curfew announced in March to contain the spread of Covid-19 badly affected his driver’s job and forced him to turn into a vegetable vendor.“Petrol and diesel costs are at an all-time high and as per administration guidelines, the auto driver are not allowed to ferry more than three passengers. Therefore, the cost we bear for fuel is more than the earnings. So, I am not into that job anymore,” says Kumar, who teaches at the Government Primary School, Bhagat Pur. “Moreover, I suffered huge loss in the vegetable business. The money I invested to buy veggie supplies got wasted as I hardly earned any profit”, he says, adding that as no investment is required for labouring, he opted to work as a daily-wager.His workaday life is now different than ever. Having no job to do as a pre-primary teacher — since the schools have long been shuttered — and with no schedule of online classes for pre-primary kids in place, he spends a large slice of his day at the market hauling sacks of maize. “I go to grain market around six in the morning and return home by 9 or 10 in the night. I work with seven other labourers, and we all together lift around 200 to 300 maize sacks weighing 20 to 25 kg per bag”, Kumar tells, adding that after working for nearly 10-12 hours, he manages to earn Rs 300-350 per day.He further said he has been working as teacher on a contractual basis with the state education department for last 8-9 years, but has not been regularised yet. “I got married a few years ago but my wife left as I was earning too little. The state government should accommodate contractual teachers and volunteers in the pre-primary classes as these are being solely managed by education providers or EGS-AIE volunteers”, he suggests.Kumar says that he is not the only one who has been struggling to cope with the existential crisis for there are other teachers from Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Pathankot and Moga, who besides teaching, have also undertaken various jobs – like drivers, labourers, painters and waiters to name a few – so they can manage their finances and repay their debts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/down-but-not-out-teacher-turns-into-labourer-to-keep-wolf-from-the-door-105521
28-06-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Dengue team manhandled, abused in Hoshiarpur district||Under a dengue prevention and awareness drive, special awareness activities are being carried out by the district administration to protect the public from dengue along with Covid-19.While special duty related to corona is being done by the Health Department, a dengue investigation team of about 50 volunteers has also been deployed by the department. Along with surveying houses by these volunteers, awareness of dengue is also being spread. While doing this, a team conducting survey had to face resentment at Panjpipli area of the city. The team was tracing larvae at a houses in the area. According to sources, larvae were found in several houses. The team found larvae at a house and said earlier also larvae were found in the said house and the residents had been reminded time and again to keep their cooler clean and prevent water-logging but to no avail. The Municipal Corporation employees in the team challaned the house, but residents of the said house with the help of other residents of the street opposed the team. The team was reportedly manhandled and the members were reportedly abused and pushed restricting them to conduct the survey. They then informed District Epidemiologist Dr Shailesh, who in turn informed the DC about the incident.On the DC’s directions, a police team was rushed to the spot. The police controlled the situation and all houses, where larvae were found, were challaned. The team also had to face resentment of residents of Street No. 4 in Shalimar Nagar on Friday and they were reportedly abused and stopped from conducting the survey.After this Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait in the evening issued strict instructions in this regard. She said people must cooperate with the staff doing duties related to Covid-19 and dengue and if non-cooperation is reported by the teams, legal action would be taken against violators under the Epidemic Disease Act. She said everyone’s cooperation was needed in this difficult time, so that along with winning the war against coronavirus, prevention of dengue can also be made sure. She said health facilities are being provided by the Health Department and the staff are conducting the survey only for the safety of people in general, so any misconduct would not be tolerated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dengue-team-manhandled-abused-in-hoshiarpur-district-105522
28-06-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar’s oldest recreation park losing sheen, blame it on official apathy||One of the oldest recreational parks of the city — Beant Singh park — is in a shambles. Thanks to the lackadaisical attitude of the district administration and the civic body.Spreading over 3 acres, the park has turned into a hunting ground for anti-social elements as lack of maintenance on the part of authorities is keeping residents away from it.Located at Focal Point Chowk, the park was developed in 2003 in the memory of slain Chief Minister Beant Singh. Falling on the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway, it was visited by residents of surrounding colonies and even labourers from Focal Point and Industrial Area to rest during lunch break and in the evenings. But now, it lies in a pathetic condition. Locals who had witnessed the joyful hustle and bustle at the park said it was once used for musical shoots, recreational activities, games and evening walks, however, now it had completely lost its sheen. All greenery, flowers, medicinal herbs planted in the park have completely vanished. At present, apart from wild grass, open sewage disposals and garbage have taken the place of greenery and fountains.Named as Shaheed S Beant Singh, the park is instead crying for its existence as the name carved out with paint and metal on the foundation stone has also disappeared. The present generation hardly has any idea about the establishment of park. Gurvinder Jot Singh (48), a resident of the area, who recalled the days when he used to have cricket matches at the park said: “It’s very appalling that the authorities didn’t even bother about maintaining parks named after personalities. The park could have at least be used as a playground for kids.”Amrik Singh, the in charge of the disposals and motor pump at the park said: “Besides musical fountains, the lights in the park also remained a major attraction. People from all around the city used to visit the park. Sometimes, social activists used to clean the park, but lack or response from the administration ruined it. It’s uncertain to predict when the park will regain its lost glory.”“Due to the miserable condition of the park, it’s rehabilitation programme has now been included in the Smart City Project,” said Pradeep Kumar Chand, who earlier was the caretaker and supervisor of the park.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-oldest-recreation-park-losing-sheen-blame-it-on-official-apathy-105523
28-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Staff wearing protective gear common sight in hospitals||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 27A number of medicos with thermal scanners, wearing face masks and covered in PPE kits can be seen working in Covid wards. If the pandemic has changed the way of living of the common man, it has also changed the way of working of medicos and the ancillary staff. Now they have become more cautious about their safety while discharging duties.Since the outbreak of the pandemic one has to go through several health check-ups like checking of body temperature before entering a hospital. Escalating costs and face masks, PPE kit-clad staff are among the new normal in hospitals.Dr Baljit Singh Johal, whose Johal hospital has received one confirmed case of Covid-19 and several suspected patients, says, “Covid is here to stay and its treatment is a costly affair which poor people cannot afford. We have calculated a rise of Rs 10 lakh in per month costs due to Covid. In the aftermath of a positive patient reported from the hospital, it cost me about Rs 35 lakh for quarantining staff, for 12 admitted patients who left as soon as they got to know that someone had tested positive, HR and other costs. For a week, there were no new admissions. We were also fleeced by vendors selling PPE kits, masks, etc in the beginning.”Tagore Hospital, which has had one Covid patient so far, has built a triage centre and an isolation unit to keep the virus at bay.At least three positive patients – two of them deceased – had reported to Kidney Hospital in Jalandhar. The hospital which has often been in the centre of the action surrounding Covid scans and screens every patient before entry.Speaking out Our general costs have escalated by 20 per cent. X-rays have to be carried out and patients have to be isolated before being let in. There are hefty costs for sanitisers, masks, PPE kits and screens scanners. — Dr Baljit Singh Johal, Of Johal hospitalCovid is here to stay for a long time, maybe years and possibly it might mutate as previous viruses have done. Maybe we have further stages of the virus. It's a battle which we all have to fight together. — Dr Rajiv Bhatia, nephrologist and director of Shreeman HospitalThankfully, the separated triage area, where we first screen and carry X-rays of suspected patients, has helped us keep Covid away. The treatment cost has risen considerably. This entire new process is here to stay. — Dr Vijay Mahajan, MD, Tagore HospitalWe voluntarily closed the hospital for five days when one of the patients tested positive. Covid is the new normal and all hospitals have to develop all protocols and infrastructure to battle it. It's a war the medicos have got to fight. — Dr RS Chahal, Medical Director, Kidney Hospital, Jalandhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/staff-wearing-protective-gear-common-sight-in-hospitals-105526
28-06-2020||Dr JP Singh||‘People’s faith in ayurvedic medicines has increased’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?Except the initial one-week shutdown, our two factories have been working as it falls under essential services. As per the instructions of the state government, we have taken all safety measures so that our employees are not infected with the virus. However, our marketing suffered a lot due to a break and hiccups in supply chains.How is your business going?People's faith has increased in ayurvedic medicines, especially immunity-boosting medicines. As we have seen a surge in the sales of ayurvedic medicines, we are going to expand the present unit at Nag Kalan with another state-of-the-art unit adjoining it. We will install touch-free and online functioning manufacturing machines in it.Have you paid salaries to your employees during the lockdown period?We have paid full salaries to all our employees on time and there was no delay. All of them have been given social welfare benefits like ESI and Employees' Provident Fund.What is the share of online trading in your profession?The share of online trading is very little. Professionally, we have an extensive marketing network across 18 states.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?An entrepreneur should always be ready for such crisis and challengesDo you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?We take it as an opportunity and are guiding our marketing staff accordingly. The crisis once again renewed the concept of ayurvedic medicines among people resulting in a 25 per cent spike in the sale during the lockdown period. Immune boosters like Chavanprash, Giloyghan Vatti and Ayush Kwaph were bought in a large quantity by people.What are your expectations from the government?The government must offer advances on low interest to the MSME sector and waive interest on already paid loans during the lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/peoples-faith-in-ayurvedic-medicines-has-increased-105529
28-06-2020||---||Fight against drug abuse goes on||Jalandhar, June 27The Navjeevan Kendra launched the Drug Overdose Education and Management (DOVE) project in Kapurthala here on Saturday. The aim was to spread awareness among drug-addicts in the district regarding the increased use of drug after the lockdown period.During the project, drug addicts will be educated on the increased risks of drug overdose among them following a period of drug shortage during the lockdown. The first phase of the project was launched today in the presence of Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh. With a sizeable population of drug dependents, Kapurthala district saw drug users making a beeline to avail de-addiction treatment to its Mobile OOAT clinics at various villages. During the lockdown, registrations have risen sharply.During the lockdown period (March to May), 2,160 people registered for OOAT. In April, 1,293 people registered for treatment with OOAT (Outpatient Opioid Assisted Treatment) clinics in Kapurthala. This is the largest single-month spike in de-addiction cases in the district since 2007.With such a rise in cases reported during the lockdown, the lack of availability of drugs during the lockdown, no jobs and lack of mobility among drug dependents have resulted in the record spike. The project is aimed at spreading awareness among this group on the possibilities of drug overdose.During the first phase of the project launched today, the de-addiction centre will set up a mechanism and involve youth clubs, NGOs, doctors and paramedical staff.Dr Sandeep Bhola, in-charge de-addiction centre, Kapurthala, said, “During wars and lockdowns, there is a drug shortage. After the lockdown when a drug is available again, there tends to be a drug overdose. One reason for the overdose is that after a period of absence of drugs the threshold of a drug user is lowered. Following the period, if he starts back on the same dose he previously took — that itself acts as an overdose since he isn’t used to it. This is a great risk among drugs users.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fight-against-drug-abuse-goes-on-105530
28-06-2020||Our CorrespondentKapurthala||Residents apprised of drug abuse||District De-addiction and Rehabilitation Society, Kapurthala, organised a function on the occasion of International Day Against Drug Abuse and Trafficking here on Saturday. Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh was the chief guest. The function was held at Navjivan Kendra.Special discussions were held on the side effects of drugs, causes of drugs, treatment and connecting the addicts to the mainstream of the society.The chief guest said the state government had launched a drive to make the state drug-free. He lauded the project ‘Mobile Oat Clinic’ run by the district administration during Covid-19, which was providing relief to the drug addicts.He launched a new project called ‘Dove’, the full name of which is ‘Drug (Opioid) Overdose Education and Management Project’.SDM Kapurthala Virinder Pal Singh Bajwa said Kapurthala was the only city in the country where so many drug de-addiction projects were going on at one place. He also said today’s event had been supported by the state government as well as the Alliance India and Global Fund.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-apprised-of-drug-abuse-105532
28-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||TrueNat unit  installed at Civil Hospital||Under the ‘Mission Fateh’, to speed up the health check-up of patients with emergency status, such as surgery, delivery of pregnant woman and respiratory diseases and frontline workers, a TrueNat machine for on the spot Covid-19 testing, has been installed at the Civil Hospital Hoshiarpur.It can test 6 samples daily and the test reports can be obtained within 2 hours. For government health institutions, tests will be done free of cost, while private hospitals will be charged a fee of Rs 1,500. The machine has been installed in several hospitals in the state to prevent the spread of Covid-19 virus so that patients coming to the government hospital can be treated well in emergency. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/truenat-unit-installed-at-civil-hospital-105533
28-06-2020||Our CorrespondentPhagwara||Police nab 3 liquor smugglers||In a major breakthrough the Jalandhar (Rural) police on Saturday arrested three smugglers and seized 6,445 liters spirit of alcohol filled in 17 drums and 87 plastic cans, in a truck and an Endeavor in Goraya.The suspects have been identified as Nishan Singh of Bharowal, Sarwan Singh and Uttam Singh of Goindwal Sahib in Tarn Taran district.Talking to The Tribune here on Saturday, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said SHO Goraya police station Kewal Singh, along with police party was patrolling near Goraya Bus Stand and received a tip off that Nishan Singh of Bhrowal in Tarn Taran, who is a truck driver was coming from Ludhiana side and carrying huge quantity of spirit in a truck.The SSP said following which the SHO, along with the police party, reached near Hanumant School, Goraya at the National Highway and started conducting checking of the vehicles coming from the Phillaur side.Mahal said during checking, one canter Ashok Leyland was spotted intercepted the canter. The SSP said the canter driver revealed his identity as Nishan Singh.He said the checking of the canter was carried out and cops seized 17 drums containing 200/200 ltrs and 72 cans containing 35/35 ltrs of spirit alcohol (total 5,920 ltrs of spirit alcohol). A case under Sections 61,78,1 and 14 of the Excise Act and 177,181 and 192 of the Motor Vehicles Act has been registered in Police Station, Goraya, and arrested suspect Nishan Singh has been arrested.Similarly, in an another incident, Sub-Inspector, Labh Singh, along with police party, conducted nakabandi near petrol pump, situated at the Chachrari Highway Road and were conducting checking of the vehicles. During checking, the cops stopped a black Endeavour coming from the Goraya side. The car driver revealed his identity as Sarwan Singh and the person sitting on the adjacent seat revealed his identity as Uttam Singh of Goindwal Sahib.The cops conducted the checking of the car and found 15 cans containing 35/35 ltrs of spirit alcohol (Total 525 ltrs of spirit alcohol). A case under Sections 61,78,1 and of the 14 Excise Act and 177,181 and 192 of the Motor Vehicle Act has been registered.The SSP said in both cases, a detailed probe was being carried out and action would be taken accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-nab-3-liquor-smugglers-105534
28-06-2020||Jalandhar||Women march to BDPO amid farmers’ crisis||A large number of women from Udhowal village marched to the BDPO office at Mehatpur and demanded a meeting of the gram panchayat. The women wing of the Kirti Kisan Union, established by the Udhowal village women, demanded solutions for the losses caused to poor farmers and demanded development of the village.After having a word with the village sarpanch, women served him a notice of their demands.The village sarpanch relented and foxed a meeting for July 15. Voters in the village had also been airing the same demand for a long time and 70 per cent of them had given approval for the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-march-to-bdpo-amid-farmers-crisis-105536
28-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Congress workers burn Modi’s effigy||Garhshankar, June 27Workers of the Youth Congress led by leader Pranav Kirpal on Saturday staged a protest near the railway gate in Garhshankar by burning an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the wake of sky-high prices of petrol and diesel. They chanted slogans against Modi on the occasion. Kirpal said that current prices of crude oil in the world market are very low, but in our country the prices have been on the rise for the last 19 days.For the first timesince independence the prices of petrol and diesel have become almost equal and are close to crossing hundred,” he said.He added that the underprivileged persons have already suffered enough due to the Covid pandemic and now the prices of petrol and diesel have further plunged them into peril. He also pointed out that the BJP leaders who had staged dharnas regarding the modest prices during the Congress reign were now silent.“Youth Congress will continue its struggle against the hike in prices,” Kirpal said. Ricky Panch Bildon, Vinod Jeer, Manjinder Mohanowal, Sachin Nair, Rohit Kumar, Sunny Sharma, Soni Mohanowal, Sandeep Sharma, Soni Verma, Kulwant, Karandeep, Lavi Arora were present among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-workers-burn-modis-effigy-105538
28-06-2020||Jalandhar||Regional passport office gets best performance award||In another rare feat, the passport office in Jalandhar has bagged the best performance award among all the passport offices across the country for the fifth time in a row.Regional Passport Officer Raj Kumar Bali said like every year, Passport Sewa Diwas was organised by the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, New Delhi, on June 24. He said owing to Covid-19 pandemic, this year the Passport Sewa Diwas was organised through video conferencing. Bali said during the event, the performance of each passport office was evaluated on the basis of its working style and some other significant factors.The Regional Passport Officer said subsequently passport sewa prizes were announced to the best performing passport offices. He said it was a matter of pride and satisfaction for them that passport office, Jalandhar, had been awarded with the best performance award (first prize) among all the passport offices across the country for the fifth time in a row. Bali said this recognition had filled the passport office staff at Jalandhar with greater commitment to serve people with far more humility and dedication in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/regional-passport-office-gets-best-performance-award-105539
28-06-2020||Jalandhar||‘Clarify position on Chinese incursions’||Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Friday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to clarify the actual position on Chinese incursions in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.The MP paid tributes to the 20 fallen soldiers in Galwan Valley face-off with Chinese troops along with MLA Rajinder Beri, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, District Congress Urban president Baldev Singh Dev, District Mahila Congress president Jasleen Sethi, councillor Jagdish Gag and workers of the Indian National Congress. Women Congress workers came donning dupattas dyed in the Tricolour.The Lok Sabha MP said the martyred soldiers have laid down their lives for the nation and their supreme sacrifices must not go in vain. He asked the Government of India to tell people how China was able to intrude into the Indian territory and why the soldiers were sent unarmed to engage with Chinese troops.The senior Congress leader said 20 soldiers laid down their lives to protect India’s territorial integrity, but despite this, Prime Minister Modi said there was no intrusion into our land.“The PM should place the truth before the nation, so that people can know what actually happened and how our soldiers were martyred,” he said.Chaudhary Santokh Singh said it was a failure at the highest level of government and is also a question mark on intelligence agencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/clarify-position-on-chinese-incursions-105540
28-06-2020||Jalandhar||Auto-rickshaw union up in arms||Perturbed over inflated fuel prices, auto-rickshaw drivers, under the banner of Bhagat Singh Punjab Auto-Rickshaw Workers Sangharsh Committee, decided to hold a march. Auto rickshaw operators from various district of the state have jointly decided to pressurise the government to reduce the fuel price and demanded for social security during the lockdown.At a meeting organised by the city-based Bhagat Singh Auto Rickshaw Workers Union, around 20 unions from all across the state jointly decided to hold a march in the coming days. Addressing the gathering of representatives, Ravindra Singh, a union leader stated that the lockdown had affected the business of three-wheeler operators.During the curfew, and now the unavailability of passengers was pushing the auto-rickshaw drivers towards unemployment.Kulwinder Singh from Nawanshar and Gurdev Singh from Kapurthala, rued that even after raising their demands several times, the government didn’t take any action. Therefore they have no option left other than hitting the roads. Demanding financial assistance from the government, the auto-rickshaw operators urged the officials concerned to register them as daily-wage workers and arrange for their daily meals.“Unable to make any money during the period, the auto-rickshaw drivers are worried about paying the monthly installment of loan of their vehicles. Though banks have been directed not to demand the same, once the curfew is lifted, the auto-rickshaw operators will have an additional burden of paying the loans,” said Ranjit, president, Bhagat Singh Auto-rickshaw Workers Union.They threatened to intensify their stir in the coming days if the administration fails to pay heed to their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/auto-rickshaw-union-up-in-arms-105542
28-06-2020||Phillaur||Two held with poppy husk||In another case, the police on Friday arrested a drug peddler, identified as Samandip Singh, a resident of Latawal village, in Kapurthala, with 180 intoxicating tablets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-poppy-husk-105543
28-06-2020||Jalandhar||Teen ends life over ‘shattered’ foreign dreams||Being unable to fulfill her dreams to settle abroad, a 19-year-old girl hanged herself to death. She was a resident of Lamma Pind and was staying here with her family. The incident was reported on Friday.The police said the girl was in depression due to her studies. She was studying at a private school in Class XII. Her kin said she was quite willing to study abroad.SHO Sullakhan Singh said she committed suicide on Thursday midnight, according to the postmortem report. “Her father Prem Masih said like any normal day, she went to her room after having dinner around 9.30 pm and they had no idea what would happen. However, his daughter was upset for the past several days. She didn’t open the door in the morning when she went to wake her up. They broke open the door only to find her hanging from the ceiling fan. She was then rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared her brought dead,” the SHO said.A case was registered at Rama Mandi police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teen-ends-life-over-shattered-foreign-dreams-105550
28-06-2020||Nurmahal||Three held with illicit liquor||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-held-with-illicit-liquor-105552
28-06-2020||Jalandhar||Assistant tests +ve, Kapurthala MLA ‘safe’||As many as 26 staff members of Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh have been placed under quarantine after his office secretary tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.The MLA was tested and his report turned negative today. Within hours of his testing negative, the MLA was seen attending the launch a de-addiction programme. The health authorities said since he had tested negative, the MLA did not need to be placed under quarantine.Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Dr Jasmeet Bawa said: “The MLA’s 46-year-old assistant has tested positive and the samples of 26 of his office staff (including contacts of the PA) have been taken. The MLA has tested negative, but his staff members have been placed under quarantine as their results are awaited. More tests of staff members shall also be done tomorrow.” Dr Sandeep Bhola, incharge, Drug De-addiction Centre, Kapurthala, said: “The MLA attended the DOVE (Drug Overdose Education and Management) project launch today. The programme, slated to be held yesterday, was delayed by a day to facilitate the MLA’s visit. It was postponed since his test report was awaited.”Rana Gurjit said: “My office secretary has tested positive as he was doing ‘sewa’. I attended an event today after my report came negative. I want to motivate frontline warriors.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/assistant-tests-ve-kapurthala-mla-safe-105445
28-06-2020||---||College teachers threaten to boycott exams, write to CM||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 27Even as Guru Nanak Dev University is geared up to hold written examination for students of the final year UG and PG courses in its colleges from July 1, the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union today announced to boycott examination duties.The teachers said they had been requesting the GNDU authorities to review the decision since the declaration of date sheet on May 14 in view of the stance of the UGC/MHRD to issue fresh guidelines on the matter in July, the university authorities have not conceded to their demand. The teachers led by Prof Sukhdev S Randhawa, general secretary, PCCTU, in an open letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh have told him that his decision to wait for UGC/MHRD guidelines on examination matters too had been violated by the university officials. In preparation for the examination, the GNDU had this week issued roll numbers of students to the colleges.Prof Randhawa said, “While all the universities of the state, including private ones, are waiting for fresh UGC/MHRD guidelines, why is the GNDU going ahead with exams?”Prof P Vinay Sofat, GNDU area secretary, PCCTU, alleged that the GNDU officials were creating panic and confusion among students and teachers.Controller of examination, GNDU, Dr Manoj Kumar said, “I have no information regarding teachers’ decision to boycott the examination. The UGC had earlier issued guidelines of starting examination from July 1 and we are awaiting further orders. We are in touch with the UGC.” He clarified that till the time inter-state travel was not eased, there was no need for them to travel to colleges and appear for examination. “We will hold their exams later,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/college-teachers-threaten-to-boycott-exams-write-to-cm-105459
