28-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Farmers protest deletion of  names on ration card list||Garhshankar,  May 27 The Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) led by Kashmir Singh Bhajjal staged a protest in front of the office of the Garhshankar SDM against deletion of poor people names on the ration card list and demanded restoration of the same. They warned that if the cards were not restored soon, the agitation would be intensified. ABKS state vice president comrade Darshan Singh Mattoo and secretary Gurnek Singh Bhajjal said the government should immediately implement recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission.  They demanded cancellation of the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 and increase the amount of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme from Rs 6,000 to Rs 18,000 and credit the amount in the accounts of farmers. Matto said compensation of rupees 20,000 per acre should be given for the crop damaged by rains.  He said compensation should also be given to the farmers for the loss of vegetables, fruits and milk due to Covid-19 lockdown and curfew. Protesters demanded that Rs 7,500 should be deposited in the accounts of the farm labourers. He said 14 essential items should be supplied to every needy family without any discrimination and compensation of Rs 20 lakh should be given to the families of those who died of Covid-19.  Harbhajan Singh Atwal and Dilbag Mahdood said the government had allowed the sale of fuel at discounted rate of Rs 22 per liter for ships, but farmers were deprived of the same discounted rate on diesel. Farmer leaders Gopal Singh Thandi, Karnail Singh Posi, Gurdial Singh Mattoo, Jaswinder Singh Dhamai and Paramjit Ramgarh were present at the protest site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-protest-deletion-of-names-on-ration-card-list-91019
28-05-2020|| Our Correspondent---||Vaccination drive for animals begins in Hoshiarpur district||Hoshiarpur, May 27  A vaccination drive for animals against Hemorrhagic Septicemia (HS) began at Civil Veterinary Hospital, Bajwara, on Wednesday.   Speaking on the occasion, veterinary officer Dr Rana Preet Gill said, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has waived the fee for not only the HS vaccine but for other diseases like black quarter, PPR (in goats) and Ranikhet (in poultry) as well.”    She said the move would benefit 70 lakh animals in the state as the vaccine fee amounting to Rs3.5 crore will not be charged from animal owners.    Dr Amarjeet Singh, deputy director, said the department had formed around 25 teams for a door-to-door vaccination drive. He said around 3.2 lakh animals in the district will be vaccinated during the drive.    Dr Rana said every vaccinated animal would be tagged under the Information Network for Animal Productivity and Health (INAPH) project. She said the foot and mouth disease vaccine was already being provided free of cost to animal owners.   She appealed to farmers to get their animals vaccinated so that they can be saved from the dreaded disease, which had a high mortality rate. Hemorrhagic septicemia is a bacterial disease that mainly affects cattle and buffalo and is an important cause of livestock mortality leading to immense financial loss to animal owners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-drive-for-animals-begins-in-hoshiarpur-district-91020
28-05-2020||Jalandhar||Man booked for raping minor sister||A 25-year-old man was booked for allegedly raping his 16-year-old minor sister for several years.   The accused was reportedly raping his sister since the age of nine. ACP Cantt said a case under Sections 506 and 376 of the IPC and under the POCSO Act 2012 had been registered against him. The suspect had reportedly fled to Malaysia two year ago and a lookout notice has  been issued against him. The matter came to the light when the girl revealed her ordeal to a female lawyer.  According to the victim, her brother had started making physical relationship with her since the age of nine. At first she did not know anything, however as she got older, she came to know that her brother was doing wrong things with her. She said her brother used to torture her and threatened her that if she complained against him, he would kill her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-booked-for-raping-minor-sister-91021
28-05-2020||Mukerian||Fire breaks out at insurance company’s office in Mukerian||A fire broke out in the branch office of National Insurance Company Limited here around 3.30 am on Wednesday. Computers, equipment, furniture and records were gutted. The office of the company is located on the upper floor of the Punjab and Sindh Bank building.     Mukerian Naib Tehsildar Avinash Chandra said as soon as they got information, they reached the spot. He said the fire was so fierce that all records and other valuables kept in the office were burnt to ashes. He said the cause of the fire is still unknown.   Branch manager Som Raj said this was the second fire incident in the past one and a half month, which makes them suspicious.  After getting information, Mukerian police station in-charge Balwinder Singh, along with a police party, reached the spot and called fire tenders, which control the fire.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fire-breaks-out-at-insurance-companys-office-in-mukerian-91022
28-05-2020||---||Flight for Delhi cancelled, again||Jalandhar, May 27 Having flown 36 passengers between Delhi and Adampur on Tuesday, the Delhi-bound SpiceJet flight was cancelled again on Wednesday.   On Tuesday, as many 21passngers had booked tickets, while three of them missed their Adampur-Delhi flight. Bookings were reportedly done for Wednesday as well, but passengers were informed in the morning about cancelation of the flight.   Most travellers said the 14-day quarantine restriction was keeping the fliers at bay. “Instead of traveling by air, most people preferring traveling by their own cars in the morning to avoid any such restrictions. Instructions of mandatory downloading of Cova App, stamping on the back of their hands and pasting of quarantine posters outside their homes are keeping passengers at bay from air travel at the moment. Even companies are finding it not viable to fly with just 18 passengers in the 78-seat carrier,” said city-based businessman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flight-for-delhi-cancelled-again-91023
28-05-2020||Jalandhar||2 held with opium||The Jalandhar (rural) police arrested two narcotic smugglers and seized 6 kg of opium and one Innova car (bearing registration No.PB-09-M-0999) from them.  The suspects have been identified as Lakhvir Chand (46) and Gurpreet Kumar (26), both residents of New Shanti Nagar, Bajwara in Hoshiarpur district.  Since March 23, the rural police have registered cases against 36 drug smugglers, arrested 55 and seized Rs 10,94,000 drug money. The police also seized opium (24 kg, 750 gm); poppy husk (250 kg, 500 gm); heroin (752 gm); intoxicant injections (180); intoxicant tablets (11,720); intoxicant syrup (15); green leaf (61 kg) and ice (30 gm) since the imposition of the lockdown.   Navjot Singh Mahal, SSP, Jalandhar, informed mediapersons that on May 26 a police party headed by Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO police station Bhogpur, was conducting checking of vehicles at Adampur Road, Chak Jhandu. During nakabandi a silver Innova car was intercepted. During search, 6-kg opium was found from them.  While 2,600 gm of opium was seized from Gurpreet Kumar and 3,400 gm of opium  wrapped in a plastic bag was recovered from under the seat of the car. A case has been registered under Section 18 of the NDPS Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-held-with-opium-91024
28-05-2020||Jalandhar||Councillor Sushil is BJP dist chief||Ward No. 2 BJP councillor and active party worker Sushil Sharma (39) was picked up for the post of BJP district president today. A resident of Kalia Colony, Sushil Sharma is a lawyer and also a postgraduate in political science. Since his student life, he has been associated with the BJP. He has also served as the state secretary of the ABVP. He was the chief of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) in 2011. He is also the deputy leader of opposition in the current MC House. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/councillor-sushil-is-bjp-dist-chief-91025
28-05-2020||Ajay Joshi---||Choked sewer bane of Aara Mohalla colony||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, May 27 Despite repeated complaints for the last two years, a choked and broken sewer on the Suranussi-Vidhipur road is yet to be repaired.  The continuous overflowing of filth has damaged the main road and streets leading to a residential colony. Residents of the Aara Mohalla colony are the worst affected. Commuters use this road to reach Vidhipur, Kartarpur and Amritsar. Kulwinder Rakhuwara, a resident of Aara Mohalla, said, “The blockage of the main sewer had also contaminated the water supply. Due to the apathy of the civic bodies, the filthy  water has been overflowing for over two years. They tried to get the issue redressed, but to no avail.”  “Pedestrians are forced to wade through the polluted water. The stinking smell further add to their woes. On many occasions, the dirty water enters the residential colony”, said Rohit.  Shopkeepers and the area councillor said the road, which always remained inundated with filthy water, had been repaired several times. However, the situation was still the same, exposing the “lackadaisical attitude” of the civic authorities. The area is usually occupied by migrants and labourers due to its proximity to several factories. They alleged that the civic authorities were not performing their duty of providing clean and hygienic environment to them. Every day, they had to cross the choked sewer to reach their workplaces. Earlier, Municipal Corporation officials had installed some drainage pumps, but the arrangement did not prove beneficial, said a dhaba owner, who demanded a permanent solution to the long-standing problem. Area councillor Deshraj Jassal said; “Sanitation workers have been regularly cleaning the sewer, but the line connected to the main drainage requires repair.” Meanwhile, Mayor Jagadish Raja said the issue would be resolved soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/choked-sewer-bane-of-aara-mohalla-colony-91026
28-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Amid lockdown, PG owners stare at huge losses this year||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 27With as many as four private universities in the periphery of Jalandhar and scores of private colleges in the region, the paying guest facility, which had seen a boom in the last few years, is in complete doldrums since the lockdown.Their only hope remains the realisation of the announcement made by the HRD Ministry regarding holding examinations for the final year batches from July 1, regular classes for previously enrolled students from August and for freshers from September. “We will somehow have to bear partial losses, but if there will be a problem in the commencement of the next session, then we will have to seriously rethink on continuing this business”, most of them have said.The colleges and universities had got shut down by mid-March and the students had immediately started going back home. Ever since, the PG owners have said that they have been finding it difficult to get rental payments as the students hailed from other states and may not be able to come back home anytime soon.A PG owner based near DAV University on Pathankot Road here, said, “I had a mix of 20 students and faculty members, all of whom left by March-end. Since there was no work, my Nepali cook too boarded a goods carrier and left for his native place. I called up students for depositing rentals (I have not asked for food charges for these months), but some of them have expressed their helplessness. I cannot of course force them. Now that the university has started calling staff, two faculty members are coming back. So, I told them that they can come, but they need to cook themselves till I arrange a new help.”Likewise, Gaurav Kumar, a PG owner from Phagwara, said, “My entire PG home is vacant since March. I just hope that the students would again come back to campuses in two-three months. Only then can I hope of sustaining in this business.”Govinda Verma said, “I have a small set-up of three rooms with double occupancy. Thankfully this year, all my tenants were working women. Two of them are still here as their companies have asked them to work from home. So, I am somehow continuing with my business as of now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-lockdown-pg-owners-stare-at-huge-losses-this-year-91032
28-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||‘Students should take up online skill-based certificate courses to enrich their profile’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 27For all those students getting up late, idling around and taking up books for an hour or two for the whole day, chairman of the Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions Dr Anup Bowry has a piece of advice for them.“The current time will never come back. Students should use this time to take up online skill-enhancing certificate courses from home on subjects that are likely to have more scope, including digital marketing, data management, artificial intelligence and cyber crime. While many courses are also available for free, there are some which are paid and their duration generally varies between seven hours to 21 hours. Unlike earlier when the duration of courses was measured in terms of the number of days, now these are being done on hourly basis and these will definitely pay and enhance the resume of students,” said Dr Bowry.He said students should check the CBSE and Swayam portals for more details.He said the coming years will focus on employment wherein the youth will have to work from home. “The MNC culture may see a fall as companies will like to cut their costs in running and maintaining offices. So by the time students will complete their graduation, the knowledge they get by doing more such courses will enhance their profile and make them more competent to take up good jobs. In a way, it will be good as the MNC culture, which was destroying the family system, will change and youngsters will get to spend more time with their family members while enhancing their productivity,” said Dr Bowry, who is running five schools and colleges in Jalandhar.Dr Bowry added that Covid-19 brought in some changes in the working of institutes. “As we will go back, we intend to be more paperless. We will try to pass on most communication through technology as all parents, students and staff have got used to it now. We will have readymade videos, YouTube lessons, PDF of books and online notes in hand, which can be re-telecast or re-used for subsequent years. All our teachers and students have got habitual of using all kinds of IT tools. We are also able to connect with top counsellers and subject experts from across the globe through our webinars, an advantage which we never had earlier. There, however, are some subjects and activities which we have not been able to pursue well through online teaching. These include Punjabi, music and sports. Whenever we open, our focus will be on these subjects”, he analysed the pros and cons of online teaching.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-should-take-up-online-skill-based-certificate-courses-to-enrich-their-profile-91034
28-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Thermal screening, cuddle curtains to be new normal at weddings||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 27With the Covid outbreak adversely affecting all sectors, businessmen are finding ways to revamp their work strategy. And to stay afloat, a local studio owner has also taken a big leap on this front.Pankaj Soni, who was largely dependent on pre-wedding shoots and destination weddings that now do not seem to work for another year or two, is offering a new kind of wedding package.“This package, which will be for 50 persons attending the event, will have all provisions as per the government regulations for the Covid-19 period. From thermal screening of guests to UV hand sanitisation stations, we will arrange all systems for holding the gala occasion and making it a memorable event,” said Soni.The owner of Studio 2 Production, Soni shared, “We will provide 50 hand sanitisers and 50 N95 marks for guests. Since it will not be feasible to distribute invitation cards physically to all relatives, we will also design innovative e-cards."He said, "As normal hugs (milni as we call it) won’t be possible between relatives from either side, we will arrange cuddle curtains, wherein there will be a transparent film in between and relatives will get to wear arm length gloves for extending greetings. The seating arrangements will be made such that it look aesthetic and also have sufficient space in between to maintain social distancing. Since many guests will not be able to attend it, we will arrange for live web telecast to as many people as the families want, including NRI ones.”Soni said in view of the current situation, marriage palaces, restaurants and hotels were unlikely to open for the next few months, therefore he would try to make arrangements for such a wedding in public parks and open spaces after getting due permission from the administration.He added, “Our Rs 2-lakh wedding package will include all these facilities in addition to bridal make up, mehndi artist, photobooth, car decoration, mandap and entrance décor, vegetarian food for 50 guests, basic sound system with two mikes, photography, videography (without candid) and 50-page video album.”Soni says, “It has taken him a month to study, analyse options available, plan and arrange various systems needed to offer such a package. Some of the ideas have come from my friends engaged in the same business in metro cities. Each sanitisation station costs Rs 1,000, but when I am taking it in bulk, the price will be just Rs 700 for each set. It, of course, involves some big investment from my side, but I think the effort and expenditure made will be worth it as people will like the concept. My fingers are crossed and I just hope that it works."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thermal-screening-cuddle-curtains-to-be-new-normal-at-weddings-91035
28-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Inspired by Sonu Sood, Jalandhar businessman sends 800 stranded labourers home||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 25Twenty migrants heading to UP and Bihar on foot (12 from Nakodar and eight from Amritsar) in Jalandhar were sent off to their destinations via trains to Buxar and Siwana a few days ago. Seventy more sent in batches a few days later. None of these labourers were registered.Amid the massive exodus of labourers to their native states, a Jalandhar-based industrialist and his family convinced over 500 labourers in the district not to walk thousands of miles on foot. Sustaining losses in his own industry, the industrialist said the plight of his factory workers and other labourers moved him to help others.Scurrying highways for labourers daily, industrialist Raman Kumar (32) along with father Rakesh Kumar (54) and friend Ravinder Bhardwaj has sent back over 800 people (400 factory workers wrongly registered or unable to get a call from the authorities) and over 400 people they picked up on highways, convincing them not to undertake the ardous journey. There have been days when they sent 20 persons on a single day.A shoe factory owner, Raman, whose 90 per cent of the factory labourers also returned (after being facilitated by him), began helping others to undertake safe journeys back to their villages. Along with his father and friends from the shoe market Jalandhar, Raman searched highways daily for the past about a month with a vehicle stacked with bananas and water. They stopped labourers who were walking, fed them and felicitate journey to their native places.For the past over a month, everyday, they have been taking labourers to nearest screening centres, convincing police officials to ensure leftover seats on Shramik Special trains for them. For those left out, they ensured food for the night and arrangements for boarding next train or buses. At their insistence, poor labourers from Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Pathankot and Jalandhar were sent on trains, buses, trucks and some were sent on trains till UP if they didn’t get the same to Bihar.Losses to his own industry haven’t deterred Raman in helping them. He says Sonu Sood greatly inspired him."I have only 15 labourers left at my factory. There is one thing about Punjab. No one starves here. If I had more money, I would do what Sonu Sood did in Mumbai. But I acted as per my resources. These people who have been working for us don’t have food or slippers. All they want is to reach home at any cost. It’s difficult to convince them to stay back. A majority of the labourers we met were either already registered or tired of waiting for months. Hence, they started their journeys on foot, risking their lives. Many stayed back for stranded or unregistered family members, unwilling to part. We persuaded local and police officials to include these people on the Shramik trains. On most days, the officials accommodated the labourers we took to them. On occasions when trains were full, we provided food to them till they found next trains or buses. Now, most of them have left."While 800 labourers from the shoe market (including his own factory) were registered initially, 400, who couldn’t board trains, were facilitated by Raman. An additional over 400 were sent after being picked from the highway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inspired-by-sonu-sood-jalandhar-businessman-sends-800-stranded-labourers-home-91036
28-05-2020||City residents are getting fake SMSes from unknown numbers for past few days||Beware: SMSes asking you to pay challan fee doing rounds||Ajay JoshiTribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 27"Your Challan number 348915784190401 for PB08DK1083 having total challan amount as Rs 500. For online payment of challan visit: https.//echallanparivahan.in/ You can also contact RTO office for the disposal of your challan." This is the message that local residents have been receiving from unknown numbers for the past few days.However, this is one of the novel ways devised by cyber fraudsters to defraud innocents using information and technology. Money is being siphoned off from people using fake accounts.Considering it as a fake message, some of the vigilant city residents not only saved themselves from falling prey to the fraud but also cautioned others as well through social media posts.IP Singh Makkar, while sharing an image of the message on a Facebook group, captioned it as "Beware of the cyber criminals"."It has been informed that cyber criminals are innovating new methods to usurp your money and credentials. Some people are frequently receiving such messages which are fake, hence, not to fall in their trap by proceeding with instructions given in the text," posted Makkar, who, while talking to The Tribune, stated that his colleague had received the message four days ago. However, they were sure that they did not break any traffic rule when they tried to proceed they discovered that both the user and website were forged.Instantly, the post was flooded with several comments narrating the same story.Dhupar Sim in a different post on a social networking site wrote: "I got a text from an RTO office, asking to deposit a challan worth Rs 500 for not wearing a seat belt while driving. But since the lockdown was imposed, I didn't go out anywhere and my car is parked at my house."Similarly Rajat Jain, another resident, also shared the copy of the SMS that one of his family members had received on Tuesday. He urged netizens to not pay any amount through any such fake websites. He also provided the link of the official website (https://echallan.parivahan.gov.in/) that is used for paying challans.While Jalandhar Cyber Cell in charge Sub Inspector Monika said no such incident was reported to her. The Ludhiana police after reporting a few cases have circulated the information on their social media page to aware people.Meanwhile, Regional Transport Authority (RTA) in-charge Barjinder Singh confirmed that the matter was brought to his notice yesterday and he was verifying the same. The source of the fake ID was yet to be known. He also advised residents to approach the RTA office if they receive any such SMS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beware-smses-asking-you-to-pay-challan-fee-doing-rounds-91037
28-05-2020||Phagwara||News portal owner booked||Youth consumes poison, diesNurmahal: A youth died on Tuesday after consuming some poisonous substance. Victim Armjit Singh was a resident of Cheema Kalan village. His father Gurnam Singh said his son went to fields on Tuesday, where he consumed some poisonous substance by mistake and died on the way to Jalandhar hospital. Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC were started and the body was handed over to the family after postmortem. OCGold chain snatchedPhagwara: Two unidentified persons snatched a gold chain from Harinder Kaur of the old Sabzi Mandi area, on Tuesday. She was going to Gurdwara Sukhchain Sahib to pay obeisance when the miscreants committed the crime and managed to flee. A case was registered. OCVatsala Gupta appointed ADCP-1Nakodar: The government appointed Nakodar Assistant Superintendent of Police Vatsala Gupta (IPS) as the Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP) -1, Jalandhar Commissionerate, after her promotion. She is a 2016 batch IPS officer of the Punjab cadre. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/news-portal-owner-booked-91038
