29-05-2020||---||MP Chaudhary inaugurates Goraya-Chakthothar road||Our CorrespondentGoraya, May 28The Member of Parliament, Santokh Singh Chaudhary, inaugurated the Goraya-Chakthothar road here on Wednesday. The road is a part of a large link road construction project under the Goraya Market Committee.Chaudhary said the newly built 1.8 km stretch would solve the transportation issues of local residents.He said the length of road works project under Goraya Market Committee was 310 km and in Phase I, roads totalling 97.5 km in length have been constructed at a cost of Rs 8 crore and 25 lakhs.“The Phase II consists of building 65 km of roads at a cost of Rs 5 crore and10 lakhs, out of which, 27 km has already been built,” Chaudhary added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-chaudhary-inaugurates-goraya-chakthothar-road-91476
29-05-2020||---||3 killed in road mishaps||Our CorrespondentPhagwara,May 28Two motorcyclists were killed on the spot when a speeding vehicle on which they were riding dashed against a tree on the Phagwara-Hoshiarpur road on Monday evening. The deceased have been identified as Anil Kumar, a resident of Labour Colony, and Malkiat Singh of Chachoki village.The accident occurred when the deceased lost control over the vehicle. The police have registered a case and sent the bodies to the Civil Hospital for autopsy.Farmer held for burning wheat stubblePhillaur: The Bilga police on Wednesday arrested a farmer on the charge of violating the official orders against stubble burning, causing air pollution and degrading the soil quality. Surjit Singh Padda, SHO, Bilga, said the suspect had been identified as Baljit Singh, a resident of Rajowal village.He said the police received information that harvested wheat fields were set on fire at the Umarpura–Talwan road. A case has been registered. — OCMan killed in road accidentDasuya: Amarjit Kumra (65), died on the spot when his scooter was hit by a speeding truck on the National Highway. The victim was also the owner of the local Reliance Petrol Pump, Dasusya, and was going to his petrol pump, when the truck coming from Jammu and Kashmir side hit him. He died on the spot due to the head injury. The driver fled the scene, leaving the vehicle behind. — OCFour booked forabetting suicideHoshiarpur: A man committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance here on Thursday. Fakir Chand, a resident of mohalla Ambedkar Nagar told the police that his brother, Paramjit Lal, was employed as a security worker with an insurance company. He fell in love with a woman of the same area. He said Mangi (brother of the girl), along with three other persons, thrashed Paramjit. When he returned home from his duty on May 25, he told that he was beaten up by four persons. Upset over this, Paramjit consumed some poisonous substance, Fakir Chand said. He was admitted to the local Civil Hospital where he died. A case under Section 306 of the IPC has been registered against four persons. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-killed-in-road-mishaps-91473
29-05-2020||Jalandhar||SAD seeks thorough probe into ‘seed scam’||As SAD leaders on Thursday held protests against the alleged sale of “spurious” version of paddy seed varieties across the state, the party leaders from the district also gave a memorandum to the administration seeking an independent probe into the matter.The leaders alleged that the Congress seemed to be sheltering the accused seed selling company in Ludhiana.They sought a probe into how a private company could sell seed varieties including PR 128 and PR 129, as only the Krishi Vigyan Kendras were authorised to sell. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-seeks-thorough-probe-into-seed-scam-91472
29-05-2020||---||Bureau starts registration of migrants without jobs||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, May 28Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said an online link has been issued by the District Employment and Business Bureau to registers migrant labourers sitting idle in the district during the lockdown to provide them employment.Under this plan BDPOs and EOs, in the area under their control, would get the migrant labourers registered. Addressing a meeting of the heads of various departments here, she said the Punjab Government was committed to providing employment to migrant labourers on a priority basis during the lockdown and for it the Punarwas Mission for migrant labourers was launched by the district administration under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana.The link prepared by the District Employment and Business Bureau for registration of migrant labourers is available in Hindi and Punjabi for the convenience of labourers.Another link has also been prepared for industries, business entities, shops, show rooms, contractors etc., in which they can send their demands, as to what category of people they need. Information collected by the two links will be helpful to meet the demand of both sides. She instructed the General Manager District Industries Centre that industries be provided maximum information about the link and asked to give their demand through this link, so that maximum employment could be created for migrant labourers.She asked the Civil Supplies Department to provide information related to the demand of labourers in kilns, shellers and petrol pumps, etc.She also instructed them to provide maximum employment to migrant labourers in development works being done by various departments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bureau-starts-registration-of-migrants-without-jobs-91471
29-05-2020||---||Phagwara-Jandiala road needs repair||Our CorrespondentPhagwara, May 28Though politicians belonging to various political parties, besides several social activists, are working hard to cooperate with the administration to help the people in Covid crisis and assuring them of redressing their problems, people of various areas are still facing inconvenience due to the poor infrastructure.The Tribune correspondent took a reality check and found the14-km road connecting Phagwara and Jandiala almost badly damaged and not repaired for the last two years . Commuters travelling along this road are a disturbed lot due to daily accidents.This road leads to holy places like Mata Chintpurni Temple, Dera Murad Shah Nakodar and Gurdwaras of Sultanpur Lodhi. Despite repeated representations, nothing could be initiated by any political party, said Ramesh Dhir of Nakodar, a devotee who visits the Chintpurni temple unaccounted times in a year.Though the Central and state governments have announced to provide better infra- structure to the people but the commuters are suffering much by driving their vehicles on the dented and damaged road between Phagwara and Zandiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-jandiala-road-needs-repair-91469
29-05-2020||---||Agri Dept apprises farmers of steps to deal with locusts||Jalandhar, May 28In order to make farmers aware of steps to deal with locusts, the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department organised a mock drill at Kishangarh village on the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway on Thursday.For the mock drill, the department formed various teams of experts who made the farmers aware of the harmful insect and its impact on the crop. The teams asked the farmers to be alert and inform the district administration if they saw the swarms.The teams led by Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh told the farmers that the insect flies in swarms and in favourable circumstances, it can travel up to 80 to 200 km.The Chief Agriculture Officer said needed insecticides such as chlorpyrifos and lambda are being provided to farmers. He added that teams of different departments, including horticulture, soil and water conservation and rural development, along with agriculture, have been set up at block levels for speedy action in villages.Dr Sanjiv Kataria, an entomology expert from Punjab Agriculture University, said the insect tends to sit on trees during evening time and in this period, pesticides should be sprayed.Dr Kataria said female insect lays eggs in abundance beneath the soil and after egg hatch, the nymph eats the whole vegetation within hours. He said for the time being, there should not be any panic but awareness is needed.Agriculture Officer Dr Arun Kohli said teams comprising NGOs and youth clubs in villages are being formed so that whenever there is information about the attack, instantly spray can be carried out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agri-dept-apprises-farmers-of-steps-to-deal-with-locusts-91468
29-05-2020||R ajiv Gupta||‘There is a chance for LED lights producers to become exporters’||How has the lockdown impacted the industry?Like any other industry, the domestic lighting industry has also suffered huge losses in the past two months. Even though the industry has now resumed its operations, we are not able to manufacture lights as we are facing a shortage of electronic components, including chips from China, Japan and Korea. The demand supply equation is not working and seems like it will take at least six to eight months to get back on track.Workers are an asset of any industry. How are you dealing with them?We have a workforce of over 120-150 employees and without them, the industry cannot run. Moreover, a majority of the labourers working with me are skilled who have knowledge of electronic components. Thus, I cannot afford to lose them. I arranged a pass for myself from the administration during the curfew to reach to my employees to provide them ration. I have also paid full salaries to them. Now, I have also arranged auto-rickshaws to ferry them from their place to the factory.Will the current crisis increase the prices of LED lights?While manufacturing an LED light in India, over 60 per cent of the components, which are mechanical in nature, are sourced locally. Around 40 per cent, which are called electronic drivers, including chips, are imported from foreign countries, especially China. These are in short supply as of now. Thus, 8 to 10 per cent impact on the prices is expected as we are seeing supply constraints.What lessons have you learnt from the present scenario?Well, the lighting industry is completely dependent on China, Korea and Japan for raw material. Even if some dealers have these components at present, they are based in Delhi and Mumbai where Covid-19 cases are on the rise. Although we have started operations, we are not able to reach the final stage of manufacturing due to the supply constraints. Thus, we need to be self-reliant now in terms of manufacturing of components and other required raw material so that the industry does not suffer in future.Do you consider the current crisis a challenge or an opportunity?It is a challenge as well an opportunity. The government's support to industries has always been negligible. I believe the industries are more determined to fight back. The current crisis is a chance for light manufacturers to become leading exporters. I have once again set new goals and analysed my strengths and weaknesses. This will help me in the longer run.What is the role of the government?We are not getting any revenue right now, but we still have to pay fixed expenditures such as electricity charges, loan instalments and salaries. If not debts, the government can at least defer loan instalments, waive bank interest and give relaxation in other compliance such as GST and custom duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/there-is-a-chance-for-led-lights-producers-to-become-exporters-91466
29-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Artists’ unique work during lockdown will help us sustain, feels art gallery owner||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28A feet-operated sanitiser dispenser will now greet you at Venus Art Gallery during your next visit, for this has become a new normal now.When its owner, Vibha Ahuja (53), an artist, entrepreneur, curator and plant lover, opened her little art gallery-cum-studio after two months of the lockdown, she wasn't expecting the usual rush of customers, especially when art isn't viewed as an essential commodity. But days after getting back to work, she has realised things are not as bad as initially looked , as heavy indulgence of people in artistic pursuits during the lockdown will sustain her arty little oasis in the heart of a posh city market.She feels that the pandemic-induced lockdown has brought people closer to the nature and art, therefore she is hopeful of welcoming clients in the days to come.She further adds they are taking all precautionary measures and sanitising door handles, knobs and chairs twice a day. The visitors are not allowed without mask.She said to follow social distancing, her clients come only on appointment.Vibha says, “I thought since art isn't an essential commodity, there won't be any takers during the lockdown. But many women are sending in artworks they produced during the period and a couple of buyers have also turned up for procuring tasteful artworks to renovate homes during the lockdown.”However, she says there is no denying the fact that work has been affected. “There is a 70 per cent reduction in business. Also, with the Covid-19 protocol in place - we are not buying any raw material from outside. Most shops are already closed or not delivering. All new work taken up by the gallery is made out of stuff already lying with us. The major affect of the lockdown is that many hotels, bars and pubs, which are our vital clients, are still shut,” she adds.There are two employees at the gallery, who live on its first floor only. She says this is a major relief for her as they are not going out anywhere.Her gallery is dotted with green plants - both at the entrance and inside - and has posters reading 'Save Energy, Save Water' .She adds, “Even though it will take a considerable time for normalcy to return, the lockdowns did help contain the spread. Earlier, we never gave attention to small things in life and were not concerned towards saving the nature. The two-month rest has given the nature an opportunity to rejuvenate. Those colourful birds in the sky and visibly happier trees have been a welcome break from traffic jams.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/artists-unique-work-during-lockdown-will-help-us-sustain-feels-art-gallery-owner-91464
29-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||She focuses on subject-specific skills to crack competitive exams||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, students are devising several methods to prepare for various competitive examinations. From taking help of online coaching portals to approaching subject experts, students are making all-out efforts to enhance their study skills. While all exams scheduled for April, May and June have been postponed, coaching institutes in the country are shut.During the lockdown, Tamanna Negi (22), an IAS aspirant, has been utilising her time wisely. She has been managing her timetable in a way so that she could devote her time to all major subjects.She said there is no doubt that the lockdown has affected her smooth preparation for examinations. However, she added that considering the positive side has been helping her to prepare for her exams in these testing times as well.“Finishing incomplete tasks has helped me beat the lockdown blues. I have been focusing on subject-specific skills and analysing concepts, which may impact my preparations,” added Tamanna.Unlike many students, she used to study at a city-based library and was planning to go to Delhi to join coaching classes in April. However, everything came to a standstill due to the lockdown.“Fortunately, I had all my notes and books, which didn't affect my preparation. However, I miss preparing in the library. To create a similar atmosphere at home, I have started waking up early and sleeping early at night. Waking up at 4 am keeps the mind healthy and fresh,” said Tamanna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/she-focuses-on-subject-specific-skills-to-crack-competitive-exams-91463
29-05-2020||---||Auto-rickshaw drivers seek financial assistance of Rs6,000 per month||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28Though auto-rickshaws have finally started plying on city roads after two months of the lockdown, drivers still find themselves at the received end. They are of the view that permission to ferry only two passengers is not profitable. They said their earnings these days get exhausted in paying for the fuel.Demanding financial assistance from the government, hundreds of auto-rickshaw drivers under the banner of the Bhagat Singh Auto Union on Thursday thronged the District Administrative Complex.The drivers, who were accompanied by their family members, including children, urged administration officials to immediately provide them financial assistance. It is the third protest by the auto-rickshaw drivers since the announcement of the curfew in the state. Earlier, they asked the state government to register them as daily wagers.Putting forward their demands, the protesters sought financial help of Rs6,000 per month for each auto-rickshaw driver and deferring loan installments till November. While submitting a memorandum to Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Jasbir Singh, Ranjit Kumar, president of the union, said the statewide lockdown has impacted the livelihood of auto-rickshaw drivers.“Unable to earn during the lockdown, auto-rickshaw drivers are worried about paying the monthly installment of their vehicle loan. Though banks have been directed not to demand the same, once the lockdown is lifted, the auto-rickshaw drivers will have additional burden of paying the loans,” said Ranjit.The auto-rickshaw drivers said they were struggling to make both ends meet. They threatened to intensify their protest in the coming days if the administration failed to pay heed to their demands. Rakesh Verma, general secretary of the union, said the drivers would again stage a dharna soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/auto-rickshaw-drivers-seek-financial-assistance-of-rs6-000-per-month-91462
29-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Samples of 65 taken under pool testing||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28The samples of 65 persons were taken at the Community Health Centre (CHC), Shahkot, on Thursday as part of the Health Department’s new plan to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The reports are expected by Saturday.Under the new plan, the sampling of people from every section of society is being done. Senior Medical Officer Dr Amardeep Singh Duggal said to check the virus spread, it was necessary to identify the person suffering from it and keep him away from others.“A camp was organised at the Shahkot health centre under this strategy. It is a matter of relief that no positive case has come after that of a resident of Gehlan in the Shahkot block. But in the urban areas of ??Jalandhar, there are many cases. In such a situation, the danger remains in the entire district. This pool sampling will be effective in reducing this risk to a great extent,” he said.Block Extension Educator (BEE) Chandan Mishra said Satish Rehan, head of Nagar Panchayat, Shahkot, along with his team also came for sampling. “He was the first to give his sample and after that the swabs of the remaining were taken. Those who were sampled include people coming to the Shahkot drug de-addiction centre, returnees from other states, health staff of the CHC, Shahkot, Asha workers and facilitators, health workers, Nagar Panchayat staff and street vendors from the area,” he said.Jawahar Market resident tests negativeThe corona test report of a woman, who was referred from the CHC, Shahkot, two days ago, came as negative on Wednesday. Dr Duggal said the woman was brought to the hospital with high fever. “Taking precautions, she was sent to Jalandhar for investigation. She tested negative,” he said.Nangali Jalalpur becomes hotspotHoshiarpur: With four fresh cases on Thursday, the number of active patients in the district reached 21. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said these patients were residents of Nangali Jalalpur village and were in contact with another Covid positive, who died at a Jalandhar hospital a few days ago. He said the reports of 86 samples were received on Thursday, of which four were positive. So far, 2,157 samples had been taken in the district. At least 115 positive cases had been reported. While 89 patients recovered, five succumbed to the virus. The number of positive cases in the village has touched 14. All of them are contacts of deceased Lakhwinder Singh. The village was sealed last evening. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/samples-of-65-taken-under-pool-testing-91460
29-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Tested +ve, state’s health corp deputy chooses pvt facility over Civil Hospital||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 28Punjab Health Systems Corporation vice-chairman Monik Sehgal, popularly known as Bobby Sehgal, and his brother Manish Sehgal (both aged 52) tested positive late Wednesday night.On March 15, when MP Santokh Chaudhary visited the Covid-19 isolation ward at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital, he was accompanied by Bobby Sehgal.Sehgal also visited the Civil Hospital, when the Army band offered a grand appreciation to the health staff on May 3. He visited innumerable other times also, when a private hotel and local bank disbursed PPE kits and food among patients.However, when he tested positive for Covid-19 last night, guess where he chose to stay? At the IMA’s special Covid-19 centre, away from the city in the middle of a field at Billi Chuharmi village of Shahkot in Jalandhar. Both brothers have chosen to put up at the three-star facility set up by the Indian Medical Association for Covid-19 patients.While Sehgal was present at the Civil Hospital’s key occasions with his picture sprawling in vernaculars, he, at this crucial juncture, chose private services over government ones, which he was endorsing for months.While the choice made by the senior Health Department functionary is certainly glaring, he is not the only affluent person in Jalandhar to do so.All industrialists, doctors, affluent health professionals and senior Health Department personnel are making a beeline to the IMA facility – skipping the services at the Civil Hospital.“The IMA facility was erected at a cost of Rs70 lakh (Rs57 lakh were contributed by various private hospitals in Jalandhar and rest by Dahiya family) to facilitate patients for whom the Civil Hospital might not be convenient. It operates on a no-profit, no-loss basis and is run by veteran doctors who are functionaries of four major hospitals in Jalandhar. While it has individual ACs, satellite TV, for each patient, it also has the facilities of turbines, central suction, central oxygen etc. Staff members are paid by the IMA as well and they are paid better than private hospitals. Hence, we have fixed expenses of Rs7.5 lakh per month. The charges from patients are only to incur those expenses,” said Dr Navjot Dahiya, IMA Punjab president.Dr Dahiya said while IMA had asked the government to take over the facility, in the event of its refusal the IMA pitched in to run it as Covid-19 centre.Dr TP Singh, nodal officer, Covid-19 Jalandhar, said: “There is no hard and fast rule of keeping patients at the Civil Hospital. All those choosing to get treated at Shahkot are free to do so. We are providing the best of facilities at the Civil Hospital as well.”Those admitted to IMA facility||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tested-ve-states-health-corp-deputy-chooses-pvt-facility-over-civil-hospital-91459
