29-08-2020||---||Jalandhar-based bodybuilder, model and celebrity fitness coach Satnam Khatra dies at 31||Jalandhar, August 29Jalandhar-based bodybuilder, model and celebrity fitness coach Satnam Khatra died of a heart attack here on Saturday.He suffered the heart attack in the wee hours of Saturday. He was 31.Once addicted to drugs, Satnam was into physical fitness for the past eight years.His coach, Rohit Khera, announced his demise on social media. Owing to Satnam’s dedication to fitness, he was widely popular among the youth. His Instagram account has around 3.7 lakh followers.His fans and those associated with the fitness industry are in a shock. His fan pages on social media are flooded with posts mourning his death.Sources said he had not been keeping well for the past sometime.Following the recent lockdown, Satnam was giving online fitness classes and was planning to launch his own fitness brand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-bodybuilder-model-and-celebrity-fitness-coach-satnam-khatra-dies-at-31-133226
29-08-2020||Jalandhar||Col Sarfraz’s advice to youth: Take up adventure sports||There are so many sports and adventurous activities which the youngsters should take up as a hobby because when you indulge yourself in sports, you can never fall prey to any wrong activity. This was opined by Col Sarfraz Singh, the winner of Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award in his message to the youngsters of the state.Col Sarfraz Singh, the son of Olympian Col Balbir Singh Kular, has made the city proud by winning the prestigious award.Led eight-member team to mount EverestHe is the director of the National Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports (NIMAS) in Arunachal Pradesh. In a conversation with The Tribune, Colonel Sarfraz shared that he was not at all interested in adventure sports but liked to play cricket, tennis, squash and boxing during his school days.“But when I was commissioned in 1999, a lot of emphasis was put on mountaineering in the Army. As the soldiers had to be trained in high-altitude areas to counter any action of the adversary, young officers were being exhorted to adopt adventure sports and that is how I also got into it.“Since I am from the parachute regiment, I was getting opportunities to dive, skydiving, mountaineering and it was part of the job. So, I did my initial courses and then in 2004 I got a chance to participate in a parachute regiment mountaineering expedition in Kargil Nun Kun, which is the highest peak (7,000 m) and that is how the journey started,” the Colonel shared.Reminisces days spent in city“I studied till Class VIII in Jalandhar and at that time, I was interested only in playing cricket. I used to cycle to my school. My father used to be strict and he would tell me that I would not get any bus or auto, but would have to go by bicycle and I used to carry two bags, one was my school bag and another was a cricket bat, because I used to play cricket in school during recess,” shares the Colonel.A big fan of GavaskarFather Col Balbir Singh also shared an interesting fact that Col Sarfraz was a big fan of Sunil Gavaskar and was so small when he told me that he wanted to meet Gavaskar.Message to youngstersIn a motivating message, Colonel Sarfraz said everyone must adopt some sports in their lives. “You may not be earning out of it, but if you have a passion, it gives you a lot of confidence and reduces the stress levels. It gives you thrill, enjoyment and it is like meditation because it helps you to control your mind and to be a better person,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/col-sarfrazs-advice-to-youth-take-up-adventure-sports-133082
29-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Down but not out, says Arpinder||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 28Even with four international medals in hand, no government recognition has come Arpinder Singh’s way for the past few years. The triple jumper, who was expecting the Arjuna Award for himself this year, is down but not out as he continues to practise at Government Sports College here.Arpinder needs no introduction. He is a winner of gold medal at the 2018 Asian Games in Jakarta. He is the first Indian gold medal winner at the Asian Indoor Games held at Ashgabad, Turkmenistan, in 2017. Arpinder won bronze medals at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow and the 2018 World Continental Cup in Czech Republic.“Had I been among the 27 Arjuna awardees, I would have been a part of the National Sports Awards ceremony to be held on National Sports Day on Friday. My coach has been conferred the Dronacharya Award for my performance in the Asian Games where I won a gold medal, but I have been ignored for the fourth time. Of course, I feel dejected at the moment, but how long will the authorities continue to ignore my credentials. I am continuing the hard work and will definitely submit claim for the award the next time,” said the 27-year-old athlete, showing his grit and determination.Outlining his goal, Arpinder said: “I am a fighter and am preparing myself to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics. During the initial days of spread of the pandemic, I could not come here and practise. But after the sports facilities opened about three months ago, I rejoined my practise sessions. I am regaining my form and am in a much better position now to further improve my records. My fingers are crossed and I hope the normalcy gets restored at the earliest, so that competitions are back and the Olympic games are organised next year.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/down-but-not-out-says-arpinder-133083
29-08-2020||Jalandhar||Father-son duo never thought of tapping out despite grappling with financial woes||Gurmail Singh wants to see his son at the very top of the game. He is giving his all for that to happen. And why shouldn’t he when his son, Badal Singh, a young wrestler, is showing all the signs of a prodigy. He is also doing his part well.At the tender age of 16, Badal has won silver and bronze in the Greco-Roman and Freestyle categories, respectively, in the national-level championships held in Kota, Rajasthan last year in June.Both are unfazed by the troubles they have faced in the past. He has witnessed his father struggle to get a proper diet for him, a prime need for every aspiring sportsperson, but Badal’s feats in the national championships compounded with his hard work and perseverance saw him get selected under Khelo India programme.“And now Badal’s diet and everything will be sponsored by Khelo India,” told coach Mandeep Sharma of Jagjit Wrestling Academy, who has been giving training to Badal.His father was a DJ at the functions and parties before the pandemic hit. Subsequently, he was out of work. Gurmail then started selling clothes in the nearby villages. “But nobody buys clothesthese days and whenever I reach any house, they ask me not to come since they are scared of the virus, which is natural,” he said, adding, “I start at 7 in the morning and come back at around 2.30 after roaming around three to four villages, but I hardly earn anything.”“Until now, I could not give my son the desired diet he should have had at this stage of his life, but the academy in which he is taking training is kind enough to help him amid the tough times. At this point of time, even having regular meals is difficult,” Gurmail shared.Since his son has made it to Khelo India programme, he is more than relieved. “Now that my son has got selected for the Khelo India programme, I am glad that he would get proper diet,” he quips.‘Badal has a heart of gold’Mandeep Sharma, an international coach of wrestling, who is overseeing Badal, said that one thing that is rare these days is that Badal has a heart of gold. “He is such a humble person, no arrogance, no ego or attitude which other kids of his age usually have,” the proud coach shared.Brother is the sparring partner these daysAmid the pandemic, Badal is practising with his younger brother Sagar, who has also won medals in the state-level competitions in the U-14 category. Badal started wrestling around seven years ago. “My grandfather was also into wrestling. He never did it professionally but had a hobby,” Badal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-son-duo-never-thought-of-tapping-out-despite-grappling-with-financial-woes-133087
29-08-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district gets 27 ventilators from govt – all go to private sector||Of the 27 ventilators allocated by the state government to Jalandhar to treat Covid-19 patients – all have been given to private hospitals. While six were already given — the DC on Wednesday — declared the district administration would give 21 invasive ventilators to four private hospitals for free. However, all new ventilators have been allocated to the private sector while the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, continues to function with the 10 ventilators.The administration says the ventilators are being provided only to facilities which have adequate manpower and anaesthetists to operate them.In all, of the 27 ventilators provided by district administration to the private sector – six to the Covid facility at the Gulaab Devi Hospital and 21 more invasive ventilators to the four private hospitals on August 26. The four hospitals include Innocent Hearts Multispecialty Hospital (2 ventilators), Shrimann Multispecialty Hospital (4), Mann Medicity and Cardionova Hospital (9) and Capitol Hospital (6). These hospitals have approached Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and sought the ventilators for the treatment of the Covid patients.These hospitals have around 77-beds for Level-III category and 78-beds for Level-II patients.Yet, even though the Level II facilities have also been readied at three community health centres (CHCs) – Basti Gujan, Khurla Kingra and Dada Colony – none of the ventilators have so far been allocated for them. Reason – they don’t have anaesthetists. Nor have they begun receiving any patients yet.Notably, the DC had already ensured the provision of 56-bedded ICU at the Civil Hospital and piped oxygen supply had also been provided at the CHCs – to ensure treatment of Covid patients.But ever since the private sector was opened for Covid patients in Jalandhar – most of the affluent or VIP patients had also been going to private hospitals.Deputy Commssioner Ghanshyam Das Thori said, “Jalandhar alone has received 27 ventilators from the state government of the total 200 they had. It is a big number for a centre like Jalandhar. As per demands from hospitals and availability from the state government, more shall be provided. The ventilators are being provided to Level II and III private facilities, which already have adequate anaesthetists and manpower to run them. There is no use providing ventilators to government facilities, which don’t have staff to run them. Also the 10 ventilators available at the Civil Hospital ICU are currently enough keeping with the patient quantum in the district.”Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said, “The Civil Hospital has already enough ventilators. So far, we did not have to use the ventilators all together. Currently, they are sufficient. The additional ventilators are being provided to the private sector as per the demand being forwarded by them to us. So far, 26 have been provided to the private hospitals in Jalandhar. The high-flow nasal canola available at the Civil Hospital has also proven to be useful for Covid patients. The ventilators are being provided to additional private players to ensure critical care and handle emergencies with expertise.”The DC also said private hospitals have to utilise the ventilators for the management of Covid patients who are in need of critical care and emergency cases. He said private hospitals have to ensure availability of specialised manpower to operate lifesaving medical equipment on their premises. He also said other private hospitals may also contact his office to inform about the requirement of the ventilators following which the ventilator would be provided as per the need.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-gets-27-ventilators-from-govt-%E2%80%93-all-go-to-private-sector-133088
29-08-2020||Jalandhar||Four deaths, 173 new cases reported in Jalandhar||With four deaths, the district Covid toll reached 154 on Friday. The health authorities also reported 173 new patients, taking the case count to 6,073. In Kapurthala district, 49 persons tested positive for the virus and one death was reported. The deceased is a 60-year-old patient from Bhulla Rai in Phagwara and was admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar on Thursday.RTA Secy imposes Rs15K fine for Covid violationsInspecting buses ferrying passenger to various destinations from the Jalandhar bus stand, the RTA Secretary, Barjinder Singh, on Friday imposed a fine of Rs 15,000 on violators of the Covid-related guidelines.While the state government had lifted the 50 per cent occupancy rule for public transport buses on June 27, the same were reimposed in the five most-affected cities on August 20. The cities include Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Mohali. Besides bus transport firms, passengers not wearing masks or not adhering to the social distancing norm were challaned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-deaths-173-new-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-133090
29-08-2020|| Hoshiarpur||One loses Covid battle, 58 cases in Hoshiarpur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-loses-covid-battle-58-cases-in-hoshiarpur-133096
29-08-2020||Avneet KaurJalandhar||Class XII boy suggests way to digitalise govt service delivery||To provide relief from endless wait to those applying for various government documents or certificates and enable submission of application, supporting documents, photos or fee with the click of a button, a Class XII student, in a research paper, has suggested bringing various government departments or agencies on a common digital platform.Talking to The Tribune, Anmol Rattan Singh Sandhu said he has written the paper with an aim to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s flagship Digital India programme. He has already sent the proposal to Narendra Modi and the NITI Aayog, the think tank that advises the government on various issues related to policy making.“With the e-governance solutions that I have suggested in my paper, a person can instantly download documents such as domicile or caste certificate,” he said.At present, various government organs work in total isolation and a citizen has to run from pillar to post, Anmol said. “My suggestion is that the government must bring all its data on one digital platform and let entrepreneurs and start-ups access it”, he said.A student of SGGS Collegiate Public School, Chandigarh, Anmol has a lot of interest in use of mobile technology in governance, which, he says, got kindled after demonetisation which heralded the adoption of digital payments in India. “I have been keenly following debates on use of Aadhaar in delivery of government services. Now, I am eagerly waiting to hear from the NITI Aayog, so I can go and make a presentation to them on my idea”, he said.Meanwhile, Anmol thought his way through the uses of digital technology and the needs of a common citizen, and found a solution, but an expert helped him shape his idea. “When I first listened to Anmol, I realised he has a very innovative idea that touched on various aspects that must be identified and woven together along with an implementation roadmap,” said, Sachin Garg, Visiting Assistant Professor of Technology and Policy at ISB Mohali, adding that roadmap then resulted in his research paper.Tandeep Kaur, Sandhu’s computer science teacher at SGGS Collegiate Public School, said Anmol has been a precocious student with a head for complex digital issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/class-xii-boy-suggests-way-to-digitalise-govt-service-delivery-133097
29-08-2020||Two portable ventilators were installed at the Civil Hospital||Portable ventilators installed||Sant Daya Singh commemoratedA religious congregation was held on the banks of the Holy Kali Bein to commemorate deceased Sant Daya Singh. The revered saint had succumbed to the virus last month. On the occasion, environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal said Sant Daya Singh played a key role in the cleansing of the Holy Kali Bein. He added: "Sant Daya Singh played a pivotal role in the environmental awareness campaign of 2009." The saint had done sewa at the gurdwara Tahli Sahib for 37 years, serving sangat. Various religious personalities who attended the event paid tributes to him. The new sewadar of said gurdwara, Sant Leader Singh, also offered tributes.Webinar on health, immunity amid Covid heldThe Pushap Gujra Science City (PGSC), Kapurthala, organised a webinar on 'health and immunity in Covid times'. Dr Raj Bhagat during the session said, "The coronavirus harms people with low immunity such as the elderly and kids. Home quarantine is an essential requirement for infected people. Apart from accurate information and awareness on the virus, there is a need to ensure that people with low immunity are provided with basic healthcare services at home." He added: "It has become more significant to have strong immunity to mitigate the ill-effects of the virus and ensure a quicker recovery. Dr Bhagat also underlined the importance of the intake of essential vitamins and minerals, not commonly found in our diet and must be taken in the form of supplements. Some of these include Vitamin D, Vitamin C, zinc, Vitamin B6, B12, magnesium and Vitamin E. Dr Neelima Jerath, director general, Science City, said that virus has affected all parameters of human life starting from health, economics, finance etc. She further informed that PGSC is planning to set up a gallery on awareness at the premises itself. This gallery will provide key messages and considerations for engaging school administrators, teachers and staff, parents, care providers and community members. Rajesh Grover, director of PGSC, was also present on this occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/portable-ventilators-installed-133098
29-08-2020||Jalandhar||Extend C-form submission date by 6 months: Jalandhar MSMEs||With the last date approaching for the submission of C-form, the industrialists in the district are seeking relief of six months from the state government.Owing to the Covid crisis, the industrialists, mostly belonging to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) sector are reportedly reeling under heavy losses, hence aren’’t in a position to clear their dues as per rules and regulations under the C-form.Notably, with regard to the submission of statutory forms under the Central Sales Tax, 1956/Central Sales Tax (Registration and Turnover) rules 1957, for the assessment years 2013-14 and 2016-17, last month the State Excise and Taxation Department had issued a notification for the submission of forms. Earlier, the last date to submit the forms was August 17, which has been extended to September 1.Vikrant Sharma, who owns a private printing unit at the Central Town, said, “It was completely unacceptable by the hundreds of MSMEs to submit the C-form dues. Since the imposition of lockdown, the industrialists are suffering huge losses.Moreover, after the migration of labourers to their native states, the production has drastically reduced and we have no idea when it would be back on tracks.“The MSME sector is not in a position to pay any interest or penalty. Besides, due to the virus spread throughout the country, traders from other states are unable to dispatch their C-forms. Therefore, we are requesting the government to kindly extend the deadline for submission of forms by six months,” he added.The industrialists also claimed that the government was forcing them for the clearance of C-forms so as to reconcile it with the “Value Added Tax’’ (VAT) refunds. When the industrialists are in a dire need of their VAT funds the government has raised the C-form issue, which was underthe carpet from the past three years. A construction company owner said we still have to incur all our expenses despite the unavailability of funds. Hence, the government should not bind us for submitting the forms.Traders submit memoThe traders under the banner of Laghu Udyog Bharti submitted a memorandum to the state government and requested to extend the C-form deposit deadline till March 31, 2021. They also appealed the government to waive interest and penalties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/extend-c-form-submission-date-by-6-months-jalandhar-msmes-133099
29-08-2020||Phagwara||‘Modi’s flawed policies have caused economic slowdown’||Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation and former Punjab minister Joginder Singh Mann on Thursday condemned the Narendra Modi-led NDA government for ruining the country’s economy with its flawed policies.In a statement issued here on Thursday, the chairman said during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Modi government has failed to secure the interests of small and medium scale industry.He said that due to regressive policies of the Union Government, thousands of people have lost their jobs in recent times. Mann said this would have adverse effect on the economy of the country and nation would face serious repercussions.The chairman bemoaned that even the RBI had cautioned the government that economic problems of the countrymen was likely to enhance in wake of the constant decline in demand of goods and services.He said due to the Covid-19 pandemic, trade and small industries were passing through turbulent times but the Centre had done nothing to safeguard their interests. Mann said services and domestic production was likely to dip further.The chairman said in the last four and half years more than 1.5 crore people had lost their jobs. He said in the month of April and May the rate of employment had increased by 23.5 per cent. Mann said that Modi government’s policy of extending largesse to big industrial houses at the cost of small scale industry was ruining economy of the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/modis-flawed-policies-have-caused-economic-slowdown-133101
29-08-2020||The pandemic has brought about several changes in functioning of academics and Rayat Bahra EduCity||‘Gearing up for fundamental, structural changes amid these times’||Talking to Sanjiv Bakshi, the campus director of the EduCity, Dr Chander Mohan tells that housing seven education institutions of the group including the colleges of educational, management, engineering, law, pharmacy, nursing and a senior secondary school, the EduCity is ready to accelerate fundamental and structural changes. Excerpts:How is the teaching of different classes going on?The Covid-19 has resulted in schools and various educational institutes to shut all across the world. Globally, over 1.2 billion students are out of the classroom. As a result, education has changed drastically, with the distinctive rise of e-learning. Teaching at Rayat Bahra Hoshiarpur campus is undertaken remotely on digital platforms like Microsoft Teams, Google Meet, Zoom and specially design online learning management system Academia by Serosoft.What arrangements have been made for the digital sessions?The academic calendar and time-table along with the digital platform on which classes are to be held has already been shared with the students and teachers. For the very purpose of the online teaching, language apps, virtual tutoring, video conferencing tools, or online learning, a software is being utilised. The experts lectures has been arranged from time to time for the teachers here so that they adopt certain instructional strategies such as pre and post-class activities using Learning Management System (LMS) to ensure active student engagement. Teachers here are also motivated to use online pedagogies such as Team Based Learning (TBL), discussion forums and use of Open Education Resources (OERs) including Swayam and Nptel courses to make classes of students more engaging for them.When will the final year exams be held and results declared?As the various institutes running under Rayat Bahra Hoshiarpur campus are affiliated to different state universities, therefore the final year examinations will be conducted as per concerned university instructions and accordingly the results will be declared.What about the placements?With the help of our Department of Career centre the students are being trained for the placements by conducting online special classes related to softskills, aptitude and technical skills where students are also evaluated regularly and based on their performance they are guided for the improvements. Moreover, many companies which came for placements are providing ‘work from home’ opportunities to the students and are conducting online interview and for that purpose we are making our students ready for placements.Your plans for academic session 2020-21?The online classes for existing students had already begun at the start of the month. The detailed academic calendar and time-table has been shared among the students. During this academic year we have incorporated various online experts lectures, competitive activities for students, demonstrations for the practical classes, assignments, quizzes, webinars, and many more to engage the students.If the entrance exams take place in September, how will you cope with the couple of months left for the semester?We will wait for the classes till the results of various entrance exams are out and after the admission process is over, only then the classes will be conducted six days a week, even weekends will be made working so as to complete the prescribed credit hours requirements by the university.Any changes on cards to cope with the present situation due to virus?The virus is likely to accelerate fundamental and structural changes that were inevitable in any case — but are now likely to occur faster than they would otherwise. Virtualisation of work undertaken from home or elsewhere, with remote collaboration and reduced travel for physical location, has been evolving steadily. Today, all around the world, businesses are learning to communicate, collaborate, and coordinate on virtual platforms. We will focus more into the virtual work, collaboration tools in such a manner that better learning and understanding can be provided to the students.What will be your concern once the classroom teaching begins?Our biggest concerned is about the health and safety of the students and their families and for this we will put our earnest efforts to provide them the safe and a conducive environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gearing-up-for-fundamental-structural-changes-amid-these-times-133104
29-08-2020||Mukerian||Patwari caught taking bribe||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/patwari-caught-taking-bribe-133105
