29-09-2020||---||Eight die, 82 test +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 28This is the second consecutive day that the Covid tally in Jalandhar was lower than the 100 mark. With 82 patients testing positive on Monday, the Jalandhar tally rose to 12,660. Similarly, with eight more deceased, the death toll also reached 381.Sources in the Health Department said while there was an ominous downward trajectory in the tally, the delay in the sample reports’ arrivals from Faridkot was also responsible for the lesser cases reported on Monday.Total 106 positive cases were reported in Jalandhar, of which 82 belonged to the district, while the remaining were from other districts. As many as 10,593 people have been discharged and 1,372 are under home isolation in Jalandhar.Meanwhile, Kapurthala district reported five deaths and 67 new Covid cases on Monday.The deceased include 55-year-old man, a resident of Bhularai village; a 77-year-old male resident of Palahi Gate, Phagwara. Bothe of them died at the isolation ward in Phagwara.The other deceased include an 82-year-old male resident of Bhandal Bet, who died at a private hospital in Hoshiarpur; an 84-year-old woman of Sandhu Chatha village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; and a 75-year-old woman resident of Mohalla Neeche Banda, who died at GMC Amritsar.6 succumb to virus in Hoshiarpur, 76 test +veHoshiarpur: With 76 Covid cases being reported in Hoshiarpur, the positive patients’ tally has risen to 4,388, while six patients succumbed to the virus in the district on Monday. Total 1,01,197 samples have been taken so far, of which 95,672 tested negative, 1,553 reports were awaited and 127 were invalid. Total 146 deaths have been reported so far. There are 628 active cases and 3,614 have recovered. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of the 76 new positive cases, Hoshiarpur city had 29 cases, while 47 cases were related to other health blocks. Six deceased in the district include a 72-year-old woman of Mugowal village, who died in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar; a 73-year-old resident of Tagore Nagar, Hoshiarpur, who died at DMC Ludhiana; a 71-year-old resident of Chakk Bamu died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; an 80-year-old patient of Jalalpur, Tanda, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 55-year-old resident of New Sabzi Mandi, Hoshiarpur, who died at PGIMER, Chandigarh, and a 66-year-old resident of Bains Awan village in Tanda, who died at MH, Jalandhar. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eight-die-82-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-148233
29-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Education Department to observe ‘buddy week’ in schools till October 3||Jalandhar, September 28While expressing satisfaction over the role being played by teachers in creating awareness among the masses related to the Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS), Krishan Kumar, secretary, Punjab School Education Department, said they have formed buddy groups as well as started ‘buddy week’ in schools from Monday to ensure 100 per cent participation of students as well teachers in online tests.He said the aim was to foster team spirit among students, teachers and the officials of the Punjab Education Department and to encourage sharing of good practices or the work done by teachers or students with their counterparts.“Recently, there were reports that many students, due to lack of mobile phones, were not able to participate in the online tests. Thus ‘buddy groups’ have been created with the sole purpose to solve this problem. Teachers have devised a well-planned strategy and constituted ‘buddy groups’ at the cutting-edge level,” the Education Secretary said, adding that all those students, who did not have mobile phones, have partnered with those students, teachers or officials, who are living nearby and have access to smartphones.Besides, different sections of society, including School Management Committee (SMC) members, panchayat members, guardians of governance (GoGs), mid-day meal workers, anganwari workers, DIET students and pass out students, have also been mobilised to help each other by providing them their mobile phones for attempting the test, he said.Chander Shekhar, district mentor, English and social studies, said: “The first round of tests for the Punjab Achievement Survey has been scheduled from September 21 to October 3.” He said about 26 lakh students of government and government-aided schools studying in Classes I to XII were going to be the part of the test.He said to ensure overwhelming participation, the department dedicated this week as ‘buddy week’ to bring the Education Department officials, teachers as well as students under the ambit of ‘buddy group’.When asked about the functioning of these buddy groups as to how many members are part of one buddy group, Shekhar said there was no such hard-and-fast rule on the number of participants in one group and said it completely depended upon teachers and students as to how they wish to operate their group and add members.“Our focus through buddy groups is to ensure that good practices are being shared and no student is left behind in studies due to lack of smartphones,” he said.Role of buddy groupsBuddy group is an initiative of the government, wherein all those students who do not have mobile phones, partner with those students, teachers or officials living nearby having access to smartphones. Besides, officials of the Education Department, teachers and students can share their innovative ideas, good practices and techniques of using digital applications through buddy groups. Teachers say this activity would help in giving a fillip to the qualitative improvement drive by fostering team spirit as well as leadership qualities among students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/education-department-to-observe-buddy-week-in-schools-till-october-3-148234
29-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||She quit her job for full time rooftop kitchen gardening||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 28Till a few months back, Vandana Walia Bali, a former scribe, was working at a private firm but she finally chose to quit her job and take to what had been her passion over the years.Residing at Ekta Vihar Phase-II in Mithapur, this ardent nature lover is now not just growing her own seasonal vegetables, but also maize, lemons, mausami, loquat, amla, guava, narangi, mangoes and medicinal plants such as tulsi, aloe vera, ashwagandha, moringa, kadi patta and stevia – all on her rooftop and through an organic mode.“We all need safe and fresh vegetables to stay healthy and build immunity, especially in the ongoing pandemic situation. But most of us do not have space to grow them. I have myself experimented and found that rooftop kitchen gardening can be the best solution since it gives a lot of space and allows plants to trap more sunlight. So, I am spreading this message across to everyone in my circle by frequently posting pictures of my harvest on the social media,” she said.She shares more advantages, “This is also the safest and the shortest food chain as we just have to pluck the vegetables and bring them to the kitchen ourselves. So no extra hands touch these vegetables and hence no chance of any contamination.”Bali shared her experience, “I have been growing vegetables for almost a year now on my terrace. I use soilless medium which is highly nutritive for the plants and light in weight for my roof. The plantation is done in portable farming systems made of high density polymer which is UV protected. They have a proper drainage system fitted in them, a frame on which we can install a green net to keep our vegetables safe from too much heat during summers or frost in the winter. I use drip irrigation system to water the plants and save about 75 per cent of water. While I am saving on water, I am also sure that my vegetables are completely free from pesticides and are 100 per cent safe.”Now an entrepreneur running franchise centre for Jaipur-based company ‘The Living Greens’, she added, “During Covid, my terrace garden became a boon for me. I could feed my family with these fresh and safe vegetables even when there were no vendors coming. I also did not need to wash my vegetables with soda etc and keep them untouched for a day or so.”Attempting to do some eco-friendly things, she has also been trying to make use of household waste as planters. Besides using bottles for setting up vertical planters, she has also used worn out tyres, old shoes, broken cups, etc as planters and decorated various corners of her living area quite aesthetically.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/she-quit-her-job-for-full-time-rooftop-kitchen-gardening-148236
29-09-2020||---||Covid protocol, political events cast shadow over patriotic celebrations||Khatkar Kalan, September 28On being denied entry inside the memorial of Bhagat Singh at his ancestral village, Khatkar Kalan, on the occasion of the 113th birth anniversary of the revolutionary leader, the Nawanshahr unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) held a dharna in the middle of the national highway in front of the memorial this morning.The party workers questioned the denial of entry to the commoners on the occasion today in the name of security for Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. They also said various communist groups and youth organisations which wanted to attend the event had avoided programmes today as the state government had taken over the entire memorial site. The agitating AAP leaders were finally allowed in as their Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema came over and took them all along.The usual patriotism remained partially missing today owing to the Covid spread and also due to the fact that the state government had covered the entire memorial site and put up tents all around the open spaces for the ministers, MPs and MLAs participated in a sit-in protest led by Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh against the farm laws brought out by the Centre.Naujawan Bharat Sabha announces stirMembers of the Naujawan Bharat Sabha also announced a revolt against the BJP-led Centre on the occasion. Led by state president Rupinder Chaunda, the sabha announced to gherao BJP leaders at their residences demanding withdrawal of the new farm laws. They also called for boycotting the petrol pumps of the Reliance group, Jio phones and other businesses related to the corporate giants, allegedly being promoted by the Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-protocol-political-events-cast-shadow-over-patriotic-celebrations-148237
29-09-2020||Our Correspondent ||Farmers appealed to shun stubble burning||Jalandhar, September 28 Gearing up for eliminating paddy straw burning in the district, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday appealed to the peasantry not to resort to stubble burning practices, as the smog from the fire could aggravate problems for Covid patients, who were already suffering from compromised immune system.Presiding over a meeting with the officials of the departments concerned, the DC asked them to keep a close tab over farm fires by ensuring physical verification in each case. The DC informed the officials that the state government had launched a special mobile app — ‘Action Taken Report’, where each official, tasked with the prevention of stubble burning, had been enrolled. They would update their action on this application.Thori said from reporting of the incident to field verification and final action taken, all necessary information had to be uploaded on this application through officials concerned. He directed all SDMs to get their staff trained to operate this new mobile application, while laying utmost focus on reducing stubble burning cases.Meanwhile, the DC also reviewed paddy procurement and asked officials to ensure that no farmers were left without distribution of color-coded entry passes besides sufficient availability of gunny bags, lifting within 48 hours and payment within 72 hours. He reiterated his commitment to providing hassle-free and smooth procurement season to farmers.Strict action to be taken against defaulters: DCThe DC has asked the police and civil administration to take strict action against such cases, including lodging of FIRs, impounding of combines, imposing of heavy penalties and making red entry of farmers violating norms, into the revenue record.He said to ensure that no erring person could escape action, strict vigil was being maintained through remote sensing satellites. He said the satellites would detect the place, where burning of paddy straw had taken place and subsequently, the administration would take action against the person involved in it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-appealed-to-shun-stubble-burning-148239
29-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||A go-getter, letters & campaigns are cop's weapons of mass awareness||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 28Saaye mein aate hi vo admi yaad aata hai, jisne kuch soch ke yeh per lagaya hoga. Aap ji nu benti karda haan…ohnan di yaad vich ik rukh zaroor layo taan jo har samein thandi mitthi hawa chaan aundi rahe. (Stepping into the shade, one remembers the man who planted the tree. I request you to plant at least one tree in memory of your loved ones)These couplets of exhortation are concluding lines of a man’s letter sent to the family of a deceased person, a complete stranger to the sender. He primarily looks for his receivers in the obituaries, funerary notices and other such things printed in the newspapers. This is a 55-year-old man residing in Kapurthala who searches them, collects them and posts a letter to each of those families expressing his condolences for their loss all the while requesting them to plant a tree in memory of their loved one. This simple act of kindness has now turned into a campaign.A cop, social activist and an environmentalist ASI Gurbachan Singh Bangar posted at police line, Kapurthala, is a one-man movement bringing about social change through letters, witty cycle signage, village campaigns and pamphlet activism. In past 15 years, Singh has written to 29,000 people. Many have expressed awe. The general populace, celebrities and ministers have lauded his social media campaign. Latest being singer Garry Sandhu who planted a tree and shared his letter on social media after mother’s demise.The ASI started the campaign back in 2005 after a Nawanshahr doctor’s daughter died. The doctor was surprised, responded to the request and rang him up to pay regards. Singh says, “People have been taken aback by my letters. They have visited me, thanked me. It’s unusual for a stranger to ask them to plant a tree. 2120 tak Punjab khali ho jana, koi nahi bachna (state could be a living hell till 2120, no one will be left). Water is wasted day in and day out. Lakhs of money down the drain, there will be no water left soon. People need to conserve water often.”Walking the talkDrug abuse is the other thing he is strictly against. For the past three years he has been spreading awareness on dope tests of bride and grooms, both in cities and villages, before tying the knot urging parents to adhere to the task before it is too late. Other issues he raises are foeticide, save girls, environment, Covid among many more.According to him, people should also worry about their carbon footprint. “I try to use my bicycle to ride to nearby villages. It takes around two to three hours. People have welcomed my campaign with enthusiasm and invite me to villages to speak upon social evils,” he adds.Walking the talk, he mostly travels to rural areas as far as 20 to 40 km on his bicycle just to avoid polluting the environment, and while he’s at it, his ride bears a humorous front carrier flashing clever slogans. Here’s some from his catalogue. On September 22 it read ‘Car Free Day – kya aap cycle ya paidal chalne ke liye taiyaar hain’. On other occasions, ‘Dhian hass ke panao, puttaran nu nasheyan ton bachao’, ‘Shala! Mera sohna Punjab nasha mukt ho jaave’, ‘Eh botal daru di, tera Ghar ujarugi’. In August, he also employed about 35 to 40 cycle-borne men of the Kapurthala city whom he had seen pedalling the streets in the morning. Now, their sessions comprise visits to the villages with the ASI – them in tracksuits and Singh in his uniform.He has also been sought after to utter a few wise words at political-social campaigns and to talk at Gurdwaras. However, this is not his thing. “I don’t work for any political party. I work for country, state…to save youth),” he says.Master of satireHis campaign messages are also often laden with satire. His pamphlet on exhortation against drugs reads…Nashe khaan-peen valeyan lai sunehra mauka!Sabh ton vadh nashe khao, sabh ton vadda inam pao – beedi, cigarette, tambaku, zarda, sharab, smack, bhukki afeem khao — vadde toh vadda inaam pao. Pehla inaam – gharon ate bahron juttian chittar, dooja inaam — shartiyan fefreyan da cancer TB, teeja inaam – gurde, liver kharaab…satvaan Inaam – sadde tin hath da plot, panj quintal lakkadan, paun tin meter safed kapda!Inaaman di vand dharamraaj de yamdoot khud karange. Inaaman da sthan, har pind de shamshan ghat. Pujj rahe sajjan nasha khaan vale samooh ilaka vairi.Patron of peaceOn March 3, 1992, Gurbachan Singh Bangar, then a constable, had also started a peace march on bicycles, bearing ‘Shanti March’ signs across the troubled state, from Ferozepur along with fellow constable Balwinder Singh. In 1994-95, he traversed 25,000km spanning the length of the entire country (from Kashmir to Kanyakumari) on a bicycle again with like-minded colleagues to spread the word. The journey was approved by the Police Department. His carefully devised campaign also earned him the charge of the education cell of the traffic police in Kapurthala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-go-getter-letters-campaigns-are-cops-weapons-of-mass-awareness-148241
29-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Demand for Bharat Ratna to Bhagat Singh gathers pace||Garhshankar (Hoshiarpur), September 28Congress workers, led by advocate Pankaj Kipal, held a demonstration at Bhagat Singh's maternal village — Moranwali — in support of MP Manish Tewari's demand for highest civilian honour ‘Bharat Ratna’ to be conferred upon Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh on the occasion of his birth anniversary.A large number of Congress workers led by Pankaj Kipal paid homage to Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh on Monday and protested by raising slogans at his mother Mata Vidyavati’s memorial at Moranwali village, demanding Bharat Ratna to Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh.While speaking to media personnel, Pankaj Kipal said the contribution of Bhagat Singh to the country had no match and it was more than any other person, who have been conferred with the award till date. He said Bhagat Singh, who kissed the gallows for the independence of the country at a tender age of 23, was given the status of the greatest martyr of the country and he's a role model for the youth of the country.Kirpal said the demand of MP Manish Tewari to give Bharat Ratna award to Bhagat Singh was justifiable and Congress workers were ready to fight at every level to have this demand fulfilled. He said the Union Government should give Bharat Ratna to Bhagat Singh in any case. Palwinder Singh, Rohit Kumar, Jagtar Singh, advocate Manjit Singh and Ravi Kumar were among others present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/demand-for-bharat-ratna-to-bhagat-singh-gathers-pace-148242
29-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Student groups demand Bhagat Singh employment act||Jalandhar, September 28On the 113th birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, volunteers of the All-India Students Federation (AISF) and the All-India Youth Federation (AIYF) organised a Volunteer-Sammelan at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall here on Monday to raise the demand for a Bhagat Singh National Employment Guarantee Act (BNEGA).They paid heartfelt tributes to the statue of Bhagat Singh. While a march in favour of the Act, which promises employment to all unemployed youth in the country, was also taken out from the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall to the Press Club chowk. A large number of students participated in the march and raised slogans, praising the legendary revolutionary and criticised the government for ignoring the demands of the youth. Besides, they also announced that a nationwide campaign would be launched from October 17 and a march towards the Parliament would be taken out to get BNEGA passed as a law.AISF state president Paramjit Singh said: “Youngsters in large numbers are unemployed in the state and such a situation is giving an open chance to private and corporate sector for exploitation of labour. For such youngsters, ‘BNEGA’ will act as a ray of hope.”He said besides BNEGA Act, students’ federation demanded free education for students in the state as well as equal work opportunities.Jagroop Singh, the keynote speaker, asked youths to build a nation of equality of Bhagat Singh’s dreams and to reject divisions. He opposed the recently passed farm legislations and demanded the withdrawal of the Bills citing those as death warrants for farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/student-groups-demand-bhagat-singh-employment-act-148243
29-09-2020||Nawanshahr||Two booked for duping youth||2-day remand for murder accusedHoshiarpur: The police have arrested Ashok Kumar, a cooperative society employee booked under the charge of murdering one Prem Lata on Sunday. Her body was found from a vacant plot in Subhash Nagar. The court sent him in two-day police remand. The accused was booked on the complaint of deceased’s husband Ajay Kumar of Rodian Bathian village. He said she went to Piplanwala telling him that she was going to meet Ashok Kumar, after which she did not return. Inspector Manmohan Kumar, in-charge of Model Town police station, said an FIR was registered against the accused and he was arrested from near his house. Meanwhile, Rajneesh Kumar, manager of the cooperative bank in Piplanwala, said the accused was a salesman in Nasrala cooperative society. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-booked-for-duping-youth-148244
29-09-2020||‘If symptoms occur||‘If symptoms occur, get tested, don’t wait’||“I would like to urge everyone that whenever someone feels that something is not right, they must get themselves tested and not wait, because I have seen that if diagnosed at an early stage, patients can be cured, otherwise it becomes very difficult for doctors to deal with the situation,”ACP Bimal Kant, district nodal Covid care officer for copsACP Bimal Kant, district nodal Covid care officer for cops, was on the frontline, monitoring every situation closely since the start of the pandemic. It was on August 12, while on Janmashtmi duty, when he felt something was not right. He goes on to share his experience…“We started the duty around 9 in the morning and remained outside till 12 am. I felt an unusual pain in my legs. It was severe and something I had never experienced before. I took paracetamol and went back home. The next day, again, I experienced the pain in the evening and I became feverish. It was on August 14, when high-grade fever reoccurred with shivering. It was then, I got to know that I had contracted the virus. I immediately left for the hospital and got myself tested and the reports were positive. Until then, I was psychologically prepared, because I knew the symptoms were of Covid. So, I remained in the hospital for around five days and then in home isolation. Suffering from this disease is traumatic. I remember when I was discharged from the hospital, I wanted to just flee, reach home, and join duty. I remained in home isolation for 15 days. But I am so thankful to my seniors and my department for their continuous support. Not even a single day passed when my department and Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar didn’t ask about my health. Now, I have recovered and joined back, but I am noticing it''s after effects. I get tired easily and there is always less energy. So, I have been asked by my department that I work only if I feel comfortable. But I am taking a lot of vitamin C and having a concoction of ‘giloy’ to keep myself fit. Also, we lost our ASI to Covid on Saturday, I would like to urge everyone that whenever someone feels that something is not right, they must get themselves tested and should not wait, because I have seen that if diagnosed at an early stage, the patient can be cured, otherwise it becomes very difficult for doctors to deal with the situation.(As told to Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/if-symptoms-occur-get-tested-dont-wait-148248
29-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Crop purchased in only 10 Jalandhar mandis||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 28Two days after the government announced paddy procurement in the state, farmers in the district have started arriving in the grain markets with their produce.However, the number remains limited as the crop is yet to mature. Of the 149 grain markets, the crop arrived in only 36 mandis and purchase was made only in 10 mandis. As per the revised minimum support price (MSP), the purchase was made for Rs 1,888 per quintal. Raman Nehra, an official of the Food Corporation of India (FCI), Jalandhar, said in the first two days of procurement, the FCI purchased 100 metric tonnes of rice and Pungrain purchased 600 metric tonnes.Owing to high moisture content, the procurement is likely to gain momentum only after the first week of October.Charanjit Singh, a farmer, who had come from Jandu Singha, said, “I am bringing my crop in a phased manner as in most of my fields, the crop is yet to ripen. Today I brought only 50-60 quintals of the produce. We are happy that the MSP was increased this year, but the government should ensure that there won’t be any private buyer as we have suffered huge losses after selling maize. The government had kept Rs 1,850 MSP, but private buyers purchased it for Rs 600 to Rs 1,000.”Avtar Singh, who had come from Nandanpur village, hailed the government’s decision to advance the procurement this year, but rued that the hike in the MSP was not sufficient. “The MSP will not give us any profit this year as due to labour shortage, the sowing process made a big hole in our pockets. Last year the labour cost was around Rs 2,400-2,600, but this season the cost was between Rs 4,000 and Rs 5,000. Considering this loss the MSP should have been over Rs 2,000.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/crop-purchased-in-only-10-jalandhar-mandis-147970
