29-12-2020||Jalandhar||543 candidates take test for recruitment as English master||As many as 543 candidates appeared for the Master Cadre Recruitment Test (English) here on Monday. The test was held at three examination centres — Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, Government Model Senior Secondary School, PAP Campus, and Meritorious School, Kapurthala Road. The test for the Punjabi and Hindi subjects was held yesterday. While 1,604 candidates appeared for Punjabi, 777 appeared for the test for Hindi master at different examination centres in the city.Elaborate arrangements were made to conduct smooth and fair conduct of examinations as well as to check the malpractice of impersonation.The flying squads conducted inspections at the examination centres and no case of copying and impersonation was reported. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/543-candidates-take-test-for-recruitment-as-english-master-190712
29-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Expert says it’s high time kids are taught virus-protection protocol||Hoshiarpur, December 28It is high time kids are taught how to protect themselves from viruses like Covid-19 in future, said Dr Paramjit Singh, senior consultant of paediatric at Ivy Hospital, on Monday during an online awareness programme.He said it was the duty of parents to develop a habit of frequent washing of hands among kids. For achieving this, demonstrate them the six steps for hand washing or show videos related to hand washing. Sanitisation of hands with sanitiser needs to be supervised by parents in children below 6 years, he said.One should avoid going to crowded places such as malls, bus stands, railway stations, family functions with children and teach them to wear masks, if they are older than 2 years, he pointed out.Tell children to avoid hugging and shaking hands with strangers besides asking them to learn to sneeze and cough properly by using a tissue for rhinorrhea and cough or sneeze into the elbow.Change and wash their clothes after they return from outdoors, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/expert-says-its-high-time-kids-are-taught-virus-protection-protocol-190717
29-12-2020||Jalandhar||Neha, Hitesh win TT state tourney||The five-day Punjab Table Tennis Championship concluded last evening at Hansraj Stadium here. The matches in men and women sections were played. In men’s singles final, Hitesh Dogra from Jalandhar beat Naman Mehra from Ludhiana 4-2. In the semifinals, Hitesh had defeated Nikhil Saini from Patiala 4-0 and in the second semifinals Naman Mehra had defeated Karthik Dogra from Jalandhar 4-0. In women section, Neha Patial and Aarushi Arora, both from Jalandhar, reached the final. Neha beat Aarushi 4-3. In semifinals, Neha Patial defeated Prabhsimran from Patiala 4-2 and in another semifinal Aarushi defeated Ananya Thakur from Mohali 4-0. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/neha-hitesh-win-tt-state-tourney-190718
29-12-2020||---||Congress takes out Tiranga Yatra on its foundation day||Jalandhar, December 28To mark the 136th foundation day of the party, Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary led a Tiranga Yatra from the District Congress Committee office to BMC Chowk here on Monday.The Jalandhar MP was accompanied by MLA Rajinder Beri, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, Jalandhar (Urban) Congress president Baldev Singh Dev, Mahila Congress president Jasleen Sethi, Youth Congress president Angad Dutta and Municipal Corporation councillor Balraj Thakur along with hundreds of party members.MP Chaudhary said the Congress party started a public movement and its workers went to jails and sacrificed their lives to gain freedom from the British Raj.“After Independence, the nation started from zero, but through hard work and dedication, the Congress put India, which was extremely poor in 1947, on track to be a great democracy and a global power. Our farmers brought in the Green Revolution and filled the government’s granaries, but now, the Modi government is out to destroy the same annadata in collusion with crony corporates,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-takes-out-tiranga-yatra-on-its-foundation-day-190715
29-12-2020||---||16th annual convocation: 820 NIT students get degrees||Jalandhar, December 28As many as 820 students were awarded degrees at the 16th annual convocation of Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology here on Sunday.Of the total awardees, 608 were for B Tech, 95 for M Tech, 72 for MSc, 15 for MBA and 30 for PhD.Professor Anil D Sahasrabudhe, chairman, All-India Council for Technical Education, New Delhi, was the chief guest. Subhash Chandra Ralhan, chairman, Board of Governors (BoG) of NIT and Managing Director, Sri Tools Private Limited Ludhiana, Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director NIT Jalandhar, SK Mishra, Registrar NIT Jalandhar; members of Board of Governors and members of the Senate, faculty and staff members of NIT were present during the programme.Sanjana Koli (Bio Technology), Diksha Bala (Civil Engineering), Akshit Arora (Computer Science & Engineering), Prabhjot Singh Grewal (Chemical Engineering), Mohammad Anas (Electronics and Communication Engineering), Ujjwal Duvedi (Instrumentaion & Control), Mohammad A Muwahib (Industrial and Production Engineering), Hardik Gupta (Mechanical Engineering) and Prerna (Textile Engineering) were awarded with gold medal for being the B Tech 2016-2020 batch branch topper.Hardik Gupta from Mechanical Engineering was awarded the overall topper of B Tech 2016-2020 batch with CGPA 9.00.Ankita Sharma (Chemical Engineering), Balpreet Singh (Computer Science & Engineering) and Gurjinder Kaur (Computer Science & Engineering- Information Security) were awarded with gold medal for being the M Tech 2018-2020 batch branch topper. From M Sc Bhagya Shree (chemistry), Rahul (mathematics), Malika Singhal (physics) and Neelam Rani (MBA) were awarded with gold medal for achieving first position in their respective branch.Dr Jatinder Kumar Ratan (chemical engineering), Dr Samayveer Singh (computer science and engineering), Dr Ashish Raman (electronics and communication engineering), Dr Rajiv Kumar Garg (industrial and production engineering), Dr Dinesh Kumar Shukla (mechanical engineering), Dr Praveen Malik (physics) and Dr AK Choudhary (textile technology) were awarded with the best faculty award for their contribution.Director Awasthi congratulated the degree recipients for their bright future and also motivated them to work hard. Prof Anil Dattatraya Sahasrabudhe congratulated the young, graduating students for earning their degrees, parents for their sacrifice and support and teachers for their unstinted commitment and passion to mold them.Addressing the convocation, he said: “Education is the fundamental building block in the life of an individual leading to national development and reconstruction. In view of present global ecosystem and employment landscape, not only learning is important, but it is equally important to know how to learn and be a lifelong learner.” He said the last education policy came in 1986. There are many shortcomings in the present education system. In view of contemporary needs of society, unprecedented brainstorming was done to finalise the New Education Policy, in which more than 2 lakh suggestions were taken from 676 districts. The New Education Policy 2020 aims at providing inclusive, equitable quality education and lifelong learning opportunities, he said.BoG chairperson Ralhan said it was one of the important milestones of life that they have achieved. He laid focus on the collaboration between educational institutes or collaboration between academia and industry. “Higher educational institutes play a significant role in the economic growth of a nation in a knowledge-led era,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/16th-annual-convocation-820-nit-students-get-degrees-190716
29-12-2020||---||Her terrace is no less than a farmer’s field||Jalandhar, December 28She teaches students during the daytime but the green haven she has created at her home takes visitors by surprise.Gurvinder KaurI have only two passions, teaching and planting. And my hands are full with these two. During the lockdown, when I realised the necessity of organic vegetables, I started planting them at my terrace garden. Both my daughters helped me. Now, I always have vegetables for at least four to five families.A commerce professor at Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, Gurvinder Kaur’s thirst for gardening is quenched at her home’s little oasis which brings both joy and food for her and family. As of now, her terrace garden, which is a vegetable nursery, produces enough food and veggies to ensure that the family doesn’t shop for vegetables for months.Gurvinder says, “I have only two passions, teaching and planting. And my hands are full with these two.” She started planting with decorative plants. “During the lockdown, when I realised the necessity of organic vegetables, I started planting at my terrace garden. Now, I always have vegetables for at least four to five families.” For the past three months they haven’t bought much except potatoes. Her lush rooftop kitchen garden – interspersed with her flower nursery – has all vegetables one can think of. From mustard, fenugreek, turnip, carrot, radish, tomato, broccoli to cauliflower, beetroot, spring onions, garlic as well as turmeric are abounding.Inside her home you can spot a host of oxygen generating plants like snake plant, areca palm, money plant etc. Her favourite corner of the home, however, is her jade plants outside her kitchen. “Jade plants should be on the right side of the entrance. It is one of the most zen corners of my home. I really love spending time there,” she says.Elsewhere, a row of choicest petunias planted in hanging planters decorate her house. With over 400 to 500 plants, it proved as a springboard for selling some.“We had so many plants. My daughter created a page on Instagram for anyone keen on buying it. She’s also making one for the Facebook. Both my daughters – one is nine, another 13 – helped me build the garden and also know the names of all the plants,” Gurvinder says.Has she ever had plants withering away? “Very rarely”, she quips.“When you shift plants from another environment for the first time they get an environmental shock. It takes them time to get accustomed to their new home. I usually place the newcomers in a sunny corner with the others so that they get used to the new home for a week or so. Also plantation has to be done early morning or in the evening. Afternoon is not a good time. These little measures go a long way in ensuring longevity of plants.”Gurvinder also maintains a special register in which she scribbles special needs and ‘to-dos’ regarding plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/her-terrace-is-no-less-than-a-farmers-field-190714
29-12-2020||Phagwara||Nritya abhivyakti Mahotsav organised||Course on material manufacturingJalandhar: The department of mechanical engineering, DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology, organised a week long AICTE/ISTE (All India Council for Technical Education and Indian Society for Technical Education) sponsored induction/refresher programme for faculty members of technical education institutes during December 21-26. Titled as ‘Advance materials and processes for sustainable intelligent manufacturing’, the programme was conceived to provide the know-how on current state of research and development in the field of materials and manufacturing processes. More than 50 participants from different states of the country participated in the week-long online event. The event was designed to comprehensively cover the diverse fields of advanced materials such as metal and polymer-based composites, biomaterials for use with additive manufacturing, smart materials and manufacturing strategies including additive manufacturing, advance manufacturing processes, green and smart manufacturing, waste minimisation etc. Dr Manoj Kumar, principal DAVIET and Dr Sudhir Sharma, Dean Academics congratulated Dr Gaurav Kumar Dhuria, programme coordinator and Head of mechanical engineering department and his team for successful conduct of the event.Sanskrit Bharti contestNavjot Kaur of BA (Sem III) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya has brought laurels by winning the first position in ‘Geeta Shlokocharan Competition 2020’ organised by Sanskrit Bharti Punjab. The participants were from Class XI to graduation stream. She was awarded cash prize for Rs 1,500 along with certificate. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated her and the Sanskrit department for achieving the distinction. She acknowledged the students and HoD Dr Meenu Talwar who always strives to impart moral values in the students which is the need of the hour. She laid the importance of moral values and knowledge of sayings of Bhagavad Geeta among youth which motivates and prepares to face the challenges of life. Dr Meenu Talwar also congratulated the student. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nritya-abhivyakti-mahotsav-organised-190723
29-12-2020||Garhshankar||Rs 50k looted from petrol pump||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-50k-looted-from-petrol-pump-190719
29-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Thieves break into bank||Dasuya, December 28Thieves broke into the Punjab and Sindh Bank in Ghogra village on Sunday.Bank Manager Vajinder Singh said they came to know about the incident on Monday morning, when the bank was opened around 8.30 am.He said that the thieves entered through the back wall and could onlyreach the record room, while the locker room remained safe.Dasuya Station House Officer (SHO) Malkit Singh reached the spot and marked the probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thieves-break-into-bank-190720
29-12-2020||Jalandhar||Ladhewali RoB foundation stone to be laid today||PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla will lay the foundation stone for the construction of railway overbridge (RoB) at Chuggiti-Ladhewali road railway crossing tomorrow at a cost of Rs23.46 crore.MLA Jalandhar Central Rajinder Beri reviewed the arrangements for the event at the site and said it was a long pending demand of people living on both sides of the railway crossing and the construction of this RoB would give a huge reprieve to them.The MLA said the area on both the sides of crossing usually used to be cut off from each other in most of the time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ladhewali-rob-foundation-stone-to-be-laid-today-190713
29-12-2020||---||Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner asks Child welfare NGOs to register by December 31||Jalandhar, December 28Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday said as per directions of the Punjab Government, it is mandatory for all non-government organisations (NGOs), which provides free housing, food, education and medical facilities to needy children for their protection and care by December 31.Thori said these organisations are required to register themselves under Section 41 (1) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. He said if any NGO is working on care and protection of children and has not been registered yet, it should immediately contact the District Programme Officer or the District Child Development Officer at their office in Kapurthala Chowk with relevant documents before December 31 for registration.He said if any non-registered organisation is found functioning after the due date, strict action would be taken against that organisation under Section 42 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-deputy-commissioner-asks-child-welfare-ngos-to-register-by-december-31-190709
29-12-2020||---||Power supply to 3 more Jio towers snapped||Jalandhar, December 28A month into the farmers’ protests, the angst continues to scald the corporate sector with the campaign to snap power from Jio towers in the district continuing briskly on Monday as well.With electricity supply of three new Jio towers being snapped in the district on Monday, the count has reached 13.While earlier in the month several members of the Sikh Talmel Committee also got several Reliance stores closed. A Reliance godown was also shut by farmers on Sunday.On Monday, groups of protesting farmers “amid heavy police presence” snapped power of at least three Jio towers in the Lamma Pind Chowk area.So far, power has been snapped of towers in Jandiala (three towers), Jamsher, Kangniwal, Samrai, Bajuha Kalan, Chakki, Qadianwal, Sansarpur apart from Monday’s closure at the Lamma Pind Chowk.Following this, members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union Rajewal (BKU Rajewal) met the Deputy Commissioner, Commissioner of Police, SSP and ADC in Jalandhar submitting memoradums to them regarding their demands. Unions have sought the withdrawal of FIRs against farm leaders amid the stir and have also declared that they will continue to boycott corporate networks and products in the coming days.Amarjot Singh, youth leader, BKU Rajewal, who had been staying on in Jalandhar to conduct a series of activities as per the calls given by farmers before heading back to Delhi, said, “We shall be identifying the remaining towers and get the power snapped from these. All farmer unions are snapping power supply of towers in their respective areas. The boycott of the products, as declared, shall continue until the government does not meet our demands. All activities conducted by us have been done openly and peacefully with due intimation to the administration.”Notably, while an FIR was also lodged in the district yesterday against the burning of 15 bundles of Jio’s fibre optic cables, the police have maintained that none of the farmer organisations were associated with it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/power-supply-to-3-more-jio-towers-snapped-190710
29-12-2020||---||Covid-19: 3 succumb to virus in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 28With 47 new cases of Covid reported in Jalandhar district on Monday, the total number of positive cases reached 19,802.The health authorities reported three deaths. With this, the toll increased to 639.A total of 18,768 patients had been discharged while 228 people were under home isolation in the district. At present, there are 395 active cases in the district.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 18 people tested Covid-19 positive on Monday.Two fall prey to Covid-19 in Hoshiarpur, 24 test +veThe health authorities reported 24 new Covid-19 cases in the district on Monday. With this, the positive cases increased to 7,696 in the district.The authorities reported two more deaths in the district today. As a result, the toll reached 308. The deceased include a 65-year-old woman of Mount Avenue, Phagwara road, who died at PGIMER, Chandigarh, and a 69-year-old woman of Shergarh village.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh informed that with 1,255 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken in the district reached 2,30,700.At present, there are 134 active cases and 7,254 recovered in the district.Out of today’s 24 new positive cases in the district, 5 cases are from Hoshiarpur city while remaining 19 are from various other health blocks of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-3-succumb-to-virus-in-jalandhar-district-190711
29-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Deceased’s family likely to record statement tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 28Family members of Inderjit Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur, who was gunned down by the police under mysterious circumstances is likely to record their statements on December 30.A magisterial probe was ordered in the incident in which Inderjit was shot dead in an encounter near Jandiala Guru toll plaza on December 8. Sub-Divisional Magistrate Vikas Heera had been entrusted with the investigations.Maninderpal Singh, brother of the deceased said the SDM has given them time for recording statement on December 30. However, we asked them to provide us with evidence, which the police had collected to date. We also asked for the autopsy report of Inderjit, he said.“Though the police have shown CCTV footage of the encounter, but we are unsatisfied as the video is blur. We have asked for some more angles of the incident,” said Maninderpal while adding that the family would also consult its lawyer before recording the statement.On December 8, the CIA staff was holding a naka at Jandiala Guru toll plaza following snatching of a car from a DSP rank officer in the Putlighar area when they received the information from the Ambala police that a person had snatched an SUV from there and was heading towards Amritsar via Ludhiana and Jalandhar. Fingers were raised over the police theory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deceaseds-family-likely-to-record-statement-tomorrow-190721
29-12-2020||---||Now, Kapurthala farmers say no to land acquisition||Kapurthala, December 28Farmers of Kapurthala villages on Monday unanimously decided not to allow their land to be acquired by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for the setting up of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway.FACTFILEFarmers, who had a meeting at Sultanpur Lodhi Grain Market under the banner of Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said the NHAI had plans to acquire their agricultural land falling in Kapurthala, Sultanpur Lodhi and Bholath subdivisions for the proposed passage.Hundreds of farmers who gathered to express their unanimity on the issue raised slogans against the Centre and the NHAI saying they would not allow their fields to be acquired till the time the Centre took back its new farm laws.State president of the committee Sukhdev S Dhillon said they would not allow any officials of the Revenue Department or any survey teams inside their fields. He alleged that the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre was playing at the hands of the corporate and trying to marginalise the Punjab farmers. He said the collector rates had been deliberately brought down recently through the district administrations in the villages, from where the land had to be acquired.Deepti Uppal, DC, Kapurthala We have already held meetings with farmers including a recent one when environment assessment was done. Of course, the tempers of farmers are high at the moment, but we are confident that we will be able to cut a deal with them. We are to acquire land from seven villages of Kapurthala subdivision, 18 from Bholath and 12 from Sultanpur Lodhi.Harmanpreet Singh Dikki, chairman of the committee, said 16,000 acres of land owned by the Punjab farmers was being destroyed for the expressway. He said the proposed expressway to be laid by the NHAI would be 15 feet higher than the berms owing to which waterlogging could also be a problem.Kapurthala district president of the committee Prabhdyal Singh Saidpur said the farmers of Kapurthala would stand united against any forcible attempt of the authorities to acquire their land. “We will not let our land go for peanuts,” he said.Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal said: “We have already held meetings with farmers including a recent one when environment assessment was done. Of course, the tempers of farmers are high at the moment, but we are confident that we will be able to cut a deal with them. We are to acquire land from seven villages of Kapurthala subdivision, 18 from Bholath and 12 from Sultanpur Lodhi.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-kapurthala-farmers-say-no-to-land-acquisition-190722
29-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Changed ways of greeting during the pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 28While the coronavirus this year triggered a health alarm worldwide, measures taken to contain the virus also reshaped greetings and the rules of everyday etiquette. From elbow shakes to virtual hugs, people invented outlandish ways to meet and greet friends and family members. As the deadly virus continues to spread across the world, many have abandoned the most common form of greeting: the handshake and adhered to no physical ways of greet.Nitin Arora, a college studentSince the virus transmits through fluid dispersed in the air while coughing or sneezing and by being near to people, we might become a medium, therefore the best way of greeting people is by joining our hands and saying a ‘namaste’ instead of hugging or shaking hands. When relaxations were announced, we invented virtual hugs and kisses while meeting our friends and even used to shake our shoes.Kunal Singh, a hotelier, says, the pandemic brought about a significant change in living from greetings to handshaking, table and seating arrangements, entertainment culture, artistic activities, sporting activities and most importantly the professional customs. “People restricted themselves to good old ‘namaste’ and fist bumping to say hello. It not only helped in maintaining a distance but also to cutting down the chances of transmitting the infection,” he added.Greeting is considered an important way of addressing people whom we meet either for the first time or the daily familiar faces we see on a daily basis. Most of us prefer shaking hands or hugging our acquaintances to greet them but in the health emergency that Covid-19 has caused, it may be considered as an act of ignorance.“Since the virus transmits through fluid dispersed in the air while coughing or sneezing and by being near to people, we might become a medium, therefore the best way of greeting people is by joining our hands and saying a ‘namaste’ instead of hugging or shaking hands with them,” said, Nitin Arora, a college student. “When the authorities announced relaxations in the lockdown, we invented virtual hugs and kisses while meeting our friends and even used to shake our shoes,” added Arora. “Besides changing social and work ethics, rules of communication and gracing have been reshaped in personal and social life due to Covid-19,” his friend chimed in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/changed-ways-of-greeting-during-the-pandemic-190707
29-12-2020||---||Come January, fly from Adampur to Delhi every day||Jalandhar, December 28SpiceJet has reportedly announced to operate the Adampur-Delhi flight throughout the week from the next month. Till now, the flight used to operate for three days (Friday, Saturday and Sunday) in a week. The new development in the flight’s schedule will come as a relief to area residents, who prefer to travel to the national capital by air. While there is only one flight for the route, no changes have been made in the time table of the flight.Things to knowThe 90-seater SpiceJet flight was resumed for regular travel last month after a gap of six months. As per the information, the booking for the Delhi-Adampur-Delhi route would be opened shortly. Owing to cold weather and fog, the Delhi-bound flight was also cancelled for five days last week and it was arriving late here.As the flight services to Mumbai have also resumed, the Mumbai-bound flight arrived late at Adampur airport by three hours. Usually, the flight leaves Mumbai Airport at 6.40 am and lands at Adampur airport at 10 am, however, on Sunday, the flight took off at 9.32 am from Mumbai and reached Adampur airport around 12.30 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/come-january-fly-from-adampur-to-delhi-every-day-190708
