29-11-2020||Phagwara||Lecture on digital marketing||LPU student joins UK varsityPhagwara: Hancy Arora, an engineering student of Lovely Professional University (LPU), has availed LPU’s ‘International Credit Transfer Opportunity Programme’ to join England’s eighth oldest higher education institute- Heriot-Watt University. After completing three years at LPU, Hancy will now complete the rest of the programme at UK’s university, and thus receive a final degree from there. Additional Director of LPU’s Division of International Affairs Aman Mittal further informed, “More students are opting for this credit transfer option, as they can still realise that their dream of going abroad will certainly be a reality.”IKGPTU results declaredJalandhar: Students of Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions performed well in IKGPTU examination. Students from IT, management, hotel management and agriculture department secured up to 10 SGPA. BSc Agriculture (Sem VIII) students Maneet Taak, Atish, Kirandeep, Ranjan,Dileep, Avinash, Aman, Abdul, Akash, Deepnandan, Nadida, Satyam and Vishwanath secured 10 SGPA. Sonia, Shivani and Geeta from MBA-(Sem IV) secured 9.9, 9.7 and 9.4 SGPA respectively. BBA (Sem VI) students Krishan secured 9.7 SGPA and Kajol bagged 9.5 SGPA. BCom (Sem VI) students Jaspreet Kaur, Arzoo, Harsdeep Kaur and Diksha got 9.8, 9.5, 9.4 and 9.2 SGPA. In BCA (Sem VI), Dyal Kaur and Yashab secured 9.8 SGPA, Ankita secured 9.5 and Anmol secured 9 SGPA. Rajwinder Kaur from department of hotel management secured 9.8 SGPA, Palwinder Kaur secured 9.7 SGPA, Binny Shoor and Mandeep Kaur got 9.6 SGPA, Rajwant Kaur, Raveena and Nisha bagged 9.4, 9.3 and 9.0 SGPA respectively. Dr Anup Bowry (Chairman, Innocent Hearts Group), Dr ShaileshTripathi, group director, IHGI, and all faculty members congratulated the students for this achievement and wished them good luck for their future.Rock the dance floor activityIvy World School organised the ‘Rock the dance floor’ activity for the kindergarten wing. The children performed with their mothers on their favourite dance numbers. Their costumes were beautifully according to their songs. Some learners even made use of interesting props like hats, chairs and sticks. They made a lot of efforts in choreography, rhythm, synchronisation and presentation of all students. S Chauhan, principal, congratulated and appreciated the performance of the children and also encouraged them to participate in future activities.Workshop on stress-free lifeHMV Collegiate Sr Sec School organised an online activity-based workshop on stress-free life in association with Bhartiya Yog Avam Prabandhan Sansthan. The event commenced with traditional lamp lighting ceremony followed by ‘Gayatri mantra’. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen extended welcome to the esteemed experts Shashi Khullar, Acharya (IIYM) and Dr Sunita Paul, Gynaecologist and Acharya (IIYM). Principal Dr Ajay Sareen inspired students to practice relaxation techniques, try meditation and exercise regularly to manage and fight stress better and learn to make time for hobbies, interests and get enough rest and sleep to recover from stress. Khullar apprised students of some useful tips to fight stress and also advised students to adopt healthy lifestyle and build a closer bond with nature. School coordinator Meenakshi Syal extended a vote of thanks and assured students to have more interactive sessions for their overall development. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lecture-on-digital-marketing-177306
29-11-2020||Jalandhar||Never the wrong number||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/never-the-wrong-number-177296
29-11-2020||---||Agitation to act as last nail in Modi govt’s coffin: Joginder Singh Mann||Phagwara, November 28Slamming the Narendra Modi-led NDA government for suppressing democratic rights of farmers to protest, former Punjab minister and Chairman of the Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann on Friday said the farmers’ agitation would act as the last nail in the coffin for the Modi government.Joginder Singh Mann, former Punjab minister & Chairman, Punjab Agro Industries CorporationBy creating hindrances in the way of farmers, who are heading to New Delhi for a peaceful protest, the Union and Haryana governments tried to scuttle constitutional rights of people. It is ironic that PM Narendra Modi has been boasting that farmers could sell their produce anywhere but BJP government was not even allowing farmers to go to New Delhi for exercising their democratic right. The farmers had been holding protests peacefully for the past two months and instead of listening to their grievances, the Modi government tried to scuttle their protest.In a statement issued here, the former minister said the entry of farmers in Delhi marked the beginning of the countdown for the fall of “autocratic Modi government”. He said the farmers had entered Delhi by crushing the haughtiness of Modi and company adding that the day was not far when this anti-people government would be ousted by people. Mann said the denial of holding a protest by the Modi and Haryana governments was totally unwarranted and undesirable.Mann said by creating hindrances in way of farmers, who were heading to New Delhi for a peaceful protest, the Union and Haryana governments tried to scuttle constitutional rights of people. He said that it was ironic that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been boasting that farmers could sell their produce anywhere but BJP government was not even allowing farmers to go to New Delhi for exercising their democratic right. Mann said the farmers had been holding protests peacefully for the past two months and instead of listening to their grievances, the Modi government tried to scuttle their protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agitation-to-act-as-last-nail-in-modi-govts-coffin-joginder-singh-mann-177302
29-11-2020||---||Celebrations begin at Sultanpur Lodhi||Jalandhar, November 28The Akhand Path at Sultanpur Lodhi in Kapurthala district on Saturday marked the formal start of a host of events to be organised to celebrate the 551st Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev.Member of Parliament Jasbir Singh Dimpa, MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, PPCB Chairman Satvinder Singh Marwaha, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, SSP Kanwardeep Kaur along with other dignitaries attended the ardaas at the pandal set up by the Punjab Government near the historic Gurdwara Ber Sahib.Meanwhile, the Punjab Pollution Control Board initiated a drive to plant 551 saplings to spread the message of environment preservation. As a part of the drive, saplings were distributed among the congregation as the prasad.Meanwhile, Punjab and Haryana High Court lawyer Harpreet Sandhu got two huge-sized selfie points created depicting the 551st logo. The selfie points have been installed and inaugurated at Garari Chowk (Rotary Chowk) by Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Gill and other dignitaries. Conceptualised and designed by Harpreet, the selfie points have become major attractions among the sangat visiting Sultanpur Lodhi during the 551st Parkash Purb.A special brochure depicting the pictorial hymns of Guru Nanak Dev and Gurdwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodhi, was also launched. The beautiful pictorial brochure promoting the ethos and preaching of Guru Nanak Dev were distributed among devotees. The unique brochure would also be presented to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Meanwhile, the Board of Governors of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University Jalandhar has also given the approval for the establishment of a study chair in the name of the first Sikh master. Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, IKGPTU, shared information about the area and scope of study related to Guru Nanak Dev Chair.He said the university would work on the study of life, philosophy and teachings of Guru Nanak Dev and its relevance in the contemporary times. Researchers would work on religious and cultural space with special reference to Guru Nanak Dev, historical perspectives, mission and work in subsequent periods.The university will also focus on the role and place of Gurdwara Ber Sahib (Sultanpur Lodhi) in the larger contexts of the teachings of the guru. He shared information about a few other subjects related to Guru Nanak Dev like creation of descriptive bibliographical documentation with reference to literary and socio-cultural studies, audio-visual documentation with special reference to Guru Nanak’s life and contribution in and around the Doaba region. The study on the travels (udasis) of Guru Nanak Dev, divine music (raag) and instruments with special reference to rabab, study of inter-faith dialogues of Guru Nanak Dev are also part of university board decisions.On the occasion, Sandeep Kumar Kazal, registrar, IKGPTU, said the university would start work on the recruitment of Chair Professor as per the approved qualification by the board. He shared the university would feel honoured by appointing an eminent scholar with a doctoral degree in religious studies/Sikhism/Punjabi language and literature who has published quality research work on Sikh religion/Sikh history/Sikh philosophy/Guru Nanak Dev etc. He said it would be a new learning era for a State Technical University on this subject.Covid casts a shadow on Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev, extravagant displays limitedAmritsar: The covid-19 pandemic cast a shadow on nagar kirtan organised to mark the 551st Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev on Saturday. Khalsa College Governing Council (KCGC), which organised the nagar kirtan, cut down the number of participants from 30,000 students (last year) to bare minimum this year. Only teaching, non-teaching and senior students took part in the religious procession. The nagar kirtan took off from Khalsa College and reached Golden Temple amid religious fervour. The participants formed queues while practising social-distancing, chanted hymns and passed through various parts of the city to pay obeisance at Golden Temple. A limited display of ‘Gatka’ (Sikh martial art), religious music and a PT show was held as the procession led by decorated palanquin in which Guru Granth Sahib was placed culminated at Akal Takht for prayers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/celebrations-begin-at-sultanpur-lodhi-177304
29-11-2020||---||Joint front protests outside DC office in Nawanshahr||Jalandhar, November 28The Punjab UT Employees and Pensioners Joint Front held a protest rally outside the DC office in Nawanshahr, after which they burnt the effigy of the state government.Observing Covid protocol and maintaining physical distancing while wearing masks, members of the union condemned the atrocities on farmers by the Central Government also criticising the farm laws and the Electricity Bill 2020. Extending support to farmers’ agitation, they said the Centre had ended 44 labour laws and made four codes against labourers thereby curbing the rights of labourers in doing so.Protesters said privatisation of public sector enterprises needs to be stopped, elimination of posts in the name of restructuring departments be stopped; letter to end posts in the water resources department be withdrawn; rather than ending pay commission, the report of the pay commission implementable from January 2016 be implemented; without any interference with Ad hoc Contract Temporary work charge and outsource Employees Welfare Act, employees be regularised on full salaries; Asha workers and facilitators, mid-day meal workers and anganwari workers/helpers be paid at least minimum wages; old pension scheme be implemented and new pension scheme be dismissed for employees appointed from January 2004 onwards.Leaders said if the state government did not respond to their demands, they would hold a protest rally in Mohali on December 9 against the government. Gurdial Singh, Joga Singh, Kulwinder, Seebu Ram, Mohan Singh Punia, Surjit Ram, Jeet Ram, Deedar Singh, Des Raj, Paramjit Kaur among others were present on the occasion.Major demands||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/joint-front-protests-outside-dc-office-in-nawanshahr-177297
29-11-2020||---||Award for IPS officer||Jalandhar, November 28Mohd Faiyaz Farooqui (IPS) was awarded the Sahir Ludhianvi Award 2020 for his work in penning Urdu poetry. His book Kuch Chiragh Maddham Se..! was chosen as the best poetry book of all contemporary Urdu poetry writers in the state. Posted as IGP, PAP at Jalandhar, Farooqui is a 1995-batch IPS officer who is passionate about the Urdu language.The award was accorded to him during a special award ceremony held by the Punjab Language Department on Friday in Patiala.Higher Education and Language Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa awarded him the award for the best poetry writer. Rs21,000 in cash, a shawl and a certificate were part of the award accorded to him.Farooqui, said it was a matter of pride for him to be chosen for the award. Invoking Sahir Ludhianvi, Farooqui said, the attributes of humanity were the foundation of Indian civilization to strengthen which, he appealed to the writers, poets, across the world to pay heed to the message of love, sacrifice and self sacrifice – which Ludhianvi also upheld in his poetry. He added that the Urdu was a symbol of the Ganga-Jamauni culture in Punjab which was still spoken and understood in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/award-for-ips-officer-177298
29-11-2020||---||Covid-19: 2 die, 96 test +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, November 28With 96 new cases surfacing in the district, the Covid tally reached 17,726 on Saturday. Two deaths were also reported in Jalandhar, taking the count of deceased persons to 550. The active cases in the district are 1,294 so far.As many as 874 people are also under home isolation in Jalandhar at present. Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 10 people tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-2-die-96-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-177299
29-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||Nawanshahr doctor booked under PNDT Act||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 28The Balachaur city police have booked a doctor in Balachaur under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act for conducting illegal sex determination test on his hospital premises, after teams of the Health Department conducted a sting operation at his hospital here on Saturday.Dr Ujagar Singh Soori has been booked under Sections 420, 120-B, 353 and 186 of the IPC and under Sections 4,3,5,6,18 and 29 of the PCPNDT (Regulation and Prevention of Misuse) Act.Dr Vikas Gupta, Nodal officer PNDT, PanchkulaA deal had been struck with a decoy patient to conduct an ultrasound on the payment of Rs35,000. The patient paid the money and identified the doctor, who conducted the scan on her. A nurse and another person accompanying the doctor promptly fled from the spot on seeing the team. An attendant at the hospital also attempted to manhandle us. The machine was hidden by the doctor who himself ran away. Rs15,000 of the money charged from the patient was recovered from the spot, while Rs20,000 is yet to be recovered.Teams of the Health Department conducted a sting under the PCPNDT Act at the Soori Hospital in Balachaur, District SBS Nagar. Teams from Panchkula and Nawanshahr Health Departments conducted the sting in which sex determination test was being conducted. A decoy patient was sent for sex determination test, for which Rs35,000 was charged from her.During the raid, Rs15,000 (of the money charged from the patient) was recovered from the spot.Health teams said during the inspection Soori Hospital was found to be unregistered, the doctor conducting the scans could not produce a registration or valid degree and the ultrasound machine was also found to be unregistered.Officials who were part of the health team conducting the raid included Dr Vikas Gupta, Nodal Officer, PNDT Panchkula; Drug Control Officer Parveen Chaudhary; an ASI and constable from the Panchkula police among others.Dr Vikas Gupta, Nodal officer PNDT, Panchkula, said: “A deal had been struck with a decoy patient to conduct an ultrasound on the payment of Rs35,000. The patient paid the money and identified the doctor, who conducted the scan on her. A nurse and another person accompanying the doctor promptly fled from the spot on seeing the team. An attendant at the hospital also attempted to manhandle us. The machine was hidden by the doctor who himself ran away.”Dr Gupta said: “Rs15,000 of the money charged from the patient was recovered from the spot, while Rs20,000 is yet to be recovered. A handy 2 feet portable machine which is not allowed in the state was being used for the scans. Both machine and ultrasound centre itself are unregistered. The doctor also could not produce a valid degree. The machine and the DVR box of the hospital (which has the CCTV footage) has been given to the police. The quantum of the scans which were being conducted at the ultrasound centre will come to the fore after the contents are investigated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-doctor-booked-under-pndt-act-177300
29-11-2020||---||Encroachments removed from Ladowali Road||Jalandhar, November 28The tehbazari wing of the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation and the traffic police carried out anti-encroachment drive from BSF Chowk to Madan Flour Mill Chowk on Saturday.The drive started around 1 pm wherein all temporary encroachments done by shopkeepers on Ladowali road were lifted and items seized by the MC. The exercise was supervised by Mandeep Singh, superintendent from the tehbazari wing, and Deputy Superintendent of Police HS Bhalla.As the drive started, teams faced some opposition from shopkeepers at Preet Nagar market, but they did not gave up and continued the drive after getting support from Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri, who along with Jalandhar North MLA had called for clearing of roads of unnecessary encroachments and had sought the support of the MC and the Police Commissionerate.A meeting in this regard was held at the Police Lines on Thursday and the Mayor had sought adequate force for the entire operation.Even the Punjab and Haryana High Court had been issuing orders to the Jalandhar MC to remove the encroachments from main roads with regards to several ongoing petitions filed by the residents.Ahead of today’s drive, several shopkeepers on Ladowali road who had encroached upon the passage with spare parts, lifted all the items in time, thus making the road look much wider.The teams announced that all pending encroachments be cleared by Tuesday or else action would follow by registration of FIRs. The tehbazari wing also announced that no Sunday Market will be held around Jyoti Chowk from now onwards and the traffic police would ensure proper barricading.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/encroachments-removed-from-ladowali-road-177301
29-11-2020||---||Adampur-Mumbai flight leaves without passengers||Jalandhar, November 28The first domestic flight connecting Mumbai and the Doaba region took off from Adampur airport on Saturday, but sans passengers.The Adampur-Mumbai flight was supposed to take off from Adampur airport on November 25 but could not.The flight, however, came on Friday, but could not return due to some technical fault and it left the Adampur airport on Saturday without any passenger.As per sources, the 72-seater flight arrived here with 10 passengers and 41 passengers were scheduled to board the flight to Mumbai from Adampur on Friday. Owing to minimal bookings, there was no certainty over the active resumption of Mumbai-Adampur flight for the time being.After Amritsar, Adampur was considered the second option for air travel to Mumbai and the announcement regarding the same was made on November 14. The flight was scheduled to take around three hours to reach its destination. The airfare for an economy class is Rs4,197, which is dependent on route, booking time and availability.Similarly, the Delhi-bound flight also left on Saturday after remaining cancelled on Friday. The airfare of the flight has presently been increased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adampur-mumbai-flight-leaves-without-passengers-177305
29-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||Ex-Indian hockey player sticking until the end of time!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 28Former India hockey player Daljit Singh Dhillon, now a 44-year-old, is still in association with the sport. At present, he is providing training to young girls from humble background in Tarn Taran.“When I was posted in Tarn Taran as DSP in 2011, I saw a few girls playing at a government school ground; without proper gears and a turf. I was impressed by their game and asked them if they would like proper training. They agreed but mentioned about their inability to pay the fee and kits,” he says.Daljit Singh Dhillon, Former India hockey playerWhen I was posted in Tarn Taran as DSP in 2011, I saw a few girls playing at a government school ground without proper gears and a turf. I was impressed by their game and asked them if they would like proper training. They agreed but mentioned about their inability to pay the fee. Determined, I took to the task. With the help from my NRI friends, I got funds for their diet and kits and renovated the ground. Sharanjit Singh, also an India player, assisted me and became a coach to the girls. We named the training centre as Shri Guru Arjan Dev Academy.Determined and moved, he took to the task. With the help from his NRI friends, he got funds for their diet and kits and renovated the ground. Sharanjit Singh, also an India player, assisted him and became a coach to the girls. “We named the training centre as Shri Guru Arjan Dev Academy,” the cop adds.Within months the efforts put in started paying dividends. For five years his wards were part of every junior or senior state and national teams. Rajwinder Kaur, one of them, has also got selected for next Olympics camp.He couldn’t have been happier. But then, things took a wicked turn when he got posted at Kapurthala in 2015, and subsequently at Sangrur and later in Ferozepur — due to political pressure. “I used to visit girls every month to keep a check on their training. However, owing to a case, everything ended and I got dismissed from my services in 2018. I couldn’t focus on the practice of the girls”, tells Daljit. For more than a year he was summoned for court hearing to settle the case he was embroiled in.Braving the odds and hard times, he resumed training earlier this year and during the lockdown got connected with them virtually. While the whole hockey fraternity was jolted after his name surfaced in the case, Daljit says he isn’t giving up that easy and would start his academy again after his acquittal.Remembering the pastDaljit, who along with his brother Baljit Singh Dhillon, was popularly known as ‘Dhillon Brothers’ during the golden days of the Indian hockey. He was nine, when he first held a hockey stick. Having seen his elder brother playing hockey and making family proud, it was a thrilling moment for young Daljit, who would later take up the sport. Within a few years he was skilled enough to be selected — initially for the state and then national team. A resident of Jaswant Nagar, near Jalandhar, he would spend hours mastering the game.He has played nearly 100 international matches, his first one being the Commonwealth Games at Kuala Lumpur in 1998. In 2002 World Cup, Daljit scored four goals and is also a recipient of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Award, 2001.However, despite his excellent game and abundance of experience in the international circuit, he took an early retirement in 2007 due to personal issues and continued to serve the Punjab Police that he joined in 1994 as a constable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ex-indian-hockey-player-sticking-until-the-end-of-time-177303
