30-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Was busy maintaining my physique during lockdown, says Khali||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 29Jalandhar had been his training ground and launching pad for WWE wrestling. Having returned from the US about six years ago, the city is now a home and workplace both for The Great Khali aka Dalip Singh Rana.He runs his Continental Wrestling Entertainment Academy at Kangniwal village here since January 2015 that has over 400 trainees from across the country.“Thankfully, I was in Jalandhar with my wife Harminder Kaur and my daughter Avleen, when the lockdown was announced. In all these days, I could do nothing except maintaining my physique. I am following a long and rigorous schedule of exercise in the gym at my place. Nearly five-six family members, including my nephews, stay with me and we all have a great time,” says the ace wrestler, who turned 48 this Thursday.The seven feet one inch tall wrestler said: “The lockdown has slowed down everything for me. My trainees, who are from Mumbai, Madhya Pradesh, Chhatisgarh, UP and Haryana, had all gone back to their places. But now, the boys have started returning. I have 12-13 boys, who have resumed their training with me. My main trainers, who were from the US, have not been able to return. So far, I have been managing the academy with my local trainers and I, too, have been spending a lot of time with them. The boys organised my birthday celebration as well in the academy two days ago.”Having entered the wrestling career at the age of 26, he said: “I start taking boys of age 12 onwards. It is easier to train them as they are quick learners. They get lodging, diet and even attend school, college classes to continue with their education from here.”Now a millionaire, Khali makes a point sharing this as he had to drop from school in his early childhood for not having been able to pay Rs2.50 as fee. In his childhood, he even had to indulge in labour by crushing stones and doing gardening to support his family.A native of Himachal Pradesh, Khali, who got his name after the Goddess Kali, whom he worshipped, says some girls were also training under him, but had not yet returned because of the prevailing conditions. Asked if he intended to train his daughter as well, he replied: “She is too small as of now. No one from my family, including my nephews, has yet turned to join the game.”Asked if the former WWE wrestler, who had beaten the likes of internationally known WWE names like ‘The Undertaker’, Kane, Big Show, John Cena and Shawn Michaels, was playing tournaments and maintaining his diet even today, he shared: “I do participate in tournaments in between, but not the way I used to do earlier. I do go to WWE sometimes. I am trying to maintain the same diet, but may be it is not as rich now.”Khali is learnt to be concentrating on setting up a network of new academies in neighbouring states of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, too, as it is his birth place, for which he has now started travelling off and on. Khali recalls the days when he was picked by the Punjab Police for training him in sports after spotting him as a tall guy deployed as a security guard in Himachal. He was inducted in the Punjab Police in 1993, remained posted in the Punjab Armed Police headquarters in Jalandhar and last served as the ASI.“I left the job long ago,” he quips, but will continue to stay put here....Daughter too small to be trained in wrestling||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/was-busy-maintaining-my-physique-during-lockdown-says-khali-133641
30-08-2020||---||Civil Hospital gets 2 more oxygen machines||Jalandhar, August 29To further bring down the case fatality rate by augmenting critical healthcare facility in Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Civil Hospital, the district administration has installed two more new High Flow Nasal Oxygen (HFNO) machines in its Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for ensuring speedy recovery of Covid patients with severe respiratory illness.Now, the ICU has four HFNO machines, which will be immensely beneficial for persons having severe problems because of the coronavirus.The machines will be utilised to treat serious patients. An amount of Rs1.6 lakh is approximately the cost of one HFNO machine.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said level-III patients with respiratory issues need an additional level of oxygen and HFNO machine was the best suitable solution, which carries a large amount of oxygen. He said patients with severe problems were responding well to these machines besides having improvement in their health.He said one HFNO machine supplies 60-litre oxygen per minute to patients and is easy to use rather than ventilators, which need an expert of required manpower to operate it.Thori said HFNO provides warm and humidified oxygen to the body, which helps in maintaining the body’s temperature and cleaning the mechanism of the respiratory system. Hence, patients feel comfortable.He said Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Civil hospital has 56 beds in the ICU for the treatment of level-III category patients. Apart from HFNO machines, multipara monitor, pulse oximeters, infusion pumps, suction machines and others are also being purchased for the Civil Hospital to ensure the best possible care for serious patients.He said the priority was to take care of the old and vulnerable population with co-morbidities that were at the high risk of developing severe illness and appealed to people to not take the flu-like symptoms lightly and contact the doctors soon. He said people should not get panicky, as more cases were reported in the city due to aggressive testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/civil-hospital-gets-2-more-oxygen-machines-133642
30-08-2020|| ---||Istri Jagriti Manch activists protest outside DC office||Jalandhar, August 29  Around 70 to 80 activists of the Istri Jagriti Manch protested outside the DC office in Jalandhar against the lack of employment and penury among women during the lockdown. Demanding provision of employment opportunities, especially underprivileged women, they also demanded justice to women who have suffered various crimes amid the curbs.  Various demands were raised, including women be given financial help of Rs10,000 per month, supply of ration to women be ensured every month and migrant women not be discriminated and light and water be made available to migrant colonies. Free healthcare be made available for infected patients, health and financial benefits be ensured to pregnant women and work and minimum wages under MGNREGA scheme be ensured without political bias for all. As they raised slogans, other demands were also thrusted forth, including justice be provided to women who have been victims of murders rapes and domestic violence during the Covid.  Demands raised by health, sanitation and mid day meal workers be addressed. Sanitation workers be made permanent employees instead of contractual. Privatisation of health and education facilities be stopped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/istri-jagriti-manch-activists-protest-outside-dc-office-133644
30-08-2020|| ---||...CM silent on PMS scam, alleges BJP||Jalandhar, August 29  Activists of the BJP on Friday held a protest against the post-matric scholarship scheme (PMS) scam demanding dismissal of Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. The protesters burnt an effigy  of the minister and demanded a CBI probe into the Rs63.91 crore scam.  Held under BJP district urban president Ashwini Sharma, the protest was led by BJP SC Morcha president Bhupinder Kumar. Morcha leaders said the Congress government, which claims to stand for Dalits, was usurping funds from schemes meant for the betterment of Dalits.  They said CM Capt Amarinder Singh had also been silent on the issue. The protesters said if the CM did not dismiss the minister, then in the coming days Dalits would intensify their agitation and block rail and road traffic in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-silent-on-pms-scam-alleges-bjp-133645
30-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||World in words: Army veteran pens  book on his travel experience||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 29Utilising the self-isolation period effectively, a city-based Indian Army veteran released his seventh book, ‘Mirage-A Nomads Travelogue’. Retired Colonel Kuldeep Singh Dosanjh launched his book in the presence of other army veterans.In the 90 pages book, he has shared all adventures he lived and experienced during his entire service. Giving a sneak-peak of his travelling experience, he has mentioned how he enjoyed the thrills of several sports activities such as paragliding and boat riding.Dosanjh says, the book highlights the quest to know what lies on the other side of the globe. To begin with, he has explained how humans used to travel in the early ages in search of food, water and a better life. Counting himself among the solo travellers, he mentioned that many solo travellers have traversed the world by choosing their own mode of conveyance.Elaborating his travel diaries, he said, his memorable route includes India – USA – Canada – England- European countries – China – Australia - New Zealand and back to India. Combining travelling with adventures, he wrote in his book, how he enjoyed balloon gliding and Orlando, paragliding at Bir Billing (HP), para-sailing at Goa, surfing on sea waves in Sydney, car driving to Leh via Rohtang pass, double hump camel and motorbike ride in Nubra Valley and river rafting in Indus River at the age of 74. He marvels at natural beauty of snowy mountain peaks, blue and turbulent oceans, shining valleys, green pastures full of grazing animals and flow of mighty and clean rivers.Dosanjh said, for living a happy and calm life, one should always. He says, on completion of a journey, one forgets the difficulties faced and remembers the new experiences.“An urge to explore more has not died yet provided my health remains fine. It’s still a dream to experience Peru the land of aliens, travel from Moscow to Beijing on train, have the car driven from Jalandhar to Scotland, a trip to Antarctica, spend a fortnight in South Africa and scale the one beyond my reach-Kilimanjaro,” adds Dosanjh.Having a flair for writing, he has also written three Punjabi books. To help students crack the Indian Army entrance interview, he penned a book on the Service Selection Board. After retirement, he also served as principals of Army Public School, Kapurthala and Amritsar.He said, “Worrying and doing nothing in this tough phase will not help us in any way. Instead, we should focus on making the best out it.”Served as principal of army public schoolsHaving a flair for writing, Dosanjh has also written three Punjabi books. To help students crack the Indian Army entrance interview, he penned a book on the Service Selection Board. After retirement, he also served as principals of Army Public School, Kapurthala and Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-in-words-army-veteran-pens-book-on-his-travel-experience-133646
30-08-2020|| ---||Scholarship scam: LIP seeks CBI probe, dismissal of Dharamsot||Jalandhar, August 29  A day after staging a protest in the Well of the House in the state Assembly demanding CBI probe into the Rs 63 crore post-matric scholarship scam (PMS), Lok Insaaf party leader Simarjit Singh Bains reiterated the demand in Jalandhar today while holding a press conference at a local school.  Bains threatened that LIP MLAs and leaders shall submit memorandums to all DCs demanding dismissal of Cabinet Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment and Minorities Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and a CBI probe into the issue.  Bains said if the state government still refused to relent, then LIP shall hold a protest outside the residence of CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s residence at Patiala and will also bring along poor Dalit beneficiaries of the scheme. – whose fathers are to highlight the plight of the students. Notably, the declaration by Bains came a day after the local BJP unit also staged a protest against the minister and two days after former cabinet minister and BJP leader Vijay Sampla also demanded a probe on the issue.  Bains said, “Amidst the declining number of students getting admissions under the post matric scholarship scheme in the state, this scam has surfaced which is a testimony to how the Congress is playing with the lives and futures of Dalit students.” He added, “The minister has been transferring funds to 10 institutions without any standing. Over Rs 16 crore was routed by institutions which already over owed Rs 8 crore. But rather than recovering the money the minister handed them more.” Bains further added, the number of Dalit students taking admissions under the scheme is also steadily decreasing.  He said, “In the year 2017-18 SC students who took admission under post matric scholarship were 2,88,000, in year 2018-19 the number reduced to 2,30,000 students, in 2019-20 the number further deceased to 1,90,000. Rather than benefitting them, the minister is clearly favouring certain institutions at the cost of those other educational establishments who are suffering from the issue of financial crunch.”  Bains demanded that a CBI probe be ordered in the issue and the minister dismissed immediately by the state government. He says the LIP shall observe protests on September 1 and September 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/scholarship-scam-lip-seeks-cbi-probe-dismissal-of-dharamsot-133647
30-08-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||NRI took it upon himself to provide pucca houses to poor back home||Hoshiarpur August 28A few years ago, Virinder Parihar, an NRI who had been staying in the US for more than 25 years, returned to his homeland to look after his ancestral property – 60 acres of farmland – and a desire to serve the needy.It all started in 2018 when he came across a family living in a shanty in Ajjowal village. The couple had four children and their elderly parents living with them. Seeing the woeful dwelling conditions stirred him and the idea of providing them with a pucca house was the by-product of what he felt that day. As a result, Parihar took up the project and had gotten the construction underway. Nothing less than a dream project for him, which he completed with the finances from his own pocket. “It was Diwali when the construction was finally completed and I handed over the house to the family as a Diwali gift. I can’t explain the overwhelming feeling when I saw the tears in their eyes and their smiling faces. It soothed my heart to no end,” says Parihar.Soon, the word spread about his virtuous acts. After a few days, while he was lazing at his home, a woman came around with her kids and narrated her tale of woes. She was living in a pitiful shack along with her husband, who was bedridden, and they had five children. She solicited him for a pucca house. “I inquired about the family and found that the shanty in which they were dwelling was also falling to pieces. Again I took the initiative and in two months the house was handed over to them”, he recalls. While the construction of the said house was in process, another similar request had knocked on his doors and he unhesitatingly complied with.Now, the 60-year-old is completely a humanitarian involved in the service of the society by way of providing pucca houses to the homeless. “After these three houses were handed over to these three families, I came across many requests seeking help and I took the challenge. With the help of my friends and relatives I kept going on,” he shares. This was how the dream to provide a house to a needy family turned into project 'Home for Homeless’ -- which has by now provided 26 houses to the needy families and the work is on for 27th and 28th house.Under the project a complete house unit comprising of a living hall, a kitchen, toilet-cum-bathroom and a courtyard with interlock tiles is provided to the beneficiaries. Parihar says this is what he aspires to do for the rest of his life. “I am committed to continue with it till my last breath and have a target of providing not less than 250 houses to the homeless in Hoshiarpur. I feel that there’s no service greater than providing a roof over head to those who don’t even dare to dream of it”, a resolute Parihar says.BOX: You always attract your likesAs Parihar shared the stories of the families helped and thanked the friends involved in the project on his social media account, the tales had turned some heads around which in turn resulted in pitching in of other helping hands. Reading about it, an NRI Manjit Singh of Salt Lake city, US, contacted him and asked for the details of the work he was doing and extended support in building of seven such houses. Then, another NRI Surinder kaur Puar from New Jersey came forward to help raise three more houses. Also, a retired IRS officer from Chandigarh, Jasjit Singh Ahluwalia, provided funds to spur ‘Project Home for the Homeless’ to raise two houses. “Several people came to help and kept contributing for the project with most of them not willing to disclose their name and the project has turned out to be the mission of my life. 26 houses are complete with a expenditure of around 45 lakh. The construction of two houses is on and five more await”, he revealed.You always attract your likesAs Parihar shared the stories of the families helped and thanked the friends involved in the project on his social media account, the tales had turned some heads around which in turn resulted in pitching in of other helping hands. Reading about it, an NRI Manjit Singh of Salt Lake city, US, contacted him and asked for the details of the work he was doing and extended support in building seven such houses. Then, another NRI Surinder Kaur Puar from New Jersey came forward to help raise three more houses. Also, a retired IRS officer from Chandigarh, Jasjit Singh Ahluwalia, provided funds to spur ‘Project Home for the Homeless’ to raise two houses. “Several people came to help and kept contributing for the project with most of them not willing to disclose their name and the project has turned out to be the mission of my life. 26 houses are complete with a expenditure of around 45 lakh. The construction of two houses is on and five more await", he revealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nri-took-it-upon-himself-to-provide-pucca-houses-to-poor-back-home-133653
30-08-2020||IT was in in 2009||Fighting virus not new to this doctor||Speaking to The Tribune, Dr TP Singh said, "In 2009, 12 students returned from NASA, of whom eight had the H1N1 infection. We were scared at that time too but things were different then. Many of our frontline workers were also symptomatic. But swine flu had a cure and though we weren't tested, we had medication. But now the scenario is totally different. There is no cure yet. There weren't many cases then. At that time there, also wasn't such chaos or mad rush. Now there is an army of media houses and portals."He worked as an Epidemiologist from 2007 to 2011 in Jalandhar. Working for the Health Department for the past 33 years, he termed the current situation as an unprecedented crisis. A busy man at office, he is also a devoted husband who tends to his paraplegic wife.Life changed dramatically in 2007 when he and his wife both suffered a car accident. While he had a fracture in his spinal cord his wife suffered a major spinal injury which left her paralysed.During his 17-day isolation period, he spent time with his sons and wife, he also got emotional support of his friends."Though I have seen people facing stigma, I have been very lucky. I was flooded with calls from my well wishers in India and abroad. Many of them offered help. Friends and relatives provided groceries and also served breakfast to us. Friends, mediapersons and police officials called and asked if I needed something. I alerted my contacts immediately after testing positive. I have strictly asked my sons not to step out." (As told to Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fighting-virus-not-new-to-this-doctor-133655
30-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Now, Covid Monitors to check compliance of guidelines||Hoshiarpur, August 29Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 29To ensure strict adherence of health safety protocols amid the Covid-19 pandemic in all business establishments, industrialist units or other places, where more than 20 people gather daily, the district administration has asked them to appoint a ‘Covid Monitor’ on their premises to keep a constant check on safety practices in larger public interest.Reviewing the current situation and Covid preparedness with officials from civil and health departments, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said in the absence of any vaccine to keep the virus at bay, social distancing and proper wearing of masks are crucial factors to control the contagion. “The Covid Monitor on the said premises will ensure the implementation of all requisite and mandatory health safety protocols by the staff/employees/workers without any fail. He said the Covid Monitors would ensure strict adherence of all guidelines, including two-yard physical distancing, masking and washing hand frequently or use of contactless hand sanitisers etc. He said Covid monitors will have to remain vigilant to inform the authorities or high-ups whenever they spot Covid symptoms in any worker or employee,” he said.He said these monitors could help the administration in keeping the infection under check by ensuring early detection and early treatment. The DC asked the officials to ensure all such establishments appoint Covid monitors at the earliest.He said 75 new contact tracing teams have been set up to ensure vigorous tracing of at least 10 contacts of each Covid positive case as soon as possible to control the virus.Thori said to break the transmission chain, the testing of contacts of a positive case was being ensured at the earliest. He said the healthcare infrastructure was being ramped up continuously in the district besides the availability of beds for the level-II and level-III patients was being ensured.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh, who also joined the video-conferencing from their offices, said the Police Department, had already intensified drive against those defying Covid protocols to stem the spread of Covid-19.ADC Vishesh Sarangal, MC Joint Commissioners Harcharan Singh and Inaayat, PUDA EO Navneet Kaur Bal among others were also present. Meanwhile, Hoshiarpur District Magistrate Apneet Riyait also issued orders for all government and private establishments having more than 20 persons working therein to appoint ‘Covid Monitors’ on their respective premises to strictly follow Covid-19 safety protocols without any fail.With 166 new cases, tally reaches 6,239 With 166 positive cases, the Jalandhar district tally reached 6,239 on Saturday. Not only this, three more deaths were also reported, taking the death toll to 155. So far, 4,065 patients have been discharged in the district. In Kapurthala, 38 people tested positive on Saturday and two died. The deceased include a 63-year-old man from Begowal with history of diabetes and haemodylasis, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, and a 58-year-old man of Aman Nagar Kapurthala, who died at Government Medical College, Patiala. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-covid-monitors-to-check-compliance-of-guidelines-133656
30-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||GOC Vajra Corps inspects work at ECHS polyclinic, ESM canteen||Our CorrespondentLieutenent General Sanjeev Sharma, GOC Vajra Corps visited the ECHS Polyclinic and ESM canteen at Hoshiarpur and inspected the work of the ECHS polyclinic and the ESM canteen. Defence spokesperson said he reviewed the measures to include smooth referral procedure, procurement and availability of medicine, provision of medical equipment and staff at ECHS Polyclinic has been under taken by Vajra Corps in recent times for the welfare of the Ex-servicemen of Punjab Region. The Corps Commander interacted with the Ex-servicemen and took their suggestions for improvement of facilities. He has also visited ECHS Polyclinic and ESM Canteen Gurdaspur and Ludhiana military stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/goc-vajra-corps-inspects-work-at-echs-polyclinic-esm-canteen-133659
30-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||Snatching: Five persons arrested||Attempt to break open HDFC ATMHoshiarpur: Thieves made an unsuccessful attempt to break open an automated teller machine(ATM) of HDFC Bank in Rajpur Bhaiyan village on Saturday. Branch manager Davinder Kumar told the police that at 8 am he got information that an attempt was made to break open the ATM machine. He reached there and found that the shutter of the ATM booth was half-open and someone had tried to break open the machine. On receiving information of the incident, Balwinder Singh Bhullar, SHO in-charge of the Mehtaiana police station reached the spot along with police party. The police are investigating the case, he said. OCNominate Young Teacher till Aug 31Jalandhar: The date for the nomination of teachers for the ‘Young Teachers Award’ launched by the Education Department Punjab has been extended till August 31. The nominations can be done till 9 am. Spokesperson of the department said in view of the short time allotted to the department for the encouragement and award of young teachers, suggestions were being received to extend the time for the nominations for the ‘Young Teacher Award’. Hence, the date has been extended. The date of first nomination for this award, which was started for the first time, was fixed from August 26 to 28. TNSDC pays surprise visit to hospitalNawanshahr: Deputy Commissioner Shena Agarwal on Friday paid a surprised visit to 'I-TREC' project (a platform for integrated tracking, referral, electronic decision support and care coordination) at CHC Mukandpur. She enquired about the online entry of villagers on Asha app who commonly suffer from high blood pressure, diabetes and cardio-vascular diseases.She said the findings under the project had the potential to revolutionise care for deadly chronic diseases across all 75 villages in the district. Asha workers gave the detailed working of the app and further ANMs, staff nurses and medical officers informed the DC about the syncing and execution process of the app and delivery of the free medicines to patients. District Family Welfare Officer Dr Sukhwinder Singh Heera, Dr Naranjan Pal, Dr Navaldeep, Block Extension Educator Harpreet Singh, staff nurse Mandeep, ANM Amarjit Kaur, Pooja and Asha workers Jaswinder, Sonia, Manjeet and Jaskarn were also present on the occasion. OC. TNS52 KCL students get job offersJalandhar: Jalandhar: As many as 52 students of KCL Institute of Management and Technology received job offers during the recently held online placement drive.The students from the department of management and the IT were selected by Byjus, Jaro Education, Axis Bank, Zapbuild Technologies Pvt. Ltd and Netsmartz Chandigarh at a package of up to Rs10 lakh. The selected students were Harjinder Kaur, Manmeet Singh, Inderdeep, Manjeet, Ravi Kumar, Rahul, Saloni, Navdeep, Kajal, Mahesh Giri, Reetu Thakur, Diwaker Singh Thakur, Raman Kumar, Ravina and Pooja among others.Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) congratulated the students and their parents. He stated that since its inception, the institute has focused on quality education, overall personality development and top class placements of students. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/snatching-five-persons-arrested-133661
30-08-2020||Jalandhar||Excise Dept officials destroy 8,000-kg lahan||A team of the Excise Department on Friday conducted raids in the Shahkot and Mehatpur areas and destroyed 8,000 kg of ‘lahan’.The team, led by Assistant Commissioner (Excise) Pawanjit Singh, arrested three persons, while five cases were registered by the Mehatpur and the Shahkot police. The operation started at 5 am. The team in Baupur village of Shahkot, along the Satluj , destroyed 1,600-kg ‘lahan’,while in Boote Dian Chhanna village of Mehatpur, 6,400-kg lahan was destroyed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/excise-dept-officials-destroy-8-000-kg-lahan-133677
30-08-2020||---||Off pitch: National Sports Day celebrations take virtual leap||Jalandhar, August 29Owing to the prevailing pandemic conditions, all activities related to the National Sports Day in the city were held in an online mode on Saturday.Special Olympics BharatThe Special Olympics Bharat, a body of the Sports Authority of India, organised an event to mark the National Sports Day today via Zoom platform. The para-athletes from Punjab, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttrakhand, New Delhi, West Bengal, Meghalaya and Tripura participated in the event which was hosted from Jalandhar by Rekha Kashyap, the Punjab coordinator for Special Olympics Bharat.Kashyap said, “During the Covid days, when all para athletes are confined at home, it became important to keep them upbeat and hence she had already started a series of online programmes for them for which a special show was organised today on the occasion of the National Sports Day.Besides discussing sports, ways and means of practice at home and diet, we even chose to entertain them today. Punjab-based singer Kiranjeet Kaur of Indian Idol fame joined our programme entertaining them with her music.” She added that the next show will be on the Teachers’ Day after which the Season 1 of Zoom telecast would end and would recommence from October 2.Lyallpur Khalsa CollegeNational Sports Day dedicated to the memory of legendary Hockey player Major Dhyan Chand was celebrated today in Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar wherein the principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra paid homage to the master player. Elaborating the achievements of Major Dhyan Chand, Dr Samra lauded the college players for keeping up sporting spirit by continuing their practice in every possible way in the hard times of covid-19. He urged the students to take care of their health by following the government guidelines and advisories in context of Covid-19.The Head of the Sports Department of the College Dr Tarsem Singh and College Dean Sports Dr SS Bains gave the information that the college provided a number of facilities to its players students in addition to appropriate concessions, and as the admission was going on, students could take benefit of these facilities. The occasion was witnessed by the presence of the staff of the Sports Department.HMV CollegeThe Sports Department of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya celebrated National Sports Day through online platform. The chief guest of the occasion was Dr. Kanwar Mandeep Singh (Jimmy), Assistant Director (Sports) Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. Moderator Dr. Anjana Bhatia and Coordinator and HOD Sports Department Sukhwinder Kaur welcomed him.A video of sports women of the college was played in which all the games being played in HMV were depicted. Dr Kanwar Mandeep Singh motivated the players and said that every person should play one game or the other in order to remain fit and healthy. He said that during this pandemic time, playing games is more important.KMV CollegeKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a national webinar to commemorate the National Sports Day. The webinar was organised by the Department of Physical Education of KMV. More than 500 participants participated in this webinar with full zeal and enthusiasm. In her welcome address, Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the whole nation for the National Sports Day. She averred that sports is not related to the sportspersons only, but it should be the part of life of every citizen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/off-pitch-national-sports-day-celebrations-take-virtual-leap-133679
