30-05-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar reports three more COVID-19 cases||Jalandhar reported three more COVID-19 cases on Saturday evening, officials said---developments that would take the district’s coronavirus infection count to 250.A 36-year-old woman and a 15-year old boy from Dalla village and a 24-year-old from Boparai village all tested positive.The first two cases are contacts of an already diagnosed case---a person from the same person had tested positive a few days ago---but the third is a new case.Saturday’s COVID-19 cases, however, have not been added to the state’s official tally, but when they are, the district’s count will stand at 244.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-reports-three-more-covid-19-cases-92113
30-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Leather units likely to open in two months in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 29Even as most manufacturers have opened up after two months of lockdown, there is one sector which is yet to start operations — tanneries.Ever since the Punjab and Haryana High Court ordered shutdown of tanneries on October 29, all 61 units based at Leather Complex on Kapurthala Road are lying closed. But now, these units are seeing a glimmer of hope.Parveen Kumar, president, Punjab Leather Federation (PLF), is quite optimistic.“The construction of a new dilution/polishing tank at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore has been started by the government which will be over by July 10. The court had issued directions to set up the tank in the last hearing as it can help reduce the total dissolved solid (TDS) and come to a level as stipulated by the PPCB norms. Once the tank is constructed and the TDS value of discharged water falls in permissible levels, the court might allow us to resume operations by the next hearing that falls on July 16, “ he said.He said: “The water that falls into the Kala Sanghian drain where TDS is checked includes both industrial effluent as well as sewage discharge of the area. The TDS of effluent from the tanneries was last found to be between 12,000 to 13,000 PPM while the TDS of the sullage flowing from the sewage treatment plant at the adjoining Basti Peer Daad was found to be 500-600 PPM. We have a 3MLD discharge while that of the STP is 20 MLD. As per the norms of the PPCB, the TDS of the effluent discharged from both sources should not be over 2,100 PPM, which will be achievable when the dilution tank starts working.”The PLF president said: “This was the only parameter on which we were lacking. We had told the court that our industry is exempted from issues concerning TDS values since we had our CETP installed. But the court wanted us to find a solution to the problem which has finally happened.”Asked how tannery owners were managing with their operations shut for so long, he said: “We are get the leather processed from other centres in the country, including UP and Kolkata. The cost goes higher but we have to continue on and somehow meet demands of our buyers. Afterall, we too need to make some income and take care of our families.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/leather-units-likely-to-open-in-two-months-in-jalandhar-91746
30-05-2020||---||4 held with poppy husk, opium||Jalandhar, May 29The police today arrested four drug peddlers and seized 120 kg of poppy husk and 2 kg of opium from their possession in separate incidents.The suspects have been identified as Amarjeet Singh (51) of Baba Bakala, Gurpreet Singh (35) of Bhalojla village in Tarn Taran district, Ashwani Kumar of Patoia village and Ashwani Kumar of Sahora village in Pathankot district.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a team of the CIA staff-1 laid a naka in Samrai village near the Jandiala road and it stopped a truck (bearing registration No. PB08 DE 5377) loaded with onions for checking.He said during questioning, a search was carried out on suspicion.Bhullar said the police found a special extension chamber attached with the truck’s diesel tank and when opened, they found 120 kg of poppy husk and one kg of opium from it.The Commissioner of Police said the CIA team arrested truck driver Amarjeet Singh and his associate Gurpreet Singh and a case under Sections 15,18, 61 and 85 of NDPS Act had been registered against them at the Sadar police station.Bhullar said in another case, a joint team of the CIA staff-1 and SOU conducted a special checking outside the Indian Oil Corporation and stopped a truck (bearing registration No. PB-06-AK-8135) loaded with coconuts and seized one kg of opium from a special cabin in the truck and arrested Ashwani Kumar of Patoia and Ashwani Kumar of Sahora. A case under Sections 15, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against them at the Rama Mandi police station, he said.In preliminary interrogation, Amarjeet said they had brought poppy husk and opium from Rajasthan and was in the drug business for the past two-and-a-half years, Bhullar said, adding that Ashwani had brought the opium from Madhya Pradesh. Bhullar said the suspects would be produced in the local court for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-held-with-poppy-husk-opium-91747
30-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Of 1.5 lakh migrant workers, over 95K sent by 76 Shramik trains||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 29Of the 1.5 lakh migrant workers who had registered for traveling to their native places in Jalandhar, over 95,000 returned to their home by Shramik trains.Underbridges in the city, where most of the migrant workers willing to go to their native places had gathered a few days ago, have now wore a deserted look. Since the beginning of May, 76 Shramik trains have left from the city to UP and Bihar. The government has spent Rs5.47 crore on the trains.As most of the labourers have left the district, it has come as huge relief for both labourers and the administration. With the labourers camping under bridges and bypasses, the scorching heat might have posed a challenge to the administration. Now, any labourer wishes to leave the state will be sent by bus to Ludhiana from he or she will board the Shramik train.With migrants from Bihar outnumbering those from UP, a majority of the trains left for places like Gaya, Madhubani, Purnia, Siwan, Gorakhpur, Balliya, Buxar and Varanasi. On May 25, the last train chugged off the district.Labourers from Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Batala, Faridkot, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, including those who walked to Jalandhar to board these trains, were sent in large numbers to their native places.Administration officials said now, they are not getting any request from stranded labourers for moving out of the state. However, arrangements have been made if anyone willing to go back.Jalandhar ADC (G) Jasbir Singh said, “We have sent over 90,000 labourers from the district. While 1.5 lakh had registered with us, many decided to stay back and went to work after factories were reopened. It was our utmost effort to accommodate all those who were in emergency and needed to go back to their families. Proper arrangements for food and water were made on trains. Buses have been arranged to ferry labourers to Ludhiana if anyone still wants to go.”Huge relief for admn, migrantsAs most of migrant labourers have left the district, it has come as a huge relief for both labourers and the district administration. With the workers camping under bridges and bypasses, the scorching heat might have posed a challenge to the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/of-1-5-lakh-migrant-workers-over-95k-sent-by-76-shramik-trains-91748
30-05-2020||---||Centre delaying funds, says MLA Sushil Rinku||Jalandhar, May 29Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku on Thursday said the career of lakhs of students, who are eligible under the post-matric scholarship scheme, have been jeopardised due to the dilly-dallying tactics of the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in releasing funds of more than Rs1,850 crore to the Punjab Government.In a press statement, the MLA said as per the instructions of Guru Nanak Dev University, degrees and details mark certificates will not be issued to the students eligible under the scheme if they have not paid the outstanding dues. He said other aided and unaided colleges have also adopted the similar approach.He said it will be impossible for students belonging to the underprivileged class to seek admission to the next class or apply for jobs who have already completed their studies.He appealed to all MPs across party lines to chalk out a concrete plan in the interest of students belonging to SC/ST category to pressurise the Centre to release the amount to the state government and students without any delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/centre-delaying-funds-says-mla-sushil-rinku-91749
30-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Hike in cases post-changes in SOPs, 14+ve in three days||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 29Earlier, hopes went up in the district after a bulk discharge of 79 patients. At one time, there was only 15 active Covid patients.However, the increase in cases is again giving rise to speculations whether the district might be witnessing a spike after changes in Standard operating procedures (SOPs).In the past three days, 14 persons have tested positive — six on Wednesday and eight today. In the past several days, six personnel associated with the Health Department alone, a majority from the Civil Hospital itself, have tested positive.While four workers (two nurses, two ward staff) had tested positive a few days ago, day before yesterday the vice-chairman of the Punjab Health System Corporation tested positive. Those testing positive today include a health worker and a husband of a staff of the Civil Hospital who had previously tested positive.While the health staff previously tested positive include those from the Civil Hospital’s flu corner and emergency ward, today a field health worker from Bhargo Camp has tested positive.While active patients have risen to 30 in a matter of days, the IMA centre at Shahkot also witnessed a steady rise with 11 being admitted there today.Meanwhile, testing, which was also done between 50 to 100 samples per day, has also witnessed a resultant increase, with 194 samples taken today itself.Responding to queries whether there was a spike in the district, Nodal officer Dr TP Singh said: “The sampling has gotten better and all those testing positive are only contact-based cases. Testing is increased as we are carrying out tests of entire pool of a patient’s contacts. The staff testing positive also include those who have tested positive due to contacts of patients, possibly. Given the scenario, additional cases are all due to contact tracing. These are not new cases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hike-in-cases-post-changes-in-sops-14ve-in-three-days-91750
30-05-2020||---||Create awareness on locust attack among farmers, Jalandhar DC tells officials||Jalandhar, May 29The Deputy Commissioner, Varinder Kumar Sharma, on Friday directed officials of various departments to remain alert to the movement of locusts and hold awareness camps in villages to sensitise farmers and panchayats to the menace.Presiding over a workshop at the District Administrative Complex to sensitise the officials to the threat, Sharma said locusts can cause a heavy damage to crops and the only way to protect to prevent the damage is to spray insecticides.The Deputy Commissioner also told officials of various departments, including the Horticulture, Rural Development and Panchayat, Local Bodies and Health Department, and the PSPCL and the Directorate General of Fire Services to create a WhatsApp group for constant sharing of the information on locust attack. He instructed them to use public address system to create awareness. The Deputy Commissioner said the state government has made arrangements of insecticides such as chlorpyrifos and lambda to spray on locusts when spotted.Chief Agriculture Officer Surinder Singh said the insects often fly in swarms and, in favourable circumstances, can travel up to 80 to 200 km in a day.Sanjiv Kataria from the Punjab Agricultural University told officials that life cycle of a locust that comprises eggs, nymphs and adult. He said while baby locusts can go upto 2 km in day, adult locusts can fly up to 80 to 130 km in day. They feed only on vegetation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/create-awareness-on-locust-attack-among-farmers-jalandhar-dc-tells-officials-91751
30-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Woman sarpanch consumes poison, dies; in-laws booked||Garhshankar, May 29The woman sarpanch of Maira village of Garhshankar subdivision, Sunita Devi, committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance. She died at a private hospital in Garhshankar on Thursday evening.On the statement of the victim, the Garhshankar police have registered a case against her father-in-law, brother-in-law and his wife, for abetment to suicide. The deceased female sarpanch’s father-in-law is a retired teacher, brother-in-law is the village Numberdar while his wife is former sarpanch of the village.According to information received, woman sarpanch of Maira village, Sunita Devi, wife of Kuldeep Kumar, had consumed poison on May 25.After which the family admitted her to a private hospital in Garhshankar for treatment where she died on Friday evening. After this, her father Harmesh Singh, a resident of Nainvan village, complained to police. He alleged that Sunita’s father-in-law Darshan Ram, brother-in-law Sandeep Kumar and his wife Ranjit Kaur had been harassing Sunita Devi because of some property dispute.He alleged that on May 25, the three had harassed Sunita Devi so much that Sunita swallowed some poisonous substance and died on Friday evening in hospital. The Garhshankar police have registered a case against the accused father-in-law Darshan Ram, brother-in-law Sandeep Kumar and his wife Ranjit Kaur under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC.Elderly dies of sunstrokeGarhshankar: The body of a 65-year-old man was found in the bushes on the banks of a canal in Fatehpur Khurd village of the Garhshankar subdivision on Friday afternoon. A person informed about the incident to the sarpanch of the village, Bhag Singh.The sarpanch informed the police and after getting the information, SHO Inspector Iqbal Singh and SI Chatwinder Singh, along with the police party, reached the spot. The body was placed in the mortuary of the local Civil Hospital.Later in the evening, the deceased was identified as Mahinder Singh, son of Sarwan Singh, a resident of Kajla village, under Sadar police station Banga, district Shahid Bhagat Singh Nagar.According to the police, the bicycle of the victim was parked near his body. The person seems to have stayed there to take rest and died of heat several hours ago.Based on the statement of the deceased’s wife Tarsem Kaur, the police have recorded the proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-sarpanch-consumes-poison-dies-in-laws-booked-91752
30-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||Results of video contest on Covid-19 out||Preet Kohli, Assistant Director of the Youth Services Department, declared results of an online video contest held in April and May in Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala districts.In Hoshiarpur, Etbar Singh of Government Senior Secondary School, Khudda, and Amanpreet Singh of Government Senior Secondary School, Ambala Jattan, bagged first and second place, respectively. Parmit Kaur of Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa Public School, Dasuya, and Rekha and Zia of Government Senior Secondary School Railway, Mandi, came third.In Kapurthala, Priya Kashyap of Hindu Kanya College, Kapurthala, came first while Lakhvir Singh from Bajewala village was second and Khushkaran Singh of DAV Collegiate School, Phagwara, was third. Kohli said certificates to the winners will be given when the schools reopen. – OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/results-of-video-contest-on-covid-19-out-91753
30-05-2020||---||Move to impose GST on education services flayed||Jalandhar, May 29The Punjab Students Union (PSU) has condemned the decision of Guru Nanak Dev University to impose GST on various educational services across several of its institutions. The PSU demanded immediate withdrawal of the decision.Issuing a press statement, district president Varjeet Kaur and committee member Alisha said the decision was a step towards privatisation of education.In 42 various services – which include issuance of duplicate registration certificate, change of name, migration fee, inter-college migration fee, duplicate degree fee, duplicate DMC fee, reevaluation fee, health investigation fee, etc GST is being levied by the university authorities.Students said the move was going to put pressure on students. Due to the lockdown for more than a month the routine activities of people have been affected, due to which may students already feel incapable of paying their fee. The new decision, will hence prove to be an additional burden on students who are already under pressure.Students said educational institutions were outside the ambit of the GST.THE ISSUE||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/move-to-impose-gst-on-education-services-flayed-91754
30-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Four village panchayats join Congress||Phagwara, May 29The Congress got a shot in the arm when four village panchayats, including village Chack Hakim panchayat, led by Kulwinder Singh, village Akalgarh panchayat, led by Gulzar Singh, village Jamalpur panchayat, led by Gurdip Bangar, village Kashi Nagar panchayat, led by Laddi —joined the Congress in the presence of Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, during a function held here on Friday.Addressing the gathering, Dhaliwal reiterated his commitment to work hard for the all-round development of the Phagwara Assembly constituency. Block Congress Committee (R) president Daljit Raju, Market Committee Chairman Naresh Bhardwaj and Former Block Congress Committee president Gurjit Singh Walia were among those others present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-village-panchayats-join-congress-91755
30-05-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Loans from banks will not help small industries in tough times’||THE unprecedented global health crisis has jeopardised the country's economy and has impacted every individual. Many industrial units are staring at a bleak future while hoping for a good economic package from the government for their survival in these critical times. Rajiv Sharma, owner of Ashoka Rolling Works, is no different. Established by his father in 1972, the firm is a small industrial unit of wire drawer. In an interview with PK Jaiswar, he talks about the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the business in the past two months. Excerpts…This is definitely a challenge for the small and medium scale industry. However, the government has asked banks to give loans generously, albeit after fulfilling all conditions. This is not going to help small industries. It appears that the Centre or the state governments are not pro-MSMEs.Rajiv Sharma, owner of Ashoka Rolling WorksHow has the lockdown impacted your business?No doubt, the lockdown has dented every single industry everywhere. My firm deals in iron wire drawer and raw material comes from outside Punjab while the finished product is also exported out of the state. As the entire country is under lockdown, we are facing problems in getting raw material and later, supplying the finished product. At present, we are operating with 50 per cent strength. It has become difficult for us to meet the expenses. We are like in a Catch-22 situation right now. We don't know how to survive in this period.Do you expect your business will resume with full capacity in the near future?Frankly speaking, we don't expect the situation to improve in the near future. It would take at least one year to get back on track, if we survive it. Labourers have returned to their native places after getting panicky in the current scenario when they had no cash.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?We have been paying our workers and also making all-out efforts to ensure that they get essential items, including dry ration. I still believe that no one will sleep hungry in the holy city. I always ask my workers to share their problems with me. But as I said earlier, survival is becoming harder and harder.Do you consider the current crisis a challenge or an opportunity?This is definitely a challenge for the small and medium-scale industry. However, thegovernment has asked banks to give loans generously, albeit after fulfilling all conditions. This is not going to help small industries. It appears that the Centre or the state government is not pro-MSMEs.What are your expectations from the government?A recession has been going to continue for a longer period. The government should waive or reduce the GST to half to a certain period to push the economy. It should also waive power bills further. The government should have financially helped the medium and small industry to stay alive. Though the government offered loans through banks, it is after all a loan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/loans-from-banks-will-not-help-small-industries-in-tough-times-91757
30-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||It’s wait and watch situation for sweet, ice-cream shop owners||Jalandhar, May 29Despite having put in place all safety precautions — from thermal screening to hand sanitisers at the entrance and fixing a transparent sheet at the cash counter to maintain social distancing with customers, the sales at the famous Super Cremica Sweets are yet to pick up.The sales of ice-creams and sweets have declined up to 70 to 80 per cent in the current season and with hotels and palaces remaining closed and weddings and other functions becoming a low-key affair, the losses are mounting with every passing day.Ashok Bhandari, Super Cremica SweetsBesides, a shortage of labour, managing fixed expenditures and above all, the fear of lockdown 5.0 with fewer relaxations in the wake of increasing Covid cases across the country, are other issues that have been giving sleepless nights to Ashok Bhandari, the owner of the shop based at Company Bagh Chowk here.Talking to The Tribune about how it feels to be back in business after over two months, he said the sales of ice-creams and sweets had declined up to 70 to 80 per cent in the current season and with hotels and palaces remaining closed and weddings and other functions becoming a low-key affair, the losses were mounting with every passing day.“The sudden announcement of the lockdown in March gave no time to shopkeepers to manage their stocks. I had material worth Rs 6 lakh, including sweets and ice-creams, in the refrigerator which required to be sold between 20 and 25 days of manufacturing. Although I managed to distribute half of the material among the needy, the remaining products were wasted,” said Bhandari.Bhandari said these days they had been preparing material in very less quantity fearing any such announcement in the future.He said the sweat and blood of three generations of his family was invested in this shop. “My father started this sweet shop business in 1970. After that I took the charge and now my son is too involved in it. But I had never witnessed such a slump before. The customer footfall has been reduced to 20 per cent, thus all we can do is wait for the situation to get better,” he added.On being asked about the new plans or strategies he had adopted to attract customers these days, Ashok said he was still analysing the situation.“I haven't yet opened my second outlet - the Cremica Restaurant. Although our services are available online, the production and sales equation is not working. Also due to the exodus of migrant workers to their native places, we have been facing staff crunch,” he said.He said it would take time for the business to regain its normal pace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/its-wait-and-watch-situation-for-sweet-ice-cream-shop-owners-91758
30-05-2020||Our Correspondent||2,040 bottles of English wine seized, three held||Tarn Taran, May 29In the drive against the smuggling of illegal wine, the district police seized 172 cases of English wine from two different places here on Thursday.The police said three persons were arrested with 170 cases (2,040 bottles) of English wine, meant to be sold in other neighbouring states, at Khara village here. The police said the wine was kept in a canter (MH-04, F-7148).Those arrested have been identified as Dilbag Singh, Sunil Kumar of Amritsar and Randhir Singh of Khawaspur (Tarn Taran). The accused had brought the wine from other states to be sold in the area at high rates.The police recovered two cases (24 bottles) of wine from the residence of Manjit Singh of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar. The police said the accused, who managed to flee the spot, was selling the wine from his home illegally.Cases under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act had been registered against the accused, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-040-bottles-of-english-wine-seized-three-held-91759
30-05-2020||Phagwara||Illicit liquor seized, 3 held||Two miscreants snatch pursePhagwara: Two unidentified miscreants snatched a purse containing money from a cyclist, identified as Sandip Kaur, a resident of Bhabhiana village, on Thursday evening. The victim was going to Rihana-Jattan village when the robbers struck near a petrol pump and committed the crime. The suspects managed to escape. The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illicit-liquor-seized-3-held-91760
30-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||‘Learning using technology will be need of the hour’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 29Amid the pandemic, the biggest challenge for schools is to make sure that the studies of students don't suffer. Dr SK Gautam, principal of Dayanand Model Senior Secondary School, has been in regular touch with parents amid the lockdown. The school has been conducting special sessions with parents of students in which the principal also addresses them. Besides, the school has been organising online classes since March 23.Initially when online classes started, teachers were hesitant in using technology. But, the time has proved that technology is going to stay and learning from home is going to be the need of the hour.Dr SK Gautam, principal, Dayanand Model Senior Secondary SchoolThe principal said, “For every class, teachers have been giving extra time. They have been making their own videos, audios and practice sheets for the students of every class. The teachers have been sharing the online study material with the students and parents are happy with the method.”When asked how the present scenario would change the education system, Dr Gautam said the post-Covid scenario will be more technology-oriented and it will create an altogether new paradigm of education. He added that learning alone from books will not be enough. Students will have to go on other platforms to get reliable content.“Initially when online classes started, the teachers were hesitant in using technology as they were not acquainted with it. But, the time has proved that technology is going to stay and learning from home is going to be the need of the hour. We will have to depend more on virtual classes and technology,” he added.On regular interactions with parents, he said, “I have been asking them to encourage positivity in their wards. This problem has also given them a unique opportunity wherein they can spend time with their children and teach them ethical and moral values. Usually, they don't get time to spend with them due to their busy schedule. Now, they must utilize the free time and stay safe at homes.”He also talked about the problems and concerns parents were sharing with him. “The students who are from far flung areas complain of poor Internet connectivity. Parents are also concerned that the excessive use of mobile will affect their eyesight. Technology should not be mishandled, especially in case of the teenagers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/learning-using-technology-will-be-need-of-the-hour-91761
