30-06-2020||---||Unable to go back to his village, migrant ends life in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 29Disappointed over not being able to go to his village in Bihar due to Covid-induced lockdown, a 17-year-old migrant boy hanged himself with a ceiling fan. The deceased was identified as Chandan Yadav, who had arrived here in the month of September, last year. A native of Goraiyan in Bihar, Chandan was residing here with his brother in Chotta Saipur area.His brother Ajay Yadav (19) said Chandan was upset after losing his job and was finding it difficult to look for another job. “My brother also had an affair with a girl of our village and knowing that she was getting married to another man, he desperately wanted to go back to Bihar,” added Ajay.Investigation Officer ASI, Nishan Singh said the suicide was reported on Sunday afternoon. He said the deceased killed himself when he was alone in his room and his brother had gone for work. After returning from work, Ajay found the door of his room locked from inside and loud music was heard. After receiving no response from inside, he broke open the door only to find his younger brother hanging with the ceiling fan. A case has been registered under Section 174 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unable-to-go-back-to-his-village-migrant-ends-life-in-jalandhar-106211
30-06-2020||Dasuya||Seven cows, 2 buffaloes found dead||As many as seven cows and two buffaloes were found dead, while two cows in poor health were rescued from a truck which reportedly bore a number plate of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday evening.An FIR was lodged against suspect Jogindar Pal Sharma, alias Kaku Ram Sharma, of Machine Domana, Jammu, under Sections 3 and 4 of the Cow Slaughter Act, Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty Against Animals Act and Section 429 of the IPC.The truck was stopped by Sunny Rajput, president of the Dasuya Youth Congress, with the help of 25-30 party workers. Sunny said he had received a tip-off that a J&K registered truck ferrying cows was coming from the Mand Pandher side.Following this, the truck was stopped near Dasuya Civil Hospital on the national highway and drove it to the police station and handed over the driver. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seven-cows-2-buffaloes-found-dead-106215
30-06-2020||---||PPCC president Jakhar, Congress workers protest rising fuel prices||Nawanshahr, June 29Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president and former MP Sunil Jakhar on Monday said the Central Government had proved that it was a government of moneylenders, for moneylenders and by moneylenders and it had completely forgotten the ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ slogan.Jakhar, along with MLAs Angad Singh and Darshan Lal Mangupur, Punjab Youth Congress president Barindar Singh Dhillon, District Planning Committee Chairman Satbir Singh Palli Jhikki, former MLA Tarlochan Singh Soondh and other leaders pulled the tractor with a rope from the ITI to the DC office to protest against the rising fuel prices.The PPCC chief said those who claimed to double the farmers’ income and implement the Swaminathan report had retracted from their earlier statement. Jakhar said farmers suffered a lot due to the coronavirus as most of the labourers had returned to their home states and the cost of sowing paddy increased by Rs 2,000 per acre.He said the farmers faced a double whammy due to the rising fuel prices.“When the crude oil was priced at $ 104, the price of diesel was Rs 63 during the time of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Now, when the crude oil price has fallen to $40, the price of diesel has increased to Rs 80 per litre,” Jakhar alleged, adding that the farmers were being made a fool by the NDA government.“I have not come to do any drama by pulling the tractor as a cart due to the skyrocketing prices of diesel. In Punjab, when freight vehicles were taxed, farmers used tractors. But now they can’t even use tractors due to the rising prices of diesel,” Jakhar alleged.As for the statement of Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar that the MSP would stay despite ordinances, he said the real question was whether the government would procure or not. He said the maize farmers were getting Rs 400 or Rs 600 per quintal in the markets despite Rs 1850 fixed as the MSP by it.He said the Congress always stood for the soldiers and farmers of the country and it would continue to protest against the anti-people policies of the government. Later, he handed over a memorandum to the administration addressed to the Union Government for seeking a reduction in the prices of petrol and diesel and the withdrawal of agriculture ordinances.Jalandhar: In Jalandhar, Congress MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh and MLAs Rajinder Beri, Pargat Singh and Bawa Henry led the protest against the rising fuel prices. The Congress leaders and workers sat on a silent dharna in front of the DC office for two hours. They maintained social distance and were wearing masks. No speeches were made but the leaders gave bytes to mediapersons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ppcc-president-jakhar-congress-workers-protest-rising-fuel-prices-106216
30-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Youngsters take to online courses to enhance skills, improve job prospects||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 29As the academic burden on students lightens, owing to the closure of educational institutes for the past nearly three and a half months, most of the youngsters have taken to improving their skills through online, short duration certificate courses being conducted professionally through various portals.While the Swayam portal being run by the MHRD is popular among students as it offers a variety of over 500 free courses with lectures designed by IIT professors, there are others who have been following international and national portals, including Udemy and upGrad.Many professionals who are already into jobs or business too have been upgrading their skills in their job prospects, and boosting their efficiency and creativity in the field. A continuous upgrade of knowledge is what almost all upcoming fields demand as we have to showcase new techniques in marketing, says Gurkirpal S GP, who is pursuing a course in digital marketing. The users share that the contacts that they build up using the online course portals and the chat room discussions too are helping them widen their horizons.Likewise, a first year Computer Science and Engineering student from DAVIET, Shriya recently got selected in Women Techmakers Engineering Fellows programme which is sponsored by Google and she is taking online classes for the same. She shares that the programme is conducted by an organisation named —Talent Sprint based in Hyderabad.It is a scholarship programme and every selected girl gets a scholarship of Rs 2 lakh from Google for which there is an entrance test that has four rounds-aptitude test, English communication, python programming and interview after which she got a selection mail. This programme is conducted for only first year girl students. There were a total of 15,000 girls all over India who filled the application form, out of which only 126 made it in the programme and Jalandhar-based Shriya made through.SPEAKING OUTWhen Covid happened, I, as an event manager, suffered a huge setback. I decided to evolve my business by upgrading my skills in digital marketing. I did an online course and it has really helped me. Gurkirpal S GP, Founder, F9 Media CompanyThe Google course that I pursued recently will go on for two years. Though most of it will be done online, I may have to go to Hyderabad, too, when situation improves. It is helping me gain practical knowledge. Shriya, student of DAVIETThough I am into event management, I still took a one-month online course on nutrition from a portal. It helped me to adopt a healthy lifestyle and make items such as beet root a part of my diet. Navjot Sidhu, event managerI am pursuing a course in Java programming. It has helped me develop my computer skills and improve content of my YouTube page. I intend to start my own portal during graduation. Gunreet Kaur, school student||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youngsters-take-to-online-courses-to-enhance-skills-improve-job-prospects-106217
30-06-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Lockdown has made us realise value of savings’||RAJIV ARORA, MD of Mark Knitters, had left his lucrative job in a leading pharmaceuticals to join his father Mohan Lal Arora in setting up a warp knit fabrics unit. Earlier, he had worked with Pfizer in its Mumbai and Chandigarh offices. He did BTech in chemical engineering from the IIT, Delhi. His father had set up Rajiv Sales Corporation 40 years ago. They are a distributor of Tata Tea and Tata Salt in Punjab. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, Rajiv Arora feels the Covid-induced lockdown has changed the psyche of ordinary people who will change their lifestyle. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?FMCG supplies were affected in the first week of the lockdown. But, being essential products, demand picked up later. The biggest challenge was the transportation of FMCG products in the city and outside.Liquidity is king. We have made our lives complicated. Our basic needs are limited. Our goal should be a happy life full of contentment. Owing to changes in the behaviour of society we adopted even those things which were not required. One may have huge assets but without cash one cannot buy things of daily use. — Rajiv Arora, MD, Mark KnittersDo you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?We will resume the manufacturing of warp knit fabrics only if the market bounces back. In such a situation, we will procure state-of-the-art machinery.Have you paid salaries to workers during the lockdown period?We have paid salaries to all our workers even during the lockdown period.What is the share of online trading in your profession?We have no share in online trading.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?Liquidity is king. We have made our lives complicated. Our basic needs are limited. Our goal should be a happy life full of contentment. Owing to changes in the behaviour of society we adopted even those things which were not required. One may have huge assets but without cash one cannot buy things of daily use. The value of savings is realized on a rainy day or when one is passing though a bad phase. We were taught to save for a rainy day. The pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have made us all to understand the importance of savings.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It’s definitely a challenge. The way of living and lifestyle of society will change. The virus cannot be wished away and we have to learn to live with this disease. Everybody is passing through these difficult times in one way or the other. Time will tell whether new avenues will emerge or not. But opportunities are also emerging for those who can recognise and avail.What are your expectations from the government?The government must help boost the economy at this crucial juncture. Also, it should create investment-friendly environment for Indian industries so that they get business and fresh investments — be they are from domestic and international markets. The domestic industries should also take advantage of anti-China sentiment, particularly in the country and generally all over the world. For this, some basic laws and their implementation is necessary otherwise we will miss the bus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lockdown-has-made-us-realise-value-of-savings-106218
30-06-2020||Phagwara||Thunderstorm wreaks havoc in Phagwara||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thunderstorm-wreaks-havoc-in-phagwara-106219
30-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||8 years on, basic amenities still elude JIT’s Bibi Bhani Complex||Jalandhar, June 29Although the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) constructed LIG flats at the Bibi Bhani Complex around eight years ago, the allottees continue to run from pillar to post as they have been unable to take possession of their flats till date due lack of civil amenities in the area.Moreover, 24 allottees have complained that their flats only exist on paper and have never been constructed in reality.As per information, the JIT in 2009 allotted 51.5 acres for the development of Bibi Bhani Complex, promising two-storeyed apartments equipped with all basic facilities and good quality infrastructure. The JIT then announced a self-financing scheme for the purchase of the flats and asked the interested buyers to make payment at once or in 22 installments within two-and-a-half years. The flats were priced between Rs 6 to 8 lakhs and the possessions were to be given in 2012.Talking to the Tribune, President of the Bibi Bhani Residential Welfare Association, Darshan Singh Ahuja, said, “As per the terms and conditions of the scheme, the flats were to be completed by 2012, however, the JIT completed the construction work around 2014-15, and 24 flats have not been constructed till date. While there is no provision of water supply on the second floors, the roofs have been leaking, there are cracks on each wall of the flats, the park is lying in a poor condition and there are no street lights in the complex,” he added.“At present, only 10 families have been living in the complex and among them just two are the owners, while the other eight families are tenants. Over 100 allottees have denied taking their possessions due to the poor quality of the flats and have approached consumer forum demanding refund of their principal amount,” said Ahuja, adding that the JIT never paid any attention to their pleas and kept on adjourning the matter on one pretext or the other.Slamming the JIT for constructing poor quality flats, another allottee, Dushinder Kaur, said she paid nearly Rs 6 lakh in 2010 for the flat; however, she got the possession in 2015. “I have rented out the flat, but none of the tenants stay for more than two months as there are no basic facilities of sewerage and water supply available. The place is so unsafe that it seems that the flats can break down any moment,” she added.When contacted, JIT Chairman, Daljit Ahluwalia, said he had made all efforts to fulfill the demands of the allottees and ensured development in the area. However, the allottees, he said, are adamant over taking cases to the consumer forum as they feel they will be given complete interest from 2012 to till present and the amount they invested would be doubled.On the lack of basic facilities, he said a high capacity tube well had been installed in the area, but the water consumption was too less as not many people had been residing here, thus, they thought that if the machinery was not used as per its capacity, it would get dysfunctional.Fact fileIn the past, protests have been held by the allottees, demanding basic facilities in the area. Also, as many as 100 allottees of the Bibi Bhani Complex have filed their cases at the District Consumer Forum against JIT, demanding refund of the amount paid by them. Nearly 45 complainants have won cases against JIT, while others have been waiting for the judgement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-years-on-basic-amenities-still-elude-jits-bibi-bhani-complex-106220
30-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Dengue, chikungunya & now Covid — she is battling high-risk zones||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 29“When we enter a battle zone, we know we might be injured. But we go with our minds made up,” says Dr Harveen Kaur.In 2010, while treating dengue patients at the high-risk zone of Primary Health Centre, Mehatpur, she got infected. In 2016, while herself treating chikungunya patients, she contracted the virus. This year, following two months of service in high-risk dengue wards – she tested Covid positive.The viral load was too much. I knew, sooner or later, I might get it. On June 22 after coming home, I had body aches followed by headache and high fever. I wasn't traumatised or shocked. I knew it was coming. The only surprising thing was the aggressiveness of the fever. — Dr Harveen Kaur, an Emergency Medical OfficerPCMS doctor and a single mother, Dr Harveen Kaur, an Emergency Medical Officer (EMO) who had served at high-risk Covid wards of the Civil Hospital, tested positive for Covid a week ago. The 35-year-old who was tested for Covid amid severe symptoms has treated 150 to 200 patients in the past two months as an EMO. Better now, she says it is all a part of the medical profession, which she’s serving for the past 11 years.Under home-quarantine for a week now, she has lost her sense of smell and taste and is about to spend another 10 days in isolation at the upper floor of her house as her family tends to her amid the pandemic.At the ESI Hospital in April and March, where exposure to Covid was a constant fear, she had been serving in high-risk wards such as emergency, TB, ortho, ENT and de-addiction, where Covid patients were housed. At times, she had to tend to 80 Covid positive patients. Though her test report didn’t come as a surprise, she says.Taking precautions to protect her 11-year-old daughter from fever, she was social distancing, staying separate and even teaching her with an N-95 mask on for a long time. But now, she has completely isolated herself in her bedroom, upstairs.Cut off from the family, her brother keeps cooked food in utensils on the balcony of her room, from where she picks it up. She washes her own clothes and utensils and hands them back after keeping it in sunlight for 48 hours.“There were moments, when we came to work in packed wards. Much before also, I used to have doubts that I might have contracted the virus. But we have a huge responsibility, especially towards serious patients. Sometimes we are frightened too. There were patients who had to be given CPR. But we knew that to fight this battle, keeping fear at bay was a prerequisite.”Dr Harveen Kaur is the sixth staff member and the only doctor at the Civil Hospital to have tested positive for Covid. Before her, three nurses (two at Civil Hospital’s trauma unit and one working at Meritorious school) as well as two ward servants have tested positive. She is under isolation at home for 17 days, as per new guidelines.Frontline warriors day and night on job||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dengue-chikungunya-now-covid-%E2%80%94-she-is-battling-high-risk-zones-106205
30-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Swindlers using OLX to dupe residents of Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 29Four days ago, Jalandhar-based resident Pooja Aggarwal (name changed), saw an advertisement for a used Honda Activa on OLX. It was coming cheap at Rs25,000 (negotiable) and the person, who had posted it, under the name of Sahil Kumar, claimed to be from the Indian Army posted at Jalandhar Cantt.Our firm has been working closely with cyber cells of various states and there has been a spurt in such incidents and a few cases have been reported from Ludhiana and Mohali as well. A proper mechanism is being followed — from forging documents, to creating fake OLX profiles to tele-calling. People must avoid making any advance payments. They should pay only when they receive and examine the product in hand. — Palvinder Singh, CEO, founder, Secuneus Technologies, who deals in cyber securityPooja contacted Sahil on the number 7735454968, which she took from his OLX profile and he told her that he wanted to sell the scooter as soon as possible, as he was being transferred out of Jalandhar. He also sent a picture of the scooter, his ‘ID card’ and other documents to authenticate his credibility (snapshots of his OLX profile, chat, and documents are in possession of The Tribune).Convinced by his picture in uniform, Pooja agreed to buy the scooter and Sahil asked her to pay Rs3,000 as ‘security deposit’ and assured her that once he receives the security amount, he would courier the scooter to Pooja’s residence within an hour.Pooja agreed to this and made a payment of Rs3,000 via Google Pay. On receiving the amount, Sahil, via WhatsApp, sent a photo of the receipt of Rs3,000 to her. The receipt was issued under the name ‘Veer Bharat Senani’ and contact number which has been mentioned above and an additional delivery boy’s number — 7988597960 — were printed on it, along with other particulars of the sender.Later Sahil, on the pretext that security amount has been increased by the Army wing, again asked for Rs2,000 from Pooja, and said if she fails to deposit that amount, she would lose her Rs3,000 as well. Likewise, both Sahil and the “delivery boy” kept doing so and duped her of Rs20,000 eventually.Meanwhile, when Pooja realised that this was no genuine deal, she threatened that she would report it to the police. However, what came as more shocking was that the “delivery boy” in reply asked her if she required any help in reporting to the police. He said no matter whom she reports, their identity would never be revealed.In yet another incident, Chetan Saluja, a photographer from the city, encountered a similar incident 10 days ago, wherein a person imposing as an Air Force officer posted an advertisement selling a professional camera for Rs32,500 only. However, his smartness at the time of making the deal saved him from becoming a prey to these fraudsters. He just lost Rs500 and soon figured out that the person in the ID was an imposter.When contacted, Palvinder Singh, CEO and founder of Secuneus Technologies, which deals in cyber security, said: “These OLX frauds were first reported in Rajasthan and Odisha among other states and a few gangs involved in this were also busted. But, it seems it’s a big racket involving hundreds of people from across the nation.”Meanwhile, in-charge, cyber crime cell, Jalandhar, Monika, said: “Such OLX frauds have been taking place since long. Two years back, there were a number of complaints regarding this. We also busted a few people involved in this crime, but recently no such complaints have been received. People must remain alert.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/swindlers-using-olx-to-dupe-residents-of-jalandhar-106206
30-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||Health Department’s Deputy Director, lab technician found positive||With the Health Department’s Deputy Director and a Lab Technician (LT) testing positive on Monday, the number of patients affected by coronavirus in the district has reached 179. A Hoshiarpur woman undergoing treatment at Ludhiana hospital died on Monday, increasing the tally of number of deaths to six in the district.Civil Surgeon, Hoshiarpur, Dr Jasvir Singh said: “Deputy Director (Health) posted as Civil Surgeon, Pathankot, Dr Vinod Sarin (59) and Civil Hospital Hoshiarpur’s lab technician aged 34 years, were found positive today. Due to this, the number of corona-affected patients in the district has increased to 159. Dr Vinod Sarin was referred to Amritsar Medical College.”Meanwhile, Tajinder Kaur, a 62-year-old resident of the district who was undergoing treatment in Ludhiana, died of coronavirus. She was also suffering from cancer. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 425 new samples were taken on Monday, while the reports of 272 samples taken earlier were received from the lab, of which two new positive cases have been found. He said total 12,703 samples have been taken so far in the district, of which 11,959 were found negative, while reports of 547 samples are awaited. The number of active cases is 12 in the district, while 161 patients have recovered so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-departments-deputy-director-lab-technician-found-positive-106207
30-06-2020||---||New watercourse lining on cards for Doaba: Minister||Jalandhar, June 29Punjab Rural Development and Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Monday said a new model of the precast concrete parabolic segment system would be implemented in Doaba region for the watercourse lining.Bajwa accompanied by Jagbir Singh Brar, Punjab Water Resources Management and Development Corporation (PWRMDC) chairman, was satisfied with the functioning of the model in Bhangala village and said it would be executed for the farmers of the Doaba region at first to ensure efficient use of water in fields.The minister also said that under this system installation of blocks is relatively easy and speedy in the fields as compared to the conventional brick-lining system for a large amount of the labour and time is needed and it is also costly than precast lining system.Meanwhile, Brar explained that it is a modern water conveyance system developed by the PWRMDC where segments/blocks would be directly brought from factories to place at the site. He said that the labour cost of installation and joining of blocks in a precast concrete system is much less than the past method of lining watercourses.Brar also told the minister that the modern lining system has long durability than brick-lining’s lifelong and most importantly, it can be successfully used in the saline areas by using special cement.On the occasion, ADC Development Vishesh Sarangal, SDM Phillaur Vineet Kumar, managing director Barinder Pal Singh, Superintendent Engineer Shammi Singla and others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-watercourse-lining-on-cards-for-doaba-minister-106208
30-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||As curbs ease, only private buses manage to run with full capacity||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 29Two days after the Chief Minister permitted all passenger buses including private, roadways and PRTC to ply without following social distancing norms with full capacity, the roadways bus drivers and conductors still could not ferry with more than 25 passengers. Only the private bus operators in the district seemingly took benefit of the ease in the restrictions. While the roadways/Punbus staff rued that they didn’t get any written official letter regarding permission to operate buses with 100 per cent capacity, the private bus operators were contended to resume their services by ferrying passengers to their full capacity. The state government had earlier allowed plying of buses with 50 per cent capacity.Kuldeepak, an official at the city bus stand, who manages the permit and routes of roadways buses, said the buses today operated with earlier guidelines only and not more than 25 passengers were carried in a bus. He said in the absence of passengers, the buses operated on limited routes. “We are waiting to receive an official confirmation before ferrying passengers with full capacity. The late communication of orders is further leading to financial losses as most of the commuters are already booked by the private bus operators,” added Kuldeepak.Makkhan Singh, a driver of Baba Budha bus service said, without students and working-class employees, it was tough to ferry more passengers and it took us around half an hour to get nearly 50 passengers.While the CM had announced to do away with the restricted passenger rule in order to cope up with the losses suffered by the bus operators, the passengers sitting in the buses with zero social distancing norms were scared to share their seats with the fellow passengers. Jaswinder Singh, a resident, who was going to Amritsar to meet his relatives said, “Immediately after the Covid outbreak, we were strictly told to abide by the social distancing norms and many challans were also issued subsequently, but now when the infected cases surging every day, it is insensitive to give norms the go-by.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-curbs-ease-only-private-buses-manage-to-run-with-full-capacity-106209
30-06-2020||---||8 catch the virus, tally rises to 715 in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 29With eight more positive cases reported on Monday, the district tally has risen to 715 in the district. A health worker, a resident of the staff colony at the Civil Hospital, is among the eight new cases in Jalandhar.Of the new cases, four are contacts of previous patients, one is a frontline worker from the Civil Hospital. Two are SARI cases and one patient was reported at the OPD. Of them, three are residents of Amar Garden and the rest are from areas like Basti Sheikh, New Govind Nagar, Aman Nagar, Gulab Devi Road, among other areas.7 new cases in KapurthalaSeven persons tested positive in Kapurthala on Monday. They included a 14-year-old boy and six more patients aged 18, 40, 69, 51 and 31. Two of them are women. Out of the total 247 reports received today, 241 tested negative.4 infections in NawanshahrThe town reported four positive cases on Monday. Divulging details, Civil Surgeon Rajinder Bhatia said of the new cases, two had returned from foreign countries like Doha Qatar and Saudi Arabia. One had come from Muzaffarnagar in UP and fourth one was a police personnel who was tested positive in Ludhiana during duty. He said all these persons had been sent to the isolation ward at Guru Nanak Mission Hospital, Dhahan Kleran, near Banga.He said as per the directions of the state government, the number of sampling had been increased and on an average, 300 samples were being collected daily. So far, as many as 9,413 samples had been collected in SBS Nagar district, out of which 8,736 had tested negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-catch-the-virus-tally-rises-to-715-in-jalandhar-district-106210
