30-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Farmers’ stir fallout: Family yet to come to terms with 16-yr-old’s death||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 29Gurjinder Singh, a resident of Thana village, in Garhshankar, Hoshiarpur, is probably the youngest of the casualties that took place during the farmers’ protest at Singhu and Tikri borders.Recalling the day when Gurjinder left for the protest, his wailing mother Kulwinder Kaur said: “My son was excited to join the protest. As his father is settled in America, he felt it was his responsibility in the family to make their presence felt in the agitation against the diktats imposed upon farmers without their consent. Now, we are left with nothing. When he left for the protest sites with his friends, he said, ‘mummy, fatte chak ke aunde’ (will return after claiming our win). We kept waiting for him, but he never returned.”The 16-year-old school-going boy reportedly left for his heavenly abode on the night of December 15 after he fell from the tractor-trailer he was sitting in and was later crushed under the wheels of another vehicle while going to Delhi. Unable to come to terms with the death of her only son, Kulwinder has, however, appealed to conduct an inquiry into his accident, as both his expensive phones and the golden bracelet he was wearing were missing from his body and were still untraceable.A student of Class XI, Gurjinder often used to work in fields that his family has given on contract. He used to bring fodder for the cattle too!“It's been over 12 years since my husband left for America. Later, my brother-in-law also moved abroad. Gurjinder was the only male member in the house. He used to take care of all responsibilities. His father and I still regret the day we allowed him to join the protest. He will now rest in peace only when the government fulfils the demands of farmers and revokes the farm laws,” Kulwinder said.The deceased, was scheduled to visit his father next month. He was living here with his mother, an elder sister and grandmother. Raj Balwinder Singh, sarpanch of the Sahungra village, Hoshiarpur, was the first one who was informed about Gurjinder’s accident. He said it was unfortunate that a young boy lost his life in the struggle. He was keen to know more about the laws and the protest, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-stir-fallout-family-yet-to-come-to-terms-with-16-yr-olds-death-191354
30-12-2020||---||Nawanshahr teachers do district proud||Nawanshahr, December 29Kavita Sabharwal and Geetika, English teachers at Government Senior Secondary School for Boys, Rahon, and Government Senior Secondary School, Bazidpur, have brought laurels to the Nawanshahr district as both have made innovative contributions in the preparation of English manual and activity books for students of Classes VI, VII and VIII. The English manual and activity book, prepared under the aegis of ‘Parho Punjab, Parhao Punjab’, launched by the Education Department to bring in qualitative improvement in education, would be introduced in government schools in the ensuing academic session.It includes a wide range of innovative methods and activities to make teaching and learning of English language interesting, easy and effective to foster the basic skills of language learning among students.While Geetika has also contributed in Class IX workbook earlier, Kavita Sabharwal has been contributing towards preparation of English text books for classes III and IV. During Covid-19 pandemic, Kavita has so far delivered 53 lecturers on TV and 26 on radio for students of different classes. Besides, under the speaking skill activity launched by the department before setting up English Booster Clubs, as many as 31 audios in her voice were posted in social media pages of the department to hone speaking skills of students. She is an active member of the ‘word of the day’ team and is also contributing consistently towards daily slides, google quiz and pronunciation videos.District Education Officer (SE), Jagjit Singh and Deputy District Education Officer (SE), Amrik Singh, lauded the contribution of both teachers in qualitative improvement in English teaching and said they were real assets of the Education Department.Donning many hatsWhile Geetika has also contributed in Class IX workbook earlier, Kavita Sabharwal has been contributing towards the preparation of English text books for Classes III and IV. During Covid-19 pandemic, Kavita has so far delivered 53 lecturers on TV and 26 on radio for students of different classes. Besides, under the speaking skill activity launched by the department before setting up English Booster Clubs, as many as 31 audios in her voice were posted in social media pages of the department to hone speaking skills of students. She is an active member of the ‘word of the day’ team and is also contributing consistently towards daily slides, google quiz and pronunciation videos.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-teachers-do-district-proud-191355
30-12-2020||---||Ladhewali RoB expected to complete in 18 months||Jalandhar, December 29Minister of Public Works Department Vijay Inder Singla on Tuesday laid the foundation stone of railway overbridge (RoB) to be built across the Jalandhar-Pathankot level crossing on Chuggiti-Ladhewali Road. The project is pegged at Rs23.5 crore and is expected to complete in 18 months.Accompanied by Member of Parliament Chaudhary Santokh Singh, MLAs Rajinder Beri, Sushil Kumar Rinku and Mayor Jagdish Raja, Singla said the work of 27 RoBs was underway in various parts of Punjab, which would give a huge relief to commuters. He said the Chuggiti-Ladhewali RoB will facilitate more than 1 lakh people, who live around Jalandhar-Pathankot and Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur roads.The minister lauded the efforts of MLA Rajinder Beri in pushing through the proposals of the work and to get no-objection certificates (NOCs) from departments concerned for starting the project at the earliest. Singla disclosed that the RoB would be 12 metre wide and 450 metre long. He said the tender of the work had been given to Associates Engineers, Maqsudan.The minister said his department had been carrying out 58 development works at the cost of Rs25 crore in Jalandhar district, which would be over soon. Singla directed the officials to send a proposal for Talhan Road, so that the work could be initiated soon. The PWD Minister also announced Rs 40 lakh for the construction of two bridges on the Bist-Doab Canal in Jalandhar West Constituency as sought by MLA Sushil Kumar Rinku.Prominent among those present on the occasion included Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Municipal Commissioner Karnesh Sharma, SDM Rahul Sindhu, PWD Executive Engineer BS Tuli, PSPCL Deputy Chief Engineer Harjinder Singh Bansal, Engineer Avtar Singh, SDO Vishal Kumar and others.Later in Shahkot constituency, the minister accompanied by MLA Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia dedicated a 3.71 km newly-carpeted road, which has come up at the cost of Rs 3.71 crore, to public. He said the work of constructing the road had been completed in six months. He said the work on the Gohir-Nakodar-Malsian road has also been finished at the cost of Rs1.70 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ladhewali-rob-expected-to-complete-in-18-months-191356
30-12-2020||Our Correspondent||SSP ‘satisfied’ with cops’ performance||Hoshiarpur, December 29Catching hold of prime gangsters, hardcore criminals, curbing drug menace, keeping a close tab on terrorist activities and those related to referendum-2020 besides dealing with mafias with an iron hand will be the foremost priorities of the district police in 2021, said Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal, while expressing satisfaction over the performance of district police during 2020 in maintaining law and order efficaciously.Listing some major achievements of the district police, Mahal said under ‘Mission Challan’ initiated on October 1 for speedy presentation of challans in the respective courts, 642 challans have been presented in courts so far. This includes the challan in the incident of rape and brutal murder of a 6-year old girl in Tanda area presented in less than 10 days.Under a special drive against liquor smuggling, 166 cases under the Excise Act were registered with the recovery of 2,520 litre of illicit liquor, 3,222 litre of smuggled liquor, 26,850 kg of lahan, 16-litre beer and one working furnace. Two proclaimed offenders were also arrested.The district police solved the case of blind murders of a city-based advocate and his assistant in a car on the night of Diwali by arresting one out of four accused from Bulandshahar district in Uttar Pradesh. The Tanda police busted a gang indulged in making fake curfew passes and arrested nine person, who had already transported 71 migrant labourers to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar for Rs3.5 lakh in April with the help of fake passes.Bank robberies in Giljian village and Bhagowal village were solved by recovering three country pistols along with eight live cartridges and Rs3,78,500 cash among other things. In November, six gangsters were arrested and eight pistols, ammunition, cars and motorcycles were recovered.Recently, a case of snatching with an old couple was traced within six hours of the incident and Rs 67,000 was returned to the victim. Another loot of Rs1.2 lakh at private laboratory was solved within 72 hours and three accused, including a woman employee of the laboratory, were arrested.In August, the police nabbed four persons with Rs 5,93,600. The CIA staff recovered 2.1-kg heroin, Rs15 lakh, an i-20 car without documents and electronic weighing machine from a Jalandhar-based drug peddler.To ensure strict enforcement of curfew/lockdown till December 27, as many as 813 FIRs have been registered while 1,156 persons have been arrested. The district police issued 49,642 challans to those who were found without masks and recovered Rs 3,69,94,300 as fine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ssp-satisfied-with-cops-performance-191357
30-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||A teacher joins farmers, learns powerful life lessons||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 29He doesn’t even belong to the farmer community but totally sympathies with the farmers. Kulwinder Singh, a teacher from Government School Mundi Cholian, is at the Singhu border, gleaning and learning many matters and affairs at the site.Since his arrival, which was on Monday night, Kulwinder has noticed one big thing, he says, “Chuttiya te lok baahar ghuman aande si, es vaar ohi lok kisan de support vich ethe aa rahe ne (people would visit various places amid this holiday season, but now scores are coming here to be with the farmers).” He’s planning to stay there till December 31. “It is such a surreal feeling here. I cannot express it in words. From children to elderly, aged above 85, are here and everyone has a smile on their face.”He also supported the movement by contributing Rs51,000 from Democratic Front Union Jalandhar. “Above anything else is the emotional support to the farmers. I am meeting, talking to them...listening to their stories, understanding every bit of it. I have never witnessed such a peaceful protest. It is an altogether different world here,” he shared.For him, the farmers are on par with the soldiers, who don’t care about anything, and are adamant that they won’t move until the government repeals the laws. “You will see plethora of people coming here who don’t have any relation with the farming. But what makes them come here is the feeling of belonging to these warriors who are now here for a month and still staying patient and calm,” he added.“Insaaniyat dis rahi hai ethe (I can see humanity here in the people who are coming from far-flung areas),” the teacher shared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-teacher-joins-farmers-learns-powerful-life-lessons-191358
30-12-2020||Jalandhar||7 +ve in Hoshiarpur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-ve-in-hoshiarpur-191359
30-12-2020||---||Cancel FIRs registered against us, say farmers||Jalandhar, December 29Members of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) gave a memorandum to Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner demanding that the FIRs being lodged against them during the ongoing protests be cancelled.The members said it had come to their notice that FIRs were being lodged against them for holding protests outside the residences of BJP leaders or during forcible closures of Reliance showrooms and snapping of power supply to Jio towers.The members wrote that their protest against the Centre in demand of repealing of new farm laws was at a critical stage now and farmers were united over the fact that they won’t let the Centre give undue benefits to the corporate houses. They said during their peaceful protests, they had decided to boycott all items of corporates including Jio mobile, SIM cards, Reliance Trends clothing and accessories etc. They sought cooperation of the administration in keeping the mobile towers of Jio and Reliance malls shut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cancel-firs-registered-against-us-say-farmers-191360
30-12-2020||---||‘Best before date’ must, food business operators told||Kapurthala, December 29The food wing of Kapurthala inspected food business operators, including sweet shops, restaurants on early Tuesday morning.The drive was aimed at curbing adulteration in milk and milk products. The team intercepted milk-ferrying vehicles by setting up a naka. Nearly 15 samples were taken, including two of milk, desi ghee, mustard oil, vanaspati, cane sugar, rajmah, chana dal, rice grain, fat spread, cooked dal, rusk, biscuits and namkeen. These samples have been sent to the State Food Laboratory, Kharar, Mohali, for analysis. As per reports, legal action would be initiated against violators. It was also observed that some sweet shop owners were not displaying the ‘Best before date’, which is mandatory as per guidelines.Sweet shop owners were strictly directed to follow directions of the FSSAI regarding display of ‘Best before date’. In case of open sweets, they were told to display the ‘Best before date’ on the container tray being displayed to the customer.Food business operators were directed to observe necessary precautions with regard to Covid-19 outbreak. They were also directed to ensure hygiene of the premises, use good quality of raw materials, especially edible oil, and keep the prepared food covered to prevent contamination. Dr Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner, Food, Kapurthala, sought cooperation from all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/best-before-date-must-food-business-operators-told-191361
30-12-2020||---||DC visits Niku Park, announces Rs 5 lakh for facelift||Jalandhar, December 29To make Niku Park attractive and boost footfall, especially of children, here, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today announced to give Rs 5 lakh for its complete facelift.The Deputy Commissioner, who visited the park in Model Town on Monday evening, said the park was a valuable asset for the city and its people. He said it was a favourite place for children because a variety of swings, slides and others are offered free and electronically-operated rides being given on a package of three rides for just Rs 35.Thori asked the committee members to hold its meeting regularly to ensure the park is maintained properly so that the people continue to get benefit from this park without any inconvenience.Park management committee’s head and MC Joint Commissioner Harcharan Singh told the DC that some electronic rides need immediate repair and maintenance following which the latter said that a grant of Rs5 lakh would be given to the committee from CSR funds which would be utilised for these works so that children can enjoy all rides.Singh further informed the Deputy Commissioner that due to Covid-19 pandemic, the park remained shut for a long time, which has hit its functioning badly. Further, he said that there was a need for additional manpower for the upkeep of the park.Thori said a tehsildar-level officer would visit the park regularly and would further explore possibilities of boosting the footfall here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-visits-niku-park-announces-rs-5-lakh-for-facelift-191362
30-12-2020||---||Pokhriyal inaugurates 2 buildings of NIT virtually||Jalandhar, December 29Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar (NITJ) on Tuesday held two events – inauguration of two buildings, including academic building and student welfare centre, and foundation stone laying ceremony of mega girls’ hostel-phase II and mega boys hostel block ‘E’. Both the events were held online by the Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’.Pokhriyal did the virtual inauguration and laid the foundation stone in the presence of Madan Mohan, ADG, Ministry of Education, SC Ralhan (chairman BoG, NIT Jalandhar), Prof LK Awasthi (director, NIT Jalandhar), and other dignitaries.On the occasion, he congratulated Prof Awasthi for NIRF ranking wherein the institute has been placed 52nd among more than 16,400 institutions, including IIT, IIM and others. He encouraged the students to focus on patent than package, start-ups than job seekers, becoming leaders than followers and assured that the Ministry of Education would provide all the necessary support for making the education accessible to a common man. He said that all the efforts were done by NIT Jalandhar in contributing to ‘Atam Nirbhar Bharat’ and ‘Make in India’ vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. RC Rehlan appreciated the implementation of EWS reservation at NITJ resulting in enrolment of about 1,100 students at the graduation level in the institute, and 650 more students at the postgraduation level, including MTech/MSc/ MBA.Prof Awasthi, during his address spoke about the accomplishments of the institute and the challenges faced due to the expansion of the institute. “The institute has started two new UG programmes (BTech in Information Technology and BTech in Electrical Engineering); six new MTech programmes including MTech programme on renewable energy; 10 PG diploma courses in engineering programmes from this academic session. The significant expansion of 750 students per year demands facilities for additional space in hostels, academic area and recreational activities. Therefore, the institute is coming up with one boys’ and one girls’ hostels of seating capacity of 918 and 996, respectively, with the support of Ministry of Education.”Talking about future expansions, the professor announced the establishment of a new lecture theatre complex comprising of 15 lecture rooms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pokhriyal-inaugurates-2-buildings-of-nit-virtually-191363
30-12-2020||Nawanshahr||Five vaccination sites set up in Nawanshahr||Nearly 125 healthcare workers, including Anganwadi staff and ASHA workers, undertook dummy vaccination during a dry run for Covid-19 vaccine held at five designated session sites here today.Civil Surgeon Dr Rajinder Prasad Bhatia and District Immunisation Officer Dr Davinder Dhanda supervised the sessions held at five sites, including Civil Hospital Nawanshahr, CHC Mukandpur, Mini PHC Jadla, Sub Centre Usmanpur and IVY Hospital, Nawanshahr.Dr Dhanda said some healthcare workers did not bring along same IDs registered with their names yesterday in the portal and there was little difficulty in matching, for which necessary suggestions had been forwarded. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-vaccination-sites-set-up-in-nawanshahr-191364
30-12-2020||Jalandhar||Virtual alumni talk||Kwanzaa Day at Eklavya SchoolKwanzaa Day was celebrated at Eklavya School. The students were told that the day was created with a purpose to help connect black Americans to connect to their African roots in phase of marginalisation. The basic aim of celebration was to convey a message to pay gratitude, respect and celebrate one’s own culture. The word ‘Kwanzaa’ comes from a phrase ‘matundaya kwanza’ which means ‘first fruits’. Each day out of the seven day celebration represents one principle-unity, self determination, collective responsibility, cooperative economics, purpose, creativity and faith. Seven candles were lit on this day. The children were told that out of the seven candles the middle black candle represented the people, the three red candles represented blood (suffering) and the three green candles represented earth or hard work you do.HMV students get top ranksMVoc (Web Technology and Multimedia) Sem-VI students of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya got top three positions in Guru Nanak Dev University held recently. Ujwal Puneet Kaur stood first in the university with 1775 marks, Radhika stood second with 1773 marks and Evenglica Lal stood third with 1679/2000. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students. Ashish Chadha and Rishabh Dhir were also present on the occasion.Social outreach initiatives by KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya has been lauded by National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research, Chandigarh, for its contribution to a flagship programme initiated by the Ministry of Human Resource Development in 2014. KMV undertook multi-pronged initiatives in its journey of Unnat Bharat Abhiyaan which commenced in 2018. Under this programme, the college has adopted five villages and is working on facets like waste management, water management and a new component–sensitisation, which was started as Covid measure this year. KMV is also engaged in different extension programmes like buddy programme for creating a drug-free region, helping hands for visually impaired people, Urban & Rural Governance, SVEEP, Chunav Pathshala and also imparting counselling for academics and skill development programmes. Social outreach initiatives during Covid were especially appreciated by Unnat Bharat Abhiyaan. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi lauded the efforts of Unnat Bharat Abhiyaan coordinator, Ashima Sahni, Dr Sonik Bhatia, Dr Harpreet, Dr Iqbal Singh.Lecture on marketing strategiesPhagwara: GNA University organised a guest lecture on “Marketing strategies for achieving competitive advantage” for the budding students of GNA Business School via online platform of blackboard software. Tejdeep Singh Randhawa, GM, Business Development and Marketing, MediSync was the resource person. Randhawa started the session with the perspective that analysing consumers’ mindset is essential to understand the transitions taking place in the marketplace with respect to changes in macro and micro business environment. He talked about how Covid-19 has induced a shift in the thinking capacity of the consumers related to their decision making and purchase behaviour. He discussed various strategic marketing measures which the companies use to align themselves according to the consumers’ needs and wants. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-alumni-talk-191368
