31-08-2020||Jalandhar||15-year-old girl fights snatchers to save her mobile phone in Jalandhar||Showing exemplary courage, a 15-year-old girl on Sunday fought off snatchers who tried to snatch her mobile phone in Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar near Jalandhar-Kapurthala road.Despite being attacked with a sharp-edged weapon, she managed to catch hold of one of the snatchers.While she fought with the snatchers for a few minutes, soon commuters jumped in to her rescue and thrashed the snatcher.The whole incident, which occurred around 2 pm, was recorded in a nearby CCTV. Kusum Kumari (15), a resident of Fatehpuri Mohalla, while narrating about the incident, said, “I was going home when two bike-borne men attempted to snatch my mobile phone. The accused sitting on the pillion seat grabbed my hand and took my phone. However, I resisted and held his hand. Following which I followed them on their bike and grabbed the pillion rider’s t-shirt. He later hit me and attacked my wrist with a datar. But I continued to follow him and later dragged him from his bike. Few minutes later passersby rescued me and held the snatcher. I got my phone later.” She has been admitted to a private hospital. The accused was later handed over to the police.SHO, police division two, said the accused was identified as Avinash Kumar (22) alias Ashu, a resident of Begumpura, Basti Danishmanda. While his associate is absconding, a case under Sections 389 B and 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC has been registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/15-year-old-girl-fights-snatchers-to-save-her-mobile-phone%C2%A0in-jalandhar-134229
31-08-2020||---||Now, ‘antivirus’ uniforms for IPL||Jalandhar, August 30The pandemic has impacted everything and sports is no exception. Already, several tournaments have either been cancelled or delayed because of the pandemic and Indian Premier League (IPL) is no different.Preparations, however, are on full swing to start the IPL in a safe manner and the city, too, has been instrumental in contributing for the same. For the first time, antivirus uniforms are being made in Jalandhar for Indian Premier League (IPL), which is likely to start on September 13. TK Sports Pvt Ltd is making the uniform for players of Hyderabad Sunrisers to ensure proper protection.Rajan Kohli, MD of the firm, said looking at the present situation, a pact was made with a Sweden-based company. “We are using their antivirus chemical that kills 99.9 per cent viruses. So, after doing research, we got in contact with the company and then the work was started. Everything else is the same, the only thing that we have added is the chemical and protection from the virus is the need of the hour,” Kohli said.The company has been preparing kits for IPL for the last eight years. “Earlier, we used to work with Kings XI Punjab, but we have been preparing uniforms for Hyderabad Sunrisers for the last four years,” he said.“Apart from this, we have also made helmets which will be worn by players in the IPL. These are light weight helmets and we have made it for the first time,” he said.Jalandhar is known as a sports hub and another sports unit in the city had also come to limelight during the 2019 World Cup, when locally made bats were used by MS Dhoni, one of the star cricketers in the Indian team. A special bat was made for him for the World Cup that weighed around 1,160 to 1,180 gm. The wood was English Willow. The toe guard of the bat which Dhoni had used was round in shape.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-antivirus-uniforms-for-ipl-134115
31-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Online quiz keeps govt school students curious||Jalandhar, August 30The online quiz, which was conducted by the state Education Department last week to start the Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS), evoked a good response from students.As per information, as many as 8.10 lakh students from Classes I to V and 19.61 lakh students from Classes VI to XII participated. The quiz was organised with the aim to prepare students for the PAS and to enhance the learning outcome and the reasoning ability of the students as well as capacity building of the teachers.The quiz comprised five multiple choice questions (MCQs) in the subjects— English, Hindi, Punjabi, mathematics, science and social studies. Similarly, the quiz for the students of classes XI and XII was based on the subjects, comprising English (general), Punjabi (general), geography, history, Economics, political science, Hindi and math.Elaborating the details, Chander Shekar, District Mentor English and social studies, said after receiving a great response from students for the online quiz, the Education Department has now started preparing question papers to develop comprehensibility of the basic concepts of different subjects among students.“The question papers and the related study material, which is duly scrutinised by the teams of subject experts, is being uploaded on the Punjab Educare App,” he said, adding that besides, they are working on another comprehensive programme of conducting tests based on the syllabus of different subjects.He further said the Education Department was constantly taking stock of the activities and the good practices being adopted by the teachers related to the PAS and has been guiding both teachers and students to ensure successful execution of the Mission PAS.Meanwhile, Education Secretary Krishan Kumar said the response of students as well efforts of teachers in making the PAS a success would definitely help the department in improving the teaching-learning methodologies, thus bringing about qualitative improvements in school education.He said the survey was based on the parameters of National Achievement Survey and the learning outcome of the students would be assessed on the basis of multiple choice questions (MCQs) as per the prescribed syllabus of selective subjects, including English, science, mathematics and social studies of different classes. “We are also starting PAS practice test series for Classes I to XII from tomorrow onwards. This exercise will now remain active till September 5,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-quiz-keeps-govt-school-students-curious-134116
31-08-2020||---||Scant regard for social distancing||Jalandhar, August 30Two days ago, a huge traffic jam near the Cantt Sabzi mandi made commuting a harrowing experience for residents of the area.Hundreds of buyers and sellers visit the Maqsoodan mandi everyday with scant regard to the Covid-19 protocol. With protests also becoming a common sight in the district, the idea of social distancing seems to be far cry.Even as the unlock phase gained momentum, scant regard to Covid protocol made lives miserable for many and is adding to the ever rising district tally.Sujan Singh, whose daughter works at a local bank, said, “Four employees at my daughter’s workplace have tested positive. We have got her tested thrice as well. Both me and my wife are aged above 60. We also have small children at our home. If any of us tests positive, things will be very difficult. There are colleagues at workplace who don’t pay attention to the protocol. It can land us in trouble. My daughter is thinking of applying for a medical leave to ensure our heath is taken care of. In this scenario, economic and health worries can jointly take a toll on us. It is difficult to make simple choices for survival.”Manjit, a Jalandhar Cantt resident, said, “There are long queues in the market. Many people roam around in the market without mask. Wrongly-parked vehicles cause jam and congestion in the city. Amidst community spread, such hectic market activity is bound to result in an increased toll.” With Jalandhar tally standing at 6,462 today, health authorities have cited the relaxed guidelines during unlock regulations to be the cause of a spike in cases.In August alone, cases have risen from 2,517 to 6,462. The toll in August comprises young people between the age groups of 25 to 40.Places with massive crowd are usually mandis, markets, workplaces and protesting sites. So far, those tested positive in the district include doctors, officials, politicians and journalists. Out of these, many residents are from congested areas.Two die, 42 test positive in HoshiarpurOn Sunday, 42 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district, while two patients died, taking the toll to 41. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 23 cases were from Hoshiarpur city, three each from Mand Bhandar, Bhunga and Paldi; two each from Dasuya, Garhshankar, Harta Badla; one each from Chakkowal, Hajipur, Mukerian, Posi health centre. Covid-19 patient Gurpreet Kaur (66), a resident of village Chakka Ladian, died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, while Suraj Sharma (44), a resident of Indira Colony, Hoshiarpur, died at a hospital in Ludhiana. There are total 1,495 positive patients, of which 429 are active cases and 1,026 patients have recovered. OCDistrict count 6,462Deaths 160Recoveries 4,197||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/scant-regard-for-social-distancing-134117
31-08-2020|| ---||Pandemic taking toll on mental health||Jalandhar, August 30  The Covid pandemic has started taking a toll on the mental health of people. The fear of contracting the disease is affecting their psychology.  Such is level of anxiety that even a minor cough or cold is giving them chills and doctors are receiving a large number such cases on a daily basis. Doctors say normal cough, fever or cold existed before, too, but these days, residents feel if they have any of these, they have been affected by coronavirus, which isn’t always true. Medical experts said many people were spending sleepless nights because they were scared that they might contract the virus in the future.  Dr Nirdosh Goel, a former head of the Department of Psychiatry, Civil Hospital, said a patient went into depression over worries that what recourse she would if she contracts the virus. “The patient has been having sleepless nights for the past 12 days, which is serious. I have dealt with five such cases which I found serious. This is one of the manifestations of the Covid pandemic,” the doctor shared.  He wondered how some people had themselves decided if they would contract the viral disease or not. Dr Goel earlier said the anxiety could be cured if one indulged in activities such as exercise and yoga. The psychiatrist said people must indulge in cooking and doing things that made them happy. A leading doctor from Kapurthala who deals with a number of patients from rural areas on a daily basis said: “I have been witnessing a big change in the psychology of patients visiting me. One of the patients was so afraid as he had been suffering from fever for the past three to four days. His body language clearly told me that he was disturbed a lot. It was not the fever, but the fear of coronavirus that had made him so weak. I counseled him and told him that there was nothing to worry about. Later, when he found out that he had typhoid and not Covid, his fear vanished and he became happy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-taking-toll-on-mental-health-134119
31-08-2020||Our Correspondent---||KMV scholarship for deserving students||Jalandhar, August 30 To ensure that financial crunch caused by the Covid-19 pandemic does not act as a barrier to students, KMV College on Sunday announced full freeship for 5 per cent deserving students in each programme. While making this announcement, Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi reiterated the commitment of the college to the cause of women emancipation through providing educational opportunities to girls and by making all-out efforts to reach out to even the most marginalised class. She said, “No student leaves KMV portals because of the paucity of funds as here service to humanity is our motto and mission and this initiative of providing full scholarship to 5 per cent students with outstanding performance in academics, co-curricular activities and sports and to students with physical disabilities, besides helping the needy and economically weak students.” Divulging details of the types of scholarships announced, she said the full freeship would be given to students scoring 93 per cent marks and above and to those achieving the top position in the university in any stream. Also, an amount of Rs 10,000 as scholarship to students scoring 90 to 92.9 per cent marks, Rs 6,000 to students obtaining 86 to 89.9 per cent marks and Rs 4,000 to students scoring 80 to 85.9 per cent marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kmv-scholarship-for-deserving-students-134120
31-08-2020||Unlike other Covid victims who suffered physical ailments after getting infected with coronavirus||‘Forced to share ward with positive patients’||She goes on to share her distressful experience…“As part of routine check-ups for frontline workers, my samples were also taken on August 8 and our reports came in two days and I tested positive for the virus. Despite me being positive, I had no Covid symptom or temperature. The day I was taken to the hospital (August 10), I served tea and snacks to 30 other staff members in a medical camp. However, all of them tested negative and my family members, including my 85-year-old mother-in-law and 5-year-old grand-daughter, also tested negative. But reports of my elder son came out positive. After spending three days in the hospital with Covid patients, our samples were taken again and we tested negative. While my son was discharged from the hospital, I was asked to stay as I was a sugar patient. In these 12 days, my frustration level went high, as even though I was not a Covid patient, I was forced to share the ward and washroom with other positive patients. I remember, 15 patients used to share the same washroom.“I'm diabetic and contracting Covid would have aggravated my problems. But luckily, my sugar level remained normal. Due to the gross negligence of the Health Department, I felt like I was being tortured and grilled. There was no one to look after my mother-in-law and my grand-daughter at home, as my daughter-in-law has separated from my son. At present, I'm the only earning member in my family and there was no compensation to the incentive I lost during these days. Still, the Health Department has home quarantined us and there is no help that has come forward. I haven't been able to join duty so far. Socially also, we are outcast. There was no supply of milk to our house for 15 days and owing to the shortage of ration in the initial days, my family relied on bread and butter.“After nine days, the doctors told that out reports would automatically be generated on the Aroyga Setu app. Though my reports also came negative. I was released from hospital on August 21.” (As told to Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/forced-to-share-ward-with-positive-patients-134122
31-08-2020||Open House||NGOs should pitch in to support poor students||Move to distribute phones commendableIn the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, employment and education have suffered the most. The cases in India are spiking everyday, even more than countries such as USA and Brazil. The children and the elderly are the most vulnerable sections. The education of the students has been hit hard, especially for those whose parents can't afford smartphones. Many children from the poor families dropped out of the school and are doing some manual labour or helping the families in their business to add to the income of the families. Our governments have not paid much attention to the health and education sectors. That is why both are suffering. Even number of teachers is not sufficient and a teacher has to attend to many classes in some schools. Government hospitals are also in poor condition as also the government schools. The Punjab Government has done a good job by giving smartphones to Class XII students but it's not sufficient. The NGOs should come forward to donate these phones to students. Some NGOs have done so but more needs to be done. Also the philanthropists should support the poor students and give them smartphones so that they can get good education.JS WadhwaGiving smartphones alone is not sufficientThe outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic has thrown new challenges before the humanity but handling school education is the biggest of all. One of the options to keep the process uninterrupted is the online education for which requisite technology and devices have to be made available to those students who cannot afford to buy such devices. Of late, the initiative of state government to distribute smartphones to Class XII students of government schools is laudable but the same is not sufficient. The facility of reliable connectivity and smartphones have to be provided to all students who belong to poor families. Moreover, online education needs to be supplemented by other measures such as arranging periodical meetings of teachers with a few students on rotation basis, while making strict compliance with all existing health guidelines of wearing masks and physical distancing. The teachers are also required to keep all communication channels open with the students for maximum possible time. Once the situation normalizes, the regular school activities be cautiously started with extra periods as on line learning cannot be a substitute of class room education.JAGDISH CHANDERBig industrial houses should volunteerCapt Amarinder Singh's decision to distribute smartphones to Class XII students, making them enable to study online, is a laudable decision. They have announced the scheme 'Punjab Smart Connect Scheme' much before they came into power to encourage the youth to use digital technology. But now, keeping the Covid-19 situation into consideration, they have started distributing the phones but only a limited no of students will be benefitted. What about the rest of students? The government should do something to make every Class XII student enable to get the phone. They can take help from big industrial houses such as Reliance to help the students.SHASHI KIRANMore smartphones need of the hourDue to the Covid-19, the most affected sector is the education one. Nobody had never thought that we would face something like this. Everything is opened by government but the education sector remains on ropes. In such a situation, the government should provide smartphones as soon as possible to the students who cannot afford. If government does so, perhaps there are some hopes that education will not suffer. Youths are the future of the country and government should look into the matter.SHAILJA THAKUREnhance the level of education financingThe Covid-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted the prevailing educational system in the country, triggering a gigantic crisis that can have devastating social and economic consequences. In its effort to stem the rapid spread of the deadly virus, the government has temporarily closed down institutions. This has impacted the study and careers of millions of students. Though it cannot replace regular classroom learning, majority have transitioned to distance learning programmes with online educational applications to facilitate the continuity of the education process and keep students motivated and engaged. But this switch to virtual classes has posed a critical challenge to students from the marginalised groups of community and those living in poor, rural and remote areas for want of technical know-how, easy access to digital devices and reliable internet connectivity. Performing its constitutional duty for education, the Punjab dispensation has taken the novel initiative of providing smartphones to government school students beginning with class XII. With e-learning being in its nascent stages, most teachers and institutions lack requisite technical skills and digital infrastructure. Since resilient education is the bedrock of a just, inclusive and egalitarian society, the government and stakeholders should revamp the current ailing education sector by these innovative policy measures: enhance education financing, ensure uninterrupted access to digital devices and internet connectivity, particularly to vulnerable students, employ qualified and trained teachers, focus on addressing learning losses and preventing dropouts, modernise teaching methods using video broadcasting, asynchronous learning programmes and social media channels, eliminate the exacerbating education disparities and liberalise virtual learning regulatory framework.DS KangCombine online, offline studiesYes, it does hinder access to education. Instead of giving mobiles to all the students, the administration can segregate the quantum of students possess or can afford a mobile. Idea is to come up with a combination of online and offline studies wherein the classes are installed with internet & camera (requisites for the online class) helping the first lot studying from home, and the lot who doesn''t fall under that category can continue with the school goings.Ashish DograOnline lectures can’t match class teachingFor students to access education, blended mode of teaching should be explored. Videos of lectures should prepared by the faculty and these be sent to the students. In this way, curriculum content can be created and the poor students unable to access education be made to watch videos at any time by their peers. School authorities can encourage neighbours or neighbourhood mobile shop owners to help students by contributing their bit. The contents can also be sent to their contacts. Since the stricture of online education is amorphous, it can never be a substitute to offline mode of education and, therefore, teachers should stay in touch with students, in addition to imparting online lessons.Rajan KapoorQUESTIONOn the one hand the number of Covid cases is rising in the state, but on the other the Centre has decided to lift restrictions on social gatherings in Unlock 4. Do you think the decision of the authorities is well advised?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 3).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ngos-should-pitch-in-to-support-poor-students-134124
31-08-2020||Stories that inspire||When the going got tough for this bodybuilder, he got going||Ajay JoshiTribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 30Once ridiculed and bullied for having a lean physique, Harminder Dulowal never knew that one day he will become the president of a prestigious federation of bodybuilding, Fitness International Federation (FIF). Himself a bodybuilder, apart from being a motivational speaker, bodybuilding and athletic coach, nutritionist, an international physical fitness judge, the 32-year-old, a native of Dulowal village in Kapurthala, is someone the local fitness freaks look up to.Around 17 years ago, the teenage years of his life – when he was mocked at for being a lanky-looking guy – drew him to bodybuilding. And changed his life forever. He used to weigh only 38 Kg when he started working out, and today he weighs around 100 kg and lifts weights double than his body’s.He says only dedication and sheer hard work helped him to reach at this spot. “From early morning training sessions to late-night diet meals, a lot of hard work and discipline is required to excel. Many times, our bodies give up, but hope and dedication keeps us going.”He is widely popular among young fitness enthusiasts. Thousands of youth from all around the globe follow him on his social media platforms. He has trained over 200 international level, both male and female athletes and bodybuilders, and is always up for those who want to build a career in bodybuilding.Take first step, rest follows"I still remember my first medal that I bagged when I was 19. I was naive and completely unaware of the field. Some of by gym mates asked me to participate in the district-level body building competition that I ended up winning,” he shares.Since then there was no looking back. He even compromised his studies, he failed in the first year of my bachelor''s degree at Khalsa college. “However, I continued to pursue my passion despite reluctance from my family who even bought a tractor for me to work in fields!” he quips. With the help of his achievements he again took admission and got a position in college bodybuilding team. “In 2006, I won a silver in the inter-university bodybuilding championship that eventually helped me in getting a seat at Punjabi University, Patiala, for the physical education course. Even the fee was waived off,” he tells.He would work as a courier boy to supplement his diet expenses. “And by the time I ended my Masters and MPhil degree, I started training people and provided personal training at clients’ home,” he says.He was second best at the All India Inter-University Championship in 2012. Somehow he came to know about the World Fitness Federation and started preparing for it. “Consequently, In 2015, I won Mr World South Africa title. After a few unsatisfying performances, I won Muscle War Singapore 2017 and Mr Asia 2018 title, by clinching a gold in the extensive bodybuilding.”BOX: Owns a gym and fitness brandAs diet plays an important role in getting buffed up, he developed knowledge of nutrition and promoted only vegetarian diet. He says natural sources of food, combined with processed supplements are enough in bodybuilding. In order to impart his fitness knowledge, he now owns a gym and his own fitness brand ''King Nutrition''. His parents, who didn''t support him in the beginning, now manage his clients and the gym.For the budding bodybuilders, he has a message to deliver, "Nothing is impossible, hurdles starts fading when you work hard. Just remain focused and eat only that is fit for body. The youger generation thinks that supplements help to gain finer muscular body, it is nothing but a hoax. Consume ac natural diet and food products to keep yourself fit and healthy in the long run,” he signs off.Owns a gym and fitness brandAs diet plays an important role in getting buffed up, he developed knowledge of nutrition and promoted only vegetarian diet. He says natural sources of food, combined with processed supplements are enough in bodybuilding. In order to impart his fitness knowledge, he now owns a gym and his own fitness brand ‘’King Nutrition’’. His parents, who didn’’t support him in the beginning, now manage his clients and the gym.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/when-the-going-got-tough-for-this-bodybuilder-he-got-going-134126
