27-02-2021||Jammu||Retired from Rajya Sabha, not politics; will continue my fight for JK statehood: Azad||Asserting that he had retired only from Rajya Sabha and not politics, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Saturday expressed a resolve to continue his fight for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood and its residents’ special rights over jobs and land.The former chief minister also stressed the importance of unity among the residents of the Union Territory to fight the threats from China and Pakistan and said “we need to stand with our forces against the enemies”.Ghulam Nabi Azad retired from the Upper House on February 15.“I have retired from Rajya Sabha but not from politics. This is not for the first time that I retired from parliament. Till my last breath, I will continue my services for the nation and will continue my fight for the rights of people,” Azad told a ‘Shanti Sammelan’ organised by the Gandhi Global family here.He was joined by senior party leaders including Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Raj Babbar and Anand Sharma. In an apparent reference to the August 5, 2019 development when the Centre revoked J&K’s special status and split it into two Union Territories, he said, “We have lost our identity but we will not give up and continue our fight for the restoration of the statehood within and outside parliament.” “We want representatives of the people of all the three regions of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir - Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh - to form the government. Leh supported the UT status but Kargil is against it. Every party in Jammu - from BJP to RSS and National Conference to PDP and Panthers Party wants statehood back,” he said.“It is the voice of the people and I challenge anyone to come out with a statement that they do not want the restoration of statehood to J&K,” he said.He also said he will continue his fight for the locals’ rights over land and jobs.  “Jammu and Leh face the immediate threat if outsiders start settling in J&K and Ladakh. We are not against the people coming from outside to get jobs here, but in Jammu and Kashmir, resources are limited as we do not have any big industry here,” Azad said.In politics, he said the fight continues to ensure that the people get their rights. “Jammu and Kashmir shares its border with China and Pakistan and the enemy is very active unlike any other part of the country. We had many wars in the past but the rift has not ended till date. It is our responsibility that we maintain harmony, peace, love and fight the enemy together,” he said, adding it is possible when “we are united and did not fall prey to those who are doing the politics of division”.He said every party has a right to come to the power but doing the politics of religion is not good for the country.“You need to take everyone along as was done by Congress in the past. The Congress could not have achieved freedom for the country, had it not welcomed everyone from every region, religion and every community including educated people, farmers, traders and labourers, irrespective of their caste and creed,” he said.He said the Congress learnt from former prime minister Indira Gandhi that border residents are brave people who fight the enemy alongside the forces and need to be given a special attention. “We salute our forces for their bravery in the face of challenges from Pakistan and China. We support them and stand with them against the enemy,” he said. “World leaders like US president Joe Biden makes a reference to Kashmir soon after taking over. They do not talk about any other place of the country but we have now lost our identity and have to fight for its restoration,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/retired-from-rajya-sabha-not-politics-will-continue-my-fight-for-jk-statehood-azad-218295
27-02-2021||Srinagar||Innovator Sonam Wangchuk develops solar heated tent for Army personnel||Innovator and educationist Sonam Wangchuk, the real life Phunsukh Wangdu of Bollywood blockbuster ‘3 Idiots’, has developed an eco-friendly solar heated tent that Army personnel can use in extremely cold places like Siachen and Galwan valley in the Ladakh region.Wangchuk, who has many environment friendly innovations to his name, said the solar heated military tent, besides saving on use of fossil fuel and its ill effects on environment, increases the safety of the military personnel.“This tent uses the solar energy trapped during day time to keep the soldiers’ sleeping chamber warm during night. Since there is no use of fossil fuel, it saves on money and also is emission free,” he said.The innovator said the temperature inside the sleeping chamber of the military tent can be increased or decreased by corresponding increase or decrease in insulation layers.SOLAR HEATED MILITARY TENT for #indianarmy at #galwanvalley+15 C at 10pm now. Min outside last night was -14 C,Replaces tons of kerosesne, pollution #climatechangeFor 10 jawans, fully portable all parts weigh less than 30 Kgs. #MadeInIndia #MadeInLadakh #CarbonNeutral pic.twitter.com/iaGGIG5LG3  “The sleeping chamber has four layers of insulation and it gave a temperature of 15 degrees Celsius at a time when outside temperature was minus 14 degrees Celsius. The number of layers can be reduced for warmer places,” he added.Wangchuk said the temperature inside the tent should not be too cozy as the soldiers have to be ready to fight the enemy in the open where temperature can be as low as minus 30 degrees Celsius in places like Galwan valley.While Wangchuk extensively referred to last year’s India-China standoff in Ladakh, he said he had made an earlier version of solar heated tent 15 years ago for shepherds who were engaged in rearing of Pashmina goats which produce high quality Cashmere wool.Referring to new prototype, Wangchuk said the tent is portable and can accommodate 10 soldiers.“No component of the tent weighs more than 30 kg which makes it easily portable. The tent is disassembled into 30 to 40 components,” he said.Wangchuk said the weight of components can be brought down to 20 kg each by using superlight aluminium material.“That version will be more expensive that the current prototype,” he said.He acknowledged the support provided by the Army in developing the solar heated tent, saying “it has been designed keeping in mind the requirements of the Army”.The innovator said it took his team at Himalayan Institute of Alternatives Ladakh (HIAL) one month to make the prototype of the solar heated tent.The tent has been designed keeping in mind the places like Siachen glacier and Black Top Hill, the 55-year-old innovator said.Wangchuk on Friday visited Zojila Top test a “crazy idea” of making low coat ice tunnwlfor keeping the approach road to Zojila tunnel open.“It will save 500 tonnes of carbon dioxide and crores annually,” he said while asking his one million subscribers on YouTube channel to “stay tuned for the video”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/innovator-sonam-wangchuk-develops-solar-heated-tent-for-army-personnel-218277
27-02-2021||Srinagar||Fresh snowfall in Kashmir brings back cold wave-like conditions||Fresh snowfall in Kashmir on Saturday brought back cold wave- like conditions in the valley where the day temperature for the past week was several degrees higher than normal for this time of the year, officials said.Fresh snowfall was reported from most parts of Kashmir, including Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, the officials said.Macchil and Z-Gali areas in remote Kupwara district recorded snow between one foot to 18 inches, while places like Gulmarg, Baramulla and Sonamarg recorded up to seven inches of snow, they said.Srinagar has been witnessing rainfall since Friday night, followed by sleet and brief snowfall on Saturday.The precipitation has brought down the day temperature by several degrees. While the maximum temperature on Friday was 15 degrees Celsius, the minimum temperature was 3.8 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature over the past week has been six to seven degrees above normal for this time of the year.The weatherman has forecast improvement in weather from Sunday evening. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/fresh-snowfall-in-kashmir-brings-back-cold-wave-like-conditions-218239
27-02-2021||New Delhi||Will make J&K winter sports hub, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday inaugurated the second Khelo India Winter Games in Gulmarg and said that the event was a step towards making J&K a hub of winter sports. Athletes from 27 states and UTs are competing in the games which will conclude on March 2.1,200 participants from 27 states, UTsMore than a sportYou are not just a part of a sport. You are also the brand ambassador of a self-reliant India. The world evaluates India through what you do on the field. — Narendra Modi, Prime Minister“This is a step towards making India’s presence felt in the international winter games arena and also make J&K a hub of winter sports,” he said in a virtual address.“These games in Gulmarg show that Jammu and Kashmir is eager to reach new heights of peace and development. These games will strengthen the resolve for ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshth Bharat’. I am told the participation has doubled this year and it is a reflection of the inclination towards winter sports in the country,” he added.The disciplines to be competed include alpine skiing, nordic ski, snowboarding, ski mountaineering, ice hockey, and ice skating among others.“When you show your talent in Khelo India-Winter Games, remember that you are not just a part of a sport, but you are also the brand ambassador of a self-reliant India,” the PM said addressing the 1,200 participants who have converged at the picturesque Gulmarg. “The world evaluates India through what you do on the field,” he added.The Games are being organised by the sports ministry and the Winter Games Association of J&K. “The two Khelo India centre of excellence in Jammu and Srinagar and Khelo India centres in 20 districts are great facilities for the young players.Such centres are being opened all over the world," the PM stated.Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, who was present in Gulmarg for the inauguration, reiterated his resolve to make India a sporting powerhouse.“Sports joins states and communities. When a woman from north-east Mary Kom wins a medal, the entire country celebrates. Sports and culture are soft powers of a country,” he said in his address. "We have also decided to give Mata Vaishno Devi Sport Complex a Khelo India Academy accreditation," he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/will-make-jk-winter-sports-hub-says-pm-217995
27-02-2021||Srinagar||Two LeT overground men held in Valley||Security forces arrested two overground workers of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terror group in Bandipora district on Friday. “Acting on specific information, police, Army and CRPF apprehended two terrorist associates of proscribed terrorist outfit LeT at Bonikhan Mohalla of Hajin town,” a police spokesman said.Ammunition seizedHe said the security forces seized arms and ammunition, which included two hand grenades and eight live rounds of AK-47. Those arrested have been identified as Ghulam Mohi-Ud-din Khan and Riyaz Ahmad Bhat, the spokesman said.“On preliminary inquiry, it was revealed that the accused were associated with LeT and were providing shelter, logistics and other material support to active terrorists of the LeT in Sumbal and Hajin area,” he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/two-let-overground-men-held-in-valley-217997
27-02-2021||Jammu||Ceasefire rekindles peace hope||The announcement by India and Pakistan to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control and other sectors has rekindled hope for a peaceful future among border residents in Jammu and Kashmir who have been living under constant fear of firing and shelling. “We are joyous over the news of a fresh agreement between the two countries to observe complete ceasefire along the borderline. It has rekindled hope among us,” Kalal-resident Mohmmad Isaaq said.For the past few years, Pakistan has engaged in shelling and firing along the LoC and the International Border (IB) resulting in casualties, damage to houses, schools, health centres and religious places.Sunil Kumar, Sarpanch Bhawani, Rajouri, said, “We have suffered a lot to due Pakistani firing and shelling.... Education of kids was affected. Houses were damaged. There were casualties. The fresh agreement of maintaining complete ceasefire is a happy news for us. Hope it stays.”Subash Chander, a Panch, said although they are very happy over the news, but it is difficult to trust Pakistan. Similar apprehension was raised by Kerni-resudent Mohmmad Ashraf who welcomed the fresh agreement but raised question over the intention of Pakistan.Kiran Kumar, a Kathua District Development Council (DDC) member, said, "We thank the Centre for this decision. We want Pakistan to behave as a good neighbour by ensuring zero firing from their side. Farmers will fearlessly cultivate their lands on border. Life will be better."— PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/ceasefire-rekindles-peace-hope-217998
27-02-2021||Jammu||Militant hideout busted in Reasi||Security forces busted a terrorist hideout in Reasi on Friday and seized arms, ammunition and explosive materials, officials said.Based on specific information, a joint party of the police, Army and CRPF launched a cordon-and-search operation following which the underground hideout was found and a huge cache of arms and ammunition, including an AK-47 rifle with two magazines and 150 cartridges, a rocket launcher, 16 UBGL grenades, four hand grenades and other equipment were seized. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/militant-hideout-busted-in-reasi-217999
27-02-2021||Srinagar||108 new cases take Jammu and Kashmir Covid tally to 1,26,201||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 108 new Covid cases on Thursday, taking the infection tally to 1,26,201, even as no fresh deaths due to the virus was registered in a span of 24 hours, officials said.Out of the fresh cases, 31 were from Jammu division and 77 from Kashmir division of the UT. The officials said Srinagar district recorded the highest number of 47 new cases, followed by Udhampur district with 23.While eight districts did not report any fresh cases, 10 districts had cases in single digits. The number of active has risen to 820 in the UT, while 1,23,426 patients have recovered so far, the officials said. The death toll in the UT due to the pandemic stands at 1,955, they added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/108-new-cases-take-jammu-and-kashmir-covid-tally-to-1-26-201-217538
