01-03-2021||---||Take up scholarship scheme issue in budget session: Phillaur to govt||Jalandhar, February 28A press conference was organised by Damanvir Singh Phillaur on Sunday, in which he expressed his anguish over the failure of implementation of the post-matric scholarship scheme launched for the SC students for the past many years.Son of former Cabinet minister and now Congress leader Sarwan Singh Phillaur, Damanvir Phillaur said post-matric scholarship scheme was initiated by the Government of India a few years ago for the betterment and uplift of students of weaker sections — mainly reserved categories or Scheduled Castes. But the scheme which was floated for their betterment turned out to be a major problem for the reserved category students as well their parents.He said shockingly, the Education Department of Punjab issued a circular dated February 22, which capped the fee structure of SC students studying in private colleges by 75 per cent (approximately). He said this kind of action would prove to be a major hurdle in the uplift of the downtrodden section of society. He said for the past 3-4 years, a backlog of approximately Rs1,850 crore is still pending, which is forcing poor students to run from pillar to post.Worried about the dropout ratio of SC students, he said both Centre and state governments should clarify their stance towards the reserved category students and parents, who are finding it hard to cope with the education level of other categories.He appealed to the CM of Punjab and MLAs of reserved category, irrespective of their political affiliations, to take up this issue in the upcoming Vidhan Sabha session, so that justice could be done with the SC students and their parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/take-up-scholarship-scheme-issue-in-budget-session-phillaur-to-govt-218966
01-03-2021||---||Jalandhar lad takes home PTC Voice of Punjab title||Jalandhar, February 28City lad Abhijeet Bhandari (19) has won the PTC Voice of Punjab (Season 11) music competition. The budding singer had in the earlier season of the show managed to grab a seat among the top-four finalists. An ardent lover of Bollywood songs, he has also been making his mark in the classical and popular Punjabi songs.A resident of Daulatpuri in Kazi Mandi, Abhijeet, came back home to a rousing welcome after participating in the show and eventually lifting the trophy.Born and brought up in a family of teachers, Abhijeet developed his interest for singing when he was very young. Seeing his father humming the tunes of songs, he started his musical ride, which he further polished in his entire school life. Though he learnt the basics of singing during school events, he said the competition in his college further taught him the minute details associated with stage presence, mic usgage, changing notes etc.A student of DAV College here, Abhijeet, had also bagged first prize in National Youth Festival, besides winning other youth festival events. He says, before participation in any reality shows, this live stage experience, boosted his confidence and gave him a recognition in Guru Nanak Dev University. To participate in the mega round of the audition, he even had to leave one of his graduation exam to attend the audition. A total of 24 budding singers got selected for the show.He won a five-year music contract with PTC and one lakh cash prize. He wants to focus on pursuing a career in music only. “I want to do playback singing in bollywood. I want to hone my skill as I want to be known as a versatile singer. For this, I have also started taling formal training in classical music,” said, Abhijeet.Apart from his family and friends, his school also celebrated his success by honouring him for his achievement. His college principal also congratulated him for his victory and awarded him with the college colour badge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-lad-takes-home-ptc-voice-of-punjab-title-218967
01-03-2021||---||27-yr-old migrant labourer’s death mystery solved||Jalandhar, February 28 Following the death of a 27-year-old migrant labourer, the city police on Sunday made a big revelation that the labourer did not die of any accident, instead, he was killed. On February 26, victim Sanjit Mahto was reportedly ‘charred to death’ at his room in Lal Bazaar here. He was working at a factory, where jewellery was manufactured. The cops at CIA staff-1 said he didn’t die in the fire incident. He was in fact killed by his friend Sachin Kumar (25), a resident of Sudan Chowk. DCP Gurmeet Singh said when Sanjit was found dead in his room, he had only a t-shirt on his body. After further probe, it was revealed that Sachin used to visit him regularly and sodomise him. On February 26 also, after intoxicating Sanjit, Sachin sodomised him. However, after Sanjeet’s health deteriorated, he, instead of taking him to a doctor, burnt him alive in his room. A case was registered against him under Sections 304, 436 and 201 of IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/27-yr-old-migrant-labourers-death-mystery-solved-218968
01-03-2021||---||Those above 60 to get vaccinated from today||Jalandhar, February 28 The second phase of the Covid vaccination will commence from March 1. Registrations for this phase will begin from today. Those above 60 years and above 45 years with 20 comorbidities specified by the government will be administered the dose. In this phase, barring AstraZeneca’s Covhishied, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin will also be administered. At least, 10,000 doses of Covaxin have been ordered for the district. Those with comorbidities need to produce a certificate from a registered medical practitioner. Even private sector has been roped in to vaccinate citizens. Beneficiaries can get the jab at private hospitals (empaneled with the government) for Rs 250.  The district health authorities said list of vaccination centres will be released after a nod from empanelled hospitals. In the first phase, 35,116 persons registered with the Health Department in the district. These included 15,435 health workers and 19,681 frontline workers. Of these, 21,215 beneficiaries (12,979 health workers and 8,236 frontline workers) have been vaccinated so far. Of 12,979 health workers vaccinated – 8,045 have received first dose, while 4,943 have received their second jab. A total of 40,000 vaccines had been ordered for the district (20,000 already administered, while 20,000 more have been stacked for upcoming drive). District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said: “In the second phase, senior citizens and those with comorbidities will be administered vaccine for which registrations will start on March 1.” He said: “On March 1, we will administer vaccine to some beneficiaries. We expect the process to start in full swing within two to three days. Private hospitals empanelled with the government will also administer the shot. We are waiting for a nod from private hospitals.” No prior info about makers of vaccination  Dr Chopra said: “We have ordered 10,000 doses of Covaxin. Lakhs of people across the country have already been administered this vaccine. Beneficiaries will know makerof the vaccine once they reach the centre. No prior information will be provided on the app. Staff is obligated to tell beneficiaries, which vaccine they are going to be administered.” State Nodal Officer Covid Dr Rajesh Bhaskar: “People are free to choose whether they want to get vaccinated or not. Information regarding maker of the vaccine (Covishied or Covaxin) will be received by a beneficiary at the centre.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/those-above-60-to-get-vaccinated-from-today-218969
01-03-2021||Jalandhar||Supporting talent: 100 sports kits distributed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/supporting-talent-100-sports-kits-distributed-218970
01-03-2021||---||‘Science & tech vital for sustainable future’||Jalandhar, February 28  Pushpa Gujral Science City, Kapurthala, in collaboration with IISER, Mohali, and Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, celebrated National Science Day in virtual mode. Around 200 students from all over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and neighbouring states participated in the programme. This year, the theme for the National Science -2021 was ‘Future of STI: Impacts on Education, Skills and Work.’  Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, while giving introductory remarks said National Science Day was celebrated on February 28 every year to mark the discovery of the Raman Effect by Indian Physicist Sir CV Raman on 28 February, 1928.  She emphasised that science and technology drive every nation’s progress and prosperity and is an essential tool to meet the challenges related to sustainable development. She called upon the teaching community to motivate students to learn and apply scientific concepts in their daily life so as to ignite their interest in research and innovation.  A special talk on bioacoustics was delivered by Dr Manjari Jain, Associate Professor, Biological Sciences, IISER, Mohali, on this occasion. She said bioacoustics was a branch of science that deals with understanding of acoustic communication in animals. This also includes studying the ecology and behaviour of animals such as birds, bats, insects, etc. that communicate with each other using sound and vibrations. Further, she said bioacoustics can also be used to monitor biodiversity and environmental changes including alteration of natural habitats, noise pollution and changes in environmental temperature.  Dr Rajesh Grover, Director Science City, said sustainable future could only be achieved only through science and technology. He emphasised that the knowledge and skills of students in various areas of science and technology must be enriched to develop an informed and knowledgeable society.  A declamation contest was also organised for students of Class VI to XI on the occasion. The first prize in category 1 (class 6 to 8) & category 2 (Class 9 to 11) was won by Kamalika and Sumandeep Kaur from Bawa Lalwani Public School Kapurthala , second prize bagged to Kriti walia and Yashkaran Rattu from Bawa Lalwani Public School Kapurthala and GSSS, Gandhi Camp, Jalandhar, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/science-tech-vital-for-sustainable-future-218971
01-03-2021||---||Man stabs wife to death in Mahilpur||Jalandhar, February 28A cold-blooded murder sent shockwaves across the district after a man killed his wife in a broad daylight.The deceased has been identified as Asha Rani (50). The incident took place in Mahilpur, Hoshiarpur, on Sunday. The accused, Hardeep Kumar (53), forcefully entered his in-laws’ house and attacked his wife with a sharp-edged weapon (kirpan). The police said even parents (Bishan Lal and Darshana Rani) of the deceased were grievously injured in the melee.According to sources, Hardeep had an extra-marital affair and it led to a matrimonial dispute. Owing to an abusive relationship, Asha was residing at her father’s house at Bhagora village.Around 10.30 am on Sunday, the accused first entered the house and after a minor argument, he took out the sword and attacked his wife multiple times. With the same weapon, he reportedly tried to kill his in-laws, who came to rescue their daughter.After hearing the screams of the family, a woman from neighbourhood came to their rescue, but Hardeep chased her away.Somehow, the woman managed to call for help and in no time, locals got hold of the accused and rushed Asha and her parents to the Civil Hospital. Garshankar SSP Tushar Gupta along with Mahilpur SHO Satwinder Singh Dhaliwal reached the spot and arrested the accused.Dr Manpreet Bains of the Mahilpur Civil Hospital declared Asha brought dead and referred her parents to Hoshiarpur.Vijay Kumar, brother of the deceased, said the accused had an extra-marital affair and due to this he had a discord with his sister. On February 9, Hardeep assaulted my sister, said Vijay. A case under Sections 307, 323, 325 and 506 of the IPC had been registered against the accused at Sadar Phagwara police station. “Due to the police inaction, Hardeep could not be arrested earlier and my sister lost her life,” said Vijay.The SHO said the accused was being treated for the injuries he received during the incident.A case under Sections 302 and 307 of the IPC has been registered against Hardeep.The deceased have three sons who reside abroad and the accused is an employee of Indian Railways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-stabs-wife-to-death-in-mahilpur-218985
01-03-2021||In the municipal council poll held recently||Know your Councillors||Her efforts bore fruits, againAmarjit Kaur (49), Ward No. 7, Independent, KartarpurAmarjit Kaur (49), an Independent candidate, was voted to power in the recently held elections. After polling 420 votes, she became the councillor of Ward No. 7, Kulsar Mohalla, Kartarpur. This is her second tenure. Previously, she served people in her ward from 2015 to 2020. She says her entry into politics was a mere co-incidence. She is well-educated and holds BA, B Ed degrees. “My husband has been into politics for the past several years. He was also the president of the Youth Congress. However, after our ward was reserved for women, he pushed me to contest. With his support and experience, I managed to receive maximum seats in the 2015 elections. I believe people voted me to power again because of my efforts that I initiated to develop my ward. In the previous term, I installed street lights in my ward, developed roads, helped the elderly in getting old-age pension, eradicated cleanliness issues and formed community groups to help the destitute and others,” she said.Father-in-law’s experience came in handy for herSherry Kohli (33), Ward No. 7, Congress, Sultanpur LodhiSoft spoken, greenhorn Sherry Kohli (33) won from Ward Number 7 in Kapurthala, the same ward from where her father-in-law Jugal Kishor Kohli was a councillor. It was a chance encounter that drove the two generations of Jugal Kishore’s family into politics, but with time, it has turned into a blessing in disguise. A mother of two children, Sherry tried her hands in politics for the first time but since it was a familiar turf, it was a saving grace. While her father-in-law was elected in 2015 from the same ward, another family member, his sister-in-law, also contested the council elections from another ward. Sherry was fielded from Ward Number 7 this year after it was reserved for women. Jugal Kishore said: “We are jewellers. My son has a shop in the main bazaar. He sits with me at the shop. Our entry into politics was out of compulsion. A political party’s district president pestered us and repeatedly sought money from us even after dishonouring initial transactions with us. We approached authorities and the panchayat, but to no avail. It was finally in politics that we sought solace. People placed trust in us. With my daughter-in-law, the tradition continues. We are thankful to people who placed trust in us.” On being a housewife and taking care of two kids, she said: “That wasn’t a problem at all. The whole family is in this together, so children also understood and everyone was supporting wholeheartedly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/know-your-councillors-218989
01-03-2021||With LPG cylinder||Either state or Centre should cut taxes on petro products||Duties levied on crude oil must be reducedWhile LPG cylinder is a lifeline of the households, diesel or petrol is that of roads. Any hike in prices of these three adversely affects the masses, leading to decrease in the level of disposable income of households. Today, India has one of the highest rates of taxes on both petrol and diesel. The duties have been significantly increased by both central and state governments in order to generate additional revenue. As a result, crude oil prices are increasing sharply on day to day basis. The average Indian is still struggling to surface from the economic chaos inflicted by the pandemic. The price hike is an additional blow for both salaried and business class, needless to mention about daily wage earner. With decline in income due to the pandemic and increase in expenditure due to consistent rise in prices has made it difficult for people to make both ends meet. Hike in diesel and petrol prices triggers a chain reaction as with increase in transportation charges, the prices of all commodities will follow the rising trend adding to the misery of common man. Besides there is no price control on foodstuff, clothes and other daily need items. It makes the situation more critical as we can cut down on luxurious items but what about necessities? Thus, in order to protect the interests of masses, duties levied on petrol and diesel must be reduced.Cinny MalhotraPaying through the noseThe historic escalation in the prices of domestic LPG cylinder, petrol and diesel has become one of the major public concerns in the country. It has attracted widespread criticism from various quarters along with the main opposition parties. The continuous fuel hike will have a cascading impact on every sector of Indian economy which is still slowly recovering from the Covid-induced lockdown. It will push up the prices of essential commodities such as electricity, basic food needs, goods and public transport facilities and so on. Higher national inflation will put extra burden on the consumers who have faced loss of jobs and livelihood or reduced income amidst the pandemic. Farmers, middle and salaried class, and the marginalised sections of society are the worst-hit. As they have to pay through the nose for fuel and gas, they have started staging street protests. Though the Oil Ministry has justified the increase in fuel prices on the pretext of high volatility of crude oil prices in the international market, it is largely due to high levies. The government is in a bind to cope with the prevailing situation; it is passing through an insoluble dilemma, a ‘dharm sankat’. With a drastic cut in subsidy on fuel and cooking gas, its noble initiative to increase coverage of environment-friendly fuel in kitchens under the PMUY has suffered a serious setback. How can the government evade its social responsibility towards the masses? The central and state governments should strengthen fuel and gas prices mechanism to promote their stance on social-economy. Boosting energy generation through alternative sources like sun, wind, bio-mass and bio-diesel, developing high capacity goods and public transport system, and judicious use of fuel and gas are imperatives for sustainable development.DS KangFuel on fire, makes dent in pockets‘Fuel on fire’ was the headline of a news channel. A celebrity once quoted that there are two things certain in life – death and taxes. The governments, both the Centre and State, are translating the quote into reality. They are raising taxes continuously on LPG, petrol and diesel. Even when the crude oil prices are going down in the international market, they are making holes in the pockets of the people. That too during the phase of the pandemic, when many people have lost their jobs or their salaries has been cut because of the recession in the economy. This is the most insensitive and arrogant government since independence. Such a rise in the said items has a cascading effect on other things in the market like food, clothing, labour and transportation, etc. The irony is that the government is buying two specially made airplanes for the President and the PM at a huge price. Also, the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya is costing hundreds of crores of taxpayers’ money. The PM participated in the stone laying ceremony which should have been avoided in a secular country like India. No wonder that the country is going to dogs under this dispensation. Unfortunately, the Opposition is also not raising a concerted voice against such brazen policies of this government. God save India.JS WadhwaGovernment must roll back this hikeDuring the intensity of coronavirus wave, our economy suffered big contraction. Almost entire trade and industrial activity remained severely paralysed by the pandemic as the lockdowns and stringent protocols had to be imposed to save human lives. Consequent upon such measures, loss of jobs and employment put the livelihood of numerous people out of gear. Central government, in order to provide some relief to the distressed, doled out economic package of 20 lakh crore under ANBA. However, while we were just on the path to recovery after having been riddled by the crisis, government ruthlessly hiked price of LPG cylinder to Rs800, petrol breaching Rs100 per litre mark and surging diesel price. The spike in fuel rates is bound to hit the farmers and SRTOs and thus making the life of average Indian further miserable. Obviously, the whole principle of deregulation and dynamic pricing envisaged that reduction in crude oil prices will proportionately benefit consumers. Now when crude price is half way down, the GOI is profiteering off people’s misery by raising excise duty manifolds. Under the prevailing environment, when new cases were reported at many places has increased our worries, sky-rocketing fuel prices is to further aggravate the woes in sustaining livelihood. As such, the government must roll back this hike.NJ Singh ChatrathIt’s going to have far-reaching effectsThe rise in the price of petrol, diesel will directly boost price hike in the prices of essential commodities. The rising fuel and gas prices are affecting the homely budget of especially the middle class families who are struggling for their livelihood survival due to the negative growth of economy throughout the pandemic. Many have lost their jobs. The need of time is to bring petrol, diesel, LPG cylinder under GST keeping in mind ‘One Nation One Tax’. The government of India has pumped funds in shape of financial aid to boost economy to give a push to GDP but the hike in fuel prices, lubricants, essential commodities, etc has specially affected the pocket of every person be it salaried or business class.Rajat Kumar MohindruA gateway for boosting inflationThe price hike’s a gateway for boosting inflation especially of the essential commodities due to the hike in the fuel prices directly affect the mode of transportation which shows inflationary trends. As throughout the world, the pandemic has affected the economy to a large extent, as the items of essential commodities showed sales much then expected where as other businesses showed deflationary trends jolting the employment and increasing unemployment. With this situation no doubt, the PM Modi-led government pumped in financial packages to boost the economy and to bring the same once again on track to give a push to GDP. But, the government hiked the prices of LPG cylinder time to time and brought the subsidy on the cylinder to its lowest amount. With the increase of price of LPG cylinder and essential commodities, the household budget has increased proportionately rather than increase in Income. The government should review the prices of petrol, diesel so that inflation in coming days can be tamed.Simmi MohindruJolts on the bounce for massesIt has really become very hard for common middle class people and daily wagers to make ends meet amid soaring prices for things of daily utilities, particularly gas, petrol, diesel, ration items and general commodities. The concerned departments should come forward with positive solutions for such unnecessary enhances. The pandemic has already uprooted the common man, and in this harsh period regular blows can throw out the unduly sufferers out of the rings of life. Poverty-ridden persons can reach periods of starvation, frustration and can lead towards the broken roads of committing crimes or suicides. Necessary curbs should be made on essential things while decisions for price-hikes are taken so that jolt after jolt may not be accorded to the smooth-going human existence.Harpreet SinghToo much to handle for a common manPetrol prices are getting dearer everyday and it is a matter of deep concern. Petrol and diesel are an indispensable part of our lives. How can a common man afford the petrol prices which are touching Rs92 per litre in the city? The Covid has already devastated everything and now there is one more affliction encountering people ie the high fuel and gas prices. The government is the only hope for the common man of the nation who can reduce the prices of these essential commodities. The affluent people are the ones who are living their lives to the fullest since they have pools of money. However, a common man has numerous responsibilities and it is so hard for him to survive in the present scenario when the prices of essential commodities are touching the sky. The government should make some strategy to reduce the prices of commodities for the betterment of common people.Saahil HansHow shall the stove keep burning?Amid a pandemic, consistent hiking of petrol and diesel and LPG are sky rocketing and only adding worries for the residents when thousands of people are jobless and finding very difficult with salary cuts, the Centre and State are increasing taxes charged on petrol, diesel and cooking gas. I think government is trying to recover their loss caused by closure of toll plazas by increasing the prices of oil and gas but they are least bothered about the people how they will manage in this time of pandemic. Instead of helping, they are becoming a source of tension. How shall the stove keep burning in the households? The government should do something for their own countrymen; at least they should give subsidy to underprivileged and help them in hour of crisis. The government can do anything and everything if they want.Shashi KiranQUESTIONIn view of the increasing Covid cases in Punjab, what measures should the government take to prevent a second surge in the state?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (March 4).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/either-state-or-centre-should-cut-taxes-on-petro-products-218999
