02-03-2021||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar district's 85 elderly inoculated on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 1The second phase of the vaccination drive for people above 60 years of age and those over 45 with comorbidities began on Monday. A total of 85 senior citizens were vaccinated across the 11 vaccination centres in the district on Monday. As the footfall remained low on the first day, only 16 senior citizens (above 60 years) were administered the dose at the district Civil Hospital. Apart from them, 167 frontline and health workers were also vaccinated.Moreover, server issues at the Covidshield vaccination centre continued to trouble operators and the elderly alike owing to which the elderly had to wait for over two hours to take their first jab. Those who had completed their registration on Aarogya Setu and CoWIN apps were also a harried lot. Despite having the registration IDs, their names were missing from the dashboard of the vaccination centre.Vinay Kumar Verma and his wife Geeta Verma, residents of New Jawahar Nagar, who had come to the centre around 11.15 am, said: “We kept sitting outside the vaccination room for two hours. Even as there wasn’t any rush, we could not get the jab on time. The operators told us that our names were not mentioned in the system and we will have to re-register ourselves and that took time.”The couple had even brought the printed copy of their registration and identity proofs. Similar problems were faced by other elderly people as well and their names were entered again for confirmation.Surinder Seth, another resident, said he waited for around an hour before receiving the shot. Appreciating the staff, he said, only the server needs to be upgraded, so as to make the process more efficient. Besides, there must be clear indication of what photo identity was required.Before receiving the Covidshield vaccine jab, written consent was also sought from beneficiaries, who were elated after getting the dose. Dr Indu at the Civil Hospital said apart from 16 people (aged above 60 years), 167 frontline and health workers were also vaccinated on Monday. Proper arrangements were made for people and after receiving their doses, the beneficiaries were asked to rest for nearly 30 minutes outside the vaccination room only.Apart from the Civil Hospital, the remaining vaccination centres in the district have been created in Adampur, Basti Gujan, Kurla, Kungra, Dada Colony, PAP 1, PAP 2, Pp Unit, Bundala, Kartarpur and Phillaur.In the first phase, 35,116 were those who were registered with the Health Department in the district. These included 15,435 health workers and 19,681 frontline workers. Of these, 21,215 beneficiaries (12,979 health workers and 8,236 frontline workers) have been vaccinated so far. Of 12,979 health workers vaccinated, 8,045 have received the first jab, while 4,943 have received their second dose.Total 85 senior citizens were vaccinated across the 11 vaccination centres in the district on Monday. While the count of frontline workers who received the vaccine remained 510, those receiving the second dose were 175 in number, said Dr Rakesh Chopra, District immunisation Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-districts-85-elderly-inoculated-on-day-1-219406
02-03-2021||---||No empanelled hospital able to administer vaccine on first day||Jalandhar, March 1None of the private government-empanelled hospitals in the district participated in the second phase of the vaccination drive for the elderly and those with comorbidities on the first day due to glitches in the Covid portal.While there are a total of 72 empanelled hospitals in the district, they could not start vaccinating the elderlies and comorbid beneficiaries as none of them could be registered in time. Almost all new beneficiaries were primarily reported at the Civil Hospital.While there were about 13 vaccination centres in the district as well, those getting Covid shots also faced problems, as most of the centres didn’t show up on the app, where they were getting registered. Also, none of the centres in Jalandhar started administering the Bharat Biotech Covaxin on Monday. As per health authorities, Covaxin doses won’t be administered on Tuesday either. While some hospitals tried registering all day, they were unsuccessful.Dr SPS Grover, director, New Ruby Hospital, said: “After repeated attempts, we were told by the health authorities late in the afternoon that we first have to buy the vaccine, make payment to a certain account after which we will get registered. By the time we bought the vaccine, it was late as banks were closed. So, we will deposit the money in the account tomorrow morning. We have been assured that we will get registered by tomorrow. While the portal was slow, there were some communication gap as well. Only today, we got to know that our own staff shall administer the vaccine, they will not get any prior training and we have to first buy the vaccine to start registration.”District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said: “The format of the entire portal has been changed and many new features have been introduced. It took health personnel some time to figure out the new technicalities. Due to the first day, the website was slow. Hence, some problems were faced. Private hospitals also couldn’t start working today due to similar reasons. The portal was very slow. Yet, 85 first doses were administered on Monday. At least two to three private hospitals have taken the vaccine already. In all 72 empanelled hospitals, we expect over 20 to begin administering the vaccine on Tuesday.”Of the new beneficiaries of the new phase, elderlies were most keen on getting vaccinated.At least 16 registrations of elderlies, who reported at the Civil Hospital, were carried out by the hospital staff on the spot. In all, 85 first doses were administered, which included frontline workers.Dr Indu Bala, Nodal Officer, Covid, said: “Primarily, elderlies reported at the Civil Hospital, many of whom were not registered. Some were registered on the spot. Delay was also caused because we already had health workers to be vaccinated from previous phases and new registered beneficiaries as well as those who came without registrations. Since registered ones had to be attended to first, the non-registered ones had to wait. Also, being the first day, the portal was very slow and there were many new changes.”Doctors said very few of those with co-morbidities between 45 and 60 years of age reported on Day 1.Garhshankar’s Jaurian Mohalla declared micro-containment zoneHoshiarpur: The district administration has declared Jaurian Mohalla of Garhshankar sub-division a micro-containment zone after eight persons tested positive in the last few days. Additional District Magistrate-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Amit Kumar Panchal issued an order under Section 144 of the CrPC in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said only medical emergency and essential services would be allowed in the micro-containment zone. He said teams of the Health Department would conduct door-to- door survey and contact tracing at Jaurian Mohalla. In addition, all positive cases will be shifted to health centres as per protocol. The Additional District Magistrate said the area had been declared micro-containment zone for 10 days. He said legal action under the Disaster Management Act- 2005 would be taken against violators. The district reported three more fatalities on Monday, taking the death toll to 374, while 41 new cases pushed the infection count to 8,623 in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said seven cases were reported from the city and the remaining 34 were from various health blocks of the district. Three deaths include a 65-year-old Covid-19 patient from Babak village, a 80-year-old patient of Mohkampura village who died at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, and a 66-year- old woman of Chabbewal village who died at DMC Ludhiana. There are 374 active cases in the district, while 8,086 have recovered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-empanelled-hospital-able-to-administer-vaccine-on-first-day-219408
02-03-2021||---||RCF develops high-speed AC 3-tier economy coach||Kapurthala, March 1High-speed oscillation trials of Indian Railways for a new 83-berth AC 3-tier economy coach developed by Rail Coach Factory (RCF) here were successfully conducted in loaded condition at a speed of 180 kmph.The trials of the coach were held in Nagda-Kota-Sawai Madhopur section and desirable results have been attained, said a spokesperson of the RCF. In this new high-capacity passenger coach, where modern passenger amenities have been taken to a new peak, the passenger capacity has been increased to 83 berths as compared to existing 3-tier capacity of 72 berths. Several design improvements have also been made for improving passenger comfort like redesign of the AC ducting to provide individual AC vents for each berth, providing improved and modular design of berths and ergonomically-designed ladder for accessing the middle and upper berths, etc.Giving details, RCF PRO Jitesh Kumar, said, “The design has been improved for both Indian and the Western style lavatories. Each coach is provided with a wider and one disabled-friendly toilet entry door, which is a new initiative. Public address and passenger information systems have also been installed as a part of passenger facilities in these coaches. Ambience and ease of access into coach has been improved by aesthetically pleasing and ergonomic entrance. The interior of the coach has luminescent aisle markers, illuminated berth indicators integral with night lights with luminescent berth numbers. There is also improved fire safety by ensuring compliance to world benchmark of EN45545-2 HL3 for materials, thus meeting the high requirements of the new fire protection standard.”RCF Kapurthala has started keeping all resources in-hand for regular production of these high-capacity AC 3-tier economy class coaches and has planned to roll out its first rake by this month. RCF has production plan of 248 coaches in current and next fiscal years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rcf-develops-high-speed-ac-3-tier-economy-coach-219409
02-03-2021||---||Fast track enrolment under Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana: DC||Jalandhar, March 1 Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Ghanshyam Thori, announced on Monday that the district administration would go on a mission to ensure that all eligible beneficiaries were covered under Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana by March 15. Chairing a virtual review meeting with all SDMs, BDPOs, EOs, and various departments, he emphasised on the need of initiating a special drive to generate maximum e-cards under the scheme. He asked officials to involve their respective councilors and sarpanches in the drive and bring maximum beneficiaries at the special camps so that no one was left without enrolment. Thori said as of now, a total of 3,77,923 beneficiaries have been enrolled under the scheme, adding that as many as 50 special camps were being held by the Community Service Centres, Sewa Kendras, and about 4,500 e-cards were generated daily. He said, 13 government hospitals and 57 private hospitals have been empanelled in the district and the list of empanelled healthcare institutions could be viewed at www.sha.punjab.gov.in.  The DC said the scheme offers 1,579 health packages, of which 180 packages are reserved for the government hospitals and 25 of them can be referred into private hospitals. He called upon the beneficiaries to avail benefits of these special camps in huge numbers so that all eligible beneficiaries could be covered in the scheme.  7,828 beneficiaries avail treatment in Kapurthala  As many as 7,828 beneficiaries of Kapurthala have availed treatment benefit of Rs5.35 crore under the scheme from various government and private hospitals. A maximum of 7,087 beneficiaries in the district underwent dialysis on which the government provided them free treatment of Rs1.35 crore, while 256 beneficiaries spent Rs1.10 crore on maternity care and treatment under natal care.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fast-track-enrolment-under-sarbat-sehat-bima-yojana-dc-219411
02-03-2021||---||It’s time to look beyond conventional farming||Jalandhar, March 1The Agriculture Department officials in the district have been working towards encouraging farmers to adopt maize cultivation and do away with paddy sowing. Several workshops have also been held to guide farmers and motivating them to increase the area under maize. Groundwater depletion is considered as one of the results of paddy sowing in Punjab, which is why the farmers in the state are always asked to switch to sowing of other crops.Dr Surinder Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, said this year, the priority would be accorded to promote crop diversification. He said some improvement has already been witnessed with the increase in area under the maize crop, but a lot more improvement was still needed.“This is a major issue. We have charted out a diversification plan and sent it to the government and we are trying that the farmers get maize seeds on subsidy,” he said.The officer said the areas where stubble burning incidents were reported last year would be given more attention. “This year, we want to bring that down to negligible. We cannot allow air pollution to take a toll on our environment,” he said.Switching to organic farmingNotably, the department has also been organising camps for the farmers at village level, where the farmers have been asked not to use the pesticides and fertilisers unnecessarily. The officer said, “Our target is to make the farmers adopt organic farming,” he said.“The machinery that we have given to the farmers through panchayats or societies, should be utilised properly and maximum number of farmers are benefitted from the same,” he said. Notably, to prevent the stubble burning, a crop residue management scheme was launched three years ago by the Centre. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare had launched‘Promotion of Agricultural Mechanisation for In-situ Management of Crop Residue in the State of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh & NCT of Delhi’ for in-situ management of crop residue. The department’s agenda is to ensure that there are more number beneficiaries this year under the scheme.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/its-time-to-look-beyond-conventional-farming-219412
02-03-2021||In the municipal council poll held recently||Know your councillor||A novice in politics, her social service endeared her to publicManjinder Kaur (60) Independent, Ward No. 15, Vishkarma Market, KartarpurAt an age when most of the people just prefer to retire and stay at home, Manjinder Kaur (60) has decided to take a leap towards social welfare. The Municipal Council elections paved the way for her to reach the masses. She not just contested, but also emerged victorious in her maiden attempt at civic polls. With no political party backing her, she contested the elections as an Independent candidate and managed to gain 293 votes out of 800 and left behind four other candidates. She owes her success to the social works that she and her husband had undertaken earlier. People reposed trust in her and urged her to participate in the elections. “After the demise of my husband, I have decided to work for the public only. The former councillors also support me. Apart from eradicating corruption, my prime focus would be to provide clean and safer streets to the public, development of sewer lines and making clean drinking water to people,” said Kaur.Like father, like sonPawan Kanojia (52), Congress, Ward No. 10, Sultanpur LodhiHe grew up watching his father Shiv Kumar Kanojia in politics. At 52, Pawan Kanojia, a Congressman, contested his first election and won from Ward No. 10 at Sultanpur Lodhi. Father of two young kids, Pawan plans to bring development in his area. Speaking to The Tribune, Pawan said, “My father has been with the BJP and the Akali Dal but for the past 10 years he has been with the Congress. His passion for politics rubbed off on me and this time I wanted to contest the election too. Reaching out to people and addressing the needs and complaints they bring to us gives me immense satisfaction.” While Pawan has two young kids, he laughs as he says they do not care much about politics yet. While his elder son is 16, the younger is 10. Pawan says, “I grew up watching my father and I like this field a lot. But my kids don’t care about it much. They want to study and go abroad. As of today, they are not interested in politics much.” Speaking about the developmental works in the area, he says, “I have always tried to address the troubles of anyone who comes to me with a complaint. Serving people is one of the key reasons which attracted me to politics. I shall be working on the overall development of the area. Streets, sewerage and other works in the ward shall be my top priority.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/know-your-councillor-219414
02-03-2021||---||Vajra Corps celebrates 71st Raising Day||Jalandhar, March 1Vajra Corps celebrated the 71st Raising Day at Jalandhar Cantonment here on Monday.To mark the occasion, Lieut Gen C Bansi Ponnappa, General Officer Commanding, Vajra Corps, laid a wreath and paid homage to the martyrs at Vajra Shaurya Sthal and thereafter addressed all ranks. He said the Vajra Corps was the first army corps raised post-Independence on March 1, 1950. The Corps has proven its mettle on the key Western Front in various wars and achieved its objectives with courage and vigour. The Corps based in Punjab has witnessed some of the fiercest battles in history during the 1965 and 1971 wars. From the graveyard of Patton tanks at Khem Karan to the capture of Barki and Dograi, numerous acts of individual and collective bravery, gallant sacrifices and inspiring leadership have ensured the Vajra Corps played a pivotal role in shaping the history of the nation. The Vajra Corps units have been bestowed with the Theatre honour: Punjab and battle honours to include Dograi, Barki, Asal Uttar, Sehjra and Dera Baba Nanak and is proudly identified as the ‘Defenders of Punjab’.The Corps Commander while addressing the Vajra warriors in a special sainik sammelan held to mark the occasion exhorted all ranks to continue to perform their duties as ‘Defenders of Punjab’, both in peace and war with dedication and in the highest traditions of the Army. He urged all ranks to remain operationally ready to take on the challenges of the future with selfless resolve and courage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vajra-corps-celebrates-71st-raising-day-219416
02-03-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two held with heroin, Rs 1 lakh||Man sent to police remandGarhshankar: Hardeep Kumar, who was arrested on the charge of killing his wife and seriously injuring his father-in-law with a sword, was produced in the court on Monday. Mahilpur SHO Satvinder Singh Dhaliwal said Hardeep was produced in a Garhshankar court which sent him to two-day police remand. The accused reached his in-laws’ house in Baghaura village on Sunday and killed his wife. He was arrested by the people while trying to flee. The Mahilpur police registered a case under relevant sections of the IPC against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-heroin-rs-1-lakh-219417
02-03-2021||---||Lakshit shines in KenKen maths puzzle championship||Jalandhar, March 1A Class VI student of Cambridge International Co-Ed School, Chotti Baradari, Lakshit Jindal has brought laurels by reaching the national-level and securing 12th position in India in KenKen mathematical puzzle game. He has also bagged a gold medal for solving a 6x6 grid in 12 minutes and 10 seconds.Lakshit elaborated, “KenKen is a grid-based numerical puzzle that uses the basic mathematics operations-addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division-while also challenging the player’s logic and problem-solving skills. In a way, KenKen is like a game of pool or even chess which originated in Japan in 2003”.His proud father advocate Manu Jindal explained, “KenKen India organises championships under three categories — Delta from Classes 3 to 5, Kappa from Classes 6 to 9 and Sigma from Classes 10 to 12. It starts from school round, after which the students compete for city level and first few position holders compete in state round. Only a few of them qualify for national-level and luckily Lakshit did it after one year of regular practice.”He said the examination was held in slots in the first week of February and the result was declared recently. “The organisers implemented various technological means to ensure that no unfair means were adopted as videos of all players had to be made and sent during the conduct of the contest”, he added. Lakshit said that his mentor Ruchi Nanda guided him in the beginning and still motivated him for solving difficult grids. “My mom, Meeta Jindal, made me to practice the exercises consistently. Prior to this, I was also taking UCMAS classes which helped me speed up with my mathematical calculations,” he said. Meeta Jindal commented, “Initially, we thought that such activities like KenKen, UCMAS and his passion for drawing would distract him from his main studies. But what we feel is that all these activities have helped him develop traits such as improving on speed of problem solving, making quick decisions etc, which will be of much use to him throughout his career.” Notably, Lakshit has also been practising sketching and portrait making and is taking regular training for the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lakshit-shines-in-kenken-maths-puzzle-championship-219418
02-03-2021||Jalandhar||National Science Day celebrated||Innocent Hearts schoolAs per the CBSE guidelines, various activities were organised in Innocent Hearts School for the students from Classes V to XII on the occasion of National Science Day. The students prepared beautiful posters on the theme ‘Science: Technology and Innovation’. Students also expressed their views on the effects of science and technology on their work, education and ability. Biography of Dr CV Raman, in the form of video, showing his achievements related to human development was also sent to the students from grades V to XII. An online quiz competition was also held in which Einstein Group stood first. Teachers also made the students aware about the importance of National Science Day.Eklavya SchoolEklavya School celebrated National Science Day to commemorate the discovery of Raman Effect by Sir Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman. To celebrate his achievements, the students of the school organised some activities. A speech was given by Baldeep Kaur of Class IX in which she highlighted the path-breaking discovery of Raman Effect which lead to the winning of Nobel Prize by Prof CV Raman. Videos were shown to the students through which they came to understand the several aspects of science and technology and its growth in last few decades. The students of class 10th participated in the science quiz that was held online. The theme of the quiz was ‘Women in Science’. The students actively participated in the quiz. The students came to know about the contribution of women in the field of science. Director of Eklavya School, Seema Handa, appreciated the efforts done by the students.State Public SchoolStudents of Classes VII to XI of State Public School Jalandhar Cantt demonstrated various science experiments on the occasion of National Science Day. They showcased their instinct knowledge of why and how of various scientific principles. To boost their efforts, junior classes visited the exhibition to witness the performance and understand the concepts. President and vice-president of the group of State Public Schools Dr Narotam Singh and Dr Gagandeep Kaur, respectively, and Principal Savina Bahl, appreciated the efforts and wished them best of luck for their future endevours.Workshop on effective skillsThe Freudian Psychological Society of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised an online workshop-cum-interactive session on ‘Effective skills and techniques for school counsellors’. Dr Ashmeen Kaur, HoD, welcomed and introduced the resource persons Rajwinder, Gonica and Shilpi, who are school counsellors from reputed schools of Jalandhar. The resource persons in their sessions explained the stages involved in counselling, the process, the significance of rapport establishment and confidentiality in counselling, the effective counsellor’s skills. They also explained that how the efficient use of capabilities can promote growth and development. They explained the various techniques of counselling with the help of case studies. The faculty members Dr Venus Goyal, Anjana and Deepsha also attended the workshop. All the students of the Psychology Department participated in the workshop.Digital library at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya has shifted library to a digital platform for the facilitation of the students. Library is providing the service of Open Access Catalogue to the students through which students can easily make out as which book is available in the library. Along with this, library also has numerous online resources/ databases namely N-list, DELNET, NDLI and many other web channels broadcast by MHRD, Government of India. All these resources are also available at college website. Facilitating the students, the library has also registered all the students on online resources platform. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi maintained that the students can now also take the benefits of library on digital platform as they will get all kinds of e-resources for their study in one single click.Entrepreneurship MissionLyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus in its endeavor to promote entrepreneurship has become member of National Rural Entrepreneurship Mission under Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education, Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, Government of India. The institute has also constituted Entrepreneurship Cell/Incubation cell with the mission of inculcating entrepreneurship among students. The institute has appointed team of Faculty members as faculty leaders, including Dr Inderpal Singh (HOD, Mgmt), Dr Tarunjit Singh, Dr Ritu Rana and Abhishek Sharma for handling wings of training placement, personality development, technology, repreneurship and rural engagement with the objecting of promoting startups and entrepreneurship. Sukhbir Singh Chatha congratulated the faculty members and students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-science-day-celebrated-219419
