03-03-2021||Phagwara is feared to have become a Covid hotspot in the region. The virus continues to wreak havoc in Doaba. In a matter of days — one week to be more precise — almost six persons have succumbed to the virus||Beware! Virus raising its ugly head, again||A house for the needyRecently, Sarb Naujwan Sabha, a Phagwara-based NGO, built a house for a needy family. The NGO works for the welfare of society and imparts skills to the needy through vocational courses. It has even set up Sarb Seva Sadan for social work. Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal assured residents in his area that the Punjab Government would extend all possible help to the efforts of the NGO for imparting skills to the needy through vocational courses and for setting up Sarb Seva Sadan. He said the Punjab Government was also working in every district through the Bureau of Employment and Business to hone the skills of the youth for employment, while the NGO was working for the welfare of society. He also lauded the efforts of the NGO members for building a house for a needy family.Military training at their commandNCC trainees got a first-hand experience of rifle-drill, shooting, map reading, first-aid, adventure activities and camp training covering the basics of military training during a five-day annual NCC training camp at LPU held in collaboration with 8 Punjab Battalion (BN) NCC, Phagwara. All 88 cadets participated to comprehend the esteemed values and discipline of the NCC. They underwent comprehensive training and classes. Commanding Officer Col Yogesh Bhardwaj said: “NCC is very important for students to succeed in life as its very motto is ‘Unity and Discipline’. The purpose of the camp was to recruit regular students as cadets for basic military training in small arms and parades during their study period on a voluntary basis. Once students complete the training, they are given preference over normal candidates during selections based on the achievements made. Preference can be in the active military service, various other services, and also in admission in the higher education sector.” (Contributed by Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beware-virus-raising-its-ugly-head-again-219623
03-03-2021||Jalandhar||Gold in Indo-Nepal Games||College gets donationLyallpur Khalsa College for Women has got a huge donation from US-based NRI Wali Singh, who has come forward to help the brilliant students of the college. Wali Singh is a philanthropist who is dedicated towards women upliftment and empowerment. It is not for the first time that Wali Singh has donated funds to the college as he has been coming to the aid of students for the last few years. The scholarship amount received from him will benefit around 21 students of the institution. Principal Dr Navjot Kaur said that everyone in the campus felt grateful for Wali Singh for his contribution towards the noble cause. “He is the biggest benefactor and the institution is forever indebted towards his contributions”, said the Principal.Webinar on start-upsTo inspire the students for becoming job providers and not job seekers, the school of management of Innocent Hearts Group organised a webinar on ‘Start-ups and support schemes by Government of India’. The resource person for the webinar was Dr Sheenu Nayyar, senior educationist and Academic Advisor, JPS Institute of Vocational Studies, Kapurthala. Dr Nayyar shared with students, the list of Indian Start Ups like Paytm, Flyrobe, Vedantu, Zomato etc. that made a mark in Indian business sector. The speaker enlightened the minds of students with different schemes initiated by government like Aspire, Start-up India, Atal Innovation Mission for the support of budding entrepreneurs. Thus, she motivated the students to take up innovative start-ups while pursuing their academic degrees. She also counselled the students regarding different government jobs and provided tips to crack competitive exams. Dr Shailesh Tripathi (Group Director) presented a vote of thanks to the resource person. He stated that the objective of the Start-ups India Scheme is to encourage sustainable economic growth and create large scale employment opportunities for youngsters.Dr Harpreet Singh is secy APBioNETDr Harpreet Singh, Head PG Department of Bioinformatics of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, has been appointed as secretary of the Asia Pacific Bioinformatics Network (APBioNET) for the term 2020-2022. Dr Harpreet Singh was earlier elected as the Executive member of APBioNET during. Founded in January 1998, APBioNet is working tirelessly for advancement in the field of Bioinformatics in the Asia Pacific region. Its main thrust areas include the development of the bioinformatics network infrastructure, the exchange of data and information, the development of training programs, workshops and symposia and fostering collaborations. The PG Department of Bioinformatics has been conducting international conferences, symposia, skill development workshops, internships and collaborative research projects to spread awareness about the innovative field of bioinformatics in addition to developing human recourses through a variety of bioinformatics courses at UG and PG level. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen, congratulated Dr Harpreet Singh and the faculty members of the department for this unmatched achievement at international level.Webinar on Social Justice DaySt Soldier Law College today celebrated the World Social Justice Day by organising a webinar on the theme ‘Social justice for peace and prosperity’. Prof Subhash Sharma, Director of the College and former Prof and Head School of Legal Studies Guru Nanak Dev University, was the key speaker. Prof Simi Thind acted as the moderator. Dr Sharma traced the origin of the concept of justice, identified its various aspects and kinds referring to Aristotle and Bodenheimer to conclude that justice is the foundation of the social life. He said, “If a society, country or the world at large is to maintain its existence and progress, it is not possible without social justice”. Referring to the Indian Constitution adopting social, economic and political justice as the preambular objective, Dr Sharma said that social justice embraces political and economic justice because the society as per MacIver is the web of social relations. He wanted law students to contribute towards strengthening the concept of social justice in Indian society when developed countries like USA are away from it. Prof. Sandeep Rani and students Ajay Sharma and Amrish Tripathi also shared their views. Chairman of St. Soldier Group Anil Chopra appreciated the effort of Law College.TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gold-in-indo-nepal-games-219626
03-03-2021||---||Principals’ association seeks UGC pay scales||Jalandhar, March 2The Principals’ Association of Non-Government Affiliated Colleges of Guru Nanak Dev University has demanded implementation of the 7th Pay Commission.In a meeting held at Lyallpur Khalsa College here on Tuesday, the association president and college Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra said the 7th Pay Commission had been implemented in 27 states of the country except Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. He appealed to the government to declare implementation of 7th Pay Commission with all its arrears in the forthcoming Budget session of the state Assembly. The association also opposed the Punjab Government’s decision to de-link Punjab pay scales from UGC pay scales.Dr Samra said education in colleges was completely governed under the UGC and MHRD guidelines and guiding principles and standards for the working of educational institutions were administered by bodies such as the UGC and NAAC. He demanded the revocation of delinking decision and implementation of UGC pay scales from January 1, 2016, in the larger interest of the education sector in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/principals-association-seeks-ugc-pay-scales-219627
03-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Every dog has a good day here||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 2While this kind of a facility is common for metro cities, 22-year-old Eric Ohri is among the few to have introduced it in Jalandhar city.Himself a die-hard animal lover, he is running a pet care centre at his place in Udham Singh Nagar. “Any dog, cat owners, who are going on a tour for a day or more, can leave their pets with me. I take full care of them personally taking them for walks, feeding them, playing with them and providing them all the love and homely comfort that they need. In lieu of this, I charge an amount on daily basis”, said the young lad, adding that he is enjoying the business started last year.Eric OhriI take full care of them personally taking them for walks, feeding them, playing with them and providing them all the love and homely comfort that they need. In lieu of this, I charge an amount on daily basis. We even have veterinarians on call with us, who can come over and vaccinate the dog and even provide the treatment to a pet if it is sick.Studying law from a college in Pune, Eric tells, “I just need a week’s off from here to take my exams there. Rest everything is online. So, it is not a problem for me. I prefer taking prior appointments for the pet day care but if someone just walks in and wants to leave the pet there and then, I still have no issues. There are people who leave their dog for a few hours as they go to work and there are some who need to go on a long trip leaving their pets for weeks with me.”All that the pet owners need to tell Eric is about their routine diet and eating habits and the information if any vaccination is due. “We even have veterinarians on call with us, who can come over and vaccinate the dog and even provide the treatment to a pet if it is sick,” he told, before going on, “the visiting dogs usually take a few minutes to be friendly and a few hours to settle down at my place.”He is open to even providing AC room service to a visiting Siberian husky dog at his daycare. “Actually, I have three dogs of my own, including a Siberian husky, Tibetan mastiff and a pug. In the former times, there were once seven-eight dogs. Everyone at home is completely used to living with his pets.“I never keep my dogs chained. I have a huge lawn where these dogs keep on playing. But sometimes there are unfriendly and less adjustable dogs, so we have to keep them confined and others open and doing this rotation for them so that they all have some time to frolic and play with me,” he discussed. Asked how long he wanted to continue with this business, he replies, “I may add on some business but this one will surely remain always.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/every-dog-has-a-good-day-here-219624
03-03-2021||---||Ustad BS Narang passes away at 75||Jalandhar, March 2A retired professor and a popular classical vocalist Ustad BS Narang (75) on Tuesday breathed his last. He reportedly suffered cardiac arrest.The exponent had lent taleem to the likes of Hans Raj Hans, Jasbir Jassi and Sarabjeet Cheema, among others. Hailing from Nakodar, he received his early lessons from his father Pt Kesar Chand and was subsequently tutored by Husan Lal, Ustad Karam Singh Chakraborty, Dr SL Mishra and Pt KS Jasra. He pursued his graduation from Doaba College in Jalandhar and DAV College. He has served as a professor at DAV College. Besides doing programmes for TV, he used to perform at Hariballabh Sangeet Sammelan and people would come from far to listen to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ustad-bs-narang-passes-away-at-75-219621
03-03-2021||---||Double murder rocks Jalandhar||Jalandhar, March 2Two daily wage labourers were found dead at an under-construction building in Greater Kailash Colony, near Maqsudan, here on Tuesday.The deceased were identified as Komal Ghosi and Ramswarup, both natives of Madhya Pradesh. They were reportedly working at the construction site for the last six months. The cops at police division number one said the incident was reported around 10.30 am on Tuesday.Inspector Rajesh Kumar, SHO at division no. 1 police stationPrima facie it was established that the deceased were murdered. Their bodies were lying in a pool of blood. And they had deep cuts and injuries on their heads. Stones with blood stains were also recovered from the spot, indicating that they were brutally murdered.“Prima facie it was established that the deceased were murdered. Their bodies were lying in a pool of blood. And they have deep cuts and injuries on their heads. Stones with blood stains were also recovered from the spot, indicating that they were brutally murdered,” said Inspector Rajesh Kumar, SHO at division No. 1 police station.The bodies of both labourers were sent to the Civil Hospital for the post-mortem examination. The police verified the CCTV footage of the area to trace the murderers. A team of forensic team was also called to the spot.A case under Section 302 of the IPC was earlier registered against an unidentified person at the police division one.Accomplice still at large, raids onA special investigation team comprising the CIA staff, Special Police Unit and Police Division Number 1 incurred after investigation that the deceased were killed by Raja and Aakash, residents of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, respectively. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said Raja and Aakash were present in the house on Monday evening, when the deceased were preparing dinner. They murdered them with a hammer. “Ramswarup was the maternal uncle (mama) of Raja, who had an old score to settle with him. Also, Raja’s father Bachu Yadav had committed suicide a few days ago. Similarly, his younger brother had also died, due to which Raja wanted to take revenge of both deaths. He killed them with the assistance of Aakash, who is absconding,” Bhullar said. The police have registered a case under Sections 302/34 of the Indian Penal Code and arrested Raja, whereas raids were on to arrest his accomplice Aakash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/double-murder-rocks-jalandhar-219614
03-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||A spring in their steps||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 2Name the plant that flowers in spring season and you will find it at the abode of Col Saranjit Singh Sahi (retd) and Harinder Sahi at Friends’ Colony near Wadala Chowk here.Their corner house, with garden places on three sides, has 40 different varieties of flowers blooming. There are all varieties and colours, including dahlias, sweet peas, marigolds, salvias, dog flowers, gerberas, gladiolus, pansies, petunias, ice flowers, ranunculus, begonias, candytufts, orchids and nasturtium. All blossoming these days, their garden looks so iridescent.The best part is that Harinder has got them planted using a proper contrast scheme like the red salvias juxtaposed along with the white candytufts. She explains, “I have been fond of gardening since my childhood. After marriage, we used to live in cantonment areas with huge spaces all around. I learnt the art of planting flowers there. Another planning which I do while sowing flowers is that the taller plants like dahlias and sweet peas are grown along the walls where they can easily be provided support and the remaining are layered height-wise in descending order. The ice flower plants, which are the shortest, line up the edges on the inner sides of the lawn areas.”Meanwhile, Saranjit developed the passion seeing his wife’s keenness. “Together, we have also started to multiply and reproduce some plants. We already had a nice collection of kalanchoe plants but since these look so pretty in the flowering season these days, we started to multiply them by cutting stems and regrowing them and it has worked so well,” he pointed to a whole row of pink, white and orange coloured of this kind.The Sahis also show a small kitchen garden area on the backside. Pointing to the half-consumed sections of all vegetables, they said, “Here we planted some cauliflowers, spinach, radishes, beet root and cabbages so that we have some organic vegetable of our own.” The garden has a mango and a litchi tree as well amid rows of tall palm and ashoka trees.The couple spends a larger slice of their retired life in the lawn than inside the four walls. “While in winter season, we keep following the sun shifting our chairs as the light changes its direction, in summers we enjoy sitting in the verandah especially in the mornings and evenings enjoying the cool breeze. Like us, even our grandchildren enjoy frolicking all day in the lawns,” both shared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-spring-in-their-steps-219615
03-03-2021||---||143 senior citizens vaccinated on Day 2||Jalandhar, March 2Technical glitches continued to trouble health workers as well as senior citizens, who had arrived at various vaccination centres in large numbers, on the second day of the second vaccination phase. Owing to the amplified awareness on the drive, people above 60 years of age started queuing up at the district Civil Hospital since morning.As around 11 vaccination centres have been created in the district to jab doses of Covidshield to people above 60 and the 45-59 age group with comorbidities, as many as 143 seniors received doses on Tuesday.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said: “Due to technical glitches in the portal, some problem related to registration continued on Day 2. However, after 1 pm, the server was working smoothly. Moreover, apart from one private hospital, no other private hospital could welcome beneficiaries of the second phase. Due to portal problems, we don’t have the exact number of new phase patients reporting and private hospitals were also making arrangements for installation of new server. They were reportedly training their staff before kicking off the second phase.”At the Jalandhar Civil hospital, 200 people, including health workers and frontline workers, got vaccinated on Tuesday. At least 20 private hospitals are expected to start operation from tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/143-senior-citizens-vaccinated-on-day-2-219616
03-03-2021||Ajay Joshi||Never back down!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 2India’s one of the most accomplished Greco-Roman wrestler Gurpreet Singh is preparing for the Olympics 2021 qualifiers these days. Posted as Sub-Inspector here at PAP, the ace wrestler needs no introduction. Ever since he started his journey, his victories have always kept him atop. However, behind the series of achievements is immense hard work he puts into practice to make his mark on mat.The Mohali boy is just 27 and has so far won seven national championships between 2014 and 2020, two-time gold medallist at the Commonwealth Games (2015 and 2017), two-time silver medallist at the Asian Championships in 2017 and 2019, won the World Ranking Series in 2019 and 2020 and many more. He competes in 77kg division.He used to wrestle as a child but started taking it seriously as a 15-year-old. “Even at that time it wasn’t easy for me to take up the sport. The coach in our area refused to train me because I was overweight, compared to other kids,” he talks of past.Slimming down was somehow a big hurdle that he eventually crossed. Later in the year 2011, he played his first sub-junior championships and won a bronze. “It boosted my confidence to continue with the game,” he says. Just when it looked the best of times for smooth sailing of career, injuries on the bounce flattened the rising curve.Right after the event, a major injury on his right knee would sideline him for six months. “Later, within a few days of comeback, my wrist fractured which took another for-five months to recuperate. After almost a year, I restarted playing the sport and took technical training,” the memory is seared on Gurpreet’s mind. In the beginning days, he used to cycle 25 km everyday to reach the practice ground – his day would begin at 3 am.While his father has a transport business, his grandfather used to wrestle in villages. Currently at national camps for the Olympics training, he practices for nearly six hours daily and analyses his videos to improve his game.He is aiming to clinch a medal in the Games, for which he will participate in qualifying round in the next month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/never-back-down-219618
03-03-2021||---||Soon, 154 locations of Jalandhar city to be under CCTV watch||Jalandhar, March 2As the Assembly poll is expected by the end of the year, the pace of development works has expedited in the city. Among various projects getting started is the installation of CCTV cameras at 154 strategic locations of the city.The tenders for the work have been floated. A pre-bid meeting for the project has been called on March 5 and the tenders will be opened by March 24. The company which will earn the contract will have to complete it in a time period of nine months. It will also be overseeing the maintenance and repair work for the next five years. This project which is being undertaken by the Smart City has been attached with similar projects to be executed at Sultanpur Lodhi and Amritsar. The total estimated cost of the project is Rs250 crore.The cameras to be installed will be of pan-tilt-zoom (PTZ) type and will cover all entry and exit points of the city besides some busy markets, religious places, locations, colonies and intersections in the city. The cameras will be linked to Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC). The centre will have software and a dedicated team working on to track the details being culled. It will be able to scan the number plates of all the vehicles and keep a record of the same. It will also have a face recognition system to identify the miscreants and locate them when required. It will be able to match the faces with the photos of the wanted persons fed into the system.The locations where these cameras will be installed have already been earmarked. Some of these locations include Chhoti Baradari Chowk, Dussehra ground Kala Sanghian Road, Kali Mata Mandir, Sheetla Mata Mandir Chowk, Devi Talab Mandir, Gujja Peer Chowk, park near Gurdwara Singh Sabha Model House, Guru Nanak Dev University campus road, Guru Nanakpura railway crossing, Rama Mandi market, Mata Rani Chowk in Model Town, Dakoha railway crossing, T-point of leather complex, Pholariwal Gate, all three gates of city’s railway station, Jalandhar Cantt railway station gate, Verka Milk Plant Chowk, sports market Y-Point and Paragpur octroi post.CEO Smart City project Karnesh Sharma confirmed the development and said the work is expected to get started as soon as the tendering process is complete.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/soon-154-locations-of-jalandhar-city-to-be-under-cctv-watch-219625
