04-03-2021||Ajay Joshi||Double delight||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 3Paramjit Singh Bolina (65) and Jaspal Singh Bolina (63), both natives of Bolina village here, have taken it upon themselves to ensure that the villagers do not suffer in the trying times. Famously known as Bolina brothers, both are settled in the US. Even after 40 years of being split from the village, their heart never really left the place.While they are at present residing in California, nobody returns empty-handed from their house in Bolina, situated 5 kilometre away from Rama Mandi. Similar to the Hindi film, ‘Swades’ which was released in 2004, centered on an NRI taking steps to develop his village, Bolina brothers has left no stone unturned in developing their village. From helping students in academics to keeping the essence of rural games intact, it’s being over a decade, since they have been lending their helping hands to the villagers.Prof Palwinder Singh Bolina, their nephew says, both his uncles visit the village once in a year.“Among their noble gestures include setting up of classes in government schools, funding education of needy students, donating to religious institutions, building homes for the homeless and distributing cash prizes in the annual kabaddi tournament. The prizes help in keeping the traditional circle kabaddi format alive,: added Palwinder.Giving something back to place where they lived their childhood, Paramjit also had the desire to modernise his village so that the villagers won’t have to move to the other places for their needs. As their father was the sarpanch of the village, they followed in his footsteps to develop their village.Palwinder further said that during the lockdown, they provided financial help to underprivileged people. Moreover, during the farmers’ stir the philanthropists came forward to make donations for the protest. For organising langar and other events they sent financial help to the village committees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/double-delight-220333
04-03-2021||---||Nikku Park gears up to host visitors in all its glory again||Jalandhar, March 3Having remained in a dilapidated state for the last few months owing to nil maintenance, Jalandhar residents’ favourite amusement hub — Nikku Park — has finally got a complete facelift.The district administration has finally spent Rs5.41 lakh on the repair of its swings, rides and other facilities.All rides, including amusement bus, toy train and pitch for cricket bowling machine, have been repaired. Music fountains, floodlights and other facilities, too, have been made operational. Work for painting various grills, rides and lamp posts is also being done, which would be finished within a few days.Located in the heart of the city in Model Town, the park is a favourite hangout for one and all, especially small kids. As the park opened around September after months of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, several swings were found to be broken and there was wild growth all around.As the weather condition has become favourable, the daily footfall at the park has also increased. It keeps increasing as the summer months arrive as families bring their children to play here during the evening.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said a special drive was carried out in the last two months to repair all swings besides giving this park a new facelift. He said a slew of new works, including installation of CCTV cameras and repairing of other swings, would be initiated soon.The park was earlier on lease with a society, but the administration took its control back. The new committee formed under Joint Commissioner MC Harcharan Singh initially lamented paucity of funds, but as the footfall increased, the administration said there would be no paucity of funds for its regular upkeep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nikku-park-gears-up-to-host-visitors-in-all-its-glory-again-220334
04-03-2021||Jalandhar||Advt firm takes legal route to stay in the hunt||The MC House had recently passed a resolution to cancel the contract for unipole advertisement allotted to firm Creative Designers. The firm officials have now ‘served a legal notice’ on the matter.The notice has been served on Secretary, Local Bodies Department; Director, Local Bodies Department; Municipal Corporation Commissioner and Joint Commissioner. The firm officials said the contract cannot be cancelled through the MC House without following the procedure for arbitration. The firm has sought a reply from the MC officials within 15 days.Meanwhile, the MC authorities are yet to send the proceedings of the House meeting to the officials of the Local Bodies Department for their approval. The contract would be considered to be terminated only after the Local Bodies officials approve the resolutions of the MC House passed on February 19. The members of the advertisement ad-hoc committee had been alleging fraud in the execution of the advertisement works by the contractor in connivance with the officials. The officials had boycotted the meeting. The unipole advertisement company had denied all charges of fraud. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/advt-firm-takes-legal-route-to-stay-in-the-hunt-220335
04-03-2021||---||20-yr-old youth found dead in Kapurthala||Jalandhar, March 3  A 20-year-old youth was found dead in a pool of blood with grievous injuries on the head and face near a private hospital at Mansoorwal Dona in Kapurthala on Wednesday.  The deceased has been identified as Deepu Sahu, a resident of Mangu Colony in Kapurthala. The 20-year-old, who repaired water filters for a living, had been out of his house for the last two days.  After reports of his death, the brother of the deceased lodged a complaint against unidentified persons at the city police station, Kapurthala. While a box of vermillion and a ‘mangalsootra’ (sacred thread won by married women) was found in the deceased’s pocket, the police say a love affair or the involvement of a woman cannot be ruled out. An FIR was lodged under Section 302 of the IPC. As per reports, his father’s body was also found from the industrial area under mysterious circumstances two months ago.  DSP Kapurthala Surinder Singh said: “The deceased was a young man, a migrant, whose family settled in Punjab 30 to 35 years ago. He left home two days ago. His brother and mother lodged a complaint after his body was found. They said he had a clash with some persons a few days ago. The investigation is in its nascent stage. Several leads are being followed. There were very severe sharp weapon wounds on his head and face. With the things found in his pocket, the matter can also involve a woman. We are verifying and investigating.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-yr-old-youth-found-dead-in-kapurthala-220336
04-03-2021||---||Students bring home 7 medals||Phagwara, March 3Five students of bachelor of physical education and sports (BPES) programme at Lovely Professional University have won seven medals at the 29th Senior National Wushu Championships.A six-day tournament from February 25 to March 2 was organised by Wushu Association of India in Chandigarh. More than 43 teams comprising of 1,000-plus best players from all 28 Indian states, eight Union Territories, CRPF, BSF, ITBP and Services Sports Control Board (SSCB) had participated. LPU medal winners are now able to further compete at Asian and world games.LPU student Geeta alone won three medals. In Taolu events of the championship, Geeta won gold medal for Nandao style; silver for Nangun and bronze for Nanquan. Among other students, Babli won silver and Sandeep Kaur bronze for Taijiquan style. In Sanda events, Priya won bronze in 60kg weight category and Tansiv won bronze in 75kg division. LPU students had represented their respective states of Jharkhand, Punjab and Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir.Taolu involves martial art patterns, acrobatic movements and techniques for which LPU students were judged, and given solid points. LPU students’ basic movements, including positions, kicks, punches, balances, jumps, sweeps, and throws exhibited their winning strengths. LPU winners for Sanda – a modern fighting method and a full contact sport – displayed combating deftness for boxing, kicks and wrestling.Congratulating the winners, LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal shared: “Wushu players at LPU are now making a mark towards international-level participation and winning thereof. I feel these skills are not merely a sport but also a self-defence tool, especially for women and children. They should learn this art for self-protection also.” The championship was inaugurated by Minister for Sports, Youth and NRI Affairs, Punjab, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, where he was accompanied by president, Wushu Association of India (WAI), Bhupinder Singh Bajwa.Know what’s WushuWushu, commonly known as Chinese Kung-fu, is a complete martial art sport. Here, ‘Wu’ stands for military or martial and ‘shu’ for art. In contemporary times, Wushu has become an international sport under the International Wushu Federation (IWUF). It is presently an official event at the Asian Games, Southeast Asian Games, and the World Combat Games among other multi-sport events.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-bring-home-7-medals-220339
04-03-2021||---||1,863 students take part in e-Sabyatech||Jalandhar, March 3The CT Group of Institutions organised a mega event e-Sabyatech-2021, in which around 1,863 students from 207 schools of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Jammu participated in an online event on the first day. As many as 350 students competed for the finale in an offline event organised at CT Group today.The valedictory event was inaugurated by Charanjit Singh Channi, Chairman CT Group, Manbir Singh Managing Director, Harpreet Singh, Vice Chairman, Dr. GS Kalra, Campus Director and Dean Academics, and Dr Vaneet Thakur, Additional Director Admissions. Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja graced the occasion as the chief guest.Students from schools namely Baba Bhag Singh International School, Janta Model Senior Secondary school, Heights Academy, Golden Public School Holy Heart Junior School, Christ King Convent school, Army Public school Beas, Police DAV Public School, DAV Centenary Public School and SBS Evershine Convent School etc participated in the event.Nine different events such as singing, solo dance, painting, poster making, collage making, quiz, poem recitation, story writing and essay writing were organised on the event. The overall trophy was lifted by His Excellent School and Institute, Hoshiarpur, with a cash prize of Rs 31,000 whereas the second prize of Rs 21,000 was won by St Soldier Divine Public School, Una road, Hoshiarpur and third prize of Rs 11,000 was won by Dayanand Model Senior Secondary School, Jalandhar.Dr Vaneet Thakur, Additional Director Admissions, said, “Our key objective was to offer a wonderful platform to the budding talent to showcase their talent in various fields both culturally and technically.” Chairman Charanjit Singh Channi congratulated all winners and appreciated students’ performances and also thanked students and their school authorities in making Sabyatech-2021 a grand success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-863-students-take-part-in-e-sabyatech-220340
04-03-2021||---||BKM college to impart skill development training||Nawanshahr, March 3The Ni-MSME, an organisation of the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), recognised BKM College of Education, Balachaur, as its authorised training centre (ATC) for skill development and entrepreneurship programmes.As an ATC, the college will train students in 10 skill- based courses.Students who have completed Class X and XII are eligible to get enrolled in these courses. These courses have wide array of scope both in India and abroad. The trainees would also be able to secure government jobs after completing these courses.It’s pertinent to mention that the authorities of Ni- MSME and State Training Associate Anand Group of Colleges, Amritsar, will guide and monitor the ATCs for smooth conduct of these courses.The college management shall grant special fee concession to first 10 candidates seeking admission in the college.Principal Dr Balbir Singh Jamwal said it’s a matter of honour for the college to be recognised as the first ATC in Nawanshahr district by the Government of India.10 Courses in the offingThe college will train students in 10 skill- based courses, including diploma in nursery teacher’s training (2 years), nursery teacher’s training (1 year), diploma in fire & safety management (1 year), advance diploma in fire & safety management (6 months), certificate in fireman (6 months), diploma in digital marketing & e-commerce (6 months), certificate in digital marketing (3 months), early childhood care & education (1 year), certificate in nanny (6 months) and yoga teacher’s training (1 year)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bkm-college-to-impart-skill-development-training-220341
04-03-2021||Jalandhar||Traders seek another Focal Point||Industrialists based at Focal Point Extension here held a meeting to discuss about the Budget of Punjab Government. They said last year, the main focus of state’s budget was on promotion of industry in three districts of Punjab by setting up new Focal Points, but Jalandhar was not included in the list.  Narinder Saggoo, president, Jalandhar Focal Point Extension Association, told Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry that the Punjab Government should focus on developing new Focal Point in Jalandhar for setting up new and mix-zone industries since no new point has been allotted to Jalandhar after 1992.  The members said emphasis should be laid on simplifying procedures for industry and trade and giving easier access to government subsidies and easier implementation of rules and regulations to make industry-friendly environment. “Jalandhar is a hub of hand tools, valves and cocks, rubber industry, engineering good, leather industry, and sports industry etc,” Saggoo stressed while raising the points. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traders-seek-another-focal-point-220342
04-03-2021||---||BSF personnel learn the ‘art of living’||Jalandhar, March 3 A six-day workshop on ‘Art of Living’ got underway on Wednesday for the Border Security Force personnel deployed at the Frontier Headquarters here. The resource persons from the Charitable Trust of Human Development Centre, Bengaluru, are training the attendees here. Through various modules, the jawans and officials are being trained to keep themselves physically fit and maintain good mental health. They are being trained on keeping cool and staying alert even in the stressful and tough times. As the programme will continue till March 8, the personnel will also get training in yoga, said senior PRO, BSF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bsf-personnel-learn-the-art-of-living-220343
04-03-2021||Jalandhar||Patwari caught taking bribe||5 shops sealed in Model TownJalandhar: To expedite recovery of property tax from commercial buildings in the city at the fag-end of the financial year, the Municipal Corporation has started with its sealing drive. Beginning from posh area of Model Town, the officials on Wednesday sealed five showrooms, including popular eateries and salon. The buildings which faced action include outlets such as Wok Singh, I Love desserts, Looking Sharp, Motor Junction and another shop. Getting the action implemented, Assistant Commissioner SS Sidhu said: “The last date to deposit property tax with 10 per cent penalty is March 31. From April 1, 20 per cent penalty on the amount and 18 per cent annual interest would be levied from defaulters. Hence, we appeal to all defaulters to quickly pay up the amount or be ready to face a stern action.” TNS350-kg poppy husk seizedJalandhar: Three people were arrested with 350-kg poppy husk by the Adampur and Bhogpur police here on Wednesday. Those accused are residents of Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir. They used to smuggle drugs to Jalandhar, Ludhiana among other districts under the garb of bringing in soil, or rock-laden trucks. A case under Sections 15-C, 61 and 85 of the the NDPS Act was registered against the accused at the Bhogpur police station. The accused have been identified as Sahibzad of Akbarpur, Gurgaon; Yabar Hussain and Yasser Ahmed, both residents of Doda in Jammu and Kashmir. During a naka at Kureshia, Bhogpur, a police party spotted a truck (JK-01-AH-8676), which was stopped for checking. On searching, 350-kg poppy husk was found stashed in it. The naka was held based on a tip-off which stated the three accused had been supplying poppy husk in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Kapurthala. SHO Manjit Singh, Bhogpur police station, carried out the proceedings with a police party. The police said the poppy husk kept in sacks has been recovered and the track had also been seized. The police said more revelations are expected in further probe in the case. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/patwari-caught-taking-bribe-220347
04-03-2021||Jalandhar||Those above 60 mainly reporting to get the jab||Those above 60 years have been making it to vaccination centres to get the jab in the second phase. And the numer of those above 45 years with comorbidities is almost negligible.At Global Hospital (one of the private empanelled hospital) where vaccination drive began on March 2, 111 beneficiaries, mostly senior citizens reported in the last two days (51 on Tuesday and 60 today).Even as citizens eagerly sign up for being vaccinated, persisting glitches in the software has made things a bit chaotic as entries can’t be updated on real-time basis. At private centres, unregistered elderlies were not being entertained.Ashok Anand (74), went to the vaccination centre set up at the Global Hospital, with his 68-year-old wife, Urmil Anand, and 84-year-old brother, Brij Bhushan Anand.Ashok said, “It is very necessary that we get ourselves vaccinated. The Covid-19 has impacted elderlies the most. The vaccination offers much-needed respite.”Harminder Singh Sehgal, who came to get the jab, said, “The portal to register for the vaccination does not function properly. Thus, it’s difficult to get registered. I was able to register as the portal was working. It is very necessary to get vaccinated as it provides protection.”Prof RN Ghai, who was waiting to get the dose, said, “On Tuesday, I came to the hopsital to enquire about the vaccine and I registered on the app. I will get vaccinated today and my wife will be vaccinated later. We have heard that one does gets fever for a day or two. So, both of us don’t want to be vaccinated at the same time.”Dr Navjot Dahiya, chief, IMA (Punjab), and MD, Global Hospital, said, “At least 110 beneficiaries have got themselves vaccinated in the last two days. Technical glitches do persist. We have not been able to make entries of people who got vaccinated on Tuesday on the portal yet. After consultation with the district health authorities, we have been allowed to make entries in retrospect because the portal is not working. Also one-time password (OTP) is not being generated. A patient trying to register since afternoon, received his OTP at 1.30 am. There is a need to review the process.”Speaking about senior citizens primarily reporting to get vaccinated, Dr Dahiya said, “A few people with comorbidities are reporting for the vaccination. This is probably because those with comorbidities have to get a health certificate from a registered medical practitioner.”PIMS all setJalandhar: The PIMS is set to initiate the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Resident director, Amit Singh said: “Beneficiaries will be closely monitored after vaccination and we will be in touch to know about their experience. Registration is open and those eligible will be able to register and book an appointment using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal (www.cowin.gov.in). People can register on the Co-WIN 2.0 portal by keying in their mobile numbers and following the steps.” Director Principal Dr Kulbir Kaur said as the country has begun inoculating its elderly against the coronavirus disease, all necessary arrangements have been put in place. In this phase, people above the age of 60 years and those above 45 years who are in the high-risk category will be administered the dose, he said.1,160 administered doseNew cases hit a century in Hoshiarpur Hoshiarpur: The fresh cases of Covid crossed the 100 mark in Hoshiarpur on Wednesday. The reports of 2,352 samples were received on Wednesday, of which 90 new positive cases were reported from the district, while 18 patients were from other districts. With this, the total number of positive patients rose to 8,760. With one more Covid death on Wednesday, the toll rose to 375. The number of active cases in the district is 463, while the number of patients who have recovered is 8,161. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said of 90 positive patients found in the district, 15 positive patients have been found in Hoshiarpur city and the remaining 75 have been found in other health blocks of the district, while 18 were reported from the districts. He said there were 18 hotspots and eight micro-containment zones in the district. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/those-above-60-mainly-reporting-to-get-the-jab-220349
04-03-2021||Coming as a matter of great pride||Magical toy for national fair!||Central team reviews rising Covid casesIn view of an increasing number of students and teachers at Nawanshahr schools testing positive for Coronavirus, a Central team visited the town on Monday. The members met Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Agarwal and Civil Surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapoor and discussed the situation and measures being taken to contain the spread. The team comprised Dr Mandeep K Bhandari, Joint Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, GOI, Dr Lakshmi from the School of Public Health, PGIMER, Chandigarh, and Dr Ashutosh from the PGI. The team stressed on intensifying testing, making home quarantine mandatory and doing 100 per cent sampling in containment zones. They also visited containment zone Kariam in Muzaffarpur block.Of Prashant Kishore and his Re1 salaryThe appointment of media strategist Prashant Kishor as the Principal Adviser of Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh recently has drawn flak from various corners. Nawanshahr-based activist Parvinder Kitna was quick to react to the news as he commented: “Punjab does not need any strategy. Punjab is for elections”. This post became very popular. But soon this followed with another jibe coming from him: “May God save us from people who take Re 1 salary. Parkash Singh Badal and his cabinet also took only Re 1 salary in one tenure but Punjab has not yet come back. One rupee of Prashant Kishore is not known to Punjab in how many crores-billions.” The second one drew even more response.(Contributed by Deepkamal Kaur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/magical-toy-for-national-fair-220352
04-03-2021||Jalandhar||Swachhta Mission||Save the girl child‘Save girl child day’ was observed at Eklavya School to raise awareness about saving the girl child for a brighter future. Jasleen of Class VIII gave a speech, in which she explained how girls are superior to boys. A video about respecting women was shown to students. Students of Class V made beautiful charts to spread awareness among each other. A skit was also presented by the middle school students. Chairman JK Gupta encouraged everyone by saying that women should be respected as they truly deserve this for their hard work and patience. Director Seema Handa said we should not discriminate between a girl and a boy, as both stand on the same platform. Administrator Dimpal Malhotra said without women, we cannot think about our existence.Little artists exhibit colouring skillsIvy World School organised a colouring competition for the kindergarten wing. The little artists participated in the competition with great zeal and at the same time took great care to colour their ‘masterpieces’ with their creativity. The tiny tots exhibited their skills by filling colors in the given picture. The motive was to improve their motor skills. Motions such as holding brushes and scribbling with crayon can help in the development of tiny muscles in his wrist, fingers and hands. Principal S Chauhan congratulated the achievers and applauded the participants on their creativity. CEO Raghav Vasal conveyed their worthy thoughts that such competition helps children in exploring new ideas, creativity as well as a sense of colours.Hazards of mobile radiationsThe department of students welfare at Apeejay Institute of Management and Engineering, technical campus, organised a webinar on ‘Hazards of mobile radiations’. The resource person was Dr Harvinder Kumar, Prof and HoD, ENT, PIMS. The webinar was organised keeping in mind the harmful impact of technology on our lives and to make students aware of the same. It was attended by the faculty members and students from MBA, MCA, BBA, B Com, BCA, B Tech. It started with a warm welcome address by Rajesh Bagga, director. Pooja Khanna from the management department introduced the resource person to the audience. Dr Harvinder spoke about the harmful impacts of using mobile phones. He discussed in detail the ailments such as cancer, sleep disorder, increased accidental risk, heart problems, infertility, hearing impairment, skin allergies, infections etc. caused by using earphones.Empathy CornerKanya Maha Vidyalaya has initiated ‘Empathy Corner’ outside the college campus, which aims to create a sense of responsibility and empathy among the younger generation. It is a place where daily requirements of common people such as clothes, blanket, shoes, utensils, toys etc. are placed. These can be picked up by any needy passerby. Different departments of the college have collaborated with the Gandhian Studies Centre in the functioning of the Empathy Corner. Among various social initiatives, the college has been doing consistent work for the students of Banarsi Dass Charitable School, Transport Nagar, Jalandhar, adopted by KMV in 2009. The college has extended assistance in the form of providing benches, tables, chairs, getting the school building whitewashed, stationery, bags, blackboard, fans etc. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/swachhta-mission-220353
