05-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Parents, schools in a fix||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 4After 270 positive cases were reported from the city on Thursday, parents of wards going to schools or about to appear for annual exams are a worried lot.Reason: A large number of students and teachers are reporting positive on a daily basis. Parents have been demanding that the mode of examination be changed to online from offline, as they do not want to send their kids to schools. Many schools had earlier issued instructions that students from Class VI onwards will appear for offline examination, while those in primary classes will take online exams. But as more cases began to be reported from schools, parents began approaching the authorities to exercise liberty. Later, numerous schools changed the plan and called only Class IX and XI students for offline exam and asked others to continue with online exams.Parents of kids studying at Guru Amar Dass Public School reportedly went to the institute to request the management to ensure that students of Class IX and Class XI also should not be asked to appear for offline exams. The school authorities told them that proper standard operating procedures (SOPs) were being followed and their children were safe. At last, parents gave a written request and the authorities said they would get back to them.Meanwhile, most government schools have been adamant. A parent of a Class IX student of GSSS, Nehru Garden, shared an audio where a teacher sent a voice message to students to ensure 100 per cent attendance during their practical exam, which was held today. It’s learnt that many students preferred to skip the exam.Numerous school authorities have gone for a rethink and find a solution. Rashmi Vij, Principal, Police DAV Public School, said, “We are calling students from Classes VI to XII for taking the exam. Classes X and XII are also taking pre-boards these days. When we announced offline exams, the situation was far better, but now it’s grim and we are still thinking how to go about it. We somehow wanted that students take their final exams in schools, so that they prepare well. The online examination, I feel, was only a mockery.”Vij, said, “We ensure that students practise social distancing, head straight to their seats and go back home in the same manner. We have told students and teachers that we will be liberal with them in case anyone in their family is sick. We will either reconduct their exam later or give them average marks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-schools-in-a-fix-220730
05-03-2021||Hoshiarpur||Drug-free week: 47 FIRs lodged, 51  arrested||The district police launched a special drive against drug menace during ‘Drug-free week’ that started from February 25 and concluded on March 3. During the drive as many as 47 cases were registered and 51 persons were arrested, besides seizure of heroine, charas, psychotropic substances, intoxicant powder etc. SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the police in association with general public also organised awareness meetings at different places to apprise the people about the effects of this menace on human health and society. He said the police had carried out search operations at 10 places including Bikrampura Mohalla, Chandigarh Mohalla in Tanda and Deenowal in Garshankar, etc.Mahal said that during the drive the police arrested arrested 51 drug peddlers and seized 161-gm heroin, 816-gm intoxicant powder, 30-gm charas, 1,847 intoxicant tablets, 520 intoxicant capsule and Rs 1 lakh drug money. He said the police also arrested four proclaimed offenders (POs) wanted in several cases registered under the NDPS Act and seized 7000-litre lahan and 6750ML illicit liquor and filed cases.The police have been keeping a close vigil on the activities of drug peddlers who are out on bail to tighten the noose around the menace, the SSP said. He said that no one involved in the drug peddling would be spared and strict action would be taken against them. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/drug-free-week-47-firs-lodged-51-arrested-220731
05-03-2021||Hoshiarpur||Currency notes ‘rain’ at manager’s house||A bank manager tired of currency notes ‘raining’ at his house filed a complaint with the police. So far, Rs14,000 has been handed over to cops.  Model Town police station SHO Karnail Singh said they have received a complaint in this regard by a resident of Hira colony. He said the complainant found Rs520 on his terrace on February 27. Later, Rs1,500 and Rs8,000 was found from the same spot, thus amounting to Rs14,000. The SHO said the complainant lives on the first floor. Earlier, currency notes used to fall on terrace, but after the complainant installed CCTV cameras, notes were found lying around the gallery. He said a balloon with Rs500 currency notes also fell at his house. We are thoroughly investigating the matter, said the SHO. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/currency-notes-rain-at-managers-house-220732
05-03-2021||---||6 cricketers from dist make it to senior team||Jalandhar, March 4Six players of the Jalandhar District Cricket Association (JDCA) have made it to Punjab Senior Women’s Team, which has been announced ahead of the BCCI Women’s Senior One-Day Trophy League.Punjab Cricket Association joint secretary Surjit Rai Bitta said six JDCA women players got selected in Punjab’s team, which is praiseworthy for selected players, their parents and coach Ashutosh Sharma.The players include Mehak Kesar, Priyanka Malik, Simran Gandhi, Neetu Singh, Saloni Sood and Krishma Rana.The tournament will be held at Indore, Madhya Pradesh and it’s the first championship of the BCCI domestic season in which Punjab will play their first match on March 13 against Nagaland.Coach Ashutosh Sharma said 10 Jalandhar players out of 39 players got selected in the Senior Women’s Camp held at Mohali and six made it to the team. “While Mehak Kesar and Priyanka Malik are experienced players, remaining four players have also proved themselves on various occasions”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-cricketers-from-dist-make-it-to-senior-team-220735
05-03-2021||---||Travel firm told to pay Rs 15,000 to Jalandhar resident||Jalandhar, March 4The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission on Tuesday directed a Delhi-based Chinese airlines office to pay Rs15,000 for issuing an invalid US visa to a city resident.Complainant Jagdeep Singh (32) intended to travel to the US on December 2, 2016. Subsequently, he brought a ticket of the airlines from its local office here. It was a round-trip ticket, for which he had to board the flight from Delhi to Taipei (Taiwan) and then from Taipei to San Francisco, CA, and the same was for the return flight. The travel agency issued the ticket to him after conducting all inquiries regarding visa and other requisite formalities. On December 20, the complainant was boarded on a flight from Delhi airport in the China Airlines-CA 182 to Taipei as per the reservation.When the flight landed in Taipei, Jagdeep was directed to change the flight from C1 182 to CI 4 as per the ticket, after which, he went to board the flight from Taipei to San Francisco. However, to his surprise, he was refused to board the flight at Taipei airport by the staff of Chinese Airlines. He later learnt that he does not have a valid visa for travel. He was dropped at Taipei Airport without stating a bona fide reason. He was compelled to stay at the Taipei Airport on his own expenses for 3 days . The officials even allegedly threatened the complainant to sign some documents on the pretext that they would get him arrested in some false case. Subsequently, he was sent back to Delhi. He said he had already travelled to the US on the same visa in 2015.Having been deceived, Jagdeep filed a complaint under the Consumer Protection Act on November 9, 2017. In it reply, the officials of the airlines said the complaint was not maintainable and that they had received an information from the Department of Homeland Security of the US that there was a security threat perception and as a precautionary measure, the complainant was de-boarded. Also, he was asked to reappear in the embassy. Moreover, the complainant had ill-intentions to flee from the country and flout immigration rules, they said.To this, commission president Kuljit Singh and member Jyotsna said knowing the travel history of the complainant, the airlines should have declined the visa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/travel-firm-told-to-pay-rs-15-000-to-jalandhar-resident-220736
05-03-2021||An imposing pink façade sparkling in the pre-summer sunlight juxtaposed against blue skies||Two of a kind||A symbol of secularism and the Avant Garde architectural passions of the Maharaja of Kapurthala, Maharaja Jagatjit Singh, the mosque is fashioned after the Grand Mosque or Kutubiyya Mosque in Marrakech, Morocco. Of the many architectural gems built under the Maharaja’s patronage – which had then earned the town the title of ‘Mini Paris’ – it is reminiscent of the one in Morocco.A plaque right outside the mosque reads, “The Moorish Mosque was constructed by order of his highness Maharaja Jagatjit Singh Bahadur GCSI, GCIE, GBE, the work was in progress from October 1926 to March 1930. The total cost amounted to Rs4 lakh. The inauguration ceremony took place on the 14th March, 1930, in the presence of his highness Nawab Sadiq Mohd. Khan Bahadur, ruler of Bhawalpur state. The congregation numbered over a lakh.”The undertaking is a direct result of the Maharaja fancying the designs and the architecture of the Orient and France. With arched pavilions and internal domes, it stands apart from other traditional Indian mosques. It was conceived by French architect Monsieur M Manteaux.A minbar (or mimbar) pulpit in intricately carved marble is from where the Imam stands and delivers his sermon (qutbah) to the congregation. As stated in the plaque, during its inauguration amid a bustling Muslim pre-Independence population of one lakh in the area, today when the Friday prayers are offered a congregation of merely 250 people turn up.The mosque is ornamented with marbled courtyards, with an inner altar marked with a vibrant alcove painted in soothing shades of blues, pinks and turquoise, a yellow dado and a wooden dome, which dates back to the mosque’s initial construction time. The altar’s alcove is marked by Arabic inscription in soft blues. The prayer hall is an arched wonder and the entire building’s exterior pinks and interior yellows are contrasted with green tiled domes (exteriors) and green painted doors and windows. Intricate lattice work and golden chandelier mark arches and gates.“The main building is built on 16 and a half kanals. It has six fountains and a huge garden. There are only two similar buildings in the world of this design…one in Morocco, one here,” says Imam Shuakat Ali, a Muhafiz at the mosque, who has been serving here since 1994.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-of-a-kind-220739
05-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Sanjhi Rasoi yet to resume feeding the poor, awaits admn nod||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 4While normalcy has returned in almost every sphere since the coronavirus outbreak, a subsidised meal scheme — Sanjhi Rasoi — started by the state government in 2017 has not yet been restored in Jalandhar.While a banner in the name of Dhan Guru Ramdas Langar Sewa still hangs outside the community kitchen set up on the premises of Jalandhar Civil Hospital, the space continues be used by the hospital for Covid testing.A few months after the Congress government came to power, it had started Sanjhi Rasoi scheme with the aid of the district administration, Red Cross society, an NGO and local industrialists and philanthropists. The scheme was started on May 16, 2017. Initially, a tie-up was made with NGO An-Jal Society and a nutritious meal only at lunch time was served to the poor for Rs10.Initially there were some glitches, but slowly city residents also got associated for the cause, as they had begun sponsoring a day’s meal to celebrate their birthday, marriage anniversary and in remembrance of their deceased family members.However, later in February 2019, the scheme was further extended making three meals available from 7 am to 7 pm daily that, too, free of cost. Based at Pur-Hiran village of Hoshiarpur, Dhan Guru Ramdas Langar Sewa came forward to handle free meals for the poor running the kitchen continuously for 12 hours a day. The poor here got tea, biscuits, rusks, buns or porridge in breakfast, rice or chapati, along with vegetable or pulses in lunch and chapati or rice with vegetables for dinner. The free service was available for all seven days.However, due to corona outbreak, the administration got the meal scheme disbanded to avoid further spread of the disease through a common kitchen.However, Buta Singh, who works for the langar sewa in Hoshiarpur, said: “We are continuing to serve the poor through our own mobile langar system. We are sending our vehicles to 32 hospitals from Ropar to Amritsar with free langar delivery. We are also sending langar vans to bus stands, railway stations across Punjab, including Jalandhar, as these areas have high footfall of the poorer lot. We would like to resume langar sewa at the Civil Hospital, too, whenever the administration wants us to return.”About the scheme||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanjhi-rasoi-yet-to-resume-feeding-the-poor-awaits-admn-nod-220742
05-03-2021||Our Correspondent||451 seniors vaccinated in three days in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, March 4As many as 451 senior citizens and 45 comorbid patients have been inoculated in Hoshiarpur district so far. The registration process to facilitate senior citizens and comorbid patients for getting the Covid vaccine has started at all Sewa Kendras across the district.Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Amit Kumar Panchal said the senior citizens in the age group of 60 years or above and those between the age of 45 years and 59 years with comorbidities, who are unable to get themselves registered at online portal CoWIN 2.0, could make their registrations through 25 Sewa Kendras. He said necessary directions in this regard had already been issued to all Sewa Kendras, where registration could be done by furnishing a photo ID card as proof. He said people having comorbidities will have to produce a certificate in this regard issued by a registered medical practitioner. He said Rs30 would be charged for registration at Sewa Kendras.After registration, the beneficiary can visit a nearby hospital to get the Covid vaccine, said Panchal, adding that the vaccine was being administered at 17 government hospitals and seven private ones. The ADC said the government hospitals included Civil Hospital Hoshiarpur, Police Lines Hospital, Civil Hospital Dasuya, CHCs Binewal, Bhaul Kalota, Mand Bhander, Hazipur, Tanda, Harta Badla, Buddabarh, Bhunga besides Civil Hospital Garhshankar, Mukerian and PHCs Chakkowal, Posi and Paldi, while the vaccination was also being inoculated at seven private hospitals namely IVY, Aman, Modi, Central, Narad, JJ Hospital Children and Women Wellness Centre and SS Medicity, Talwara Road, Mukerian. More private hospitals would be included in the list, if needed, for vaccination in time to come as per the requirement in the district, he said.Urging people not to panic or believe any misinformation, Panchaal said eligible people could get themselves registered in Sewa Kendras as the Covid vaccination was the call of the day in present context.4 succumb to virus, 8 test positiveHoshiarpur: With the arrival of eight new positive patients in Hoshiarpur district, out of the reports of 170 samples, the total number of positive patients has increased to 8,768. With four more deaths reported on Thursday, the death toll reached 379 in the district. As many as 2,668 new samples from the people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Thursday. The number of active cases is 443, while the number of patients who have recovered is 8,203. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said of today’s eight patients, five have been found in Hoshiarpur city while the remaining three are from different health blocks of the district. The total number of samples taken in the district so far has become 3,20,626 and 3,05,772 are negative, while 7,769 reports are awaited and 202 are invalid. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/451-seniors-vaccinated-in-three-days-in-hoshiarpur-220743
05-03-2021||Phagwara||Smart India Hackathon||World Wildlife DayJalandhar: World Wildlife Day was celebrated by Eklavya School. An online video was shown by Anuradha, an educator, to senior school students to focus that India is home to the great Himalayas and many other mountain ranges with unique biodiversity. Primary school students did colouring activity. An online speech was given by Namrata of Class X and Leher of Class IX on the UN report on Sustainable Development Goal and Conservation of Wildlife Biodiversity. Chairperson of Eklavya School, JK Gupta, said: “World Wildlife Day gives us an opportunity to spread awareness about protecting the forest biodiversity as these delicate ecosystems are under tremendous pressure from climate change, overexploitation, and pollution”. Director Seema Handa said, “It is necessary to educate children and people that mountains and forest provide fresh water, clean energy, food, and recreation”. Principal Arvinder Kaur appreciated the efforts done by the kids. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/smart-india-hackathon-220749
05-03-2021||Hoshiarpur||Flak for ‘selling’ hospital land||Minister Arora gets jabbedHoshiarpur: Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora, who is the MLA from Hoshiarpur, got his Covid shot on Thursday. He was administered the jab at Government Hospital, Phase-6 SAS Nagar. Arora patted the back of health warriors and scientists for their remarkable efforts in quick time to strengthen the global fight against Covid-19. OCYouth gives LED screen to schoolJalandhar: Sumit Basra, alias Ladi, has donated one LED screen to a government school on the occassion of his marriage. As part of the smart school mission, donations are been being made at government schools by Good Samaritans. Similarly, Basra (31) had planned to donate an LED screen at Government Primary School, Virk village, Phillaur. As a member of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Young Sports and Lok Bhalai Club, Basra had made his contribution in various other donations and social work events. Along with him, Gurmail Singh, an NRI from the village, also funded 111 pairs of uniform for students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flak-for-selling-hospital-land-220804
05-03-2021||Aparna Banerji||21-yr-old exhorted youth to join farmers' agitation in Delhi||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 4“Our lives have been destroyed. There is no one to help us now,” says Jagtar Singh, 61, whose 21-year-old son died during a road accident while coming back from the Singhu border.On December 16, 2020, Gurpreet Singh, a young progressive farmer from Makkowal Jabba village in Nawanshahr, died when the tractor he was driving collided with a truck near Ambala. Gurpreet’s death has left his parents and 90-year-old grandmother shattered.Planning to go to Singhu after his son returned, Jagtar has no clue who will manage his land now.It was Gurpreet who had exhorted the village youth to go to the protest site at Singhu.Jagtar says, “Gurpreet urged village youth to go to Singhu. He asked them not to worry about the tractor-trailer cost as he promised them that he would take his own.”“Gurpreet said we must take part in the agitation against the new farm laws. He said history was being made by the farmers’ protest in Delhi,” recalls Jagtar.While Jagtar’s elder son lives in Australia, the family owns just 5 acres of land and has a Rs 17-lakh pending debt.Jagtar says, “Gurpreet had got a three-year visa for Australia. He went there for three months, but returned soon. He said rather than doing hard labour there, why shouldn’t he work on his own land here. He loved Punjab.”Jagtar says, “Our house isn’t the same. My elder son was abroad and younger with me. I was happy. Now Gurpreet has left us. Who will look after the fields now? However, if the central farm laws are not revoked, we will lose our fields as well. It’s a fight for existence.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/21-yr-old-exhorted-youth-to-join-farmers-agitation-in-delhi-220625
