06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Night curfew imposed in four Punjab districts to tackle coronavirus||A night curfew was imposed in Punjab’s four districts from Saturday to tackle a recent surge in coronavirus cases.The orders came after Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan and Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta held a meeting to review the coronavirus situation with all DCs, district police chiefs and civil surgeons through a video conferencing. The districts where the night curfew has been imposed are Jalandhar, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala.Read also: Centre rushes high-level teams to Punjab, Maharashtra amid rapid surge in Covid-19 cases12 more Covid deaths, 1,179 new cases recorded in PunjabThe night curfew will remain in place in the districts from 11 pm to 5 am.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori had earlier in the day said the order will be effective from Saturday till further directions.However, there will be relaxation for workers or staff working in factories which run on 24-hour shifts and also in cases of medical emergency. These orders will not be applicable on people returning after travelling in buses, trains or flights.  The chief secretary in a tweet has urged people to get themselves vaccinated and to continue to follow the COVID-appropriate behavior.Last month, the Punjab government had authorised deputy commissioners (DCs) to impose the night curfew in coronavirus hotspots if needed.  Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases for nearly four weeks.Jalandhar reported 242 cases on Thursday, 134 cases on Friday and 154 on Saturday, promoting the district authorities to take this decision.Jalandhar is at the second spot in terms of coronavirus cases after Ludhiana. It has so far reported 22,410 COVID-19 cases.There are a total of 926 active cases in Jalandhar as of now, according to a medical bulletin.SBS Nagar, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur on Saturday reported 156, 85 and 137 cases, respectively.Punjab on Saturday reported 1,179 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 187,348 cases. Twelve more deaths took the fatality count to 5,910.Punjab is among the five states that have been asked by the Centre to refocus on strict surveillance, containment and RT-PCR testing to check the growing number of cases. The other four states are Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.Earlier, health officials had ascribed the upswing in the number of cases to non-adherence of COVID-19 safety guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing by people.  Earlier, the state government had lifted the night curfew from January 1 because of a decline in coronavirus cases. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/night-curfew-imposed-in-four-punjab-districts%C2%A0to-tackle-coronavirus-221485
06-03-2021||Fatehpur (UP)||Abducted 3-year-old UP girl rescued from Punjab’s Jalandhar||A three-year-old girl who was abducted from a locality here was rescued from Jalandhar in Punjab, police said on Saturday.The girl’s aunt and her boyfriend were arrested in this connection, they added.Girl’s aunt Nishu Dwivedi (20) had abducted the child on Tuesday and went to her boyfriend who was living in Jalandhar, Fatehpur SP Satpal Antil said.A police surveillance team reached Jalandhar on Friday and safely rescued the girl, he said.Nishu and her boyfriend Navdeep Singh alias Ginni (25) were arrested, Antil added.During interrogation, Nishu told the police that she had run away from the house to marry her boyfriend and had taken the child along so that both she and her boyfriend could stay in a hotel as husband and wife without inviting any attention, the SP said.She said she had no intention to harm the child, he added.The girl was handed over to her family, he said.Nishu and Navdeep would be produced in the court on Saturday, Antil said.The girl’s father is a teacher, the police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/abducted-3-year-old-up-girl-rescued-from-punjabs-jalandhar-221449
06-03-2021||---||Police bust inter-state gang of drug peddlers||Jalandhar, March 5The Jalandhar Police Commissionerate on Friday arrested two persons (an inter-state gang of peddlers) and recovered 4 kg of opium and 50 kg of poppy husk from their possession. Jalandhar Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the CIA Staff-I intercepted a truck (HR-68-A-5148) near Paragpur police post.Bhullar said truck driver, Malkiat Khan, and his accomplice Ranjit Singh, alias Jeeti, told cops that they were transporting plastic granules, which were to be delivered in Baddi and Patiala.The Commissioner of Police said the truck was inspected under the supervision of Assistant Commissioner of Police Major Singh and cops recovered 50 kg of poppy husk stacked under the plastic bags and 4 kg of opium hidden in the cabin of the truck. Bhullar said during interrogation, the accused confessed that they were part of an inter-state gang of peddlers.He said the accused revealed that they were into this trade from the last three years and this consignment was to be handed over to some person on the national highway. He said the duo used to bring contraband from Chittorgarh (Rajasthan) and supply it in the state. He said a case has been registered under Sections 15, 18/61/85 of the NDPS Act against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-bust-inter-state-gang-of-drug-peddlers-221142
06-03-2021||---||AAP protests fuel price hike, demands immediate rollback||Jalandhar, March 5The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday held a protest against rising fuel prices (petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders) in the city.The Jalandhar unit of the AAP protested outside the DC office and burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Rajvinder Kaur, district chief (urban), AAP, said the steep rise in petroleum products has impacted everbody. Principal Prem Kumar, district president (rural), AAP, asked the Centre to reduce prices of petrol and diesel.The AAP’s activists submitted a memorandum to Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori in this regard. It’s difficult for a common man to run a household in this situation, said Principal Prem. He said if prices were not rolled back by the Centre, then they would intensify their protest.Taking on the Congress, the AAP leaders said the state government has failed to provide smartphones, jobs and end drug menace.They said if the AAP forms government in 2022 in the state, then it would ensure free water supply, electricity at low rates, good schools and mohalla clinics to residents.Ramneek Randhawa, Dr Shiv Dyal Mali, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Darshan Lal Bhagat, Sanjeev Bhagat, Atamprakash Babloo and Tarandeep Sunny, among others, were present on the occasion.Free water, electricity if elected to powerTaking on the Congress, the AAP leaders said the state government had failed to provide smartphones and jobs to students. They also said the Punjab government also failed to end drug menace in the state. They said if the AAP forms government in 2022 in the state, then it would ensure free water supply, electricity at reduced low rates, good schools and mohalla clinics to residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-protests-fuel-price-hike-demands-immediate-rollback-221144
06-03-2021||Hoshiarpur||119 cops inoculated||Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal on Friday appealed residents to strictly follow the health guidelines in the wake of the Covid-19 surge.As many as 119 officers (70 got the second shot) of the Punjab Police and other departments were vaccinated at the Police Lines Hospital today.While receiving the second dose, the Senior Superintendent of Police said he tested positive last year and tackled the virus by taking precautions. “All of us should be serious to protect ourselves and society from the Covid-19. We should not have lax approach and wear masks properly, wash hands at regular intervals and practise social distancing, besides following the health guidelines,” said Mahal.He said he himself took the second jab and there was nothing to worry about. Earlier, a team of doctors led by District Health Officer Dr Lakhvir Singh administered the second dose to the police personnel.Those who received the jab include SP (H) Raminder, SP (D) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu, SP (PBI) Mandeep Singh, DSP (H) Gurpreet Singh Gill, DSP (control room) Amar Nath, DSP (rural) Gurpreet Singh, DSP (city) Jagdish Raj Attri and Naib Tehsildar Gurpreet Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/119-cops-inoculated-221145
06-03-2021||---||Works worth Rs 84.53 lakh sanctioned||Jalandhar, March 5To address the stray cattle menace, besides ensuring an adequate supply of potable water, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday approved Rs. 84.53 lakh for the construction of a cattle pond in Kanian village in Shahkot block and a new water supply scheme in Baghela village of Nakodar block.While chairing a meeting, the DC directed the Rural Development and Panchayati Raj and Water Supply and Sanitation Departments to submit their detailed proposals so that requisite funds could be transferred for these projects. The DC said both the projects were of vital importance as one aimed at eliminating stray cattle problem while another focused on ensuring clean drinking water to people.He said funds worth Rs 38.55 lakh would be required to build a cattle pond at Kanian village in Shahkot block while a sum of Rs. 46.03 lakh to be spent on a new water supply scheme in Baghela village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/works-worth-rs-84-53-lakh-sanctioned-221146
06-03-2021||Rupinder Singh Brar||Remembering ‘Father of Sikh Encyclopedia’||Popular perceptions being what they are, scholarship is not something that comes easily to mind when one considers the Sikh community. Yet, the community has produced some notable historians who not only left behind rich literary legacies, but exemplified in their personal lives what it meant to be a scholar sage. For example, in the 17th century, it was Bhai Gurdas, in the 18th Bhai Mani Singh, in the 19th it was Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha and Bhai Vir Singh and in the 20th, several names come to mind. Prominent among them is Professor Harbans Singh, whose birth centenary falls on March 6.Born in the village of Kotha Guru in Bathinda district, Prof Harbans Singh rubbed shoulders with intellectual giants like Wilfred Cantwell Smith of Harvard, yet carried himself with such casual grace that he left a lasting impression on all whom he met. Said a Canadian scholar once, "To know such a person is to emerge a bigger, better person oneself.”An embodiment of Nanakian virtue, his best lessons were delivered not through seminars or books but through example. When SGPC president Gurcharan Singh Tohra, together with Parkash Singh Badal, honoured him with a cheque for Rs 25,000, not a small amount in those days, he refused to accept any money, insisting that it be used for promoting Sikh studies instead.A prodigious mind, his first major university appointment came as head of the department even before he was quite 23. His heart, however, lay in scholarship, not administration. In 1966, he produced his first major work in English, a definitive biography of Guru Gobind Singh. Not only was the book translated into most Indian languages, its Sanskrit translation won the coveted Sahitya Akademi award. Three years later, he produced a biography of Guru Nanak. It was another major achievement. The Times Literary Supplement, London, called the book, ‘Guru Nanak and the Origins of the Sikh Faith’, “the best short study of Guru Nanak’s life, and an outstanding example of modern Sikh scholarship”.More similar works followed. He travelled extensively, lecturing in Japan, Belgium, the Netherlands, England, Ireland, and the USA. Most men would rest comfortably upon such laurels, but not him. In 1972, he set out to produce an encyclopedia of Sikhism. It was an unbelievably ambitious goal, even for him. There were many sceptics. Wrote Khushwant Singh, “I do not know where he will find 4,000 contributors who have the discipline required to write factual, accurate and unbiased pieces in the exact number of words prescribed.”Undaunted, Harbans Singh created a team of writers and researchers around him. He painstakingly collected and reviewed every paper, artifact, and bit of data, then edited and reduced all information into concise entries. Months turned to years and years to decades as the work stretched into the late 1990s, and yet he toiled away doggedly. Impressed, the academic and the lay communities finally took notice. Guru Nanak Dev University awarded him an honorary doctorate. The SGPC bestowed upon him a special award. By now, even Khushwant Singh had become an admirer. “A start has been made at Patiala to produce the Encyclopedia of Sikhism,” he wrote. “Harbans Singh… its editor-in-chief, is the right man for the job. How many professors are there who turn down offers of Vice-Chancellorships? Harbans Singh refused one that was offered to him on a platter.”It was true, but by then the Professor had sacrificed much more than a prestigious post in his magnificent obsession. Despite suffering a paralytic stroke and losing his loving wife, he slogge d on relentlessly. He breathed his last on May 30, 1998, literally days after completing his monumental work. He was gone but his legacy was secure. Later that year, the Prime Minister himself would release four volumes.Recognitions continued posthumously. In 1999, he was awarded the ‘Order of the Khalsa’ by the community and later still Punjabi University created a full-fledged Department in his name. However, the highest homage came from another, more familiar source. In 2019, another historian, Prof Nikky Guninder Kaur Singh, his daughter, came out with a book on Guru Nanak — a fitting tribute to a worthy father.The writer is a practising physician in Yuba City, California||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/remembering-father-of-sikh-encyclopedia-221148
06-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||4 weeks on, BMC flyover repair begins today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 5Almost four weeks since cracks appeared on BMC Chowk flyover, construction firm SP Singla and Company will finally start the repair works from tomorrow onwards.It is being estimated that the repair work undertaken by the company on the bulge that appeared on the sides of the approach road falling towards Apeejay School will take about 10 days. The company, it is learnt, has agreed to undertake the repair works without seeking any amount from the Municipal Corporation despite the fact that the defect liability period for the flyover had already got over. As the work would be started, the traffic on the service lanes too will have to be diverted till the time the work is completed.It has been decided that once the company finishes repairing the bulge and fixes the protruding tiles of the retaining walls of the flyover, the Municipal Corporation will relay the road over the flyover to make it motorable again. The whole repair process is expected to take about two weeks to make the flyover functional again.Cracks had appeared on the approach road of the flyover while going towards Apeejay College, on February 9, after which it had to be closed. For over three weeks, the officials of Jalandhar Improvement Trust, who got the bridge constructed in 2011, and the Municipal Corporation kept on shifting the onus of maintenance on each other. While the MC officials had said they could not find the record pertaining to the handover of its maintenance to it, the JIT had finally on February 26 produced copies of the same and handed over the baton the MC officials. JIT Chairman Daljit Singh Ahluwalia had shown documents wherein the maintenance of flyover had been handed over to the MC since 2012 onwards.As the matter got finally resolved, the action plan for repairs has finally been initiated. MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma said, “The technical experts from the company who checked the site have told us that the condition of the bridge is as good as it was 10 years ago when it got constructed. They have told us that the crack could have appeared perhaps because of some seepage of rainwater into the base of the approach road. There is also a possibility of choking of the internal drainage system. So, while they will repair it, they will resolve all issues and put things back in proper order. Getting it done from the company that constructed it was the best way out and through our talks we managed to get it done for no additional charges.”Asked if the company had also given a report that the MC had initially sought after inspection of the flyover, the Commissioner said no such report was required as the site visits had been properly done and repair work too would be done from tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-weeks-on-bmc-flyover-repair-begins-today-221151
06-03-2021||---||Jalandhar declared safest city in Punjab||Jalandhar, March 5The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has ranked Jalandhar city at 32nd position among 62 cities in the country with a population of less than one million in the ‘Ease of Living Index 2020’.The city secured 52.18 points and is the only one from Punjab to figure in this category. The city scored 100 and 96 points in safety and security categories.Editorial: Misleading liveabilityNeed to ensure holistic, sustainable development of citiesJalandhar Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said its’s a proud moment for us and our responsibility has increased to serve the people of the city. “We will continue working at the same pace and won’t rest till the city becomes the safest in the entire country,” he said.Also read:The city scored 50.6 in terms of quality of life, while Ludhiana scored 57.36 and tops the state in this category. Jalandhar city scored a dismal 5 points in recreation and nil in green building category. It got 90 points for survey under the housing and shelter category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-declared-safest-city-in-punjab-221152
06-03-2021||---||8 food samples collected in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, March 5A team of the Food Safety Department on Friday collected eight samples from various food operators. Dr Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner, Food Safety Department, led the team, which conducted checking at hotels, restaurants and sweet shops, among others.Officials took samples of burfi, petha, chana, aloo tikki, soya sauce, ketchup, red-chilli powder and soda water.Dr Pal said inspection was carried out on the orders of Kumar Rahul, Food Wing, Kapurthala. He said sweet shop owners were directed to display ‘best before date’ on sweets, so that customers can know till when a particular sweet could be used for human consumption. “This is in accordance with the instructions issued by the FSSAI. If anyone is found violating the order, stern action will be taken,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-food-samples-collected-in-kapurthala-221153
06-03-2021||Jalandhar||Star cricketer||Blood donation campCT Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences organised a blood donation camp under the guidance of Civil Hospital Jalandhar. During the camp, more than 100 students and faculty members donated blood. A contingent of 10 team members comprising of doctors and technicians from the Civil Hospital, IMA- Jalandhar branch and staff and students of CT Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences contributed effectively for the same under the guidance of Dr Navneet Kaur. The students were counselled for safety and significance of blood donation in societal interest. On the occasion, CT group managing director Manbir Singh, vice-chairman Harpreet Singh, campus director Dr GS Kalra and Principal CTIPS Dr Surya Gautam were present along with students and staff members.Lecture on hospitality sectorPhagwara: GNA University in association with Institutional Innovation Council (MHRD initiative) organised a guest lecture on the topic ‘Hospitality Entrepreneurship- Travel & Food Blogging’. The resource person for the lecture was Sidharth Bhan Gupta, an entrepreneur, hospitality consultant, food and travel blogger. The session commenced with Sidharth Bhan Gupta, wherein he shared his experience about how his career took shape through various curves as an employee to an entrepreneur. He talked about his own dream to be an entrepreneur, initial planning, and support system, step one to start with and further, strategy, challenges and success. The session also focussed on providing insights to the students on what they could expect in coming days and strategies to prepare themselves for an enriching career in hospitality travel and food blogging. He even invited entries from students to submit him their blogs to participate in blog writing competition to win award, certificate and some prize. He also invited students to join him on an expedition to review fine dining restaurants in New Delhi region. The students’ questions were also answered by the guest speaker.Freshers’ partyA freshers’ party was organised by senior students of St Soldier Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology to welcome the first year students. Students presented various entertaining activities such as modelling, dance, singing, solo act, bhangra and gidha. Sameer was adjudged Mr Farewell and Deeksha adjudged Miss Farewell, while Simranjot Singh was chosen as Mr Personality, Simran Kaur as Miss Personality and Rajat was adjudged best performer. Principal Sandeep Lohani welcomed the students and appreciated the preparations made by the seniors, saying that such theme parties were an important part of the hotel management studies. Chairman Anil Chopra motivated the students to work hard so as to achieve their goals in life.Placement driveJalandhar: The department of mechanical engineering along with training and placement cell of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, School of Engineering, Jalandhar, organised a placement drive at Aman Engineering Works (Kranti Meters), Jalandhar. To the rejoice of students of ME department, a total of 11 students Ankush Kotwal, Harshit Dhiman, Simranjit Kaur, Sachin Kumar, Nishant, Adarsh Kumar, Mukesh, Pankaj, Babloo, Ankushdeep and Ramandeep were placed as graduate engineer trainee (GET) at Kranti Meters. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, director of academic affairs, KCL group, and Dr RS Deol, deputy director of academic affairs, KCL, group, appreciated the effort of department and T&P cell and congratulated students.Tributes paid to Prof BS NarangThe death of music legend Prof BS Narang came as a shock for all music learners. The faculty members of music department of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya paid tribute to the departed soul by organising a prayer meet. Head of music vocal department Dr Prem Sagar said Prof Narang’s departure was a great loss to the music industry. He said that his teachings would always give strength in our lives. Principal Ajay Sareen also paid tributes to him and said that it was a big loss to the music industry. “Prof Narang was not only a musician but he was a social worker and he always tried to provide respect to everyone”, said Prof Sareen. She prayed to Almighty to grant peace to his departed soul. He has served as professor at DAV College. He has served as professor at DAV College. On the occasion, head of music (I) department Dr Santosh Khanna, Dr Pooja Manhas, Dr Sarvjit Kaur, Shilpa Talwar, Narayan Dass and Sunny were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/star-cricketer-221154
06-03-2021||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||All in good time||Hoshiarpur, March 5“This year has started well for me with ‘Vision 21’, an International Art Exhibition, organised by Positive Energy Art Group in collaboration with SeeDin Studio, Thailand, and Charcoal Foundation, Bongora,” says Jaspal Singh, an artist.There are several projects lined up for this year. In the near future he is going to have varied art projects from different corners of India. Some of the concepts are concerned to life of women in society and some related to creative energy behind the present scenes. “Pollen Artworks project is one that is relevant to present socio-cultural events of our country. I have gone through a different kind of experience during the lockdown and staying at home convinced to me think about factor of time, a rich and motivating thought for me…how to overcome a long-time silence and negativity,” he tells.He has collected seeds and waste to generate new vibes in his works. Positive energy, according to him, can only be achieved through personal change and changing things around us. “I collected some different kinds of wastepaper material to achieve colourful results. Installation is another option to prepare out of wooden material and try to achieve dimensional forms. Certain drawings I am adding in my ‘dreamscapes’ to continue my last time desire project.”This project had always motivated him because famous writer, poet and filmmaker Gulzar had commented on my painted watercolor paintings ‘desires are the fire’. “Those words still move me to continue with the ‘desire series’ of drawings and paintings,” he shares.Some of his foreign art projects are in planning forum. One he has already submitted for International Group Exhibition at the American gallery with my Greek professor, artist and friend, another is my digital print project for International Art Festivals, in Mexico.“Kala Vart Niyas ( an organization), Ujjain, is going to honor my existence in the art world of India…feeling proud to have this honour after Punjab Lalit Kala Academy, Chandigarh, and Punjab government’s honor at the time of Guru Nanak Dev’s 550th birth celebrations,” he hopes that all things happen in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-in-good-time-221140
06-03-2021||Aparna Banerji||Schools turning into hotbed of infections||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 5As many as 136 students from private and government schools have tested positive in the past 48 hours, clearly indicating that schools have become a ‘hotbed’ of Covid-19 infections. At least 86 students from government and private schools tested positive on Thursday and 50 more students tested positive on Friday.These 50 are a part of the 177 fresh cases which have been reported in the district today, taking the district’s total tally today to 22,256. The DEO has ordered the closure of eight schools in the district for 48 hours. A majority of those tested positive today are also from the same schools which figured in the list on Thursday.After the first random Covid testing at the Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Phillaur, on February 27, a student and a teacher at the school tested positive. Since then, a total of 842 tests of the school staff and students have been conducted in which 60 students and 4 teachers have tested positive. While four teachers and 37 students tested positive yesterday, 23 more students have tested positive today. Test results of more students are also yet to come.The DEO said all students who have tested positive will stay quarantined at their homes for the coming 15 days.Sushila Kumari, Principal of the Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Phillaur, said, “The students were coming for the exams and were made to sit amid strict social distancing. But it has been upsetting to see so many of them testing positive despite following protocol. We are also worried about students and their well being. We will be taking all steps to ensure the safety and well-being of students. Whether the closure of the school is extended or not is the prerogative of the Health Department.”On Thursday, schools at Lamma Pind, Bhogpur, Basti Sheikh, Meritorious School, Government School, PAP, Kanha Dhesian, Phillaur and Deep Nagar reported positive cases. A majority of cases has been reported from the Government Girls School, Phillaur, which reported 37 positive cases of students and one teacher on Wednesday. At St Josephs School, Deep Nagar, 10 teachers tested positive yesterday. Some of these schools have been reporting positive cases previously too — the Government School, Kanha Dhesian, saw five students testing positive previously and a student and teacher tested positive on Thursday. While at the Meritorious School also, 10 students had tested positive on February 25. At the Basti Sheikh School, two students had previously tested positive.DEO (Secondary), Harinder Pal said, “We have ordered the closure of eight schools where students and teachers tested positive. The hostel of the meritorious school will also remain closed till its sanitisation. They’ll remain closed for 48 hours. It is only after sanitisation that they will be reopened. It is not necessary that the virus has been contracted from the school.”Asked whether schools will be closed, the DEO said, “The affected schools have been ordered to be closed but the rest will remain open.” Teachers and parents of students at the affected schools remained a worried lot. The Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Phillaur, one of the most prestigious schools in Jalandhar, has strength of 1,300 students and a class has 50 to 60 students, who have been attending the school since the pre-boards.Fearing infections, some teachers at other government schools have also started proceeding for leaves. District Nodal officer, Covid, Dr TP Singh said, “There is certainly a rise in the number of cases but in Jalandhar, we are also carrying out a very intensive contact tracing. As many as 51 students have tested positive today. Intensive contact tracing is taking place in the district and we are also intensifying contact tracing to cover as many students and trace maximum contacts.”Alarming situation at Phillaur schoolAfter the first random Covid testing at the school on February 27, a student and a teacher at the school tested positive. Since then, a total of 842 tests of the school staff and students have been conducted in which 60 students and four teachers have tested positive. While four teachers and 37 students tested positive on Thursday, 23 more students have tested positive on Friday. Test results of more students are also yet to come. The DEO said all students who have tested positive will stay quarantined at their homes for the coming 15 days.A single class has 50-60 studentsSources at the Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Phillaur, said: “Around 50-60 students have been sitting together in a class. Though we had been ensuring social distancing, how can we ensure that a strict protocol is followed? The attendance had increased manifolds since the pre-boards were held since they had to be compulsorily conducted offline. So, all students, barring those who are ill, were asked to come.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/schools-turning-into-hotbed-of-infections-221141
