07-03-2021||In the municipal council poll held recently||Know your councillors||Tejpal Singh (49), Independent, Ward No. 3, KartarpurTejpal Singh (49) was elected as the councillor from Ward Number 3 in Kartarpur. Considering his entry into politics a mere coincidence, Singh said it was his second term as a councillor. Earlier, he served for his ward from 2015 to 2020. Tejpal Singh (49), Independent, Ward No. 3, KartarpurMy major aim is to make my ward cleaner, repair sewers, construct road, streetlights, include more beneficiaries in the pension schemes, make documentation process smooth in government offices and other things...Leaving behind his four opponents of leading political parties, Tejpal, a resident of Dalyalpur gate, polled 457 votes in his favour. He said: “People established trust on me and elected me as their counillor. It was in 2015 when one of my friends, who was already a councillor, insisted that I contest the municipal elections. My friend only filled my nomination papers. Good rapport with residents in my area made me a winner earlier and taking account of the work I did in my previous tenure, people elected me again. Now, my major aim is to make my ward cleaner, repair sewers, construct road, streetlights, include more beneficiaries in the pension schemes, make documentation process smooth in government offices and other things.”Swapandeep Kaur Chahal, Ward No. 7, Congress, MehatpurPursuing a doctorate degree in English, Swapandeep Kaur Chahal (32) is perhaps one of the youngest and the most educated councillors of Jalandhar. She represents Ward No.7 of Mehatpur nagar panchayat after having recently won the elections. Swapandeep Kaur Chahal, Ward No. 7, Congress, MehatpurThough general development of the ward in terms of good roads, streetlights, water supply and sanitation will always be my top priority, I also wish to impart free coaching to all needy children in my area. I do not want any child to remain a laggard just because he/she could not afford good education.... Young Swapandeep has taken many things in her stride at one go other than pursuing her studies and being a councillor. She is a teacher at Ekam Public School in Mehatpur and a mother of two kids – a son aged 8 years and a daughter who is just 2-year-old. Despite so much work at hand, the energetic Swapandeep managed to defeat Ramesh Verma, the former president of the nagar panchayat, and won with a margin of 102 votes. Her father-in-law and ex-sarpanch of Rasoolpur village Surinderpal Singh tells more about her: “When she got married and came to our house, she already was an MA English with B Ed My son Harsimranjit Chahal was MSc (maths), MCA and B Ed After marriage, both of them developed so much craze for higher studies that they completed their M Phil and now both of them are doing their PhD.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/know-your-councillors-221597
07-03-2021||Jalandhar||Online Alumni Meet||NCC Officer awardedAssociate NCC Officer of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya Lt. Sonia Mahendru has been awarded with Director General NCC Commendation Card and Badge 2020 for her outstanding contribution in NCC. This badge was awarded to her by Additional Director General Major General JS Sandhu and Group Commander Brig Advitya Madan of NCC Group Headquarters, Jalandhar. Col. NPS Toor, 2 (PB) Girls BN, said that HMV has always been a big support for NCC activities. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen also congratulated Sonia Mahnedru for big achievement. She told that both the wings of NCC, Army and Air are doing wonderful work. All the staff members of the college, teaching and non-teaching also congratulated her.Women Wellness Day celebratedStudents of Eklavya School celebrated Women Wellness Day. The students of higher school and middle school showcased their talent in a declamation contest. Some students did different activities like yoga, essay writing and poster-making competition which shows how we can boost our mental wellbeing. Chairman JK Gupta said they should try to make the women strong. Principal Arvinder Kaur also told the students about the women physical impact on the society as well as mental and physical wellness. Dimple Malhotra told the value of being independent and how to take stand for self.International Women’s Day observedInternational Women’s Day was observed by St Soldier Group of Institutions by saluting the power of women, in which teachers of St. Soldier’s Divine Public School, Maan Nagar, dedicated the day to women working in Covid-19. On this occasion, the teachers said that it is a matter of pride to be a woman, in today’s world women’s are giving her full contribution in the medical field, teacher with online classes, supporting their families and supporting the house. Principal Ambika Sharma asked everyone to respect women and appreciate their efforts. Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra saluted all the women while congratulating them on Women’s Day and said that in today’s time women are not lagging behind in any field just need to encourage them to move forward.Exhibition on International Women’s DayApeejay College of Fine Arts in a joint initiative with Virsa Vihar, Jalandhar is organising exhibition on the occasion of International Women’s Day. Ten prominent women will be honoured on this occasion and 40 women artists work will be showcased who have shown their expertise in the field of paintings, sculptures, murals, photographs, tapestries, terracotta etc. The exhibition will take place from March 8 to 11. The inaugural ceremony will take place on March 8 at Virsa Vihar, Jalandhar. Gurpreet Kaur Sapra, Commissioner, Jalandhar Division, will be the chief guest and will be inaugurating the event. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra expressing her views put forth that it will be our pleasure to have empowered and powerful women amongst us who are the source of inspiration for many young and budding artists. She added that we hope that this day marks more and more growth and accomplishments for all the women.Online platform created for farmersPhagwara: Seeing the insatiable situation of farmers, farm produce, allied businesses and manufacturing of farming implements in the country, an alumnus of LPU Nitika Rajput has created a common online platform to connect farmers, traders, and manufacturers engaged in the diverse farming fields. She has risen to the occasion with her revolutionising start-up ‘Agrohub India’ to transform agriculture scenario in the country. Presently, many scores of manufacturers, suppliers, buyers and innovative farmers are connected on the portal, as per their needs. All of them are propagating new generation agriculture industry related produce, tools, products and services. LPU’s batch 2012-16, BTech CSE passout, Nitika is Founder and CEO of the start-up and is performing on positive notes for strengthening collaborations between the agriculture community and industry. The portal is considered India’s first ‘Business-to-Business-to-Consumer (B2B2C)’ portal to connect all concerned ones in an easy way. As Nitika originally belongs to Ludhiana (Punjab), she always had connection with the fields, farmers and the ways farmers work hard day-night to produce food for the community. In spite of having many lucrative job offers, she resolved to help the farmers community and worked hard to start this ‘start-up’ from scratch for future growth. Through her website Nitika connects machinery manufacturers, seeds producers, fertilizer manufacturers, farmers, dealers from all parts of the country on a single platform. All of them can buy or sell all kinds of agricultural goods and produce through the ‘Agrohub India’ portal, she said.Faculty development programmeKapurthala: A 13-day Faculty Development Programme(FDP), organised by the Staff Academy of Hindu Kanya College, concluded on Thursday. Principal Archna Dr Garg, on the concluding day, appreciated the initiative of Staff Academy which helped faculty members to apprise with developments in different areas. In this FDP, subject experts from different departments put light on proper use of languages, corporate social responsibility, online shopping and digital payments, cyber crime, journalism and fake news among many other topics. Dr Garg said during exam days, the second phase of this forum would start in which experts from outside would also be invited to address faculty members. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-alumni-meet-221594
07-03-2021||Fire was set to a mound of leaves on Friday outside the Municipal Corporation office in Kapurthala causing polluting fumes engulfing the area. The mound of leaves which was set on fire was merely 10 ft away from the MC office. While the leaves accumulated on the roadside make for very good quality manure||Flames of fume||DC visits ITCDeputy Commissioner Kapurthala Ghanshyam Thori, on Wednesday, visited the Industrial Training Centre (ITC) at village Jhal Thikriwala in Kapurthala. With Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal away for training, Thori had recently received additional charge of the district as DC. While visiting various units of the factory, including production branch, packing branch, administrative complex, he got information about the packaging of the products mechanically. He also asked the factory management to expand the training programme to make the youth self-employed by enhancing their skills and also to liaise with the District Employment and Business Bureau to help the youth in getting jobs. On this occasion, the factory manager Sachin Palamwar and Gautam Sharma, in-charge ITC plant, apprised the DC about the functioning of the factory and the products. The DC also planted a sapling on the occasion.Vote for changeAs per the instructions of Election Commission of India, special camps would be organised on March 6 and 7 in all the Assembly constituencies to achieve the target of 100 per cent e-epic download for the registered voters during 2021. The information was disclosed by DC Ghashyam Thori on Wednesday. These camps would be conducted from 10 am to 4 pm at designated places, polling stations and BLOs. In this regard, all the booth-level officers would sit at their booths and download e-epic. The administration appealed to the newly registered voters to go to the designated places or polling stations on March 6 and 7 to download their e-epic and coordinate with the booth-level officer. — Aparna Banerji||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flames-of-fume-221596
07-03-2021||Jalandhar||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh condoles journo Major Singh’s death||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday condoled the demise of Major Singh, a senior staff reporter, who passed away in Jalandhar at a private hospital after a brief illness this morning.Major Singh (68) is survived by his wife, three sons and a daughter. In a condolence message, the Chief Minister described Major Singh as an eminent journalist and a fine human being with the qualities of head and heart. He further said that Major Singh was well versed with Punjabi culture besides socio-economic and political scenario of the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chief-minister-capt-amarinder-singh-condoles-journo-major-singhs-death-221592
07-03-2021||---||Delayed exams to cost BEd students a year||Jalandhar, March 6BEd students studying in government and private colleges affiliated to Guru Nanak Dev University said that their third semester examination, which was to be held in January, has been postponed to April, leading to their loss of a full academic session in the process.A studentOur examination of third semester got delayed. We do not want our BEd to become a three-year course instead of normal duration of two years. The students said that their examination was not conducted in January as Covid cases had shot up during that time. They said ever since they had been demanding that a fresh datesheet be issued which did not come till February end. Finally, they said that they got the datesheet with examination slated to be held from April 1 to 12.The students said that usually they got four and a half month teaching practice in the third semester and course work was conducted in the fourth one. But owing to Covid, it was inter-changed so that situation could normalise by the time they would enter the fourth semester. “But it has not helped at all. Our examination of third semester got delayed. Our teaching practice would start in May or June and would continue till September or October. But in the meantime, the admission for MSc, MA or other courses will start and we will miss it. By the time we will get free from teaching practice, all admissions will be over and we will have to wait till June-July 2022 to get further admissions”, rue the students.The students said that when they talked about the matter with their college authorities, they expressed their helplessness. They said that they even tried to contact the GNDU officials many times through email given on the portal, the message was not getting sent as it kept bouncing back.The students have demanded that some adjustment be made by shrinking the teaching practice time or delaying the MSc and MA admissions in all universities so that they do not have to waste a precious academic year. The students are worried as Punjabi University students are already done with their third semester examination and are doing teaching practice currently and Panjab University too had allowed online examination.Dr Manoj Kumar, Controller, Examinations, GNDU, said, “There is no point for students to get upset about. All universities are making maximum adjustments to ensure that students do not suffer any loss.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/delayed-exams-to-cost-bed-students-a-year-221586
07-03-2021||Our correspondent||ADG lauds Jalandhar’s NCC group for bagging six DG commendations||Jalandhar, March 6Additional Director General (ADG) of NCC Maj Gen JS Sandhu, AVSM, visited the Jalandhar Group of NCC on Friday. He reviewed the activities of the group and the battalions functioning under his supervision. He was here on his first ever visit to any Group Headquarters of PHHP & C directorate after assuming charge as ADG at the PHHP & C NCC Directorate on March 1.The ADG was received by Brigadier Advitya Madan, the Group Commander of NCC Group Jalandhar. ADG Sandhu had an introduction with the best performing Associated NCC Officers (ANOs) of Jalandhar group and also handed over the commendation certificates to them. He also interacted with and encouraged the group’’s best performing cadets.While briefing about the Jalandhar NCC Group, Brig Madan told that the group had bagged 6 DG Commendation cards out of 7 awarded to whole of PHH&C directorate. The Jalandhar group has won the coveted Inter Gp Thal Sena competition trophy in Aug 2019. The group was also tasked to train the Directorate Thal Sena Camp team which was declared the champions of Thal Sena at national level. He also presented a report about the activities taken up by the Jalandhar group during lockdown and curfew due to Covid in 2020. He said that a large number of cadets were assisting the civil administration in manning Covid management centre and contact tracing. They assisted Kapurthala civil administration in being one of the best districts when it came to contact tracing.The ADG appreciated the selfless work performed by cadets of Jalandhar group for Covid containment and management at public places. He lauded the efforts made by the group under the command of Brig Advitya Madan and motivated the officers, cadets and staff to perform even better.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adg-lauds-jalandhars-ncc-group-for-bagging-six-dg-commendations-221598
07-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Setting an example of self-reliance since childhood||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 6Never did he let his physical disability undermine his capabilities. Having lost his mobility completely and permanently in his childhood due to polio affecting both his legs, Chander Kant Gupta (32), has never given up on anything since the very beginning.Chander Kant GuptaOur government is completely insensitive towards the disabled. It is doing all the awareness only on paper whereas the reality is that there are no ramps and wheelchairs available at most government buildings that I have been to. Whenever I fell low, I play music. Listening to music and surfing the net have been my favourite pastimes. I am also a movie buff. The Karate Kid is my all-time favourite film.As a child when most people around him were not sure if he would be able to do his schooling, he managed to earn a doctorate degree, that too in management studies. While his kith and kin were not sure if he would be able to be on his own, he has managed to get become a banker. Posted with Bank of Baroda in Nakodar, Gupta says that he is quite comfortably placed and fully on his own for everything.“The only person I am dependent on is my driver-cum-helper. He takes me to all the places where I need to go. He helps me sit comfortably whether it is in my office, home or outside. Once properly positioned and things are at my desk, I manage everything myself. At home, I use my walker to roam about,” says Gupta.He adds, “I was PhD and could have also got the job of a professor but I was always inspired by my dad, who too has worked at the State Bank of India. It is because of his blessings and support that I have become financially and morally independent, if not physically.”The youngster shared how he overcame all the difficult times since his childhood, “Whenever I used to feel low, I would play good music and cheer myself up. Listening to music and surfing the net have been my favourite pastimes. I am also a movie buff. ‘The Karate Kid’ has been my all-time favourite film.”Gupta goes on, “It is sheer chance that I have got all the good friends at every stage. They used to help me move about in my wheelchair and give me proper time. I got a good company in Guru Nanak National College Nakodar where my batchmates were always very inspiring.”His only regret is against the government. “Our government is completely insensitive towards the disabled. It is doing all the awareness only on paper whereas the reality is that there are no ramps and no wheelchairs available at most government buildings that I have been to.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/setting-an-example-of-self-reliance-since-childhood-221599
07-03-2021||---||Jalandhar-based businessman shot dead in broad daylight||Jalandhar, March 6A couple of days after Jalandhar city was declared the safest in the state, a city-based businessman was shot dead by two persons and their accomplices in a broad daylight on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Gurmeet Singh, alias Tinku, a resident of Global Colony. The deceased was an interior designer and had his office in Preet Nagar.The incident took place around 1:30 pm on Saturday in Preet Nagar. The assailants barged into his office and gunned him down.According to sources, three bullets hit chest and abdomen of Tinku. Neighbouring shopkeepers rushed Tinku to a nearby hospital after they saw him lying in a pool of blood. However, after a few minutes at the hospital, he succumbed.Cops from the Police Division 8 reached the spot and recovered a live cartridge and five bullet shells.Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh said the the deceased had an enmity with Puneet and Lalli. They also fought two months ago. In order to take revenge, the accused went to his office on a four-wheeler with their three accomplices, he said. They entered his showroom and fired four to five bullets on Tinku in the presence of his workers, said the Deputy Commissioner of Police.A case under Sections 302 of the IPC and 25/27/54 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused.In the ‘Ease of Living Index 2020’, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs ranked Jalandhar city at 32nd position among 62 cities in the country (population less than one million).The city secured 52.18 points and is the only one from Punjab to be figured in this category. The city scored 100 and 96 points in safety and security categories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-businessman-shot-dead-in-broad-daylight-221580
07-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar Civic body gears up for Swachh Survekshan 2021||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 6After securing 119th position in the Swachh Survekshan-2020, a lot will depend on residents as the feedback weightage has gone up from 25 per cent to 30 per cent this time.As the Swachh Survekshan-2021 team is expected in a few days, the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation has started touring various colleges to make students aware about cleanliness and seeking their cooperation in community participation, especially from the point of waste segregation at home, which accounts for maximum weightage in the survey. Even signages have been put across the city to make residents aware of the upcoming survey.Joint Commissioner MC Major Amit Sareen said the team was expected here any day. He said quite a few changes have been made in the survey.Changes in surveyWhile the total marking remains the same at 6,000, the weightage has got changed. While earlier, there were four factors – feedback of citizens, direct observation, service level progress and certification, each having an equal weightage of 25 per cent (1500 marks). This time direct observation parameter has been merged in the citizen’s voice and service-level progress.While the citizen’s voice (including factors like feedback, use of Swachhta app, engagement and innovation) will have 30 per cent weightage, service-level progress (segregated collection, processing, disposal and sanitation) will have 40 per cent weightage and certification will have 30 per cent say.High-weightage categorySegregated collection will have 600 marks. It will be assessed as to how many wards are segregating the waste at the generator’s end and marks will be given accordingly. Cleanliness of public places will have 90 marks. Coverage of storm water system will carry 85 marks.The implementation on ban on use of plastic bags will carry 30 marks. Percentage of wet processing capacity will have 100 marks. Capacity of dry waste processing facility will carry 60 marks. Proper disposal of diapers, sanitary napkins and medical waste will carry 60 marks. Reuse of construction waste will have 100 marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-civic-body-gears-up-for-swachh-survekshan-2021-221582
07-03-2021||Jalandhar||‘Regularise VAT on petro products’||Amid hike in petroleum products, the Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association (PPDA) on Saturday urged the state government to regularise value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel.Paramjit Singh Doaba, chief, PPDA, said: “Due to hostile policies of the state government there is a huge disparity in fuel prices in Punjab and neighbouring states.” Gurmeet Monty Sehgal, spokesperson, PPDA, said: “Petrol and diesel are costlier in Punjab as compared to Haryana, Himachal and Chandigarh. While petrol in Chandigarh is cheaper by Rs 5.03 per litre, in Haryana it’s Rs 4.42 per litre less expensive and in Himachal Pradesh by it costs Rs 4.75 per litre less. Similarly, diesel in Chandigarh is cheaper by Rs 2.85 per litre, in Haryana by Rs 2.43 per litre and in Himachal Pradesh by Rs 4.07 per litre.”Sehgal said: “Due to this disparity in fuel prices, districts bordering neighbouring states and Chandigarh are the worst hit as people prefer refuel from the latter. There are over 800 fuel pumps in border districts.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/regularise-vat-on-petro-products-221584
07-03-2021||---||Restrictions back as Covid cases surge in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, March 6After a relief of nearly six months, the administration on Saturday reimposed the curfew in Jalandhar district till further orders due to the sudden spike in the Covid-19 positive cases.“The curfew will be imposed between 11 pm and 5 am from Saturday night onwards and residents will be strictly prohibited from coming out on roads during the curfew hours,” stated an order issued by the district administration.Ghanshyam Thori, DCCertain exemptions have been made in the curfew order. Factories operating in 24-hour shifts, medical emergency cases, traffic movement on the national highway and people returning after travelling by buses, trains and airplanes to reach their destinations, have been exempted from the night curfew in the district.The development was reportedly introduced after Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan chaired a high-level meeting with the Deputy Commissioners of all the districts of the state. The meeting was held to review the Covid situation in the state.Subsequently, considering the surge in cases and apparent second wave of the virus in the state, DC Ghanshyam Thori exercising his rights under Section 144 of the CrPC and National Disaster Management Act, 2005, on Saturday ordered night curfew between 11 pm and 5 am.Factories operating in 24 hour shifts, medical emergency cases, traffic on national highways and people returning after travelling by buses, trains and planes to reach their destination, have been exempted from the night curfew.Hoshiarpur District Magistrate Dr Shena Aggarwal exercising the powers given under Section 144 of the CrPC and the National Disaster Management Act has also imposed the night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am till further orders. She said emergency medical services and goods carrying vehicles will be exempted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/restrictions-back-as-covid-cases-surge-in-jalandhar-district-221593
07-03-2021||Aparna Banerji||Covid-19: 45 more students test +ve in schools in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 6Forty-five more students tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of infected students to 181 in the last three days. Majority of them were from Government Girls School, Phillaur. On Saturday, 22 more children tested positive at Government School, Philaur. With this, the total number of positive students increased to 82 till date.At least 86 students from government and private schools tested positive on Friday and 50 more students tested positive today. These 50 are part of the 177 new cases which have been reported in the district today, taking the district’s total tally to 22,256. Closure of eight district schools has been ordered by the DEO for the coming 48 hours. While new cases from government schools at Phillaur, Bhogpur, Abadpura, Lamma Pind and the meritorious school were reported on Friday. New cases were primarily reported from government schools— Phillaur (22), Bhargo Camp (4), Abadpura (1), Basti Sheikh (4), Floret School (5), Kot Badal Khan (3) and Tajpur (6).Sources said all these were reports of students who had already been tested few days ago. More reports might come in the coming days.With no let-up in the cases being reported in Jalandhar, the district administration has imposed night curfew from Saturday. The night curfew has also been imposed at Kapurthala to check the constant rise in Covid cases. The curfew in both the districts will be in place from 11 pm to 5 am.The district reported 178 new positive cases on Saturday, of which 45 are students. The district reported three more Covid-19 fatalities on Saturday, taking the death toll to 722.On Thursday, schools at Lamma Pind, Bhogpur, Basti Sheikh, Meritorious School, Government School PAP, Kanha Dhesian, Phillaur, and Deep Nagar reported positive cases. Government Girls School, Phillaur, which saw 37 students positive on Wednesday, saw 23 positive cases on Thursday and 22 again on Saturday. At the St. Josephs School, Deep Nagar, 10 teachers tested positive on Friday.Amidst growing chorus that schools should be closed for 15 days as children might be susceptible to infections once they join back again after 24 hours, DC Ghanshyam Thori said, “We had a video-conferencing with the Education Secretary on the issue today. All DCs have briefed him about Covid cases in schools. Final call will be taken by the Education Department on schools.”1 succumbs, 119 new cases in HoshiarpurWith as many as 119 new positive patients reported in Hoshiarpur district, the total number of positive patients has increased to 9,036 while the number of deaths due to one more death reported today has risen to 380.Today, 2,771 new samples from the people with suspicious flu-like symptoms were taken.Civil Surgeon Dr Tajit Singh said that the number of active cases in the district is 601 while the number of patients who have recovered is 8,339. Out of today’s119 new patients, Hoshiarpur city has 7 positive patients and the remaining 112 patients are from various health blocks of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-45-more-students-test-ve-in-schools-in-jalandhar-district-221595
