08-03-2021||Residents drive their point home as spectre of 2nd wave emerges||Wear masks, avoid gatherings...life is too precious to lose||Nothing can be left to chanceAs the state has alarmingly witnessed second surge in the spread of Covid-19 cases, the government has initiated certain steps in tune with existing protocols but the same are not sufficient in view of people’s casual attitude towards much publicised preventive measures. It is generally observed that the majority of moving public is not strictly following the basic precautions like wearing a mask as per norms, maintaining required distance, frequently getting sanitised and avoiding public places. Under such a pathetic scenario, the government’s role assumes more responsibility, though there is nothing new to add to already prescribed guidelines which only need to be streamlined while ensuring strict compliance thereof. The government has already announced the reduction in the maximum number allowed for outdoor and indoor gatherings but nothing about its enforcement on the ground is visible. The government must curb avoidable gatherings at religious, social and market places followed by strict enforcement of rules. Though the second phase of vaccination drive is underway, it does not, in any way, provides assurance of herd immunity and since comprehensive efficacy of vaccines is still at the trial stage, nothing can be left to chance and no laxity in discipline and precautions is affordable. The government needs to watch the situation very carefully and in case it warrants more drastic measures, it must act accordingly with urgency and required speed.Jagdish Chander QUESTIONCovid cases have been on a rise for the past two weeks and hundreds of students & teachers have got infected. Do you think that it is advisable to shut all schools to contain further spread of contagion?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@ tribunemail.com by Thursday (March 11).Follow the ‘Covid manual’ of govtThe pandemic shocked the world last year; lacks of innocent lost their lives. There was no medicine available at that time only strict measures were implemented. As in India the Union Government led by Prime Minister Narendera Modi and the state government led by Capt Amarinder Singh left no stone unturned to curb the menace of virus in the state by imposing strict measures like wearing masks, using sanitisers for handwashing, by using namaste gesture for greeting, imposing the lockdown and curfew throughout Punjab. Even though cases were detected, many were cured and a few lost their lives. As now the vaccine is available and the shots are being given in two phases. The government has even given permission to the private hospitals to give doses to the masses above the age of 60 with cost from the beneficiary of Covid vaccine. No doubt India has successfully carried out the drive against the virus, even now keeping view the second surge in the state the government should try to make a plan on how to dilute huge crowds in the bazaars by educating the masses to follow the rules as prescribed by the Union Ministry and the state government against coronavirus, making use of masks, using hand sanitisers and by keeping a distance as prescribed in the manuals to prevent Covid-19. Safety measures adopted by us will certainly keep others safe.Rajat KumarPeople don’t care about wearing maskCovid cases are surging in the city and people are responsible for that since they are not wearing mask. I have witnessed numerous people around the market who keep roaming here and there without maintaining social distancing. People need to understand this and should follow the norms. Roaming around the market is not wrong but to break the norms is perilous. I would like to emphasise on the fact that public should follow the two major things and that is wearing a mask and distancing. It is the only way through which we can curb the spread. If people keep flouting the rules, the government will become harsh on them and whole society will be in trouble.SAAHIL HANSResurgence in cases likely due to laxityAmid conflicting opinions about India reaching herd immunity, most of our leading epidemiologists and virologists have ruled out the possibility of a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. But the sudden spike in viral infections and fatalities in several states is worrisome. Punjab has also witnessed a three-fourth rise in such cases in three weeks. This resurgence can mainly be attributed to the controversial resumption of normal economic and social activity post-lockdown, and passive indifference and complacency to masks, social distancing and self-sanitisation measures, courtesy lax attitude of the public as well as the government towards health protocols. Despite successful aggressive vaccination drive in the state, the virus has relentlessly refused to retreat. Fearing that the state may face repeated waves with more contagious and virulent strains in the coming months, we need to formulate a comprehensive strategy and make arrangements to deal with this unwanted situation. The government should ramp up its public healthcare infrastructure and strengthen the mechanism for effective surveillance, tracking, testing and treatment of positive patients. Roping in private hospitals for the purpose is quite appreciable. The government should also boost people’s confidence to rein in vaccine hesitancy and solicit their support and cooperation to stop the spread of the new pathogen. Realising the severity of the disease, the public should remain vigilant and strictly follow Covid guidelines or the authorities should enforce their compliance. If the cases still go up, there is no harm in resorting to another lockdown as in large parts of Europe, whatever the cost. Nothing, after all, is more precious than human life.DS KangPolice must fine unhesitatinglyIn spite of the surge of the second wave of Covid-19 in Punjab, rather in many parts of the country, people are careless and carefree about protection from the virus by wearing masks and avoiding large gatherings. The government is also going soft on the public about such delinquency. Why not be strict about it and punish such people which will be exemplary to others also. Maharshtra has implemented the lockdown in Amravati and other cities, so has Tamil Nadu. The police are fining the people who don’t wear masks, from Rs500-Rs1000. The Punjab Government also needs to do the same. During the lockdown and curfew, when the pandemic was raging and death toll was increasing, police were serving meals to the people at their homes. Now they should be very strict against such careless behaviour of the people and fine them. I got injected with two jabs of Covidshield vaccines but I observe proper measures as before. The team from the Centre might make the state government more careful and strict to stop this surge. Life is too precious to be lost because of such carelessness.Dr JS WadhwaRepercussions of laxity harshWearing of masks should be made mandatory. Those who do not adhere to the norms should be penalised. Heavy fine should be imposed on those who are throwing away the caution to the wind. Though a curfew should not be imposed because it will affect the livelihood of people, they should be sensitised about the gravity of the situation and constant monitoring should be undertaken by the administration. All the shops/offices should be asked to have a sanitiser at the front desk, all the people working there should wear masks and no one should be allowed to enter the premises without one. The Punjab Government should cancel all state-level functions/fairs where there are chances of huge crowds amassing. A cap should be put on the number of people getting together for public gatherings. Social distancing is nowhere observed in crowded bazaars and social gatherings. Education is the only way to make people aware of the repercussions of this laxity. Spreading awareness through print and social media and reaching out to a general populace can save us from becoming a victim to this dreaded virus once again.Dr Rana Preet GillEverything is out of placeAs we all know that second wave is more dangerous and more alarming than the first one. High-headedness of government to open school and colleges, please postpone till the situation is normal and cases fall. We are talking about the second wave; first one is not still over, daily so many cases are reporting. Nobody is seriously following safety protocols and there is no check from the authorities also. Nobody is wearing a mask and it seems that the person who is wearing one is infected. It is the duty of the government to strictly enforce all the safety measures by decreasing community participation and follow social distancing. Covid-19 taught us everything, from washing hands to sanitising. All these efforts will surely help in preventing people from getting affected from the virus. The authorities must enforce a limited lockdown in hotspots where the cases are high and stop movement from these areas to other non-containment areas. Strict surveillance is needed to isolate the infected people as quickly as possible and quick quarantine of close contacts. My request to all my countrymen is not to take it lightly and follow all safety protocols. Restrict yourself from going to malls and all public gatherings.SHASHI KIRANWiser than a year ago, to make aware and enforce1) Avoid three ‘Cs’ – Crowded places, close contact/close conversation and confined and closed places with poor ventilation.2) Practise three ‘Ws’ – wear masks, wash hands and watch distance (6ft)3) Encourage/accept vaccination as per guidelines, practising one and two despite this.4) Do not assume ‘it’s not Covid’ and test as per protocols at slightest suspicion.5) Incentives/honours for employees who follow the above by the employers (government and private) for acting responsibly.6) Imposition of fine (by the employers) for those not adhering to first and second pointers.7) Adverts and graphics (newspapers and media) for awareness regarding the effects of second surge and popularising the good practices.8) Popularise sentiments of survivors narrating their experiences for common public. Fear psychosis to be avoided and true picture provided with celebrities playing important part in awareness.9) Punjab, along with other states, should request the Centre to put the agricultural laws on hold till the next General Election and also reach out to the farmers to act responsibly in the larger interest of the people.Dr Gurbilas P Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wear-masks-avoid-gatherings-life-is-too-precious-to-lose-222285
08-03-2021||---||Mom to 80 forsaken girls, she’s everyone’s favourite||Jalandhar, March 7So kyon manda aakhiye jitt jamme raajan (Why call her inferior? From her, the kings are born), says a painting gifted to Parkash Kaur, who runs ‘Unique Home’ in the city for 80 abandoned girls. Celebrating Women’s Day in a unique way, a city-based artist Kimi Juneja today made a portrait of her which was presented to her at her home on the Nakodar road.Kimi says she was always impressed with the work done by Parkash Kaur and was happy over the fact that she has been selected to receive her Padma Shri award next month, “This painting is my small contribution towards a big cause that she has undertaken. I only intended to express it to her on the occasion of Women’s Day today that she stands out globally for the great initiative that she has undertaken in life.”The painting depicts the Padam Shri nominee sitting with two toddlers in her arms. It also carries Guru Nanak Dev’s popular verses on women empowerment from Gurbani, ‘So kyon manda aakhiye jitt jamme raajan (Why call her inferior? From her, the kings are born)’.Says Kimi, “I managed to get Parkash Kaur’s photograph from someone but there was a small issue. It had her face bent downwards. So, I got another picture of hers and painted her face from it. Juxtaposing a face from another picture and mixing two photographs required a lot of measurements on the grid so as to ensure that the proportion of the body and the face go correctly. But it somehow clicked and came out well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mom-to-80-forsaken-girls-shes-everyones-favourite-222270
08-03-2021||---||22 more students test +ve, total 203 in Jalandhar so far||Jalandhar, March 7As many as 22 more school students tested positive in Jalandhar district on Sunday. With this, the number of cases among pupils reached 203 in the last three days. A total of 141 new cases were reported today, thus taking the district tally to 22,541.In total, 29 fresh cases were reported from schools/colleges today (22 school students, five teachers and two students from the PIMS). Five students from the PIMS tested positive earlier as well.Schools where cases surfaced include Government Girls School, Phillaur; Government School, Lamma Pind; Government School, Bhargo Camp; Government School, Abadpura; Government School, Basti Sheikh; Floret School, Kala Sanghian; Government School, Kot Badal Khan; Government School, Tajpur; Meritorious School, Government School, PAP; and Government School, Kanha Dhesian. Teachers of private schools in Deep Nagar and Lidhran had also contracted virus.New cases reported at the government schools today were as follows – Phillaur (16), Bhargo Camp (1), Basti Seikh (1) and Tajpur (4). Two students tested positive at the PIMS and five teachers at SH Convent School, Lidhran.Parent-teacher meet todayThe PTMs were called off at five government schools where most cases were reported. At other schools, the PTMs will be held. There are 1, 60,000 students enrolled in the government schools. There was no word on the PTMs in the government schools at Lamma Pind, Bhargo Camp, Abadpura, Kot Badal Khan and Tajpur.DEO Harinder Pal said: “The PTMs will be called off at all high-risk schools. There are some schools whose reports have not reached us. The PTM won’t be held physically in schools where cases are being regularly.”The PTMs have been called off at the government schools in Phillaur, Bhogpur, Basti Sheikh, Kanha Dhesian and meritorious school.Testing takes a back seat?There are apprehensions that schools as well as the Health Department have reduced testing. While rapid testing was held from February end to March first week in the district, sources said the testing slowed down over the weekend. There were no instructions to conduct tests at hotspots on Monday.At a school in Phillaur, 842 (roughly 800 students and 42 teachers) were tested from whom 96 students and four teachers came out positive. However, even as the school has 1,300 students, no new testing camp has been scheduled.Principal Sushila Kumari said: “We were busy with preparations for the PTM, but it was called off today evening. So far, there are no new instructions for holding testing camps. The SMO has assured us of testing all the students and teachers.”Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said: “Testing of students is taking place as per the protocol. Remaining students at affected schools will also be tested.”Meanwhile, to encourage eligible beneficiaries to come forward for the Covid-19 vaccination, ADC (Development) Vishesh Sarangal got his senior citizen parents — 67-year-old father JR Sarangal, and 63-year-old mother Santosh Kumari — vaccinated on Sunday.125 cases in HoshiarpurWith 125 new positive cases reported in Hoshiarpur district, the number of Covid positive patients rose to 9,467 while the death toll due to Covid remained 380 as no death was reported on Sunday. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said 1,556 new samples with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken. The number of active cases in the district is 691 while the number of recovered patients is 8,396. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/22-more-students-test-ve-total-203-in-jalandhar-so-far-222271
08-03-2021||---||Sr BJP leader Shiv Dayal Chugh’s body found on rail tracks at Jalandhar Cantt||Jalandhar, March 7Senior BJP leader Shiv Dayal Chugh’s body was found lying on railway tracks at Jalandhar Cantt on Sunday.Chugh was the district BJP chief from 2003 to 2007 and remained a councillor.Senior BJP leader KD Bhandari said, “It is an unfortunate incident. Shiv Dyal Chugh was a very honest and passionate BJP worker. The saffron party’s performance in 2007 was due to his earnest efforts.”SHO Dharminder Kalyan said Chugh’s body was found at Jalandhar Cantt railway station around 6.50 am today.The SHO said, “Begumpura Express ran over him. After receiving the information, the railway police personnel reached the spot. As per driver of the train, Chugh was crossing a railway track when the incident took place.”While the body was taken into possession, Sub-Inspector Ashok Kumar said the identity of the deceased could not be ascertained till late evening. A case under Section 174 of the CrPC has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sr-bjp-leader-shiv-dayal-chughs-body-found-on-rail-tracks-at-jalandhar-cantt-222272
08-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Talking about hygiene this Women’s Day||Hoshiarpur, March 7 “A healthy woman contributes to a happy home. The secret to good health is awareness. A woman passes through various milestones such as puberty, pregnancy, motherhood and menopause. She should be made aware of changes in her body during different stages of life.” Dr Parneet Kaur, a high-risk pregnancy specialist at IVY Hospital, said, a young girl should be educated regarding periods, menstrual hygiene, sexually-transmitted diseases and contraception. A woman planning pregnancy should be counseled regarding the importance of pre pregnancy tests and supplements, she opined. For women of reproductive age group annual health screening should be stressed upon and screening for gynaecological cancers should be accorded a top priority,” she said. Menopausal women should have regular calcium, a protein-rich diet and bone health should be discussed in detail with them. Healthy diet, exercise, and plenty of fluids are the ingredients to keep them healthy. A happy mind can be achieved with yoga, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/talking-about-hygiene-this-womens-day-222273
08-03-2021||---||Kharbanda inspects Surjit Hockey Stadium||Jalandhar, March 7Director Sports DPS Kharbanda on Sunday inspected the Surjit Hockey Stadium and Sports College in the district.India hockey team captain Manpreet Singh highlighted the issue regarding unavailability of sufficient diet for the players and sports gears, including shoes.The coaches at Sports College and the Surjit Hockey Stadium brought to the notice of the sports director about the damaged turf at the stadium and other discrepancies in the infrastructure.Kharbanda assured that within a few days, steps would be taken for the overall cleanliness at Sports College. He also stated that new poles would be installed in the basketball court of the college by next week.While the Sports Department has planned to do away with the swimming pool in the district, an all-weather pool is also likely to come up in Mohali. The pool would be developed at a cost of Rs36 lakh by April this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kharbanda-inspects-surjit-hockey-stadium-222274
08-03-2021||Garhshankar||1 dies, 12 hurt as jeep falls into gorge||One person was killed and 12 others were seriously injured as their Mahindra pick-up jeep fell into a deep gorge near Khuralgarh on Sunday. The injured have been admitted to the Garhshankar Civil Hospital for treatment.According to information, 32 devotees from Bengali village near Khanna boarded a Mahindra pick-up jeep this afternoon for a religious place at Khuralgarh. When the jeep reached near Khuralgarh the driver lost control over the vehicle and it fell into the gorge. Passersby who saw this pulled out the injured from the vehicle and rushed them to the Civil Hospital for treatment. One of the injured was declared brought dead, while remaining persons are under treatment, the doctor said. The deceased has been identified as Bharpur Singh, while injured Hardeep Kaur, Gurmeet Kaur, Rajvinder Kaur, Mandeep Kaur, Harjeet Kaur, Harbans Kaur, Rajwinder Kaur, Hardeep Singh, Surinder Kaur, Sarabjit Singh and Kiran are being treated at the Civil Hospital.The vehicle driver, Kuldeep Singh of Amloh, has been referred to the PGI, Chandigarh, due to his serious condition. Getting information, SHO Iqbal Singh, ASI Satwinder Singh and police personnel reached the spot. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-dies-12-hurt-as-jeep-falls-into-gorge-222275
08-03-2021||Aparna Banerji||When ‘superwomen’ took control of farm protests||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 7“On the dark night of January 26, power and water supply was snapped at Tikri. With no bathrooms, women made every attempt to hold their bladders for as long as they can. I have colleagues who were menstruating badly and had developed infections. We eventually found bathrooms kilometres away in a liquor factory. We tried to avoid drinking water, afraid of the fact that we had no washrooms around,” says Jagroop Kaur.What made them stay at the protest site for so long despite such hardships? ‘Hond di larai naalon eh larai bahut choti hai’ (this fight is much smaller than the fight for existence). The spirit of Mai Bhago and Gulaab Kaur aids us. Without lands and grains, women shall be the worst sufferers. We can suffer, but not leave our fellowmen behind,” she added.Just back from Singhu after months, eight to nine women of Meerpur Lakha village, clad in yellow dupatta, have formed an all-women society in their village. They plan a huge gathering of women to support the farm laws on International Women’s Day. Women of the Hariana village, in Faridkot, also recently formed a nine-member all-women committee – an initiative of the elderly women.From Jalandhar district alone, two buses full of women shall head to Tikri under the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on Monday to back the farmers’ agitation. While hundreds of women silently bore the impact of the snapped power and water at the borders of Delhi after January 26 – the protests have fueled a profound spirit of revolution and emancipation among the women of Punjab. Huge gatherings have been planned at Singhu, Tikri and all across the state to assert women’s voice tomorrow.On 29 January, a jatha of women – five days without a washroom due to snapped electricity and water supply after the January 26 fiasco – marched across Tikri to boost the morale of protesters, their rallying cry was, “Asi Mai Bhago Dian Vaarsan, Asi Raani Jhansi Dian Vaarsan.”Manjit Kaur (40), from the Meerpur Lakha village, 13 km from Banga, who stayed at Singhu for over 15 days (her second visit), says, “Aurat vaste vi mard de modhe naal modha jor ke larna zaroori hai. It is the elderly women who have fueled the revolution among kids. Eight to nine women of the village formed a committee and now are exhorting the young to join. Kids follow their mothers. It’s not easy to leave homes. There is no one to tend to crops, no one to cook food. Both my husband and I went there. But the protests have freed women more. They have made wats app groups to talk about their issues. On 10th more village women shall head to Singhu.”Faridkot resident Jagroop Kaur (37), who along with her husband owns 16 acres of land, stayed at the protests with her 10-year-old son from November 27 to February 1, said, “Farm protests have altered the social structures. Men at the protests are extremely respectful to women. A teacher friend who has been cooking langar said during protests he understood the value of the work his wife did at home. Younger men one day asked us to take the stage at Tikri, saying ‘ajj langar asi paka lange tusi stage sambho.’ (Today we men will cook langar you take the stage). Women who didn’t visit anywhere in village except ‘sauhre’ and ‘peke’ (maternal home, in-laws home) are making friends, sharing stories, finding freedom. Women are undergoing an alternate revolution.”Harveer Kaur, sister of activist Nodeep Kaur, who stayed put at the protest site for a long time, said, “The impact of the Kisan Andolan is lasting on us. It is going to alter our futures. My parents are both labourer activists. They had been asking us to be careful during protests. But after Nodeep’s arrest, my mother now backs us fervently. The Kirti Kisan Union is also making women wings. After the protests, women want to sign up for a larger stake in the day to day events and important decisions of the village.”Amolak Singh, Convenor of the Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak manch and member Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee, said, “The protests have also ushered in a woman’s revolution where women prepare for a larger role in future when they go back homes. It has ushered a social, cultural and psychological revolution. Punjab is stepping out of the medieval, feudal value system and women are going to be majorly impacted by this. They are leading the change – demanding their own space, dignity and freedom. Women are now bound to chart their own course rather than being restricted to the one defined by men. More and more women joining the protests are also joining it independently rather than just for following their husbands.”Joginder Kaur from Tarn Taran, who has been at Singhu for the past over two months, says, “Zameen jandi hai tan sabh ton zyada bibiyan nu fark paina. Ghar ja ke ki karange je zameenan gaiyan. Asi baithe aan ik muth ho ke. Razamandi naal shanti naal. (if lands go, women will be worst affected. What will we do at home if our lands are gone. We sit here together, peacefully.)”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/when-superwomen-took-control-of-farm-protests-222278
08-03-2021||---||Extending helping hand to the hapless||Jalandhar, March 7“If you educate a man, you educate an individual, but if you educate a woman, you educate a nation,” goes an age-old saying. This stands completely true in the case of Manju Kalra (68), a city-based academician.Having served as an educator for over 47 years, she believes “Education is educaring”. A teacher should focus on the overall growth of students. Education comprises both mental and societal growth, she says. Owing to her contribution in the field of education and the entrepreneurial journey, that she embarked last year, she has been awarded with ‘Alpha Fearless Women Award 2021’ on the occasion of International Women’s Day.The award is conferred upon women who make a difference in the lives of other women socially and economically and serve as a mentor and role model to lift and inspire other women and young girls. Elite Women Around the World (EWEA), a USA-based organisation announces the award every year, for which nominations are received from around the world.After making her contribution in the field of education, she has established Mink Organics in the city. Apart from providing health and organic food to the residents, she is also giving employment to the women from villages. “It was my son-in-law’s idea to open an organic store in which people would be served with natural products to either cure their illness or provide them a healthy lifestyle. I joined Mink Organics as its director in 2020 and since then, I have been actively operating my store here. Besides, while setting up the store I had made sure that I would only hire women employees. Apart from making them financially independent, I ensure developing their personality too,” added Manju Kalra.A resident of the Cool Road here, she says, female teachers provide an important solution to ensure equal access to learning opportunities for both girls and boys.About EWEAWomen’s Business & Leadership Development Centre is a global network of individuals, leaders, organisations, businesses, coming together with a shared mission to develop, grow and support the economic and social stability of women and girls through entrepreneurial and leadership programmes, creating a worldwide platform for leadership, mentorship, economic advancement and empowerment for women; Job creation and collaboration among women businesses; Educating and developing the next generation of women leaders; Building of alliances that encourage and embrace gender equality, diversity and inclusion; Education and insights on business issues for global opportunities; Strategic networking among local, national, and global leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/extending-helping-hand-to-the-hapless-222279
