09-03-2021||---||Ladhewali flyover work: Vendors on edge, protest||Jalandhar, March 8 More than a dozen-odd street vendors who were selling items in their carts on the either side of the Ladhewali railway crossing on Monday protested saying that they had been asked to vacate the site owing to a flyover’s construction work beginning there. Sanjay Rai, who represents the vendors, said ever since the crossing site has been dug up, they had lost all customers and it no longer served as a passage for the commuters. The vendors had been selling fruits, vegetables, readymade stuff, non-vegetarian items and footwear on their carts but said that they had lost all in the past 10 days. They said that the MC staffers, who had been charging an amount of Rs500 every month from each of them (without issuing any receipts), had told them that they would be given an alternate site but nothing had been done for them. The street vendors said that it had been decided that a garbage dumping site in Chugitti which had been shifted to Ladhowal Road would be provided to them after properly cleaning it. But no progress has been made so far. “Most of us are residents from this area, except two-three who are from UP. We have been engaged in selling stuff at the same site for more than 22 years. We really do not know how we will feed our families if we do not get an alternate site,” they rued, adding that the Street Vendors Policy of the Centre had come only in papers. “We have not even got Rs10,000 easy loan amount under the Centre’s scheme. We filled up all forms and gave all certificates for verification about four months back but no fund transfer has happened. We are in a bind,” Rai said. MLA Rajinder Beri said, “We are providing them an alternate space just close to the site. Once the flyover will be ready, they can come back to the original site again.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ladhewali-flyover-work-vendors-on-edge-protest-222697
09-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur DC: Contact tracing key to tackle Covid||Hoshiarpur, March 8Amid spike in the Covid-19 cases in the district, Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal on Monday directed officials to deal in a stern manner with those found violating the safety protocols.Directing officials of the Health Department to accelerate sampling and contact tracing the Deputy Commissioner emphasised that there should be strict adherence of home isolation.She pointed out that unnecessary incoming and outgoing movement in micro-containment zones should be prohibited, besides deputing the requisite number of police personnel in these zones.Aggarwal asked the SDMs and DSPs to review the Covid-19 situation in their respective areas on daily basis.All departments concerned should work collectively as positive cases were increasing with each passing day, said Dr Aggarwal adding that health, panchayat, police and civil officials should also encourage people to follow health guidelines at any cost.The Deputy Commissioner also asked the District Education Officers to ensure that every school, whether government or private, should have its own Covid monitor to maintain health and safety measures on the campus.While seeking cooperation from masses, the Deputy Commissioner said no one should step out of their homes without wearing a mask. She said mask and social distancing helps in keep the virus at bay.7 new micro-containment zones declared in distThe district administration on Monday declared Bahowal, Ward No. 4 and 9 of Mahilpur, Dada, Harta, Chaggran and Pandori Mehtma as micro-containment zones.Taking stock of the ongoing vaccination drive in the district, Dr Aggarwal said eligible people should come forward to get the vaccine administered.It was informed in the meeting that 6,884 healthcare workers were administered the first dose, while 2,579 received the second jab. Similarly, 4,433 frontline workers took the first dose and 341received their second shot.As many as 3,229 senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities received their first dose on Monday.ADC (G) Amit Kumar Panchaal, SP (H) Raminder Singh, SDMs Amit Kumar Mahajan, Harbans Singh, Randeep Singh Heer and Ashok Kumar, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra and SMOs, among others, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-dc-contact-tracing-key-to-tackle-covid-222698
09-03-2021||---||8 women-oriented initiatives launched in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, March 8While Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced a slew of schemes for women at the state-level, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday launched eight women-oriented initiatives in Jalandhar to mark International Women’s Day at the District Administrative Complex (DAC).Participating in the virtual launch, the DC said these announcements and schemes would further pave way for women empowerment in the state. He said these schemes include setting up of special Saanjh Shakti police helpdesk at all 382 police stations in the state besides the initiation of 181 women helpline.The DC further mentioned that the state government on the eve of International Women’s Day also announced free bus travelling for women in government transport. Earlier, the CM-led state government has also implemented 33 per cent reservation for women in government jobs besides 50 per cent reservation in elections to the local bodies. He said these multiple efforts would usher in a new era of women empowerment in the state besides ensuring round the clock safety and security to women. He further added that a hostel for working women was also coming up soon, which would provide PG-like facilities to working women.Meanwhile, the DC handed over cash prizes to the winners of the `Dadi di Laadli’ campaign who had participated in a video-making competition about their relationships with their grandmothers. The first prize was worth Rs10,000, second prize of Rs5,000, third prize of Rs2,100, and 10 consolation prizes worth Rs1100. He also released a short movie based on the love and affection between a grandmother and granddaughter. District Programme Officer GS Randhawa, Child Protection Officer Amneet Kaur, and the parents of the winners were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-women-oriented-initiatives-launched-in-jalandhar-222699
09-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Nothing new for Jalandhar district in government’s last Budget||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 8The last Budget (2021-22) of the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Government had nothing much for the district. The industrialists here had been pinning hope on getting projects like a new Focal Point or some advanced health facility but eventually all hopes dashed for them. The 101-page Budget document mentions Jalandhar just six times and these too are only budgetary allocations for the already sanctioned or ongoing projects.The sanctioned/ongoing projects include construction of Chugitti flyover, Rs592-cr 24x7 surface water supply scheme, works under Smart City Mission and working women’s hostel (seven to be set up across state for Rs50 crore). The only two fresh announcements are repair of table tennis stadium for Rs50 lakh (which certainly was much needed owing to its poor condition) and setting up of a local office of the District Bureau of Industry and Investment Promotion (DBIIP).Industrialist Narinder Saggoo termed the move of setting up a local office of DBIIP completely useless. “We had been seeking a new Focal Point here. We got Focal Point here 30 years ago. There are several industrialists who want to set up big units in Jalandhar including those for alloy wheels in a five-acre plot but no such space is available here and hence no new job creation too.”He added, “The only good thing in the Budget is that the state government has introduced no new tax. We had also demanded that the way the government started OTS on C-forms, it should offer a similar scheme of no penalty and no interest on clearing of property tax and other dues by the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC). But no such benefit came to us”.Even Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri agrees. “The Budget has nothing new for Jalandhar. I agree that most of them are sanctions of funds for ongoing projects”. The Jalandharites believe that owing to no pushy, dominant leader from the city, Jalandhar could not see any new sanction coming even in the last financial year of the government wherein maximum announcements are usually made.On the contrary, a small city like Kapurthala went better off getting projects worth Rs63 crore sanctioned in the new budget. The biggest, of course, was the facelift of 164-year-old Nawab Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Government College with Rs7 crore. The college is perhaps one of the oldest educational institutes of the state.Principal of the college Prof Jatinder Kaur Dhir said the funds would be utilised for general upkeep in addition to solar panel installation, rain water harvesting system, new library, laying of inner roads, computer lab etc.A new project coming in the city is Dr BR Ambedkar Institute of Management, which is proposed to be set up at IKGPTU, Kapurthala with an objective of achieving international-level quality in the field of Management Education. Besides that Dr BR Ambedkar Museum is proposed to be set up at IKGPTU, Kapurthala, wherein the biography and achievements of Dr BR Ambedkar will be displayed.Besides that an allocation of Rs5 crore is proposed in this financial year to improve the condition of Sainik School, Kapurthala. Pushpa Gujral Science City has also got Rs11 crore in the Budget.Though the setting up of a new medical college here was announced in the last Budget, the payment of first instalment of Rs40 crore is expected to come this year. The proposal Shri Guru Nanak Dev State Institute of Medical Sciences is in totality a Rs650 crore project at Kapurthala.Thanking the CM and Finance Minister, Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh said Kapurthala could emerge as a new medical hub in the state. About the NJSA Government college renovation, he said “with the new infrastructure this historic institution would retain its glory”.Hoshiarpur, too, has got new projects including the setting up of a wrestling school. The Budget also has provision for armed forces preparatory institute, an already sanctioned project in the district at Bajwara village.Kapurthala gets projects worth Rs63 cr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nothing-new-for-jalandhar-district-in-governments-last-budget-222700
09-03-2021||Aparna Banerji||45 girls escape from Jalandhar's Gandhi Vanita Ashram||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 8As many as 45 girls escaped from the Gandhi Vanita Ashram’s children’s home this evening. They were, however, traced late at night by the Division No. 2 police.The home primarily houses girls who are placed under the protection of the ashram during ongoing court cases. The prime grouse of girls who escaped was that they were not being released even though they had attained 18 years of age. The ashram also has a children’s home for girls and a widow home.Sukhbir Singh, SHO Police station No. 2, said, “The girls had been traced and almost all have been brought back to the ashram. Since so many girls left together we were still counting how many were still missing. We received the information when the girls ran and we made them sit and pacified them. The girls said they had consciously left the ashram demanding their release as they were there for a long time and are now adults (18 years of age) but they are being kept there. They also had a grouse regarding amenities. They told us they want to leave the place and don’t want to stay anymore. It was a collective decision for them to leave the place.”When asked how the girls escaped from a high security place like the Gandhi Vanita Ashram, the SHO said, “The girls were big in numbers. Security is deputed but they are mostly ladies staff. There are a few ashram personnel too. The doors are also wooden and the main gate has a big door which is mostly open. There are so far no reports of any altercation or confrontation when girls left.”Sources said a detailed procedure has to be followed before the girls can be released. Notably, time and again questions have been raised over the security arrangements and non-functional cameras at the ashram.CDPO Gary Randhawa could not be contacted despite repeated calls. Sources said Randhawa also didn’t respond to calls by CWC members. CWC member Amarjit Singh Anand, said, “Despite it being my duty on the roster, the DPO office or the ashram’s authorities did not inform the CWC about the incident.”DC Ghanshyam Thori as well as SDM II Rahul Sindhu confirmed late in the night that all 45 girls were brought back to the ashram.Sources said the girls had tricked a police constable by saying one of them was ill and then escaped. SDM Rahul Sindhu said it was primarily judicial delay of their cases which remained the prime grouse of girls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/45-girls-escape-from-jalandhars-gandhi-vanita-ashram-222701
09-03-2021||---||Of women and their empowerment||Jalandhar, March 8International Women’s Day celebrations were held in various educational institutes across the city. While some organised exhibitions, some held webinars, games, slogan-writing competitions in honour of women.Law Dept, GNDU regional campusA webinar on International Women’s Day was organised under the guidance of Dr Rupam Jagota, HoD and associate professor, Department of Laws, GNDU regional campus, Jalandhar, on ‘Changing counters of women’s rights’. CJM-cum-secretary, DLSA, delivered the keynote address. He highlighted the practical aspects of issues relating to women ensuring legal justice as well as the use of mediation and conciliation in justice delivery system. He depicted two stories relating to women with special reference to custody rights of children and protection of women from sexual harassment at their work places.DAV UniversityDAV University’s Women Empowerment Cell organised inter-department event for girl students and women staff to commemorate International Women’s Day. The event was organised in association with the department of sports and physical education. The celebrations revolved around the theme ‘Fit Women Fit India’. Rajwinder Kaur, a noted judo player who represented India in national and international judo events, was the chief guest. Dr Jasbir Rishi, VC (officiating), said Women’s Day celebrates the struggle, strength and efforts in maintaining the balance on personal and professional fronts. Participating students fought for supremacy in various sport events including mini-football, tug of war, kho-kho, 100m race, 4x100m relay race and special tug of war. Women working in teaching and non-teaching departments also participated in different events.Apeejay technical campusApeejay Institute of Management and Engineering Technical Campus celebrated International Women’s Day with great fervour. A special lecture on ‘Ensuring Conducive Work Ambience to Enhance Psychological Well-Being of Women’ was delivered by Dr Rajesh Bagga, director, Apeejay Institute of Management and Engineering. He elaborated on the theme of this year’s International Women’s Day #ChooseToChallenge and said challenge fosters change. Dr Bagga said to forge a gender equal world, both men and women should challenge and speak against gender bias and male hegemony. He highlighted the fact that the increase in employment opportunities for women, calls for taking measures to make work place ambience and culture conducive to their wellbeing.Shiv Jyoti Public SchoolShiv Jyoti Public School arranged special live telecast on Women’s Day during Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank’s, interaction with girl students, women VCs of universities and women principals of colleges. Principal Neeru Nayyar apprised the students of Classes I to XII about the importance of this day. Students and teachers participated with full enthusiasm.Innocent Hearts GroupTo celebrate International Women’s Day, motivational webinars were organised by Innocent Hearts School, Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions and Innocent Hearts College of Education. The theme was ‘Journey of a Girl’. The resource person was Amandeep Kaur, director, DVM Educational Group. She talked about different government policies to make women strong. A webinar for teachers aligned with the theme of ‘Women Empowerment Mission and Vision’ was also held. They discussed the mission and vision of women and emphasised them to be focused.Sanskriti KMV SchoolSanskriti KMV School marked the International Women’s Day with high spirits. The day called in for an energy-packed event involving teachers to participate in ‘Fit India Movement’ programme, giving ground for sports events dedicated to National Mission swayed by women power as launched by the PM. Principal Rachna Monga, students, teachers and parents planted saplings. Woman’s sacrifice, effort and contribution holds a place of high dignity, be it in our family or in society, she said, adding that the generations must be nourished with values of respect towards feminism.St Soldier Law CollegeSt Soldier Law College celebrated the day by organising a webinar on the theme ‘Discriminations against women and the law’. Four women experts shared their views on different aspects of the seminar. Prof (Dr) SC Sharma, college director, introduced the theme and welcomed the experts. Asst Prof Ravinderjit Kaur was the moderator. Key speaker Prof (Dr) Aman Amrit Cheema of Punjab University presented the paper on ‘Women’s Property Rights - From Inequality to Inequality’ highlighting the legal efforts like making daughter a coparcener in 2005, gift laws, constitutional provisions and policy initiatives regarding affirmative discrimination in favour of women to ground-level realities. Dr Rupam Jagota, HoD law, GNDU campus, Ladewali, presented a paper on ‘Removing discrimination against women: The constitutional remedies’ underscoring the provisions in fundamental rights, directive principles, transgender rights and women reservation in Panchayati Raj Institutions. Dr Pankajdeep Kaur shared her views on sharply increasing crime against women resulting from patriarchal mindset. Advocate and social activist Gagandeep Kaur underscored large scale discrimination and exploitation of women workers employed in MGNREGS.Lyallpur Khalsa College technical campusAuthorities at Lyallpur Khalsa College technical campus took an initiative to provide a platform for female students to discuss and interact with renowned women doctors about their health and wellness. Dr Divya Kalra, dietician and ayurveda expert and Dr Shikha Chawla, MBBS (radiation oncology) HOD, radiation oncology, Patel Hospital were the resource persons. They motivated students and inspired them to remain healthy as female health was imperative for family and society. Nine women principals from different schools were also honoured for their contribution to education in the leadership role. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, director AA, KCL Group, congratulated everyone on International Women’s Day. Dr RS Deol, deputy director AA KCL Group, appreciated the synergy and enthusiasm as well as the efforts of the organising committee for organising the event and said a woman has a major role in shaping society.GNDU Media DeptAn interactive programme was organised by the department of journalism and mass communication, GNDU, Ladhewali, to mark International Women’s Day. The department invited its women alumni, who have excelled in various media houses over the years. Nine former students, from different media fields like the print media, radio, web TV, TV news channels etc. came to grace the occasion. They interacted with students, shared their experience and motivated students to choose their fields wisely in future. They exhorted students to have self-confidence and self-respect to deal with situations in a male-dominated environment. They asked students to focus on their work rather than on male-female power game. Many of them recounted the struggles they faced at home and at work to reach their present status. HoD Dr Namarta Joshi asked women to raise their voice against any injustice done to them or to others. Dr Charan Kamal Walia, Sukriti and Rama Shankar were also present.Hans Raj Mahila Maha VidyalayaInternational Women’s Day was organised at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation under the aegis of innovation cell and women empowerment cell. MC Comissioner Karnesh Sharma, Joint Commissioner Gurvinder K Randhawa, Dean, academics Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur, RJ Deepak, RJ Luveena, RJ Dheer were also present. Dr Anjana Bhatia conducted the stage. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen said women were better managers and they should be financially independent. She should be given equal rights at every level as she possesses qualities of multi-tasking, creating lives, handling pressure and is a great caretaker.Ivy World SchoolIVY World School, under the ageis of the Vasal Education Society, organised Women’s Day as ‘Masti ki Paathshala’. The celebration began with a song dedicated to women presented by school’s performing arts team. The educators apprised and appreciated all mothers virtually by appreciating their contribution towards their families and overall support for children virtual classes. All mothers were dressed up as children with school uniform and two plaits with ribbons. The aim was to make all women feel important and loved as they are all-rounder in day-today life. The mothers were welcomed with fun games, tongue twisters, old songs, guess the movie and many more fun-filled activities to make them feel special. Principal S Chauhan highlighted the multitasking abilities of a woman. CEO Raghav Vasal extended his greetings to all mothers and educators and also spoke on women empowerment.Army Public School, BeasThe NSS wing of Army Public School Beas celebrated the day by organising slogan-writing, poem composition and sketch-making contests on women empowerment.MGN College of EducationThe women welfare committee of MGN College of Education celebrated Women’s Day by organising a webinar on the theme ‘Women Health’. Kamal Kishore Aggarwal, president, Bhartiya Yoga Sansthan, was the resource person. Aggarwal emphasised the need for taking care of women’s health, hygiene and diet. He suggested that health science along with Ayurveda emphasised the important role of balanced diet to ensure health, especially for women, whose body undergoes many changes. He said most of the women generally neglect their own dietary needs but it need to be ensured to have healthy diet to improve mood, boost energy and maintain healthy weight. He suggested certain dietary tips regarding intake of water, quality of food intake, amount of salt and sugar in our food and avoiding junk food to maintain good health.Lovely Professional UniversityThe faculty and staff members of Lovely Professional University participated in Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led International Women’s Day celebrations through state-level video-conferencing from Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh. Observing Covid-19 restrictions, the celebration was held at the spacious Shanti Devi Mittal Auditorium of the university.Police LinesInternational Women’s Day was celebrated at Police Lines, where women police personnel and women dependents of policemen of Jalandhar participated in the event. It included talks by Dr Gurpreet Kaur, senior gynaecologist, and Dr Ranjana, dietician, both from Shingara Singh Hospital, and Dr Anamika Lal from PAP Hospital making women aware of problems and safeguards relating to breast cancer, menopause and lifestyle and diet-related issues. The senior doctors interacted and removed the doubts and phobias of the participants and encouraged them to take good care of themselves, exercise regularly, eat healthy diet and go for regular medical check-ups. Some women recited poems related to women issues and mentioned the general problems being faced by working women, who have to tackle both home and work pressures. The doctors suggested that yoga and meditation can help them strike the right balance. Subsequently, a medical checkup camp was organised for the general health examination of the ladies. The events were held with the active help of Punjab Police Mahila Mittar and Saanjh staff.Pushpa Gujral Science CityPushpa Gujral Science City, Kapurthala, celebrated International Women’s Day virtually. Around 200 students and 100 rural women of Self Help Groups (SHGs) from different districts of Punjab participated in the programme. Dr Neelima Jerath, director general, Science City, said a large number of women in India have successfully broken the glass ceiling and were in leadership positions in industry, government and as entrepreneurs and social media had played an important role in making their voices heard, especially in micro businesses. She said in 2018, Niti Aayog launched the Women Entrepreneurship Platform, a portal to provide knowledge and support to women entrepreneurs. The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Ministry has also launched a network for women entrepreneurs, Udyam Sakhi, in 2018 to aid, counsel, assist and protect women’s interests through a single portal. Rajat Arora, policy programmes manager, Facebook, India and South Asia, during his special talk on ‘Social Media For Livelihood Development’ said digital transformation was especially critical for the uplift of women, who have been disproportionately affected by the pandemic, facing job losses and taking up increased household and childcare responsibilities.Jasmin adjudged Miss DAV, Anjali runner-upHoshiarpur: The Kalpana Chawla Women Development Club of DAV College of Education (B Ed College), Hoshiarpur, celebrated International Women’s Day. Secretary of college managing committee DL Anand (Retd Principal) was the guest of honour and Dr Jasveera Anoop Manhas was the chief guest. Anjali was adjudged the second runner-up, Aasha first runner-up, while the overall title of Miss DAV was won by Jasmin.Rupinder Kaur, Suman Sood and Tushti Sharma judged the talent of students during stage performances. Students participated in different activities such as ramp walk, dances, poems and speeches highlighting the significance of women in society. They presented a play titled ‘Women-A Never Ending Story’ directed by Dr Harpreet Singh. Priya bagged the title of Miss Beautiful Hair, Divya Miss Beautiful Dress, Simran Miss Glamorous Look, Priya Miss Ramp Walk, Nitika Miss Beautiful Eyes, Priyanka Sharma Miss Fashion Icon, Aasha Miss Glowing Skin and Latika Spectacular Eyes. Dr Archna Sharma and Dr Chetna Sharma were honoured for the recent completion of their doctorate. Roma Ralhan was also honoured by the college for receiving an honour from the Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner to start the NGO ‘Care and Share’ for serving humanity and Rupakshi for getting third prize in poster-making competition at the district-level. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/of-women-and-their-empowerment-222702
