10-03-2021||Jalandhar||Fuel price hike flayed||Girls’ cycling club holds eventsJalandhar: The members of ‘Ride to Roar’, a girls’ cycling club from the city, organised various events on the occasion of International Women’s Day. About 10 girls pedalled from city to Haveli theme resort on Phagwara Road riding about 24 km to and fro. In the evening, they participated in a workshop on self-defence organised by Cobra Karate on Nakodar Road. Simran Arora, Disha Sachdeva, Radha, Khushi, Veena Malhotra, Ranju Sethi, Honey Aneja, Deepti Jain and Sakshi got tips on how to defend themselves upon being attacked by snatchers and miscreants using karate and other reflex actions. TNSWomen get flower pots, plantsJalandhar: To mark the International Women’s day in a unique way, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Monday handed over flowerpots and plants to women police officials and complainants visiting his office as a token of respect. CP Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said flowerpots and plants have been distributed to as many as 32 women police officials who are working as ‘Mahila Mitra’ at helpdesks established at all police stations. Bhullar reiterated his commitment to ensuring round the clock safety and security of women as Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh launched a slew of schemes for women. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fuel-price-hike-flayed-223209
10-03-2021||Following the directions of the Chief Minister and state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu||Awareness on wheels||Quick disbursal of fundsAmid apprehensions over the non-implementation of the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme, by the councillor and opposition leaders, Phagwara Municipal Corporation commissioner Rajeev Verma held a meeting with the bank officials for immediate disbursement of funds under the scheme. The scheme was rolled out under Atmanirbhar Bharat to extend collateral free working capital loans of up to Rs10,000 to street vendors. Thousands of vendors registered under the MC are expected to receive the benefit. Verma apprised senior officials about the loans being provided under the scheme. The scheme encourages self-employment among street vendors. So far, camps at various places have been organised to raise aware among beneficiaries of the scheme and maximum enrolment of vendors.English Olympiad champ!Adding another feather to her cap, Bhavni Bhatnagar, a student of Cambridge International School, Phagwara, has clinched the second spot in the state English Olympiad. The competition was organised by Common Service Centre Olympiad. To motivate Bhavni, a student of Class IV, a tablet was also given to her as an award. Chairman KS Vasi, Chairman of Vasal Education Group Sanjeev Vasal and Principal Joravar Singh congratulated the student for her achievement.(Contributed by Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/awareness-on-wheels-223208
10-03-2021||Jalandhar||Farewell for Class XII students||Bronze medal in long jumpSukhveer Kaur, a student of HMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School, won a bronze medal in long jump in Senior State Championship held at Patiala. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the medal winner and the coach. She also prayed to the Almighty for her better future and encouraged her to work hard in life. School Coordinator Meenakshi Sayal, faculty members Ramandeep Kaur and Harpreet Kaur were also present on the occasion.Students outshine in JEE MainThe students of Innocent Hearts School have done well in JEE Main conducted by the National Testing Agency last month. The top scorers are Aashim Sikka 98.18 percentile, Mohit Nanda 97.84 percentile, Preet Kamal 96.18 percentile, Ishant Jethi 93.88 percentile, Sushant Yadav 92.13 percentile, Jatin Malhotra 91.1 percentile. On this occasion Dr Anup Bowry, Chairman, Innocent Hearts, congratulated the students and teachers. Rajeev Paliwal, Principal, applauded the efforts of the students and wished them good luck for their bright future.Promoting womanhoodTo mark the auspicious occasion of International Women’s Day, various institutes of CT Group organised an array of events. CT Group Maqsudan celebrated the occasion by offering flowers to Mother Teresa, Florence Nightingale, Saroj Khan and Sushma Swaraj etc. The main attraction of the event was the nukkad natak where the female students of the campus showcased ‘Gender inequality’ and a message to stop it was spread by the female students through the skit. Chief guest of the event Parminder Kaur Channi, Chairperson, CT Group. On the other side, CT Institute of Law and CT Institute of Higher Studies held webinars on women empowerment and rights. Dr Charu Sharma, Associate Professor in the Department of English at Government College, Kangra (HP), remained the resource person. MK College of Education at CT Group organised a cooking competition in which girl students showcased their culinary skills. CT Public School marked the occasion in which Hardeep Kaur Bhanwra, Deputy Commissioner, State Tax Investigation, Jalandhar and Bathinda zone was the chief guest. The women teachers and staff members were warmly invited with flowers. The teachers of CT World School also marked the day by playing fun games and making cards on women empowerment.Hans Raj Mahila Maha VidyalayaInternational Women’s Day has been organised in Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya under the aegis of innovation cell and the women empowerment cell. As per the tradition of HMV, the event started with DAV gaan and lightning of the lamp. RJ Deepak was guest of the day and was given a green welcome by Principal Prof Ajay Sareen and Dean Academics Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur. Principal Sareen congratulated Dr Anjana Bhatia and Protima Mander who organised the event in a beautiful manner. RJ Deepak entertained everybody with his humorous jokes and ideas. He also talked about women empowerment and said women were stronger than men and they should be respected by head and heart. On this occasion few games and cultural activities was exhibited by Dr Prem Sagar, Dr Harpreet Singh and Ravi Maini with their team which made the environment very happy.Govt connects with IKGPTUKapurthala: IK Gujral Punjab Technical University students, faculty and staff joined the state government’s event on the occasion of International Women’s Day through e-platform. This event was chaired by Punjab CM. At the university campus, Prof (Dr) Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice Chancellor IKGPTU, presided over the event. In this event, university students, faculty and the staff came to know about the initiatives of Punjab Government. University faculty and staff felt motivated with efforts of the Punjab government towards development of the state in every corner. Vice Chancellor Prof (Dr) Ajay Kumar Sharma presented vote of thanks for giving an opportunity to interact with CM Punjab through technology. VC Professor Sharma said various initiatives of government were directly connected with the development of women education of the state, which is the sign of gender equality and respect to women. VC Prof Sharma congratulated the women staff, faculty & students of the university on this very special day. The event was coordinated by the office of dean students and cultural affairs. University Dean Student affairs Prof (Dr) Yadwinder Singh Brar, Registrar SK Kazal, Joint Registrar Dr RPS Bedi, Campus Director Dr Neel Kanth Grover and others were present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farewell-for-class-xii-students-223207
10-03-2021||Jalandhar||Two-day virtual PTM concludes||Parents and students of government schools, especially those who have shifted from private schools, were reportedly satisfied when they interacted virtually with Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, during a two-day parent-teacher meeting held on Monday and Tuesday. He seeked a first-hand feedback about the preparation for accomplishing ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-day-virtual-ptm-concludes-223190
10-03-2021||---||NAPA: ‘Address concerns of Punjabi diaspora’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 9The North American Punjabi Association (NAPA) on Sunday urged the Punjab Government to address the pending issues and concerns of the Punjabi diaspora. In a press release issued here, Satnam Singh Chahal, executive director North American Punjabi Association (NAPA), said, it was very unfortunate that no NRI Act has been passed in Punjab by the Punjab Assembly. He said the NRI Commission in Punjab was a toothless body which had no judicial powers to decide a case on its own.Chahal said NAPA was struggling to stop illegal human trafficking from Punjab but besides two laws passed in Punjab Assembly during 2010 and 2012 this illegal business was flourishing day by day in Punjab under the nose of the administration.Chahal said: “We wrote several letters to the present and past Punjab Government to take a serious note of this issue to stop this business but our governments are not paying any attention to our requests and as a result several Punjabi youths are missing while crossing the US-Mexico Border.”He said there was a proposal drafted by the previous government that no case will be registered against any visiting NRI without the permission of the district police chief but the proposal could not be seen as effective in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/napa-address-concerns-of-punjabi-diaspora-223186
10-03-2021||Hoshiarpur||Better healthcare courses in the offing for future medicos||To produce highly-trained healthcare professionals and to meet the requirement of competent manpower for high growth healthcare industry in the region, CT University, Ludhiana and IVY Group of Hospitals has signed an MoU. Under this joint collaboration, the two-year masters in Hospital Administration (MHA) and three-year bachelor degree course in dialysis therapy and cardiac care technology will be started from the academic session of 2021.A new startAccording to a press release issued by local IVY Hospital here, all these courses will be unique in its nature as students will not only get the best academic and learning outcome by national and international famed faculty members at CT University but also lot of practical exposure through various case studies, seminar, live projects and continuous mentoring from line managers at 1,000 bedded IVY group’s six hospitals in Punjab, including Hoshiarpur for their holistic developments.Prof (Dr) Harsh Sadawarti, VC CT University said, “Our programmes have been designed to develop graduates with core knowledge and specialised skills necessary to make a real difference in hospital administration and management and we will solely focus on producing professionally trained healthcare administrators. who can play an effective managerial as well as clinical role.” The MHA programme will be a 1+1 model wherein students will remain at CT University for first year and the remaining second year at Ivy Hospitals for academic learning & hands-on training. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/better-healthcare-courses-in-the-offing-for-future-medicos-223181
10-03-2021||---||Virtual kisan mela focuses on changing agri practices||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 9Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and Regional Research Station, Ballowal Saunkhri, Nawanshahr, organised a virtual kisan mela on Tuesday.The mela was held around the theme on changing agricultural practices by reducing expenses, making optimum use of fertilisers, starting side agri-businesses and making farming a profit-oriented venture.The mela was inaugurated by Dr RK Kataria, Dean, College of Agriculture, Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Krishi Vishvavidyalaya, Palampur, Himachal Pradesh. He highlighted problems being faced by farmers of Kandi region. For improving the livelihood of Kandi farmers, he encouraged them to go for organic agriculture and cultivation of low water demanding crops keeping in view the deep water table in this region. He insisted for collaborative efforts between agricultural universities operational in Kandi region of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.Dr JS Mahal, Director of Extension Education, PAU, welcomed the chief guest, dignitaries and all the participants in the virtual kisan mela. He discussed the advantages of virtual kisan mela keeping in view the pandemic. Dr Mahal emphasised on the importance of organising regional kisan melas.Dr Navtej Singh Bains, Director of Research, PAU, expressed his concern about changing climatic conditions and other challenges.Dr Bains highlighted production-protection technologies, developed by the PAU and salient features of new crop varieties of basmati, sugarcane, maize, mooing, chilli, kinnow, litchi and orchids, among others, in terms of quality and production. He also discussed water saving technique by adopting direct-seeded rice.Dr Manmohanjit Singh, Director, RRS, Ballowal Saunkhri, proposed the vote of thanks. He expressed his gratitude to PAU Vice-Chancellor Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon for helping in organising the kisan mela at Ballowal Saunkhri. He laid stress on development and dissemination of suitable ago processing technologies, value addition and various marketing models.Dr Rakesh Sharda, Senior Extension Specialist, PAU; Dr Raj Kumar, Chief Agricultural Officer, Nawanshahar; Udham Singh Kang, Divisional Soil Conservation Officer, Nawanshahr; and Dr Manmohanjit Singh, Director, Regional Research Station, Ballowal Saunkhri, took part in the discussions.The first panel discussion was on judicious use of water resources in kandi region. Dr Anil Khokhar gave tips for increasing maize production in the region. Dr Manmohanjit Singh informed about changing climate and role of Gramin Krishi Mausam Sewa in combating its effects by timely providing weather forecast. Udham Singh Kang informed about use of underground pipeline system for judicious use of water and subsidies being provided for this purpose. The second panel discussion was held on scope of agro-processing, value addition, and self marketing. Dr Manmohanjit Singh, Director, RRS Ballowal Saunkhri, Dr Maninder Singh Bons, Deputy Director Bahowal, Dr TC Mittal, Senior Extension Engineer PAU, Dr Kamaldeep Singh Sangha, Project Director ATMA Nawanshahar, and progressive farmer Narinder Singh Ajowal Hoshiarpur were the experts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-kisan-mela-focuses-on-changing-agri-practices-223157
10-03-2021||Ajay Joshi||A leader of the future||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 9“It is unfortunate that many educated people still equate student activism with protests, violence, damage, and unruly behaviour. If you project youth as the driving force behind nation-building then student activism comes with it,” said Varjit Kaur, a 23-year-old Shahkot-based girl who has now become a leading face.Notably, the incidents of student protests and activism in several parts of the country have always sparked a wave of fierce debate on whether students taking part in protests can be justified? Even as the student activism has given several leaders to the state.Kaur further adds, “It is vigorous action of students as a body in support of or opposition to any issue that leads to reforms or brings about some change in the system.”A student of MA politicial science at Layalpur Khalsa College, she believes her introduction to student activism was a mere coincidence. She herself doesn’t know when her participation into a protest against the non-implementation of post-matric scholarship (PMS) scheme compelled her to raise her voice against all the injustice.From issues concerning cleanliness to farmers’ stir, she has been vocal about almost every issue since 19. Her first protest was when she and other SC students were not allowed to appear in college exams due to non-disbursal of funds under the PMS scheme. Today also, she held a protest along with a group of students against brutal rape and murder of a six-year-old in Chandigarh. “It is hard to say when our voices will be heard, but we want the authorities to know that any incident that occurs in our society effects students,” said Kaur.As a member of the Punjab Students Union she now leads the woman wing of the union in the district. If any student from minority community faces any issue in the colleges, Kaur becomes the first choice to approach. While she has been fighting against the college authorities for last five years against PMS scheme and fee hike, she also motivates women in her village to fight for rights every now and then.Apart from continuing to give her contribution in farmers’ protest against the farm laws, this year she will conduct tours in the villages to appeal people to cast their vote judiciously in the next state elections. An ardent follower of Bhagat Singh, she says she has devoted herself to social activism and longs for a socially equal society.“An education system which does not qualify the students to question the existing theories and policies is useless and must be questioned for its own validity. I want the student activists to grow for a better education system” Kaur added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-leader-of-the-future-223141
10-03-2021||---||Transporter shot at, four booked||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, March 9A transporter-cum-property dealer was shot at by four persons riding on two bikes late Monday night here. He was seriously injured in the firing.The Model town police have booked four persons under charges of attempt to murder. Old rivalry was possibly the reason behind the firing. Giving this information, police officer investigating the case, SI Chatwinder Singh, said that Sukhvinder Singh, son of Balveer Singh, a resident of local Mohalla Kirti Nagar, said in his complaint that he was returning home in his car late last night after taking medicines from market.When he reached near his house, four persons riding two bikes, who were already standing there, started indiscriminate firing on him with the intention of killing him. After injuring him severely, the accused absconded on their bikes.He said that he was attacked by Manveer Singh and Amanjeet Singh, alias Biru, a resident of Bhatthe village, Pavittar Singh, a resident of Bure Nangal village and Jaggi, a resident of Sahaipur village in Hoshiarpur district.He said old enmity with the accused was reason behind the firing. Investigating Officer said that Sukhvinder Singh was first admitted to the Civil Hospital from where he was shifted to a private hospital.He said the accused had been booked under Sections 307, 148 and 149 of the IPC and 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. He said the police had launched hunt to arrest the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/transporter-shot-at-four-booked-223140
10-03-2021||---||Surya Enclave residents put JIT in a tight spot||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 9Residents of Surya Enclave have lodged a police complaint against the Chairman and Executive Officer of the Jalandhar Development Authority, Superintending Engineer and staff for not honouring the commitment and fulfilling the promises of various facilities made to them 18 years ago.On behalf of the residents, Rajeev Dhamija, general secretary of the Surya Enclave Welfare Society, has lodged a complaint with the Commissioner of Police saying: “We were allotted freehold residential plots in the 170-acre scheme in 2003. The then Chairman of JIT, Tajinder Singh Bittu, had prepared a brochure attaching a layout plan, which had provisions for ultra-modern golf course range and ultra-modern community centre.”He said residents had been promised an LPG gas pipeline for which they had paid Rs8,000 to Rs20,000 in different categories. The amount was deposited by all allottees in 2004. Residents rued that none of these three promised facilities had been provided to them ever since.He said all promises now seemed a fluke and a “mala fide intention by the authorities to cheat and defraud them of additional charges”. He said despite several meetings and protests, the authorities have not come into action. Residents have demanded that an FIR be lodged against the JIT authorities after inquiring into the matter. They have submitted to him a copy of the brochure printed by the JIT in 2003.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surya-enclave-residents-put-jit-in-a-tight-spot-223139
10-03-2021||---||4 arrested for selling luxury cars using fake documents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 9The city police on Tuesday busted a gang of fraudsters who were allegedly involved in sale-purchase of luxury cars using fake documents.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said based on a tip-off that a gang was operating to dupe people by selling them luxury cars on fake papers. A special team of CIA-1 launched a crackdown to nab the accused.He said four members of the gang were arrested by the CIA team, who were identified as Jashandeep Singh, a resident of Tower Enclave, Phase-2; Kamal Gill of Nangalshama; Gaurav, a resident of New Baldev Nagar; and Kanwalpreet Singh of Bhullar Athwal village in Gurdaspur district.Six luxury cars, two scooters and one smart TV were seized from the accused.Revealing the modus operandi of the group, Bhullar said, “One of the gang members namely Gaurav was working in a car showroom on Pathankot Road who led the gang into these corrupt practices while accused Kamal Gill was the group leader. He further stated that they had purchased several luxury cars on bank loans based on forged documents and sold these in different states and duped people by selling them mortgaged vehicles at lower prices”.Subsequently raids were on to arrest another member, Katial, who was the kingpin of this gang.Bhullar further said the accused had assigned various duties among them as accused Jashandeep used to sell these cars to customers, Kamal Gill prepared fake documents to get bank loan, while Gaurav, who was working at Novelty Ford company, was playing a key role to get the loan sanctioned from banks/finance companies using fake documents, and the fourth accused, Kamalpreet Singh, used to prepare fake documents of recently purchased cars to be able to sell them to new customers at lower prices. A case has been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-arrested-for-selling-luxury-cars-using-fake-documents-223137
10-03-2021||---||28 FIRs against night curfew violators, 471 challans issued in Hoshiarpur||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, March 9Amid increasing Covid cases, the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal on Tuesday appealed to people to strictly follow all Covid safety protocols, including mandatory mask-wearing and maintaining social distancing to check further spread of virus efficaciously.SSP Mahal informed that as night curfew is to be continued in district from 11 pm to 5 am, people must avoid unnecessary travel during this period so that the pandemic could be tackled effectively. He told that people must wear mask whenever they were stepping out of homes besides wash hands frequently and keeping a distance in larger public interest.The police have already initiated drive against the violators of Covid protocols and issued 471 challans to those found roaming without masks and registered 28 cases of violation of night curfew.Mahal also appealed the residents of the areas where micro-containment zone had been set up to ensure compliance with the instructions so that the virus could not spread further. He also said as many as 1,700 police officers/officials had already received the vaccine jab, including 1,100 got second dose and 600 took first dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/28-firs-against-night-curfew-violators-471-challans-issued-in-hoshiarpur-223136
10-03-2021||---||5 lose battle against Covid, 145 new cases in Hoshiarpur district||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, March 9With the arrival of 145 new positive patients in Hoshiarpur district the number of positive patients rose to 9,438, while five deaths reported on Tuesday in the district the death toll became 386.Meanwhile, the school-going students and teachers are also facing the brunt of the increasing contagion and out of the 1,377 samples taken from 20 schools, 24 students and five teachers have been found positive.Giving the latest information, Dr. Ranjit Singh Ghotra, the Civil Surgeon, said the number of cases have increased in the last few days due to which the number of micro-containment zones in the district is now 19. Today, the report of 1,997 samples was received and as many as 128 cases were reported out of which 28 are related to city Hoshiarpur and 100 to other health centres. Also, 17 other patients belonging to Hoshiarpur have been reported from other districts.The number of active cases is 882 while 8,495 patients have recovered. The total death toll is 386. The district has received 128 positive samples.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-lose-battle-against-covid-145-new-cases-in-hoshiarpur-district-223134
10-03-2021||Ajay Joshi||Day after girls’ escape, Joint Director Social Security visits Jalandhar's Gandhi Vanita Ashram||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 9A day after 45 inmates attempted escape from Gandhi Vanita Ashram Children Home, Vinni Bhullar, Joint Director, Social Security, visited the ashram and ordered for a detailed inquiry into the matter.Sources revealed that the superintendent of the home could face a departmental action and a transfer as the girls managed to leave the home on Monday evening.Earlier story: 45 girls escape from Gandhi Vanita AshramThe officials, including the joint director and district programme officer (DPO), interacted with the girls on Tuesday.The home mainly houses girls who are placed under the protection of the ashram during ongoing court cases. The inmates alleged that they were not being released even though they had attained 18 years of age. Besides, the girls also complained of improper food being served to them inside the home.While the cops, after tracing the girls who went missing yesterday, said 45 girls had left the home, DPO Gurvinder Singh Randhawa clarified that 37 of them tried to escape in the presence of heavy security.“Soon after the matter was probed, the girls told us that they were not being released from the home. Besides, they didn’t intend to leave the home, instead they wanted to protest outside the district court complex to lay stress about their release. After verifying the documents of all girls, it was also learnt that of 83 girls in the home, only four were 18 or above 18. To this, the girls cited that their parents have reduced their age in the documents. However, the department follows a detailed procedure before the girls can be released. In this regard, Chief Judicial Magistrate have also been apprised of the mater,” Randhawa said.Moreover, as the girls insisted that they have turned adults and they could no longer be kept in the ashram, the officials on Tuesday also initiated proceedings to release the girls who were not minors.An inquiry report in the matter will also be submitted to the Deputy Commissioner shortly, the DPO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/day-after-girls-escape-joint-director-social-security-visits-jalandhars-gandhi-vanita-ashram-223131
