11-03-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar slums gutted in cylinder blast||Four slum areas were gutted in a massive fire here near Maqsudan bypass on Thursday morning.Several fire brigade teams have been deployed at the spot. The incident was reported around 9:30 AM.The fire was initially reported in a tea stall outside a slum following a cylinder blast. It spread through the slum and nearly a dozen cylinders exploded as a result.The inconsolable slum dwellers residing in the slums reported have suffered losses worth lakhs. They were living there for the past 30-50  years.As many as six fire engines were called on the spot to bring the fire under control.MLA Bawa Henry visited the area and assured the necessary help to those who suffered losses.Meanwhile, no casualty was reported as the dwellers had gone for work.This the second cylinder blast incident reported in the city within a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-slums-gutted-in-cylinder-blast-223690
11-03-2021||---||Verbal spat after overtaking car takes ugly turn||Jalandhar, March 10A 23-year-old youth received multiple gunshots in a firing incident that took place in Lambra on Wednesday. The victim was identified as Harpreet Singh, a resident of Aulichakk village. This is the second such incident reported in less than 24 hours in the district.The cops at Lambra police station received an information on Wednesday morning that a man has been severely injured in a firing incident at Safipur village. Inspector Kashmir Singh, SHO Lambra police station, said the incident allegedly took place over a minor argument between two groups that took an ugly turn.As per the police, Harpreet embroiled in a verbal spat with the accused after he tried to overtake his vehicle. While the victim was in his Alto with his three friends, the accused was driving his Bolero. In a bid to overtake, Harpreet honked and sought way from the accused, after which they embroiled in a fight and moments later the Bolero driver took out his gun and shot at Harpreet.He reportedly received five bullets, three on arms and one each on stomach and thigh.The victim was immediately rushed to the Civil Hospital, where owing to his critical state, he was shifted to a private hospital. While he was bleeding profusely, the doctors told the police that the next few hours were critical for his recovery. Bullet shells were also recovered from the spot. The accused has not been arrested so far, the SHO said.In a similar incident, around 10.15 pm, a firing incident was reported in Nangal Salempur village on Tuesday, when two unidentified masked men shot at a resident.The resident was identified as Tejinder Pal Singh Bajwa (58), a resident of the same village. He works as a wholesale dealer of cement. The nearby shopkeepers told the police in their statements that at 9.54 pm two men entered the store of the victim and started hitting him and eventually opened fire. When they tried to stop them, the accused pointed the gun at them as well.Reportedly before firing, the accused also stabbed Bajwa, who was later rushed to a private hospital. Inspector Kamarjit Singh, SHO Maqsudan Police Station said, Bajwa received bullet on his nose and from a private hospital he was referred to DMC Ludhiana.While the accused could neither be traced nor identified, a case under Sections 307 and 451 of the IPC and under Section 25 of the Arms Act has been registered.Last week, on Saturday also, a city-based businessman was shot dead by some assailants in broad daylight. In the 13 rounds of multiple gunshot firing, the victim sustained five bullets. The accused remains untraced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/verbal-spat-after-overtaking-car-takes-ugly-turn-223607
11-03-2021||---||Covid monitors, supervisors to keep a tab on violators during functions||Jalandhar, March 10To keep the virus spread under check, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday appointed 246 Covid monitors and supervisors to keep an eagle eye over gatherings in hotels, marriage palaces and banquet halls.The DC said as the state government has capped gathering in marriage events, all monitors have to ensure the maximum gathering of 100 persons for indoor and 200 for outdoor events. He said besides ensuring that the gathering was within the prescribed limit, they also have to make sure that the Covid appropriate behaviour is implemented during the events in letter and spirit. He also said the maintenance of social distancing, wearing of masks and availability of hand sanitisers have to be ensured by these monitors, as the managers of these institutions were appointed as Covid monitors.The DC said the administration had also appointed supervisors (government officials) for all 246 hotels, marriage palaces and banquet halls. These supervisors would conduct random visits in the institutions allotted to them and submit their report to the district administration about the enforcement of the state government’s guidelines and protocol during an event, he said.Thori categorically mentioned that all Covid monitors would be responsible for the implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour in their institutions and appropriate action would be taken against them if non-compliance with the government’s orders were reported by the supervisors.Meanwhile, the DC has directed the officials of the Education Department to ensure vaccination of government teachers, as they have been recognised as frontline workers for rendering their services during the pandemic. Further, he asked the officials of the Health Department to speed up their daily sampling, so that the virus could be kept at bay. He directed the officials to ensure tracing of at least 15 contacts of a positive patient in the district besides enforcement of curfew-like strictness in containment zones.The DC directed the local police authorities to keep a tab over the gathering in crowded public places while ensuring proper enforcement of night curfew in the district. He said the battle against coronavirus can only be won with collective efforts and being complacent could take a heavy toll on everyone.District reports 4 deaths, 214 infections Jalandhar: After a relief of nearly six months, the count of Covid-19 patients continues to surge in the district. On Wednesday, 214 people tested positive for Covid on Wednesday, while four patients, including a 48-year-old man, succumbed to the virus. According to reports, the virus has even entered the Jalandhar Cantt area after a long gap. Among those testing positive, two women and one man are allegedly from Vajra CSD canteen. The other cases were reported from, Defense Colony, BSF Colony, Urban Estate, Golden Avenue, Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Durga Colony, Chima Nagar, Guru Nanak Pura, NIT and New Jawahar Nagar among other areas. The remaining three deceased were of 82, 67 and 54-year-old. On Tuesday, too, 137 new infections were reported, while six persons lost their lives. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-monitors-supervisors-to-keep-a-tab-on-violators-during-functions-223608
11-03-2021||---||Only tuition fee to be charged from SC students: DC||Jalandhar, March 10 As the Punjab Government released its 40 per cent share under the Post Matric Scholarship (PMS) scheme, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday directed private educational institutions to take only tuition fee from SC students.  At a meeting held to review the status of the scheme in the district, the DC asked these institutes not to claim maintenance allowances from the payment credited to the accounts of eligible SC students under the PMS scheme by the state government. “It has been observed that some institutes are collecting maintenance allowance, too, along with the tuition fee, which is not acceptable,” the DC said.  While holding discussions with the representatives of private educational intuitions here at the District Administrative Complex, the DC told them that the state government had transferred both tuition fee and maintenance allowances into the accounts of students. He said institutes could only claim the tuition fee as the maintenance allowances were of students only.  The DC also constituted joint committees of students and educational institutions under the supervision of Sub-Divisional Magistrates to resolve the issues raised by students, if any. These committees would be functional at both tehsil and sub-division level and try to resolve the grievances of students, he said. Thori told educational institutes not to withhold roll numbers and degrees and certificates of students on account of non-deposition of their dues, adding that such cases would be dealt with a heavy hand. He asked students to lodge their complaints in writing if they face any problem from their respective educational institute so that appropriate action could be initiated by the administration.  Prominent among others present on the occasion included Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh, SDM Rahul Sindhu, SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh, Tehsil Welfare Officer Sarabjit Kaur, representatives of educational institutions, and students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/only-tuition-fee-to-be-charged-from-sc-students-dc-223610
11-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Medical store owner killed in Attowal village||Hoshiarpur, March 10 The owner of a medical store in Adda Attowal, was killed by unidentified miscreants on Wednesday morning. The police have recovered a knife from the crime scene. It is said that a CCTV camera installed near the site of the incident has captured the footage. According to the information, Tarsem Mahe (60) (in pic), son of Pritam Das of Phuglana, presently residing at Mohalla Ravidas Nagar, Hoshiarpur, had been running a medical store in Attowal village for the last 30 years. Like every day, Tarsem opened his medical store around 7:30 am, when some unidentified persons attacked him with sharp weapons and escaped from the spot after killing him. The incident came to light when a customer came to the store and saw the blood-stained corpse of Tarsem lying on the floor. The said customer immediately reported this to the nearby shopkeepers and Mehtiana police station. SP Mandeep Singh, SHO of Mehtiana police station Des Raj reached the spot and took the body in possession and sent it to the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital for postmortem. SP Mandeep Singh said an FIR was registered and the CCTV footage was being investigated to identify the accused, adding that the accused would be arrested soon. He said a knife was also been recovered from the crime scene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/medical-store-owner-killed-in-attowal-village-223611
11-03-2021||Jalandhar||2 girls assaulted in city’s Green Model Town area||A video reportedly went viral on social media on Wednesday evening in which two minor girls were seen being hit badly by a group of three men. The video was a CCTV footage recorded outside a house in Green Model Town area.  After investigation, it was reported that a father-son duo were allegedly chasing two sisters aged 15 and 14 and later were assaulting them physically. The accused were identified as Anil Happy and his son Rishi. The incident had occurred on March 3 when the girls had gone to the accused to pay their dues of Rs8,000. In her statement to the police the 15-year-old victim stated that her mother used to work as a househelp at their house. “Even before they reached Anil’s house, his son met them on the street and hurled abuses. He later along with his friend and father chased and beat them,” stated the SHO police division 7. A case was registered against the father-son duo. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-girls-assaulted-in-citys-green-model-town-area-223612
11-03-2021||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi---||Virus raises its ugly head in Hoshiarpur dist again||Hoshiarpur, March 10 Covid cases have witnessed a massive spike in Hoshiarpur district again.  On Wednesday, 221 fresh cases, which is the highest surge, were reported in the district, confirmed District Epidemiologist Dr Shailesh.  Out of 221 new cases, 15 patients were from Hoshiarpur city and 189 were from other health centres. Making situation difficult for the health authorities is the spread of the virus among school students and teachers. As many as 1,657 samples have been collected from 27 schools of which, 95 students and 11 teachers have tested positive. The number of micro-containment zones in the district has increased to 18 and hotspots to 27.  Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said Level 2 institutional covid care has been activated at the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital (75-bed capacity) and Dasuya sub-divisional hospital has been put on standby. A total of 34 positive patients have been admitted to the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital and the number is feared to rise.  The Health Department has geared up to turn the Civil Hospital into a covid care facility shifting the non-covid patients to the ESI Hospital.  “The scenario is different this time. Earlier, Covid patients were reluctant to come to the hospital, but now they are coming to the hospital for treatment. We are preparing accordingly. I have written to the ESI Director to allow us to shift the non-covid patients to the ESI Hospital,” said Dr Ghotra. He said the number of positive patients has increased to 9,642 and the death toll reached 388 with two more deaths reported today. “The reason for spike in the Covid-19 cases is non-compliance of precautions suggested by the Health Department. We can tackle the disease to a great extent by cleaning our hands from time to time, wearing masks and practising social distancing. The Health Department is vaccinating healthcare workers, frontline workers, senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities. This pandemic can be defeated by following the Covid protocol,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virus-raises-its-ugly-head-in-hoshiarpur-dist-again-223613
11-03-2021||---||JIT penalised for delaying possession of flat||Jalandhar, March 10The Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT), which is already reeling under heavy debt, has suffered another jolt after the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, while addressing complaint of an allottee of the Bibi Bhani Complex LIG flats, ordered the trust to refund the money with 6 per cent interest, Rs 20,000 as compensation and Rs 5,000 as litigation expenses.The complainant, a retired Indian Army Captain, had approached the commission and complained that despite buying the flat under the 21.5 acres development scheme in the Bibi Bhani Complex, in 2015, he couldn’t get the possession of the flat.Complainant Rahul Khosla, a resident of Choti Baradari, mentioned in his complaint, that his wife Paramjit Khosla had applied for a flat under a lucky draw in 2009, following which flat no.2A was allotted to her and she was asked to deposit the installments of the flats. Subsequently, even after deposition Rs 6 lakh, she wasn’t given the possession of the flat. She also submitted a represention in this regard to the JIT twice in 2015. Meanwhile, Paramjit Kaur died on November 25, 2016. However, before dying, she executed a will in April 2016, bequeathing all her properties, including the flat in the name of the complainant.Later on several occasions, Khosla approached the JIT for the possession of the flat, but to no avail. Owing to this, he filed a complaint under the Consumer Protection Act against the JIT at the commission on August 13, 2019.The plaintiffs said the JIT miserably failed to hand over the possession of the LIG flats of the Bibi Bhani Complex, which was meant to be given in 2012 and had even not returned their earnest money.The complainant had also written multiple letters to JIT to refund the earnest money. The JIT, they alleged, kept adjourning the matter on one pretext or the other. A notice of the complaint was given to the JIT by the commission. However, JIT officials contested that the complainants were not their consumers and maintained that the complainant himself was at fault, as his coudn’t submit the entire cost of the flat in two-and-a half years as per the scheduled payment.“We found that JIT had miserably failed to bring the evidence, proving that the construction work of the flat has been completed and the same is fit for delivery. Moreover, as per the allotment letter, the trust was liable to complete the construction work within two-and-a-half-years and thereafter, hand over the possession to the allottees complete in all respect i.e. along with amenities and ultra-modern facilities with quality of standard construction,” the forum said.However, it has not delivered the possession of the same to the complainants so far, the forum said. Therefore, owing to the deficiency in services or unfair trade practices on the part of JIT, the complainant was entitled for the relief including return of Rs 6 lakh at 6 percent rate of interest, Rs 20,000 as harassment and mental agony and Rs 5,000 as litigation expenses.Also ordered to pay Rs 20,000 as compensationKnow the caseThe complainant, a resident of Choti Baradari, mentioned in his complaint, that his wife Paramjit Khosla had applied for a flat under a lucky draw in 2009, following which flat no.2A was allotted to her and she was asked to deposit the installments of the flats. Subsequently, even after deposition Rs 6 lakh, she wasn’t given the possession of the flat. Meanwhile, Paramjit Kaur died on November 25, 2016. However, before dying, she executed a will in April 2016, bequeathing all her properties, including the flat in the name of the complainant. Later on several ocassions, Khosal the complainant approached the JIT for the possession of the flat, but to no avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jit-penalised-for-delaying-possession-of-flat-223614
11-03-2021||---||Jalandhar lad scores 99.97 percentile in JEE Main||Jalandhar, March 10Aum Gupta, a Class X student of Police DAV Public School, achieved the highest percentile (99.9796) in JEE Main in the very first attempt. He does not intend to go in for subsequent chances and wants to focus on JEE (Advanced) so that he meets his aim to qualify for BTech in computer sciences at IIT, Mumbai.He said he initially thought that the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 would hamper his studies as he could not attend regular classes and coaching throughout the year. “I did coaching from a Chandigarh-based centre and everything went online from home, including mock tests. I was not sure if I will be able to maintain my pace and level of understanding, but thankfully, it all went very smoothly. I used to attend online classes for five hours and do self-study for another five hours daily,” he said.Gupta added, “My parents have been a great support. My father who teaches maths at Lovely Professional University was a great support and helped me clear all my doubts in the subject. My mother is a teacher at my school and takes commerce classes. She too helped me arrange all the required study material at home.”Having scored 96.8 per cent in Class X, Gupta had a brilliant academic record and has various other achievements to his credit. He had cleared level 2 of National Talent Search Examination last year to be eligible for the scholarship.A resident of Basti Sheikh, he has also cleared Kishore Vigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KYPY) exam. In Class IX, he had bagged top position across India in Maths Olympiad.From Apeejay School, Vidhu Arora got 99.59 percentile, Rajveer Singh got 99.4 percentile, Satyam Sharma scored 95.713 percentile and Shreya Thakur got 92.64 percentile. Students of St Soldier Group of Institutions have also performed well in the JEE Main. Chairman Anil Chopra said Tejas Budhwal scored 98.5 percentile, Joy got 97.5 percentile, Dipesh Rana got 95.01 percentile and Adesh Paswan got 93.76 percentile.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-lad-scores-99-97-percentile-in-jee-main-223615
11-03-2021||---||Technovation 2021 held at NIT, 86 teams participate||Jalandhar, March 10 The Innovation Club of Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology organised a two-day mega event ‘Technovation 2021’ held recently. The event aimed at creating an inspiring and vibrant environment for helping the students and society as a whole to study and foster creativity and innovation culture to come up with newer technologies and innovations. The mega event witnessed huge participation of around 86 teams from various institutes of repute across India and Bangladesh. The event was inaugurated by Prof LK Awasthi, director, Subash Chandra Ralhan, chairman BOG, and Upkar Singh Ahuja, president Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU). Technovation 2021 comprised of national workshop on innovation, IPR, and commercialisation (IIC-2021) and national symposium on innovation, IPR, and entrepreneurship (IIE-2021). In the symposium, participants from various institutions presented their innovative ideas, projects and research findings through PPTs/poster. The tracks included crucial concerns of our society and environment such as healthcare, biomedical devices, agriculture rural development, smart vehicles/electric vehicle/electric vehicle motor and battery technology, robotics and drones, food processing, renewable and affordable energy, waste management, clean and potable water, IoT-based technologies (eg security and surveillance systems etc, ICT, cyber-physical systems, block chain, cognitive computing, cloud computing, artificial intelligence and other emerging areas of innovation and start up opportunity.  Prof Awasthi in his address stated, “NIT enunciates and upholds the fundamental principles and commitments of higher education in the rapidly altering milieu of a global and digital innovative world.” He further added, “Critical thinking, creativity and collaboration is the need of hour. Information literacy, media literacy, technology literacy are the skills of 21st century. Technical events such as ‘Technovation’ are an opportunity for students to collaborate across disciplines and nations. The students should strive for excellence to contribute to growth of the nation by solving problems. The faculty and industry should nurture the innovative ideas and mentor the students.” Prof Awasthi also appreciated NITJ faculty members as the institute has filed more than 60 patents during the pandemic period and transferred four technologies to industry for commercial use.  Subash Chandra Ralhan, chairman BOG, also emphasised, “We should sensitise our students towards the quandaries of our society by employing innovative ideas and techniques”. He applauded the initiative taken by the Innovation Club. Dr Upkar Singh also highlighted the need of strong interaction between industry and academia. Dr LP Singh, the faculty coordinator, Innovation Club, traced the journey of the club. Dr RK Garg, president, Institute Innovation Council, Dr Samayveer Singh, Dr Mahesh Kumar Sah, Dr Shyamkiran Kaur were also present at the inaugural event. The vote of thanks was proposed by Dr. T. Srinivasa. Dr Lakwinder Pal Singh and Dr Mahesh Kumar Sah were the experts of the national workshop. The workshop encompassed hands-on practice sessions for preparing proposals for patent filing, copyright, and design. The mega events motivated the young minds to express their ideas and will give them a hope and chance for a successful start-up. The director congratulated and applauded efforts of the team and student coordinators Roshan, Arsh Goyal and Sushant Sethi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/technovation-2021-held-at-nit-86-teams-participate-223616
11-03-2021||---||75th I-Day celebrations from tomorrow||Jalandhar, March 10 To mark the 75 years of Independence, 25-day long celebrations would begin on March 12 in the city. Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh said this while presiding over a meeting to review the preparedness of the launch event. The ADC said the nation would be celebrating 75 years of Independence in 2022 and the government had decided to celebrate it through a series of events prior to 75 weeks of the 75th Independence Day event. The ADC said an event would be organised at the Jang-e-Azadi Memorial, which is an epitome of the Indian Freedom Movement. He said an exhibition and a patriotic performance would also be held there besides other events. He said the patriotic performance showcasing our freedom struggle would also be made by students during the event. Similarly, a short movie would also be played at the memorial complex, which itself is a storyteller of the freedom movement. Prominent among others present on the occasion included SDM Rahul Sindhu, field publicity officer from I&B Ministry Rajesh Bali, Assistant Commissioner (UT) Harpreet Singh, Assistant Commissioner Hardeep Singh, DEO Harinderpal Singh, and secretary Jang-e-Azadi memorial Lakhwinder Singh Johal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/75th-i-day-celebrations-from-tomorrow-223617
11-03-2021||Jalandhar||Industrialists meet GST officials regarding issue of ‘C’ forms||The local industrialists on Wednesday held a meeting with Deputy Commissioner GST Paramjit Singh. Other than industrialists Narinder Singh Saggu, Tajinder Singh Bhasin, Gursharan Singh, Neeraj Arora, Gulshan Kumar Sharma Rajkumar Sharma, Naresh Chawla and Vippan Kumar, lawyers and accountant association also attended the meeting. The attendees were told that there is no shortage of ‘C’ forms in Jalandhar. They were told that in case of non-availability of ‘C’ forms from other states of India, they could provide list of shortage to the GST Department. The list will be forwarded by the department of the concerned states for issue of pending ‘C forms’. All attendees were told that they should deposit Punjab State Development funds without any other charges. A demand to Punjab government for waiver of other charges would be forwarded. They were also told that they should apply for OTS scheme for assessment year 2005-06 to 2013-14, if their liability, including penalty and taxes is less than Rs1 lakh.Date for submitting station of choice extendedConsidering the demand of the teachers aspiring for transfers under the ongoing process of online transfers, the Education Department has extended the date of submitting the choice of station on e-Punjab portal to March 11. The applicants have been airing their grievance that due to problems in internet connectivity, they have been facing inconvenience in registering their choice of station on e-Punjab portal. The applicants have now been told to contact the MIS coordinators of their respective districts in case of any difficulty. The contact numbers of district MIS coordinators are available on the portal, said spokesperson of the Education Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industrialists-meet-gst-officials-regarding-issue-of-c-forms-223618
11-03-2021||Jalandhar||Students visit BMC flyover||Medical check-up campA medical check-up camp was organised in a series of three-day celebration of International Women’s Day in Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya with the motive of solving health problems of staff. The organisers of the event were Dr Anjana Bhatia and Protima Mander. A team of doctors from Fortis Hospital visited college for medical health check up of staff and students. The team comprised of Dr Gauri, dietician, Dr Pooja, gyanecologist, Vishal Kalia, Assistant Officer and Sarabjit Kaur, staff nurse. They started with checking blood pressure and sugar level of the staff and guided about various health issues and preventive measures. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen thanked the team of doctors for their contribution as in the present scenario there is lot of stress and anxiety which is affecting both physical and mental health of the people. She also emphasised that one should go for meditation along with yoga to remain healthy. She congratulated the organisers for the success of the event.e-Symposium on industry-academiaTo acquaint students with the highlights of New Education Policy and to counsel them regarding the prospects in internship embedded vocational degree courses, an e-symposium was organised on industry-academia interaction by Kanya Maha Vidyalaya. The e-symposium was organised by DDU Kaushal Kendra of KMV. Around 500 students from different states of India, CEOs from eight sector skills councils and representatives from almost 40 industry partners participated in the event. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi highlighted the importance of skill-oriented education and said KMV was the first college in the region to be awarded with DDU Kaushal Kendra. She said our esteemed institution was a platform for resurgence of new ideas, new ways of doing things, creator of young leaders and a place where vision is converted into on ground reality. CEOs of different Sector Skills Councils also graced the occasion and emphasised the importance of skills enhancement in the current scenario.Book released at DAVDAV institutes always remember and salute to the contribution of spiritual leaders and freedom fighters through different ways. In continuation of this, a book named ‘DAV’s contribution to nation’ published by Dr Poonam Suri, president DAV College Management Committee, New Delhi, was released under the guidance of Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar, DAV College, Amritsar, and Dr Kuldeep Singh Arya, who is the editor of this book. The book is dedicated to Munshi Ganesh Das Suri, who initiated the Arya Samaj society and contributed in Indian education. This book contains 57 research papers and articles in Hindi and English. The articles mainly include reasons and objectives behind the establishment of DAV institutions.Farm-based magazine releasedAn official magazine releasing ceremony under special edition of Just Agriculture magazine in collaboration with CT Group of Institutions was held on its premises.In this edition, articles were published by various students and faculty of the agriculture department. The ceremony commenced with the formal welcome of all the dignitaries namely DPS Badwal (Founder and Editor of Just Agriculture Magazine), Dr Harjinder Singh (HOD, Agriculture Department, Govt. College Hoshiarpur) along with CT Group managing director Manbir Singh, vice chairman Harpreet Singh, campus director Dr GS Kalra, dean Academics Dr Anupamdeep Sharma Vice Principal CTIHM Gagandeep Singh and Coordinator of Department of Agriculture Sneha Bhardwaj. The programme was followed by enlightening the students with the purpose and importance of publications in their academics. The programme was further continued by the valuable words from guest of honours and students were also made aware of various agricultural innovation techniques by the experts. Later, student interaction was also held on the current agricultural scenario. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-visit-bmc-flyover-223620
11-03-2021||Kapurthala||Camp court held at Central Jail||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/camp-court-held-at-central-jail-223621
