12-03-2021||Ajay Joshi||Major fire destroys hutments near Maqsudan bypass||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 11A massive fire broke out at a slum area near Maqsudan bypass on Thursday morning. The fire was initially reported at a tea stall outside a slum due to a cylinder blast, following which it slowly spread to the other slums. As a result, around 8-10 cylinders also exploded in succession.SHO police division 1 Rajesh Kumar said the incident was reported around 9.30 am. Thereafter, a team of cops was sent to the spot for the rescue operation. Around 4 to 5 shanties of the slum were destroyed in the incident. The inconsolable slum dwellers residing there have reportedly suffered losses worth lakhs. They were living there for the last 30 to 50 years.As per the latest reports, several firefighting teams were deployed at the spot. Sukhjinder Singh, a Fire Department official, said it took them around an hour to control the blaze.“As many as six fire tenders were called to the spot to bring the flames under control. We were intimated about the incident by some locals on our helpline number. Immediately, two fire tenders were rushed to the spot followed by six others, considering the intensity of the fire. After extinguishing the fire, we recovered around seven damaged cylinders. A few others were also estimated to have exploded in the blast,” Sukhjinder said.Area MLA Bawa Henry also visited the site and assured necessary help to those who suffered losses. Meanwhile, no casualty was reported as most of the dwellers had gone for work. Notably, this is the second cylinder blast reported in the city within a week.Lost all they hadSarita Devi (32), who was sitting near the remains of her shanty with her two children, said she lost all her savings in the fire. “We didn’t know how the fire erupted. People outside were screaming, asking us to come out,” she said while weeping.Looking for his savings in the charred belongings, Binod Kumar (30), a vegetable vendor, said he and his three brothers had gone to nearby colonies to sell vegetables when the incident took place. As he has a family of around eight members, there were five cylinders in his hutment. Apart from cash savings, he lost his motorcycle and a bicycle in the fire.Likewise, Aghaniyan Devi (50), who is a housemaid, said she had also gone to work when her hard-earned money was gutted in the fire. She had saved around Rs40,000 for her daughter, who was to get married this year. “My husband was sleeping inside the tent, when he felt a burning sensation around his neck. Hearing the blast, he came out and saw everything going up in flames. My son works as an ice-cream vendor, our two bikes also got completely damaged,” Aghaniyan, who spent her 35 years in the same area, said.Red Cross to give ration to victimsJalandhar: DC Ghanshyam Thori directed the District Red Cross Society to distribute ration kits among distressed families whose shanties were gutted in the fire near Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony. The families of migrant labourers were living in the slums and had lost their belongings in a fire. The Deputy Commissioner said ration kits containing wheat flour, pulses, sugar, tea, mustard oil, dry milk, spices, soap, vegetables and other items would be distributed by the society. He said the incident was very unfortunate and it was the moral duty of the district administration to help the affected families in this hour of grief. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/major-fire-destroys-hutments-near-maqsudan-bypass-223949
12-03-2021||Jalandhar||‘LPG theft’ led to blasts||Area residents, however, alleged that an LPG theft racket was being run from the site, which led to the blasts on Thursday leading to destruction of more than 20 shanties. As many as five cylinders were found from a single hutment. It is learnt that some men were dexterous in siphoning off a certain amount of the LPG from the filled cylinders and had been doing this for the past many years. They said such an incident was just waiting to happen.The onlookers said they heard a series of blasts around 9:30 am, as a cylinder after cylinder stared bursting at the site. As the firemen reached on time, they, too, found leaking cylinders and the first thing they did was to dump all of these in an adjoining drain to control more blasts.Ex-BJP MLA KD Bhandari said: “What happened on Thursday was just the tip of the iceberg. The top priority of the administration should be to check all such sites in the city, where such kinds of rackets are being run. It is a very serious matter and calls for a high-level probe on the part of the government to check who all are behind such unscrupulous activities. The poor people lost all their life’s savings in the mishap. Thankfully, there was no loss of life, but we cannot be lucky each time.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpg-theft-led-to-blasts-223950
12-03-2021||Sultanpur Lodhi||Rs50 lakh for community centres||The state government has released an amount of Rs50 lakh for the construction and renovation of community centres in the villages of Sultanpur Lodhi constituency under ‘Punjab Nirman Programme’.With this amount community centres belonging to the SC community will be developed in 32 villages of the constituency, which will enable the people to hold their social functions in addition to the common functions in the villages.Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema said that it was during the Budget session that he had raised the issue with the Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, on which immediate action was taken and the funds were released by the Planning Department of the Punjab Government on March 9 for various villages.While thanking Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, the MLA said that the government was already carrying out development works worth Rs271 crore under the ‘Smart City’ project for the overall development of Sultanpur Lodhi constituency, which would bring the city on the tourist map of the world.The 32 villages to which the amount has been released include Swal, Sabuwal, Basti Hussainpur Dulowal, Basti Bulpur, Doula, Basti Rampur Jagir, Nasirewal, Pandori Jagir, Farid Sarai, Dalla, Busowal, Kabirpur and Sherpur Sadha. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs50-lakh-for-community-centres-223951
12-03-2021||Jalandhar||Backward classes panel member ensures aid to beneficiaries||Following the announcement by Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Punjab Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Minister that the state government has allocated Rs1,372 crore in the 2021-2022 budget for the welfare schemes of SCs/BCs and minorities, Yashpal Singh Dhiman, city-based member of the Punjab State Commission for Backward Classes on Thursday appealed the beneficiaries to approach the commission for any kind of assistance.  This is an increase of 52 per cent of 2020-21 budget (Rs901 crore) assigned for various welfare schemes for educational, socio-economic and other development programmes. As Dalits constitute major vote bank in the Doaba region, this comes at a time, when BJP is also trying to attract Dalit voters. Dhiman said the commission is dedicated to safeguard the interests of the economically weaker sections and backward class. In this regard, for the implementation of the welfare schemes, the beneficiaries could contact the commission for any support. As the government has also enhanced the assistance under Ashirwad Scheme from Rs21,000 to Rs51,000, its implementation would be initiated from July 21 this year, Dhiman added. An allocation of Rs250 crore has been provided in 2021-22 budget for the scheme. Therefore commission members across the state will ensure that none of the beneficiary from backward class faces any difficulty in documentation or official works. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/backward-classes-panel-member-ensures-aid-to-beneficiaries-223952
12-03-2021||---||Vaccination begins at 41 pvt hospitals in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, March 11To cover maximum beneficiaries under the inoculation drive, the district administration has roped in as many as 41 private hospitals to provide Covid-19 vaccination in the district, said Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori.Get the jab hereWhile participating in a meeting chaired by Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, to review the vaccination drive, the DC said total 34,352 eligible beneficiaries had taken the jab of Covid vaccine which includes 15,117 healthcare workers, 12,294 frontline workers, 941 beneficiaries between the age of 45 and 59 years with comorbidities, and 6,000 senior citizens. Of total inoculated beneficiaries, 5,967 healthcare workers and 1,199 frontline workers have taken the second dose of the vaccine.Beneficiaries can get Covid-19 vaccine jab at nominal fee of Rs250 in private hospitals. Thori said as of now, 12 government hospitals were offering vaccination services and all primary health centres, community health centres, and sub-divisional hospitals would start vaccination from Monday onwards.The DC said senior citizens above the age of 60 and people between the age group of 45 and 59 years with comorbidity are eligible under the third phase of vaccination.He said the vaccination was going to ensure protection from this virus, hence all beneficiaries should come forward for vaccination and refrain from being complacent at this stage, as it could take a heavy toll on everyone. He directed the health and police authorities to ensure implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour in the district, as it can keep the virus spread under check, especially in the wake of resurgence in fresh cases. Protocols such as wearing of masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands can make a difference in checking the virus spread, the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-begins-at-41-pvt-hospitals-in-jalandhar-district-223954
12-03-2021||Jalandhar||Bumper potato crop brings cheer to Doaba farmers||In a big relief to Doaba farmers, favourable weather conditions and lesser rain have led to a bumper potato crop this year, fetching them a price of Rs 7.5 to Rs 8 per kg in the market.Harvesting is over and farmers are now engaged in packaging. While some crop has gone to the states of Karnataka and West Bengal, the remaining is being used in Punjab itself.For the time being, farmers intend to sell out only 10-15 per cent of the crop in the market. The remaining will be kept in cold stores and is likely to be taken out in September when it will fetch them even a better price.Horticulture Development Officer Paramjit Singh said there was an increase of 1.5 lakh metric tonne of production this year. “While the last year’s production of potato in Punjab was 28 lakh metric tonne, this time it has touched 29.5 lakh metric tonne. There has been a 2 per cent increase in the area under potato cultivation this year, with the total being 1.07 lakh hectare,” he said.Phillaur-based potato farmer Jagat Gill Thamanwal said, “Owing to favourable weather conditions and no disease outbreak, my production per hectare went up 10 per cent. I cultivate potato on 100 acres of land and my crop has gone to the markets of Gujarat,UP and West Bengal.”A member of the Jalandhar Potato Growers’ Association, who uses aeroponics technique of growing potatoes, he added, “Though we got a reasonable price this time, I feel that even the cost of production has gone up.”Harjinder Singh, a farmer from Kapurthala, said, “I had grown pukhraj potato on 95 acres. I got a production of 150 quintal per acre this time, which is quite good. I am also happy with the price of Rs 7.5 to Rs 8 per kg that my crop is fetching in mandis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bumper-potato-crop-brings-cheer-to-doaba-farmers-223825
