13-03-2021||Jalandhar||Army Public School's Golden Jubilee||Encouraging readingIvy World School has taken the initiative to not let the pandemic hinder the students' creativity and imagination by providing them e-books throughout the year. The students felt grateful as in this time of crisis books have proven to be their best friends. The young readers said that with books in their hands, they felt like moving around the world without even putting a foot out of the house. Students reciprocated by writing reviews and sharing feedback about the books they had read. They also participated diligently in library activities online. There was a tough competition where Avni Aggarwal and Ishleen Kaur Dogra triumphed winning the Star Readers Award for the session 2020-2021.The way these students have utilised the library resources even during the pandemic is highly commendable, said Principal S Chauhan applauding the students and shared her belief that books are a student's best companion. She also believes that a person who reads books lives many lives but a person who never reads lives only one.Toycathon-2021 competitionIn an achievement, the innovative ideas of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya students have got selected in Toycathon-2021, a national competition organised by the Ministry of Education under ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’. Toycathon-2021 is conceived to challenge India’s innovative minds to conceptualise novel toys and games based on Bhartiya civilisation, history, culture, mythology and ethos. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the brilliant students namely Anshuman, Bharati, Sandeep, Ankita, Shirin and Tanvi Sharma on their achievement. She averred that KMV’s Innovation Council is providing innovative and entrepreneurial environment to the students to discover, develop and deploy their ideas, skills and talents. She further maintained that KMV is an active member of Self-Reliant India (Atmanirbhar Bharat) campaign. The principal lauded the efforts of members of Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC) for mentoring the students.Seminar on breast cancerA seminar was organised on ‘Awareness of Breast Cancer’ at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya with a motive of spreading knowledge of deadly disease. The organisers of the event were Dr Anjana Bhatia and Protima Mander. The key speaker of the day was Dr Parveen Kaur, senior consultant radiation oncology, Fortis Hospital. Dr Parveen Kaur was given floral welcome by Principal Ajay Sareen and Dean Academics Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur. In her address to the audience, Dr Parveen explained the reasons, symptoms, risks, preventive measures regarding breast cancer. She said it can be detected in early stages by self awareness and clinical examination. “Women don’t disclose this issue due to fear, embarrassment, lack of awareness or knowledge and habit of forgetfulness. But one should not avoid any alarming change in our body and should consult doctor as soon as possible. Mammograms can be done for early detection of breast cancer but biopsy gives confirmatory results for the same. Surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, hormonal therapy and immunotherapy could be performed on the patients depending upon various stages of cancer,” Dr Parveen said. She cleared queries of the audience very patiently and few discussed their personal issues also.Talk on block chain technologiesThe Department of Management, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus organised a webinar on ‘block chain technologies’ in association with the Trade Promotion Council of Robotics and Automation (TPCRA). Raj A Kapoor, Director, Block Chain Technologies was the resource person for the same. He is a member of the Advisory Board with several block chain companies and has organised several international block chain camps in the US, Amsterdam, South Africa, Australia etc. Several students of MBA, BBA and BCom from School of Management participated for the same. Raj also shared the details about self-paced learning courses, internships and placements. The event was coordinated by Dr Tarunjit Singh and Dr Manisha Dhir. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-public-schools-golden-jubilee-224622
13-03-2021||---||GNDU signs two MoUs to give a push to research||Amritsar, March 12Recognising the mutual benefits to be gained through a cooperative programme promoting scholarly activities and international understanding, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) on Friday signed memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with two different organisations to enhance research and promote entrepreneurial culture.The first MoU was signed with Aarhus University in Denmark and CTIF Global Capsule (CGC), developing research activities at the international level, for collaboration in academics, research and faculty development.The second MoU was signed with with ‘Indigram Labs Foundation’ to operationalise Technology- based Entrepreneurship Development Programme (TEDP).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gndu-signs-two-mous-to-give-a-push-to-research-224621
13-03-2021||Garhshankar||2 arrested with 7 stolen bikes||‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’Nawanshahr: A cycle rally ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ was organised on Friday in Nawanshahr to mark the celebrations of the 75th year of Independence. The rally commenced from Nawanshahr city and culminated at Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Museum at Khatar Kalan. Students who took part in the cycle rally were given certificates by Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal. For next 75 weeks, various activities will be held under the programme. TNSSIDBI- MSME partners’ meetJalandhar: The Jalandhar Autoparts Manufacturers’ Association is going to organise the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI)- MSME partners meet on March 13 at Ramada Encore Hotel at 7 pm. The meet aims to apprise the MSMEs about various schemes of the SIDBI to prosper and accelerate the growth trajectory. Rahul Priyadarshi, General Manager, SIDBI, will be the chief guest. TN||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-arrested-with-7-stolen-bikes-224620
13-03-2021||IT was after the candle vigil during the Indo-Pak Peace Festival on August 14 that he first had a inkling that he might be Covid positive. What ensued was a month-long journey with moments when he thought he won’t even make it.||Music, family helped me tide over crisis||Music connoisseur, proprietor and the general secretary of the Shree Baba Hariballabh Sangeet Mahasabha and the Punjab Jagriti Manch, Deepak Bali (49), tested positive on August 14 and had a fierce battle with Covid from and recuperated with some life lessons. While it was music and a love for the arts which helped him overcome the virus, Bali says it is of utmost importance that precautions be taken to save us and our loved ones.“I got positive after the candle light vigil at the Wagah border on August 14. In the beginning I took the virus quite casually. I had bit of a throat ache which I ignored. Then I had a fever followed by the infection which spread to my chest and lungs, so much so that I had difficulty breathing. For 10 days I took medicine for fever six times a day. Still my situation would remain the same. My body was very weak and I constantly coughed.”At one time he thought he might not make it. Bali says, “When my family took me to the hospital, doctors told them they could not meet me anymore until I recovered. Since I was serious I was admitted in the ICU. Since those were peak days, nurses and doctors stayed away and if I coughed the fellow patients looked at me with suspicion. There was an atmosphere of fear. On one of the nights I thought maybe I won’t survive. I penned notes on my phone for my brother and fellow relative on what to do if I don’t make it.”When his fever subsided he finally mustered the courage to walk some steps. “My family was dropping off food and essentials at the laws. The first thing I asked them was to phone me when they came to the lawn next so that I could look at them. It was after 10 to 15 days that I finally laid my eyes on family. I waved to them from the fifth floor. The next day my mother insisted that she wanted to see me.Then she came there and waved at me. Since then, my vitality returned and in 2-3 days I was discharged,” he adds. What kept him going through the Covid infection? “Music, I listened to Gurbani for hours. I listened to the shabad ‘aukhi ghari na dekhan dein’ repeatedly. It was a huge inspiration. I found answers to many questions in Gurbani. I also listened to classical music and the hanuman chalisa. I saw documentaries on Bhaini Sahib and marvelled at their contribution to Punjab. It was all things connected to music that kept me positive and going in the worst of times” Bali says.He adds, “It is only once we get the virus that we realise how deeply it can impact us. At times, Covid takes a huge toll not just on your mental and physical well-being but also financial. I used to drink water to wet my throat so that I could breathe. The only way to prevent this is to take timely precautions.”(As told to Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/music-family-helped-me-tide-over-crisis-224619
13-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers' movement: Will Khali Nai Partega Dulla penetrate people’s heart?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 12A 15-year-old performing solo play ‘Khalli Nai Partega Dulla’ is now going to evoke the feelings of maximum number of people towards the farmers' movement. ‘Dulla’ here has been referred to the farmers’ who have defied many odds at Delhi borders and are still standing strong.The youth wing of Kirti Kisan Union has acknowledged the importance of visual medium, thus, on Saturday, two theatre plays highlighting the farmer movement will be organised at Uppal Khalsa village in Nurmehal in the district at 7 pm.The play will be performed by Manavta Kala Manch, a theatre team from Nagar village in Phillaur. Another act that will be presented by the same team is ‘azadi’.Tarpreet Singh, convener of youth wing of Kirti Kisan Union, said, ‘Khali Nai Partega Dulla’ will depict the consequences the farmers will face if three farm laws are not repealed. “The play shows that farmers will lose their lands to corporate houses,” he added.Jaswinder Pappi, director of the play, said, “It is a motivational play where the farmers are ‘dullas’, who will not return empty-handed after spending months at the borders. Running for 25 minutes, it will be performed by Jaswinder’s daughter Nargis (15).The team had performed this play at Delhi borders for five times and received huge applause and praise from the audiences there. When Kirti Kisan Union members saw it, they felt the need to show this to people residing in the villages who don’t have much idea on what is happening in the capital.Tarpreet said that no book can penetrate this deep into the soul of a person but visual medium can do wonders, which is why it was decided to hold such plays. “We have invited people from 10 adjoining villages of Uppal Khalsa. Once done, we will organise the play in other villages as well,” he told.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-movement-will-khali-nai-partega-dulla-penetrate-peoples-heart-224583
13-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Foreign fad: Colleges start IELTS, immigration centres||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 12As the Covid-19 failed to deter foreign crazy Doaba students from keeping their dreams on hold, various institutes have started to cherish their desires of settling abroad. They know that it’s difficult to hold them after completion of their school education.In order to keep them busy, colleges from time to time have tried various methods to occupy youth for maximum time. While they initially started highlighting memorandum of understandings (MoUs) with foreign universities (half course in India and the second half abroad), the next attempt was to keep them occupied with short-term courses in air hostess training, aviation, nanny, physiotherapy, nursing and hotel management, among others, which have a good demand abroad.Now, the institutes have begun offering on-campus IELTS coaching and most recently have even opened firms to facilitate immigration of students. “Certainly, this trend is not going to settle in any way and we have seen it all. So, we thought that instead of counselling and urging them to stay back by telling tales about successful Punjabis here, we have also jumped on the same bandwagon. Tomorrow, we are going to launch CT Global Education Services, which will be a study-based immigration services firm. To ensure that we are able to pull up the same kind of clientele, we are opening our office in the hub of such activities near the bus stand,” said Manbir Singh, managing director, CT Group of Institutes, which runs a university, chain of colleges and schools.Asked how it would be different from hundreds of their counterparts in the market, Manbir said, “We will be more reliable and affordable. We will offer IELTS coaching. We will have ‘IELTS Plus’, which will have additional short-term skill training courses, including carpentery and hotel management for visa enhancement.”Like the CT Group of Institutes, KMV College, Jalandhar, is also offering IELTS course for its students as well as outsiders. “We want students to remain busy and brush up their skills as long as they are with us. So, instead of attending IELTS coaching centres, we are offering them an in-house facility wherein one can attend classes during their free periods or after college hours. We have fully-trained dedicated IELTS faculty. In addition, we are also offering foreign language courses in French and Mandarin, which have a good demand,” said Madhumeet Kaur, Dean Student Welfare.Talking about the foreign fad, she added that as regular college classes were allowed to resume post lockdown, it were largely the IELTS trainees who insisted for offline classes and were among the first few students to return to the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/foreign-fad-colleges-start-ielts-immigration-centres-224584
13-03-2021||---||Doaba witnesses its first big kisan rally at Muthada Kalan||Jalandhar, March 12 Even as farmers have held some rallies on the sidelines of their Delhi agitation in the Malwa region, Doaba witnessed its first farmers’ rally at Muthada Kalan village of Phillaur on Friday. Doaba has seen massive tractor rallies in favour of the agitating farmers but most of the gatherings which have been held here have been smaller and have seen representation only of local leaders.  Among those who addressed the ‘Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Maha Rally’ on Friday were Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan, young activist Nodeep Kaur of Muktsar who was behind bars for nearly two months, and activist Ruldu Mansa. The members called for the strengthening of the ongoing protest with every village contributing for it like the way they were doing it earlier. Key speaker Joginder Singh Ugrahan said people of Doaba had always contributed for movements like Babbar Akali Lehar, Gaddar Movement, Kirti Lehar, etc, and again it was time for them to pick up their flags and fight against the black laws and the forces which were out to promote corporate houses in the country causing losses to farmers. Mazdur Adhikar Sangathan leader Nodeep Kaur urged the women to come forward, support the protest and give strength to the ongoing fight against the government’s oppression. Ruldu Singh Mansa, president of the Punjab Kisan Union, said the ongoing protest had already created a history and had brought about awakening among farmers and youngsters. BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) women wing leader Harinder Kaur Bindu urged everyone to continue the fight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doaba-witnesses-its-first-big-kisan-rally-at-muthada-kalan-224585
13-03-2021||---||First phase of city railway station facelift completed||Jalandhar, March 12Under Smart City project, the first phase of rejuvenation of Jalandhar railway station premises has completed and the façade of the railway station will get a new look in the next phase. MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh along with Divisional Railways Manager Rajesh Aggarwal, Commissioner Municipal Corporation Karnesh Sharma, Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal dedicated the Dhwaj Vatika to the people on Friday. Appreciating the Northern Railways for taking the Smart City project on a mission mode, the MP said they had accomplished the work of Dhwaj Vatika within two months at an accelerated pace.Taking stock of the ongoing beautification, construction, development of a second entry to the railway station from another side and heritage look to be given to the station’s façade, Chaudhary said that within two-three months the Jalandhar railway station would get a complete facelift. He said that under the Smart City project Rs 6.26 crore is being incurred to develop it as a model railway station.The Member Parliament also mentioned that the railway station would be equipped with ultra-modern facilities including escalator, foot overbridge etc. He pointed out that the façade of this railway station would be developed on the lines of cultural heritage of Jalandhar as the railway station of Sultanpur Lodhi was developed.It has also been decided that the Jalandhar Cantt railway station will also be developed on these patterns, said Chaudhry adding that after the city railway station, the work at Cantt railway station would be started. He also asked to complete the remaining works at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/first-phase-of-city-railway-station-facelift-completed-224586
13-03-2021||---||Three-day machine expo kicks off||Jalandhar, March 12 In order to bring out best technologies, focusing on automation and giving a tough competition to Chinese machinery, manufacturers of handtools and machine tools came up with a three-day exhibition at New Grain Market, which started on Friday. Being organised by the Jalandhar Industrial Focal Point Extension Association, Machinex-2021 was formally inaugurated by MLA Bawa Henry and Rajinder Beri.  President of the association, Narinder Sagoo, said several manufacturers and traders from all over the region have set up 190 stalls. Sagoo said the lockdown gave ample time to manufacturers to upgrade technologies, which they were showcasing at the exhibition. There were several attractions at the expo, including a wall-mounted two-in-one sanitiser and body temperature scanner. Ramashanker Singh, plant manager, TD Technologies, showed various other items manufactured by his firm, including sports timers and scoreboards, flat-bed knitting machine computer, digital meters for harvesting combine and treadmill/jogger controller. JEI Jainsons Enterprises India showcased bio-degradable packaging material. Sugam Jain of the company said the material could get decomposed in soil and water within three months. Sanjeev Soni demonstrated the use of computerised-control machine for pipe fitting. He said three-spindle machines were earlier being imported from China and now there was no such need to import it. The Jalandhar police have put up a stall to highlight their people-friendly activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-day-machine-expo-kicks-off-224587
13-03-2021||Our Correspondent||NCC cadets adopt, clean  statues of martyrs in city||Jalandhar, March 12NCC cadets of Jalandhar group, under the command of Brig Advitya Madan, turned up voluntarily to clean up the statues of martyrs installed at the Vajra Vatika in Jalandhar cantonment. NCC cadets cleaned the statues laboriously in the garden which the Vajra Corps had raised in July 2019.NCC Group Commander Advitya Madan said the project had been taken up by various battalions under Jalandhar group of NCC in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Nawanshahr. As many as 65 members of staff were present. As many as 50 cadets, including 31 girl cadets, and 19 boy cadets cleaned 10 statues of the martyrs, including CQMH Abdul Hameed PVC (Param Vir Chakra) and 9 Maha Vir Chakra winner martyrs. This event was jointly organised with tremendous synergy between the National Cadet Corps of Jalandhar and the Signal Regt.All statues were washed properly. Not only the statues but all history plates below each statue were also cleaned very meticulously. Cadets showcased their concern for the nationwide ‘Swachhta Abhiyan’ by staging a play.The Signal Regt, under whose jurisdiction this Vajra Vatika was created, organised a lecture on the ‘Use of Social Media’. It struck an instant chord with the young cadets who formed the audience and asked many questions to the Signals Officer addressing them. CO Col Dimri were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ncc-cadets-adopt-clean-statues-of-martyrs-in-city-224588
13-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Emulating the past feats||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 12Nawanshahr was one of the first districts where students started catching the virus. The District Education Officer (DEO), Jagjit Singh, acted quickly and began reaching out to the parents and the school principals. Now, he has sent instructions to all the schools to sanitise the premises heavily every week. Distributing masks, sanitisers regularly to the students is his Covid agenda for this year.Simultaneously, the officer has started a campaign called ‘each one bring one’ in the district under which he aims to fulfill his dream of seeing 12 per cent increase in enrollment in Nawanshahr schools for the year 2021-2022.He started on Friday with Government Girls Senior Secondary School (GSSS) Baba Gola in Banga, where the enrollment drive was held and a rally was also organised.Jagjit advised every student and their parents to bring along a student to the school. The students and teachers held placards reading ‘each one bring one’ in their hands during the rally and encouraged others to start admitting their wards in the government schools.“This is my target on priority and I am going to act on it actively. No matter what, I will definitely complete the target,” he said. While Jagjit had joined Nawanshahr as DEO in November 2020, in Pathankot, where he worked earlier, he had achieved this target of increasing enrollment in his previous district too. He said till March 31, he would cover 100 government schools under the campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/emulating-the-past-feats-224589
13-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Shanties gutted in fire at Sikri village||Tanda Urmar, March 12 A fire broke out at the grain market of Sikri village here on Friday. The fire reduced shanties to ashes.  The fire destroyed all their goods and money kept in the jhuggies.  Within no time flames engulfed the shanties. People tried to bring the fire under control, before the fire brigade people reach there.  Hutments of Ramji,  Ramavatar, Babita, Loha Singh, Pradeep, Chhotu Ram, Savitri, Saravan, Prabhu Diyal, Aarti, Pramod and about 17 families were destroyed in the fire, who had come from Bihar and other states to earn their livelihood.  The victims of the fire told that all their cash and goods were destroyed in the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shanties-gutted-in-fire-at-sikri-village-224590
13-03-2021||---||F&CC meet on March 15||Jalandhar, March 12The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) meeting of the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation would be held on March 15 and one of the proposals that would be tabled is the construction of a stadium at Salempur Musalmana village in Ward No. 2.If the proposal gets a go ahead, it would be beneficial for youngsters living in and around the Ward No. 2. An estimate of around Rs 43 lakh has been prepared.Sushil Kumar, councillor, Ward No. 2, said the civic body must provide state-of-the-art infrastructure at the stadium. “The estimate should be increased. It should not be an eye wash. If built in a planned manner, the stadium will be helpful for children in polishing their skills,” he said.“There are some schools in the area, but they do not have proper grounds for kids. Thus, the stadium will definitely prove a boon for children,” said the councillor.He said, “I want that Rs 1.5 crore should be spent on the stadium. Residents of the ward deserve a better stadium.” Notably, the Ward No. 2 has a problem related to poor road infrastructure, which the councillor had been raising time and again.The road leading to Verka plant, Salempur Musalmana and Baba Mohandass Nagar is in state of neglect.Residents said the road was dug up to lay power cables. However, the recarpeting work carried out was not up to the mark. Within a few days, the road developed cracks and potholes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fcc-meet-on-march-15-224596
13-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Five die,164 test  +ve in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, March 12The district reported the deaths of five more persons due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 401 on Friday. Besides, the district also witnessed 164 fresh cases of the virus, taking the tally to 9,815.Giving information about Covid cases in the district, Civil Surgeon Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 979 and 8,814 patients had recovered. Out of today’s 164 positive cases, 18 patients were from Hoshiarpur city and 146 were related to other health blocks of the district. Two patients of the district died at a Ludhiana hospital while two more died at Jalandhar hospitals and an 85-year-old woman of Khardeka village died at the Civil Hospital.Jalandhar Update||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-die-164-test-ve-in-hoshiarpur-224618
