14-03-2021||Jalandhar||Daily spike in cases prompts authorities to ramp up testing in Jalandhar||Amid the recent spurt in the coronavirus cases in the district and surging fatality rate, increased testing is being done to ensure that the spread of the virus is contained.In this regard, the daily spike of 200-250 Covid-19 positive cases has prompted authorities to escalate Rapid Antigen and RT-PCR tests. For the last fortnight, several mobile units have been put into action to intensify the tests.Dr Manav Middha, Covid sampling in-charge, Civil Hospital, said approximately 3,500-4,000 RT-PCR tests are being conducted in the district for the past over one week.“As many as 42 testing centres have been set up for Covid tests. While 25 units are covering urban areas, the remaining are in rural areas,” he said.While the rate of infection started scaling up in February last week, in the last two weeks, the daily cases have shown a rising trend. While on March 1, the active positive cases remained 57 only with no deaths, the total number of Covid positive cases were 193 on Saturday. So far this month, the highest daily spike was reported on March 4 with 270 cases and five deaths. Moreover, the death rate was highest on March 8 with eight deaths.A mobile unit for conducting RT-PCR test consists of two doctors, a pharmacist and a worker. Dr Rupali, who along with Dr Kamal has been stationed at the Civil Hospital near the entrance, said: “Everyday nearly 200 people submit their swab samples to us for the RT-PCR tests. The numbers have increased from the last week. The samples are sent to the Government Medical College Faridkot and Northern Regional Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL), Jalandhar, daily. While residents sometimes remain reluctant to get their RT-PCR tests done, people, in order to avoid any travel restrictions mostly provide their samples. With no end in sight to the pandemic and no sign of cases going down, we are trying to cover as many people as we can. Reports of the samples are provided on the listed phone numbers of the individuals the next day.” As per the sources at the Civil Hospital, the officials are trying to meet the daily target of RT-PCR tests.3 die, 209 test positive in Hoshiarpur districtThe tally of Covid positive patients reached 10,018, after 209 persons tested positive in Hoshiarpur district on Saturday. With the death of three patients, the toll reached 404.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district is 1,074, while 8,935 patients have recovered so far. Of today’s 209 positive cases, 16 are from Hoshiarpur city and 193 are from other health blocks of the district. On Saturday, two patients of the district died at Jalandhar hospitals and a 42-year-old patient died at his home in Guraya village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/daily-spike-in-cases-prompts-authorities-to-ramp-up-testing-in-jalandhar-224893
14-03-2021||Jalandhar||GNA student selected in National Aerospace Lab||A student of Aerospace Engineering at GNA University added another feather to her cap by getting selected in the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Aerospace Laboratory (CSIR-NAL) Bengaluru.A student of B Tech (aerospace engineering) from 2016-2020 batch, Kajal has been picked as the project associate and is working on Tejas light combat aircraft-related project.The student accomplished her B Tech in aerospace engineering under the supervision of Dr Vikrant Sharma, Dean, faculty of engineering, and Harikrishna Chavhan, assistant professor and coordinator, department of aerospace engineering, GNA University.During her degree, she got an opportunity to do internship in ISRO-UR Rao Satellite Centre, Bengaluru, India.Kajal was enrolled in the National Programme on Technology Enhancement Learning (NPTEL) under the university, in which she was a topper in the subject of ‘Aircraft stability and control’ and bagged a gold medal from NPTEL, which further helped her in increasing her existing knowledge and skill. From the very commencement of her graduation degree, she was interested in aerospace propulsion and also worked on R-25 aircraft engine, which is available at the university campus of aerospace propulsion laboratory.Gurdeep Singh Sihra, Pro-Chancellor, GNA University, congratulated her and the entire team of engineering for the achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gna-student-selected-in-national-aerospace-lab-224895
14-03-2021||Jalandhar||CP reviews law and order situation||Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar today reviewed the law and order situation in the city during a crime review meeting.The CP said a number of issues, including security arrangements at vulnerable points, beefing up of patrolling, strict enforcement of night curfew in the city, and seizure of properties of accused booked under NDPS Act, were discussed at length in the meeting.Bhullar further said since Covid-19 was resurging, it was need of the hour to strictly impose night curfew and observe Covid appropriate behaviour in the city. He mentioned that violation of government’s protocol comprising wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, washing hands etc. is unwarranted and strict action would be taken against the violators.While taking stock of the law and order situation in the city, the Commissioner of Police asked all field officials to beef up security arrangements for vulnerable people and places in the city. He further ordered to increase night patrolling in the city besides keeping a check over the habitual offenders who were set free on bail. He also asked SHOs to maintain the list of such offenders and suspects while keeping an eye over their activities.He said police teams/PCR staff had been ensuring monitoring and patrolling in the city round the clock as these places witness high footfall on week-ends including shopping malls, markets, restaurants, and others. He added that every effort would be made to make the security system more responsive and efficient. He said the major focus of the Commissionerate Police was on the prevention of crime and instilling a sense of security among the residents. He said no one would be allowed to take the law into their hands at any cost.Meanwhile, the CP also reviewed the status of property seizures of accused booked under the NDPS Act and directed the officials to expedite the process of seizure of such criminals.Prominent among others present on the occasion included DCPs Gurmeet Singh, Naresh Dogra, ADCP Jagjit Saroya, ACP Vimal Kant, and all SHOs of the commissionerate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cp-reviews-law-and-order-situation-224897
14-03-2021||Jalandhar||Soldier’s bullet-pierced helmet is his prized possession||Enter the house of Maj Gen Balwinder Singh (retd) in Seth Hukum Chand Colony here and one finds a special memoir that he has displayed right at the top of his main door to the drawing room.This is the helmet of an Indian soldier, who was killed by Chinese troops in the 1962 war. The helmet has two bullet marks slightly on its left side. It perhaps were these marks, which led to his killing in the Indo-China war.The ex-serviceman discloses as to how he collected it and what makes it so special for him. “The Indian Army deputed me at Dhola post in Arunachal Pradesh in 1986. Dhola post was a border post set up by the Indian Army in June 1962, in the Namka Chu river valley area disputed by China and India. During the Sino-Indian war, Chinese troops attacked the Indian side. Many Indian soldiers lost their lives. So, 24 years later when Army sent me to this posting, I realised that the bodies of many soldiers could not even reach homes and we could seldom spot their skeletal remains. There during a routine recce, I found this helmet with a part of the skull in it and I picked it,” said Maj Gen Balwinder.“I went on moving with this helmet to all my postings. I have always kept it with me and displayed it well wherever I got posted. After my retirement, this was one thing that I brought back home, maybe out of respect for that soldier who died fighting on the front. This remembrance of the ‘unknown soldier’ has become my biggest prized possession,” he concluded, pointing to the black special memoir which he has got nicely juxtaposed on a black oval background on the front elevation of his house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/soldiers-bullet-pierced-helmet-is-his-prized-possession-224899
14-03-2021||Jalandhar||Power theft: Malls, dhabas fined Rs35L||The district enforcement wing of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) carried out an extensive raid on Friday to curb theft and unauthorised use of electricity.The raid was conducted mostly at restaurants, petrol pumps, dhabas and shopping malls. In one case, the team lead by Senior Executive Engineer, Enforcement, Nawanshahar, detected massive violation of rules by a mall located in the Model Town area. Six shops in the mall were found running through a single domestic connection of six kW, while during checking, the total connected load was found to be 65 kW.A penalty worth Rs20 lakh was imposed on the shopping mall. Similarly in the electricity connection of a popular dhaba, concealment of 23,000 units was detected. Enforcement teams checked total 250 connections and found four electricity theft cases, besides eight meters were packed at the site for further investigation in the laboratory.“Total penalty imposed on various infringements is Rs35 lakh, the highest single-day assessment by the enforcement wing. This time data mining and analysis was done through software tools to pinpoint possible locations for electricity theft and unauthorised use,” said Rajit Sharma, Deputy Chief Engineer, enforcement wing, Jalandhar. A Venu Prasad, IAS, CMD of PSPCL, who is also directly heading the wing vouched for use of precise scientific approach in detecting electricity theft cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/power-theft-malls-dhabas-fined-rs35l-224902
14-03-2021||Jalandhar||Disability no deterrent for this  passionate, budding hockey player||If you have the passion to play a sport, then being disabled may not be an obstacle.Neeraj Kumar, who joined the Surjit Hockey Academy as a hockey player on Saturday, despite his disability, was encouraged with these words upon the start of his professional training.A Class VI student of a government school in Kabir Nagar, Neera’s one arm does not work since childhood. Hailing from a poor family, the boy reached the ground in the morning session on Saturday and expressed his desire to play hockey. Secretary general of Surjit Hockey Society Iqbal Singh Sandhu inducted him in the academy.Chief coach of Surjit Hockey Academy Olympian Rajinder Singh (Dronacharya Awardee) and director (training) of the academy Surinder Singh Bhapa also welcomed the specially-abled player Neeraj Kumar and gave him a sports kit, including new hockey, track suit and other equipment.Sandhu said: “The boy kept watching players for some time and came to me. He told me that he had come to the area for massage his arm, when he saw the boys playing and felt like joining them.”Sandhu said: “The boy seemed spirited and I feel that Neeraj will be a source of inspiration for other hockey players in the practice session in the times to come. Our approach is not just creating players of top level, but also bringing up the underprivileged and bring equality in the mainstream.” The onlookers saluted the spirit of the disabled player.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/disability-no-deterrent-for-this-passionate-budding-hockey-player-224903
14-03-2021||Jalandhar||Welcome to the jungle!||A feet-long dahlias (multi-coloured and rare), chrysanthemums (gulgodi), petunias, bougainvilleas, rangoon creepers (or Chinese honey suckle) dance to the breeze at a verdant garden on the Jalandhar-Nakodar Road. Birds chirp all day long, young girls sit in niches with overhanging creepers and vines and mango trees providing shelter to those seeking refuge from the din and blaring of horns of the city in the early summer sun.While she has recently been nominated for the Padma Shri, owing to her yeoman service for the cause of the girl child, Bibi Parkash Kaur has a more enduring aspect to her which very few people know about – the love for trees. Along with her trusted associate Satnam Singh, Parkash Kaur has planted a verdant forest in the space, a bit over 2 acre, which now houses the ‘Unique Home’ for girls. While her girls study at boarding schools and go to malls for shopping, the green area in their home in another cherry on top – a special refuge created for them as a protection from the elements and as an escape from the swelter of Punjab’s summer.They have ornamented the open space outside the ashram with carefully sourced plant specially brought in from a nursery at Malerkotla.While Parkash previously had a 9 marla plot at Model House in Jalandhar where only restricted plants could be grown, it was at the new land of the ‘Unique Home’ where her dream of building a green verdant house for her girls came true.She says, “Rukh zaroor lao. Je haje vi suhird na hoye lokan de saah band ho jane – tarseya karna (plant trees, If we don’t get wiser, we will thirst for trees and a patch of green). Pehlan 3 manjian jinni jagah te garden si, hun jungle hai. Eh hi jeevan hai. (earlier, we had plants in a 3-bed worth of space. Now, we have a jungle. There is no life without trees). A person who lives in the company of nature speaks softly, is thankful and happier. Our brain works differently around plants. Ethe mor vi aande ne (peacocks also come here). This green garden is a haven for the girls. They enjoy here. I think it should be compulsory for people to grow trees.”Satnam says, “It’s a 400-ft forest we have grown here. The idea is to insulate the girls from the noise and pollution of the street. The trees keep it all at bay…the noise, the pollution, the fumes. Inside is a haven. Thousands of birds seek shelter in these trees at night. There are petunias, dophar kheris, jhumka bel, mango trees and a host of other plants we could lay hands on. We have dahlias in at least 10 to 12 varieties. They are specially sourced from Malerkotla where some hardworking men have been growing plants on 10 to 15 fields. They keep very good plants and work hard on them. We get all our plants from there.”Parkash shares, “I wish there is never a need for homes. That girls my get their own homes and not be abandoned. But I am numbed by news of abandoned baby girls’ bodies falling prey to dogs and wild animals. Girls who are worshipped, dumped on the road…it’s a travesty! I request everyone that if the thought of abandoning little girls comes in their mind, please don’t dump them on roads. Call us we will respectfully bring them here and keep your identity hidden. This little haven is my attempt to give my girls what every girl deserves…a beautiful peaceful home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/welcome-to-the-jungle-224905
14-03-2021||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||‘Need to increase subsidy for SC under Central Sector Scheme’||Chairman of the Punjab Scheduled Castes Land Development and Finance Corporation Mohan Lal Sood on Saturday urged the Union Government to enhance the existing subsidy under the Central Sector Scheme ‘Special Central Assistance to SCSP’ three times so that the eligible beneficiaries could get maximum benefit under the scheme.While meeting the Chairman of National Scheduled Castes Commission Vijay Sampla here, Sood said the subsidy under the said scheme was still Rs 10,000 since 1999 despite a major increase in the inflation index, while it should have been enhanced three times. He also informed Sampla that the other central sponsored schemes were providing up to 25-35 percent subsidies to beneficiaries of Scheduled Castes families and the subsidy under the Special Central Assistance to Scheduled Castes Sub Plan should be increased by Rs 30,000.Referring to a charter of demand dispatched by the Punjab Government to Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Mohan Lal Sood urged the National SC Commission Chairman to take up the same with the said Ministry and get the demands of Punjab fulfilled. He said the increase subsidy by the Centre would certainly strengthen the opportunities to SC beneficiaries for setting up their own venturesunder different schemes pertaining to self-employment. Vijay Sampla assured that the he would personally look into the demands and take up the same with the Union Ministry.Mohan Lal Sood pointed out that the corporation established in 1970 was extending loans through different banks to SCs, persons with disabilities and members of the safai sewak families. He said the corporation would provide total loans to the tune of Rs 10 crore to eligible beneficiaries for self-employment on the occasion of Golden Jubilee of the corporation as it was completing 50 years. He also mentioned that the Punjab Government under Captain Amarinder Singh had already waived loans worth Rs 42.41 crore of around 1,200 beneficiaries under the Debt Waiver Scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/need-to-increase-subsidy-for-sc-under-central-sector-scheme-224908
14-03-2021||Jalandhar||Begowal cops solve youth murder case; cousin held||The Begowal police have solved the case of kidnapping and murder of a youth of Mand Nangal Lubana village in Begowal, Kapurthala, that took place on February 20 last month and arrested the alleged accused.The accused has been identified as Kuldeep Singh, a resident of the same village. He first intoxicated the victim and then pushed him into the Beas.SHO, Begowal, ASI Sonamdeep said on March 4, Tarsem Singh filed a missing report of his 25-year-old son Amrik Singh. Following which, investigation was initiated to trace Amrik.“In one of the CCTV footages scrutinised by the police, it was found that Amrik was last seen with Kuldeep. Based on which we held the accused and interrogated him. During the probe, he revealed that he had choked Amrik to death. A dispute over a property was the reason behind the murder. Kuldeep told the investigation team that his family had a long dispute with Amrik’s father, who around 14-15 years ago physically assaulted his father. In order to take revenge, Kuldeep committed the crime,” added the SHO.The police also recovered the motorcycle, which the victim and the accused were riding, from the same spot. A case of murder against the accused has been registered at the Begowal police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/begowal-cops-solve-youth-murder-case-cousin-held-224910
14-03-2021||Jalandhar||Now, bus from Jalandhar to Singhu border daily||The Lok Bhalai Insaaf Welfare Society, chief, Baldev Singh Sirsa, on Saturday said a bus will ply daily from Jalandhar to Singhu border to ferry farmers for the harvesting season. He said the bus would leave from 4 am daily.Sirsa, who had been camping in Delhi, held a meeting with the local panels at a gurdwara in Basti Sheikh. He said support of those living in urban areas was needed as farmers have to come back for harvesting their crop.He said committee members have decided to hold a seminar on Saturday in Jalandhar to motivate residents.Regarding his summons by the NIA, Sirsa said he had yet not appeared before the agency. He said he was getting a lot of calls on daily basis and some government agents were trying to pressurise him of withdrawing from the ongoing farmers’ agitation, but he refused to budge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-bus-from-jalandhar-to-singhu-border-daily-224911
14-03-2021||Jalandhar||Graduation Day organised||New venture startedCT Educational Society introduced its new venture —CT Global Education Services—for youth to turn their foreign dreams into reality. The inauguration ceremony was done by chief guest Pargat Singh, MLA, Jalandhar Cantt, in the presence of CT Group Chairman Charanjit S Channi, Co-Chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi, Managing Director Manbir Singh and MCJ councillor Rohan Sehgal. Various skill-based programmes and IELTS+ programmes have been introduced. Managing Director of CTGES Manbir Singh, said that the institute would start to provide the certified skill courses in the field of management, computers, engineering, healthcare and many more along with the IELTS preparation. These certified courses will help the students to gain employability overseas and it will also add the valuable points in their PR process.”Mentoring Session organisedKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised the third mentoring session under an ongoing series for its students. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi maintained that for the holistic growth of students it is essential that the students should take active part in all the innovative and value-added programmes being offered on the campus and should readily adopt the culture of KMV in their life as now they are part of this prestigious institution. She also told the students to attend their classes in a most disciplined way as they should not treat their studies in a light manner. Principal also gave detailed information to the students about the facilities available for the students, scholarships, on-campus placements, infrastructure being offered on the campus and the advantages of gaining autonomy. She said that mentoring session is a regular feature that is organised at the campus for the betterment of the students for which experts from inside as well as from outside the campus are invited to provide proper guidance and mentoring to the students.Havan-yajna performedA havan-yajna was performed at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya to celebrated the birth anniversary of Swami Dayanand under the guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen. The event was organised in collaboration with Vedic Adhyan Society and Sanskrit Department. All the members of teaching and non-teaching staff performed havan yajna and prayed to the Almighty to shower his blessings on everyone. Dr Meenu Talwar (Head, Sanskrit Department) recited the havan mantras. Dean Vedic Studies Mamta, School Coordinator Meenakshi Sayal, Head of Punjabi department Navroop, Head of Zoology department Dr Seema Marwaha also graced the occasion. The prayers were offered for the students of Plus Two who are going to appear in the upcoming final board exams later in this month. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen told students about the principles and teachings of Swami Dayanand.TET clearedSeven student-teachers– Divya, Vyomika, Chahat, Namrita, Prabhjot, Maninder and Navdeep Kaur of Innocent Hearts College of Education have brought accolades home by clearing Teacher Eligibility Test (TET)-2021. Divya and Vyomika shared that they have cleared the exam with the guidance and support of teachers. The college helps students to qualify such examinations by updating them with the syllabus, eligibility, scheme of examination, procedure and tactics for preparing and qualifying TET, CTET, PSTET and UGC- NET. Prabhjot Kaur and Namrita thanked the members of the guidance and counselling cell for conducting individual counselling interviews which helped them in solving their complex problems and developing confidence for clearing TET. All achievers attributed their success to the college Principal Dr Arjinder Singh and the faculty members.Digital SummitPhagwara: ‘Spasmodic’, a student group of Lovely Professional University organised a digital student entrepreneurship summit on its the campus. In a month-long conduction, 18 MDs, CEOs and COOs from top-notch industry including Microsoft, Reliance Entertainment, OYO and more addressed LPU students to broaden their skill and knowledge horizons. This conduction witnessed a benchmark viewership of 60K plus students from India and abroad on diverse digital platforms. Commenced with an energetic session with CEO, Reliance Entertainment’s Big Synergy, Rajiv Bakshi, the month long summit had keynote sessions with leaders including CEO OYO Frontier (India and South Asia) Ankit Gupta; Director (Business Development), Microsoft Sudhir Aggarwal; among others. An alumnus of Harvard Business School, CEO Rajiv Bakshi shared his experiences with LPU students in operations management, brand & corporate marketing, sales strategy, management expertise, functional leadership, content and product development and more. He guided them “not to worry about the scale of doing big or small. Worry about whether done perfectly or not.” CEO Ankit Gupta invoked students to focus on competing with self, and to believe in the strength of “infinite potential” within. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/graduation-day-organised-224912
14-03-2021||Jalandhar||Army recruitment racket busted||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-recruitment-racket-busted-224915
