15-03-2021||Ajay Joshi||No masks: 2,226 challans issued by Jalandhar police in 40 days||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 14To contain the rising Covid cases, the city police have issued 2,226 challans in the last 40 days for breach of safety protocols. An amount of Rs22,24,500 has also been accumulated from the same.People were mainly challaned for not wearing masks and spitting in public places. Surprisingly, while people gave two hoots to social distancing norms, which has become the order of the day, not even a single challan was issued for the same.Likewise, as people have been complaining against the hike in fares by auto-rickshaw drivers, who barely adhere to limited passenger rule, there weren’t any challans related to overcrowded auto-rickshaws and two or four-wheelers.In addition, considering Covid offences, no challans were issued against violation of home quarantine instructions and violation of public gatherings.The figures obtained from the Commissioner of Police (CP) office further states that in February, total challans issued for not wearing masks were 899, for which Rs8,99,000 was the total fine collected.Similarly, between March 1 and March 12, as many as 1,327 challans were issued, including three for spitting in public areas and penalty worth Rs13,25,500 was collected for these 12 days.The cops on duty said residents’ behaviour towards the coronavirus outbreak remains casual.Following the directions of the state government, the police have intensified its challan drive. While the penalty for not wearing a mask is Rs1,000, Rs500 is charged for spitting in public places. The state government is battling the sudden surge in Covid cases on a war footing, prompting even the Education Department to shut schools.Apart from the police personnel, the administration has also authorised all sector magistrates, tehsildars, naib tehsildars, BDPOs and executive officers of Municipal Committees to challan residents for violation of guidelines issued under the Epidemic Disease Act, said ADC General Jasbir Singh.In the initial months of Covid outbreak and its peak, between April and September, as many as 42,602 people were challaned for not wearing face masks in the city and an amount of Rs2.06 crore was collected as fine from them.Ensure max inoculation in district, says DCJalandhar: After the vaccination capacity in all private and government healthcare establishments was augmented to 6,000 daily, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Sunday exhorted all eligible beneficiaries to make the drive a mega success by ensuring maximum inoculation in the district. Presiding over a meeting to review the current situation arising from the second Covid-19 wave, the DC said the vaccination was the only way to keep the virus spread under check, but it would only be possible with people’s participation. He said as many as 41 private and 13 government hospitals were providing vaccination facilities to beneficiaries, adding that all government-run primary health centres, community health centres and sub-divisional health centres would start these services from Monday. TNSPromote vaccination drive & get felicitatedJalandhar: Taking a step further in promoting the vaccination drive, the district administration has launched an initiative in which people can participate and win certificates from the administration. As part of the ‘Mission Fateh’, the administration has started a mass movement to scale up the vaccination drive. Now, people can participate by making a small video, not more than 90 minutes, which would target beneficiaries to come forward and get vaccinated. Best videos will be uploaded on the social media pages of the district administration and top video creators would be felicitated by the DC. In addition to that, the best performers will be honoured at the district-level Independence Day celebrations. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-masks-2-226-challans-issued-by-jalandhar-police-in-40-days-225263
15-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jaago — a new way to stir people to join farmers’ cause||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, March 14Jaag mazdoora, jaag kisaana, sutti akh nu ugad bai hun jaago aaiye, this is how the women wing of Kirti Kisan Union is performing jaago (a ritual in Punjabi weddings, where people are asked to stay awake) in Nawanshahr.The jaago is being taken out against the three farm laws, where a group of women dressed in traditional attire, holding colourful pots on their head, starts jaago at night asking people to stay awake and join fellow farmers in their fight against the government. Even children are joining the initiative.Several villages including Sajawalpur, Pallian Khurd, Sahivaaj Pur, Jethu Majara, Majara Khurd and Asmanpur have already been covered, where women participated in large numbers. During jaago, the members of the union, and active women also give speeches and encourage others to provide strength to the movement.Gurbaksh Kaur Sangha of the women wing said the aim of taking out these jaagos was to raise awareness among people, women and kids and invite them to show their support to farmers.“We have been getting a very good response with this initiative,” she said. Gurbaksh said in the coming days, the jaago would be taken out in Banga, Balachaur, and Rahon as well.Notably, a huge conference would be held by the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha on March 23, the shaheedi diwas of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev in Khatkar Kalan, Nawanshahr. So, the wing members have also been appealing to everyone to come and gather in large numbers and mark their presence at the conference. On March 22, a large number of youngsters will leave for Delhi on their motorcycles after taking sand from Khatkar Kalan as a mark of protest.Jasveer Singh, one of the associates of the union, said several meetings were happening on a daily basis. “No one wants to leave any stone unturned and the motive is the same — to join farmers and win over the government,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jaago-%E2%80%94-a-new-way-to-stir-people-to-join-farmers-cause-225264
15-03-2021||7||Now, permanent staff to operate oxygen plant at Jalandhar Civil Hospital||The work on the plant having 700-LPM capacity had started in December last year at the cost of Rs88.20 lakh, which had been given to a Jalandhar-based private firm. The DC said the plant would produce 700-LPM oxygen daily, which is equal to 225-230 cylinders. He said with the commissioning of plant at the Civil Hospital, the supply of oxygen cylinders can be increased by the vendor to other private hospitals as 225-230 cylinders, which are being used here, can be given to others amid the apprehension of a second Covid wave. He said this plant would ensure an uninterrupted supply of life-saving gas to serious patients at the Civil Hospital, as there would be power generator facilities in it. Thori said this would prove instrumental in saving precious lives and help in combating the pandemic efficiently to treat level-II patients. He said oxygen supply line already had been installed on 340 beds at the Civil Hospital and there would not be any kind of shortage in future. The DC said as it was a primary requirement in the treatment of Covid patients, this plant would play a pivotal role in the fight against Covid. Appealing to the people not to take flu-like symptoms lightly and immediately contact nearby health facilities besides getting tested for Covid without fail so that the spread of the contagion could be halted, he said people were reporting late to doctors hence their condition was deteriorating. He said there was no dearth of resources and manpower with the state government to tackle this pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-permanent-staff-to-operate-oxygen-plant-at-jalandhar-civil-hospital-225267
15-03-2021||---||e-prospectus to boost enrolment in govt schools||Jalandhar, March 14Government schools have launched a unique initiative to boost enrolment in schools. The school heads are preparing attractive, colourful and eye-catching ‘e-prospectus’, highlighting distinctive features and achievements of government schools to mobilise masses to get their wards admitted to government schools.The school heads are confident of its success. In the e-prospectus, they have mentioned about the infrastructural facilities, qualitative improvement in education, excellent results in board examinations, performance of government school students in various competitive examinations, cultural, sports and other co-curricular activities.The e-prospectus is being circulated among the target sections of society by making use of social media network being created by the Education Department. Schools have their own Facebook pages and WhatsApp groups of students, parents, sarpanches, anganwadi workers, SMCs and other sections of society.The online prospectus is providing an opportunity to parents to know about the government schools in their vicinity without spending a single penny. It would help in mobilising them to get their wards admitted to government schools to avail the benefits of infrastructural as well as quality education facilities and various student welfare schemes in government schools.Gurinderjeet Kaur, principal of Government Girls Senior Secondary Smart School, Nehru Garden, Jalandhar, said the process of preparing the e-prospectus was on full swing. “We have a well-qualified faculty which teaches the students with full dedication. We will definitely mention the qualification of the teachers, so that the students get encouraged to take admission in the school,” she said.She said the names along with the pictures of the students who scored 85 percent last year will also be displayed on the prospectus.Parmod Bharti, media coordinator of the state Enrolment Booster Team said, “It is worthwhile to mention here that the government schools have been witnessing revolutionary changes for the past four years. The smart look of the school campuses adorned with educative BALA (Building As Learning Aid) work, smart classrooms equipped with LED projectors to ensure optimum utilisation of the electronic content as well as latest digital application, innovative teaching modules, well-qualified staff, well-equipped computer labs, science labs, language labs, libraries, are catching the attention of the people.”Bharti further said the consistent and dedicated efforts being put in by the school staff to provide quality education, taking extra classes and keeping in touch with the students, parents and different sections of the society through social media even during the turbulent period of pandemic Covid-19 has succeeded in bringing in positive change in public perception. Consequently, the government schools witnessed about 15 per cent increase in enrollment during the academic session 2020-21, he informed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/e-prospectus-to-boost-enrolment-in-govt-schools-225269
15-03-2021||Our Correspondent||2 die, 158 +ve in Hoshiarpur district||Hoshiarpur, March 14With 158 persons testing positive for Covid, the tally reached 10,128 on Sunday. Not only this, two deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 406 in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said the number of active cases is 1,089, while the number of patients who have recovered is 9,075. On Sunday, 22 positive patients belonged to Hoshiarpur city, while 88 patients were from other health blocks and 48 patients were from other districts.The total number of samples of Covid-19 taken in the district till date is 3,44,708, of which, 3,30,276 were negative, while 5,965 report were still awaited and 202 samples were invalid. Among the dead were a 62-year-old Moranwali village resident of Garhshankar, who died at Medical College in Amritsar; and a 60-year-old Rasulpur village resident, who died at Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur.Sunday’s tally||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-die-158-ve-in-hoshiarpur-district-225270
15-03-2021||Jalandhar||34 KMV students clear skill exam||PCA Trident Challenger CupHoshiarpur: The Trident PCA Cup triangular series starts at Gandhi Maidan, Amritsar, on Monday. Hoshiarpur District Cricket Association's secretary Raman Ghai said three teams will play 2-2 league matches in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana. He said the final match will be played at PCA Stadium Mohali on the basis of best 3. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/34-kmv-students-clear-skill-exam-225272
15-03-2021||Open House||Wave of fresh cases linked to increase in testing?||Covid Cases shooting through the roofCovid cases have been on the rise and as many as 22 school students tested positive and the number is multiplying within days. Hundreds of cases of students and teachers are being reported daily. The schools and educational institutions need to be shut with immediate effect to curb the deadly virus. If needed, higher educational institutions, only for research scholars and postgraduate students of technical and professional courses where lab is needed, should be permitted with the consent of MHA after watching the situation. Students of classes IX to XII may be allowed to visit schools outside containment zones with parents’ written consent for taking guidance from teachers. All the schools and educational institutions should remain shut to contain the further spread because life is very precious.SHASHI KIRANDoubt clearing classes on voluntary basis can helpSchools and colleges must continue through online mode. Certain subjects can be offline based upon need of practicalsWeekly doubt clearing classes on voluntary basisVaccination of all students and teachers on priority basis, especially Class X onwards up to collegePresently offline methods and ways of teaching are being used in online mode. Need to change mindset. Lessons can be drawn from successful online platforms in education field, use of e-books, etcSchools can subscribe to online platforms to make the content available to most students and simultaneously develop own contentOnline content should become part of school curriculum even beyond Covid-19. This will enable information technology literacy, less school time and easing of student loadFresh call to revert to offline mode can be taken after four months. — Vinod GuptaIt’s obvious — norms have been ignoredIt is unfortunate that one-fourth of fresh victims infected by the Covid are school students and their teachers. It appears that the required protocols of safety and precautions have not been adhered to by school managements and the parents. This dangerous trend needs to be tackled immediately to prevent further spread of virus among schoolchildren who are found to be most vulnerable ones. A careful analysis of benefits and risks involved in keeping schools open under such a life- threatening scenario have to be kept in mind while taking any decision. Presently, there seems no other viable option except to close all schools at least for a month. The decision can be reviewed later in the light of subsequent developments relating to the intensity of outbreak and its control. Meanwhile, the testing and tracking of probable cases be monitored foolproof with emphasis on taking preventive measures efficiently and speedily. In case the situation does not improve substantially, the schools may be closed definitely till the outbreak is brought under complete control. However, the provisions of online education may be continued by streamlining it further, making it more effective and accessible to every student to minimise the losses.JAGDISH CHANDERthe state government has ordered the closure of schools except for Classes X and XII. Photo: Sarabjit SinghClasses should run on odd-even basisIncreasing number of cases have once again put the masses in dilemma, as no doubt the vaccine is now available and phase two of vaccination is in progress. The issue is relating to the schools, as earlier the schools were closed and the teaching was done digitally and the exams too. Now the need of the hour is that the schools should strictly follow the guidelines of Ministry of Health, try to vaccinate their staff and students rather than shut down schools. The need is of mechanism to be followed by alternative day of different sections and classes so that the rush in the schools can be diluted as the schools are modern temples of education.Simmi MohindruQUESTIONThere is a surge in Covid cases in the city. Deaths are being reported on a daily basis. Night curfew has already been imposed in many districts. Do you think there is a need for another lockdown?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (March 18).Why put students’ life at risk?Covid-19 is resurging in Punjab and many other states of India causing many deaths. It is playing its second innings in cricket parlance. There is an old saying: ‘when the old cock crows, the young one learns’. This is happening now. When the parents don’t observe strictness in checking the malady, how can the students be left behind. Whenever I visit the bazaar I see large number of people not wearing masks and pressing shoulders and so are the young people and students. So, it is not surprising that the schools in Punjab are seeing many students and teachers testing positive. On the front page of Jalandhar Tribune on March 8, I was surprised to read that that out of ten schools where cases surfaced, nine were government schools. Sometime back I watched on a TV channel how the routine was being observed in a school in South India. All the students were separated by suitable distancing, their temperature checked, hands were sanitised and then one student was seated on one bench and all the while being masked. I don’t know whether the same routine is being observed in schools of Punjab or not. There is an old saying: ‘discretion is better part of the valour’. So it’s safer to close the schools for a fortnight or so to contain the surge of Covid-19. Online teaching can be started again…why put the life of the students at risk? Schools can be reopened anytime in future when the pandemic subsides. Many countries like UK Spain, France and Germany have implemented the lockdown again in certain areas. Same can be done in Punjab also so that virus doesn’t spike again.Dr JS Wadhwathe state government has ordered the closure of schools except for Classes X and XII. Photo: Sarabjit SinghSame old habit of being recklessCovid has adversely affected the health and economic development of people all around. Initially, among other measures like sanitisation, mask-wearing, hand-washing, etc lockdowns/curfews were imposed to enforce social distancing for safety from its highly contagious effect. Schools and colleges were ordered to shut whereby all educational curriculum had to be carried online through virtual classes. Consequent upon such stringent protocols, intensity of pandemic was brought under check, though the nation’s GDP came under unimaginative stress. Nation’s economy underwent heavy contraction over the early two quarters of 2020-21, but soon as the situation improved, relaxations were allowed to run businesses and to open educational institutions for physical appearance in the classes by adhering to some guidelines. On the contrary, however, the precautions laid down were not taken seriously and the stipulations flouted recklessly. Such public apathy has resulted in a surge in cases again over the past few days, leaving everyone fingers crossed. Hundreds of students and teachers at schools/colleges have got infected. Some of the states, including Punjab seem to be heading towards a severe second wave of Covid-19, which is even more dangerous as the count of deaths is proportionately higher this time. The situation may go out of control if urgent steps are not promptly taken to curb the menace. Earnestly, the government will have to keep on guard to meet the challenge by increasing testing, providing adequate medical facilities as well as 24-hour surveillance and zero-tolerance against violations and negligence. By all means, vaccination drive has to expand and made compulsory in accordance with the priorities laid down. On our part, each one of us will have to imbibe self-discipline and comply with the instructions meticulously. The education institutions should be strictly advised to ensure that the prescribed norms are complied in letter and spirit, failing which heavy penalties must be levied apart from drastic punitive action. Come what may, safety of human lives ought to be the solo mission and foremost priority of the government at this stage.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathReturn to online mode of teachingIn the wake of the Covid-induced lockdown, schools were closed across the country, including Punjab, as a precautionary measure to keep the virus at bay. With a view to maintaining the interest of students in studies, a majority of these educational institutions resorted to online teaching but they failed to provide quality education due to lack of adequate technological infrastructure. The marginalised children and those from rural and remote areas were the worst-hit as they had no access to smartphones and internet connectivity. Moreover, it negatively impacted the over-all mental and physical well-being of students. Whether it was on the persistent demand of parents or to justify the charge of fee by influential private managements, the schools were re-opened after a nine-month long hiatus. It was absolutely a wrong decision, hastily taken at the fag end of the academic session. Despite official guidelines, these temples of learning neither strictly followed health and safety protocols nor were they penalised. The school administrations as well as the state authorities should gracefully rue their unbecoming lackadaisical attitude towards enforcing the standard operating procedures (SOPs). It is a medically proven fact that children are more susceptible to the virus and have greater capacity to transmit it. With the worrisome rise in active Covid caseload in the state, many students and teachers have also tested positive. Whatever the reservations, it is in the fitness of things to shut down schools and resume the earlier practice of online classes till the situation improves. Not only that, the government must restrict all super-spreader events, impose heavy fines for health advisory violations, ensure appropriate Covid behaviour and speed up testing and vaccination to decisively defeat the deadly disease.DS KangShutting schools can take a toll on kidsThe past year has been tough, and even more so for our students. Keeping learning as the utmost priority, the schools switched to the digital world well equipped with technology. Schools and students were delighted to be moving in the direction of returning to semblance of old normal; this is when Covid knocked the doors again. Now, the news of shutting down of schools is in the air. As an educator, I disagree to the opinion of closing down of schools again as when the schools close, children risk losing their learning potential along with physical and mental well-being. From my perspective, being a tech-savvy is indeed a blessing but imparting a concept via a blend of offline mode and experiential learning is the need of the hour. I believe that children not only gain confidence by interacting with other beings but it also impacts their emotional development and overall personality. The more they interact, the most willfully they learn. From my standpoint, parents need to repose their faith in the school authorities who are already adopting the required approaches to make up for the time lost during the lockdown.Mukta SharmaClasses have to go on somehowKindly don’t allow the schools and colleges to completely shut. The classes must take place through online mode but employees must visit their workplace or else they won’t be paid. Kindly consider.Dr Ashwani RanaClosure will do more harm than goodClosing schools at this point of time will likely do more harm than good and potentially lead to more deaths and use of hospital beds from infections. There is a lot we still do not know about Covid-19. What we do know is that children appear to very rarely have serious infections and complications compared to those in the older age groups, especially their grandparents. The data from a range of countries shows that children rarely, and in many countries never, have died from this infection. Children appear to get infected at a much lower rate than those who are older, although confirmation of that will need to await the roll out of larger-scale antibody testing, which tells you that you have had an infection in the past.Neel Kanth GroverIncreased testing the reason behind surgeAs per my opinion, the opening of schools has little effect on increasing cases. The increased number is due to increase in testing and also if you conduct proper survey most of them are asymptotic. However, we have developed a good platform of online classes, so we could use it for of students till Class VII and from Class XI onwards we could go offline for. It will also help in maintaining social distance and also effective use of online infrastructure. Further increase in vaccination will soon bring more positive results and soon life will be on track.Dr Rohit MehraReview situation thoroughly, then actThere is a sudden increase in cases in past two weeks and number of students and teachers have got infected and with no doubt this is result of sheer negligence shown by the administration. Reopening of schools is need of the hour but it is the duty of administration to ensure all precautionary measures in educational institutions. Earlier, there was a dip in cases but the actual reason behind it was less testing and less contact tracing. I don’t remember the last time when sanitisation was done in my locality. And now, this attitude is also visible in the people who don’t feel necessary to wear a mask and maintain social distancing. Coming back to the point that whether it is right to shut educational institutions, I feel that final decision should be taken after reviewing the situation. After a hiatus of a year, schools and colleges were opened and the decision was welcomed by the students as well as their parents. But now as the situation is not under control, the final decision should be taken with utmost care because lives of students and teachers are at stake.Rashi RawalIn need of necessary precautionsIn post-Covid scenario, classroom teaching can be done effectively online, but there are genuine issues facing both teachers and students. In my view, there is no need to shut educational institutes but keeping in view the cases there’s need of proper cleaning, disinfecting school, monitoring on daily basis, wearing masks, hand-washing and distancing for sure. The vaccination programme is also going on so there’s only need of some necessary precautions.Divya SharmaWhy not face crisis intelligently?There has been a rise in the number of cases in Punjab recently. Hundreds of students and teachers have got infected. Some parents have expressed fear to send their children to schools. And some even have demanded the closure of schools. But is it the appropriate solution? I don’t think so. The pandemic is worldwide and we don’t know till when it’s going to be there. The future is unpredictable. So, why not face the crisis with our intelligence? Let us educate and train our kids to wear masks, maintain social distancing and proper hygiene. Let us all learn to live with the present, hoping for a safe and healthy future. Schools should not be closed, especially when it is annual exam time. No doubt online platform is there but in classroom teaching, learning is more dynamic and interactive. The parents should not refrain from sending children to schools. The children should be trained to stay safe and healthy while being regular at schools. It needs collective efforts to fight against the crisis and at the same time not ignoring classroom education.Kavita SabharwalDon’t want skill-less graduates, do we?These days again we are experiencing a hike in the cases in country. This situation can be seen as a warning towards the further spread in India on a great majority due to which in some cities the administration have again announced for the night curfews. The main concern is for the students those have already suffered from many drawbacks of online classes in offline examinations conducted in recent days. In most of the schools and colleges students with teachers have been found infected in majority which can be main reason for shutdown. The decision will have implications, both good and bad. The closure will surely be a big step in curbing the spread, while it can also be the reason behind the future ‘skill-less graduates’ because of online classes replacing practical work.PulkitOnline classes shall continueDespite the availability of vaccination, cases with new strains came to light in last two to three months. Of late, they are again on the rise, especially since last one week as more than 13,000 cases were reported. Yesterday as per various media channels, around 22,000 cases came to light. Lots of cases are now reported of children and staff after schools opened despite not in totality and with all precautions by school staff. This is also true for Punjab. It is recommended that online classes be continued and schools be closed till situation improves.Lakhwinder SinghClosing only schools won’t helpThe virus is hitting nation again, states like Punjab and Maharashtra are a concrete example. But at this time, when exams of students are going on, it is not advisable to shut down schools and colleges. It will lead to educational loss. By only closing schools, spread cannot be stopped. If government wants to impose the lockdown then it should be in every field, not only on schools. To stop it, the norms should be followed without any scruples. Strict orders should be made regarding these things.AseemTime to fight, not take a step backIt is not necessary that we close the school once again due to the virus. Rather, teachers and students should follow the guidelines of Covid-19 properly so that they can keep the new strain at bay. As we know, this is a tough situation for all of us but this does not mean that we should be irresponsible with the students’ studies and their future. If we keep the schools closed because of fear, what will be the impact on the student’s education…has anyone ever thought? After all, how much syllabus can we provide to students through online studies? There are various issues like connectivity, internet speed and so on. I am not in favour of closing schools once again.Simran BhardwajBetter to wait before it’s too lateWith a surge in fresh Covid cases in the past few days, it seems the decision to re-open schools and colleges must be reviewed, especially when many teachers and students have contracted the disease. In my opinion, the pandemic is not over yet and with the new mutated UK strain of the virus, the threat still looms large. Perhaps, it would be better to wait for one or two more months till the vaccination drive has covered a large chunk of the population. Otherwise, the schools can become agents in the rapid spread of the infection due to large numbers and it might worsen the situation. Parents would also feel wary of sending their wards to school. Working together, we should strive to overcome this challenge.Seema JainChildren learn more at schools than homeThe spectre of second wave is worrisome as it has taken schoolchildren and teachers in its ambit but shutting down schools is not the answer. Online teaching does not reach all sections of students. Secondly, the number of periods devoted to a subject is not the same in online classes as are given in a classroom. It’s an undeniable truth that offline examination tempts children to cheat and such an examination cannot be a measure of a child’s merit the way out is to curtail the syllabus, follow a rigorous Covid protocol in schools. What children learn in classrooms might be quicker than what they learn at home environment that has bored them as they have been confined to home for a year now.Mohini ShardaCovid chipped up board exams preparationIt is necessary to close the public places or put restrictions on strength of people at these places as done earlier during initial phase of the pandemic. Same goes for the schools also, instead of closing them, they should be opened on shift basis for classes like X and XII as students of these classes have already suffered a lot and their preparations for board examination is not as per the standards what it should be by this time. The same has been seen and observed through the results of students in their pre-board examination conducted by the schools recently for both the classes.Ajit Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wave-of-fresh-cases-linked-to-increase-in-testing-225273
15-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||New regional chemical lab to come up at Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 14In a move liable to expedite the testing of liquor and other samples, the Punjab Government is opening a new regional chemical laboratory at Jalandhar. So far, the state has only one “chemical examiner laboratory” at Kharar to analyse excise samples, in addition to viscera and blood alcohol samples. Of the 14 sanctioned posts of analyst, six are vacant.Will come under Kharar facilityInformation in this regard, furnished before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, is significant as criminal trials in drugs and liquor cases are known to get delayed in the absence of a chemical examination report.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has already asserted a year’s wait in some cases is not uncommon. “It is a matter of fact that the trials before courts, either under the NDPS Act or Excise Act, are delayed on account of awaiting the FSL report for a long time and in some cases, it takes about a year in receipt of report from the FSL,” Justice Sangwan asserted during a hearing.Taking note of the submissions on setting up of a new laboratory, Justice Sangwan directed the filing of an additional affidavit by State Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Home Affairs and Justice, and the DGP, on completing the process.Justice Sangwan, during the course of hearing, was told the new laboratory would be under the chemical examiner laboratory at Kharar. As many as 21 posts had been sanctioned. The analysts were being hired on an outsource basis and the process to fill the vacant posts on a regular basis was on.Justice Sangwan was also told the Kharar lab was simultaneously performing both qualitative and quantitative tests from December 1 last year, on liquor samples received. The Bench, on a previous date of hearing, had made it clear the police/excise department was duty-bound to get both tests conducted to find out the contents.Qualitative tests were performed by laboratories through systematic analysis to identify the contents of the samples for determining whether it was spurious or unfit for human consumption.Quantitative analysis, on the other hand, was carried out to determine the “absolute or relative substance” present in a sample for finding out the percentage of alcohol/ethyl alcohol. In case of spurious liquor, high percentage of ethyl alcohol could be dangerous.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-regional-chemical-lab-to-come-up-at-jalandhar-225349
15-03-2021||Jalandhar||Shahkot DSP Varinderpal Singh succumbs to Covid-19 at 52||Shahkot Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Varinderpal Singh (52) died of Covid-19 on Sunday.While he was on a ventilator for the past one month, he succumbed to the virus on Sunday at 3.48 am at a private hospital in Ludhiana.The deceased took charge of Shahkot in July last year. Before that, he was posted at Barnala where he was promoted to the rank of DSP in 2019.Shahkot SHO Surinder Kumar said, "Singh tested Covid positive on February 8 after he developed a mild fever. Since then, he remained admitted to the hospital. Due to multiple organ failure, he was shifted to a ventilator. Doctors told the family that his lungs couldn't recover."His two gunmen also tested positive for the virus in February.Singh is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter.He will be cremated today between 12-12.30 PM at Sarabha Nagar in Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shahkot-dsp-varinderpal-singh-succumbs-to-covid-19-at-52-225078
15-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Covid-19: 15-day footage must for hotels, shrines in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 13Alarmed over a spurt in virus cases, the Punjab Government is contemplating harsh measures against violators of Covid norms.While night curfew has already been imposed in eight districts, Jalandhar DC Ghanshyam Thori today ordered hotels, marriage palaces, banquet halls, eateries and religious places to keep CCTV footage of events held on their premises for at least 15 days. This has been done to ensure strict compliance of norms, including cap on gatherings (100 for indoor and 200 outdoor).In another move, Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said the government had allowed teachers to get themselves registered for vaccination.District Education Officer (Secondary) Harinder Pal Singh said teachers would be considered frontline workers.On closure of schools for students, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said: “Exams will be held as per schedule, although these can be staggered to ensure less attendance on a given day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-15-day-footage-must-for-hotels-shrines-in-jalandhar-224884
