16-03-2021||Kapurthala||Woman, son burnt alive in Kapurthala||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-son-burnt-alive-in-kapurthala-226055
16-03-2021||Jalandhar||Rly staff, farmers flay privatisation||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rly-staff-farmers-flay-privatisation-226054
16-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||62-yr-old woman refused jab but issued Covid certification||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 15In an interesting case indicating a nexus in the Health Department of providing Covid-19 vaccination to even those not falling under the categories of eligible takers, a 62-year-old woman, who was refused the jab on Monday at a government centre received a message and certification of having been administered the first dose.Aghast at the turn of the events, the woman’s son has shot off a complaint to Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar, Commissioner of Police Jalandhar, Punjab Vigilance Bureau and Punjab Health Department giving a detailed account of the goof-up. Complainant Nikhil Sharma of Nizatam Nagar here said he had taken appointment of his 62-year-old mother Kaushalya Devi via Arogya Setu app and took online appointment for Basti Guzan centre. He said he reached the centre at 10 am, where all visitors for the vaccination (with or without appointment) were made to wait in the same queue for two hours.In the complaint lodged via email, Sharma said at 12 noon, all those waiting for the vaccination were told to continue to wait as the stock of the jab had got over.“My mother and other elderly were made to sit for nearly two hours till the stock arrived. They were again asked to form queues and made to wait. Finally, when my mother’s turn came, she was told that since she was a diabetic, she should have got her certification, without which she could not be administered the dose.“We contested that such a certification was required for only those aged between 45-59 years and there was no such requirement for her age category. But the police and health staff present there sent us back,” he said while narrating his ordeal.Nikhil said he returned home upset with the experience that his mother had to undergo.“We decided that we will seek appointment from a private hospital for getting vaccination for her on Tuesday. Even my mother was disturbed after the nasty experience and said the prolonged wait despite appointment and finishing of dose despite prior registration were actually uncalled for. She even pointed to no precautions being taken including thermal scanning and lack of sanitisation facilities. She agreed with my decision to go to a private hospital the next day for more convenience and hygienic experience,” he said.He said: “While we were simply discussing these things, I received a message on my phone that my mother had received the vaccination shot while actually she had not! I even received an online certification that she had received the first dose of Covishield on March 15 from one Sushma. Owing to this wrong certification and wrong data upload on the portal, my mother will now be debarred from taking the vaccination even from a private hospital.”Nikhil demanded the CCTV footage asking who was vaccinated at his mother’s place and how everyone standing in the queue was harassed, while people with recommendations were allowed to enter inside the vaccination room and get jabbed.He demanded legal action into the matter against those responsible for the goof-up."When my mother's turn came, she was told that since she was a diabetic, she should have got her certification, without which she could not be administered the dose. We returned home and I received a message on my phone that my mother had received the vaccination shot while actually she had not!.? — Nikhil Sharma, complainant||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/62-yr-old-woman-refused-jab-but-issued-covid-certification-225831
16-03-2021||Our Correspondent||7 die of virus, 201 +ve in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, March 15With 201 persons testing positive for Covid, the tally reached 10,330 in Hoshiarpur district. With seven deaths, the toll also became 413. The number of active cases is 1,302 at present, while 9,094 patients have recovered.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said of 201 positive patients, 19 were from Hoshiarpur city, while 182 were from other health blocks of the district. Those who died on Monday include a 60-year-old resident of Dhoot Kalan village, a 55-year-old resident of Nasrala village, a 70-year-old woman resident of Sham Churasi town and a 66-year-old woman from Bullowal village, who died at private hospitals in Jalandhar, while a 72-year-old resident of Saila Khurd died at MH Jalandhar. A 71-year-old woman of Sikri vllage died at a hospital in Nawanshahr and a 59-year-old patient of Paldi died at Medical College Patiala.He said 2,823 new samples were taken in the district on Monday taking the total number of samples taken so far to 3,47,531. Of these, 3,32,131 were negative, 6,731 reports were awaited and 202 were invalid. Civil Surgeon strongly urged people to strictly follow the instructions issued by the Health Department to contain the pandemic in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-die-of-virus-201-ve-in-hoshiarpur-225832
16-03-2021||---||Rs 12L more for makeover of Jalandhar's Nikku Park||Jalandhar, March 15 Having recently got all rides repaired and maintenance work started, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday announced another grant of Rs12 lakh to ensure complete facelift of the popular Nikku Park in the city. The DC accompanied by committee member and GOG’s head Major General (retd) Balwinder Singh while visiting the park directed the committee members to complete impending developmental works at the park within one month so that it could all set to welcome visitors this summer season with renewed facilities. He further directed to submit utilisation certificates (UCs) for funds worth Rs5 lakh incurred by the administration to carry out various tasks during the first phase. The DC said that with this additional grant of Rs12 lakh, all the major developmental and maintenance work would be completed at once and nothing would be left pending. A slew of works would be carried out in next one month that includes installation of CCTV cameras, repairing of bull ride, renovation of washrooms, completion of white wash, flexes for displaying ride-instructions, RO systems, musical fountain repairing, break dance repairing, kangaroo ride repairing and various others maintenance works, he added. Thori said the developmental works being carried out here would give a major boost to the entertainment activities at this famous amusement park.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-12l-more-for-makeover-of-jalandhars-nikku-park-225833
16-03-2021||---||Bank strike impacts biz worth Rs 800 crore in dist||Jalandhar, March 15On the call of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), city banks went on the two-day All-India Strike on Monday to protest against the privatisation of public sector banks.“We are opposing privatisation of public sector banks and stringent measures for recovery of NPAs,” the bank employees announced in unison. The employees and officers gathered in front of their branches and raised slogans against the policies of the government.Later, a massive rally was held in front of the State Bank of India, main branch, Jalandhar. As many as 380 branches in the city and 720 branches in the district remained closed and locked because the officers and branch managers were also on strike. The clearing house remained suspended and around 25,000 cheques for Rs 230 crore were not cleared. The cash transactions of Rs 220 crore were also affected due to the strike. As per the information given by the union leaders, business worth Rs 450 crore was affected in the city and Rs 800 crore in the district on account of strike.Addressing the rally, Amrit Lal, convener, UFBU, Jalandhar unit, said the government was trying to hand over the public sector banks to the private sector. “It will adversely affect the life of peasants, workers and general public of the country,” he said. Dinesh Dogra, from National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE) said: “The interest of youth and peasants will be most affected. Savings of general public shall be utilised by corporate houses and the public will be devoid of facilities which were earlier available to them.”Kanwarjit Singh Kalra also reiterated that all concepts of social banking shall be relinquished and priority sector lending to farmers would be stopped. The rally was also addressed by Vinay Dogra, Rajesh Verma, Sunil Kapor, Sanjeev Bhalla, Baljit Kaur, among others. The leaders of the unions also announced that the struggle shall be intensified in the days to come if the government does not alter the existing policy.Bank employees observe strike in Hoshiarpur as wellHoshiarpur: On a call given by the United Forum of Bank Unions, a complete strike was observed by the bank employees in Hoshiarpur against the decision of privatisation of banks taken by the Central Government. The circle head of All-India PNB Officers Association KG Sharma and circle secretary Rajinder Bhatia said that the banks were being privatised by the Central Government and efforts were being made to completely eliminate the public sector. He said the government banks had been opened for the benefit of common peoples and were maintaining the accounts of poor people. When these banks would go into the hands of private sector it would be difficult for the account holders to maintain their accounts in these banks, he said. Sharma said they would continue their protest on March 16. He warned that if the government did not take back the decision of privatization, the employees would intensify their fight in coming days. The day-long strike was seen affecting banking operations. At many places people returned empty-handed due to the banking strike. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bank-strike-impacts-biz-worth-rs-800-crore-in-dist-225834
16-03-2021||---||26,971 inoculated in Hoshiarpur district||As many as 26,971 persons have received the Covid vaccine in Hoshiarpur district so far, including 7,183 healthcare workers with the first dose and 3,008 with the second dose, respectively. Providing details, District Immunisation Officer Dr Seema Garg said there are 44 session sites under vaccination drive and from Tuesday, two more sites namely Islamabad and Purheeran would also be made operational. She said 4,955 and 2,367 frontline workers have taken the first and second dose of the vaccine, respectively. In the category of above 60 and the persons in the age of 45 and 59 with co-morbidities, 9,458 eligible beneficiaries have been inoculated. He said people must carry their UID card, voter card, pan card, bank passbook, ID of government employees and driving licence for getting the vaccine at the session sites. She said vaccination drive began at Canal Colony dispensary, Mini PHC Chabbewal, Mehlanwali and Faglana in Harta Badla Block, Bagpur of Chakkowal block, Bhattal, Binjon and Panam in Possi block, Nikkuchakk and Datarpur of Hajipur blocks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/26-971-inoculated-in-hoshiarpur-district-225835
16-03-2021||---||Bank employees observe strike in Hoshiarpur as well||Hoshiarpur: On a call given by the United Forum of Bank Unions, a complete strike was observed by the bank employees in Hoshiarpur against the decision of privatisation of banks taken by the Central Government. The circle head of All-India PNB Officers Association KG Sharma and circle secretary Rajinder Bhatia said that the banks were being privatised by the Central Government and efforts were being made to completely eliminate the public sector. He said the government banks had been opened for the benefit of common peoples and were maintaining the accounts of poor people. When these banks would go into the hands of private sector it would be difficult for the account holders to maintain their accounts in these banks, he said. Sharma said they would continue their protest on March 16. He warned that if the government did not take back the decision of privatization, the employees would intensify their fight in coming days. The day-long strike was seen affecting banking operations. At many places people returned empty-handed due to the banking strike.  OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bank-employees-observe-strike-in-hoshiarpur-as-well-225836
16-03-2021||Hoshiarpur||MLA urges people to take Covid shot||Urging the people to come forward and get vaccinated at the earliest in the larger public interest, Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar on Monday received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the Mini Primary Health Centre here.  After getting inoculated, MLA Raj Kumar said that there was no need to be scared in view of rumours regarding vaccination, if any. “All of us must brace for the vaccine which will ensure protection from this virus,” he said.  The MLA said that district had been witnessing steep hike in the Covid cases again, the people should not be lax in adopting health and safety protocols as advised by the government and the Health Department. He said that the proper adherence of safety protocols could ensure to contain the further spread of virus so people should wear mask, besides maintaining social distancing as well as frequent hand washing. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-urges-people-to-take-covid-shot-225837
16-03-2021||---||Examination for non-board classes begins in two shifts||Jalandhar, March 15Even as the Punjab School Education Board has put off the exams of Classes X and XII, students of Classes VI, VII and IX appeared for their first exam held in their respective schools.While the students of Classes VI and XI appeared for their exams in the morning session from 9 am to 12 pm, those from Classes VII and IX took exams in the second session from 12.20 pm to 3.20 pm. The exams were held in two sessions to space out students properly during the conduct of papers amid rising cases of coronavirus in the state.Since the schools had been kept off for the last two days, students had been communicated about the conduct of paper in two sessions through voice messages sent to the students. Those without smart phones had to be communicated about the timings by the teachers by making calls to their parents.Meanwhile, the exams of Classes V and VIII are to start from March 22, for which the board is yet to issue the list of centres and the admit cards to its students. The exams for these classes are held in centres set up in other schools.Hoshiarpur: The examinations of non-board Classes VI, VII, IX and XI of government schools in the state started amid precautions. On the first day of the examinations, students arrived the schools wearing masks as per the instructions issued by the Education Department. Gursharan Singh, District Education Officer (Secondary), and Deputy District Education Officer Rakesh Kumar said with the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in the state, it was ensured that the students come to the schools to appear in the examinations duly following the precautions issued by the Central and the state governments. Middle and High Schools conducted Class VI mathematics examination while Senior Secondary Schools conducted Class VI Mathematics and Class XI General English examination in the morning session, while in the evening session, all the Middle Schools conducted Class VII Science examination. In high and senior secondary schools, examinations were held for seventh class’ science and ninth class’ English subject. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/examination-for-non-board-classes-begins-in-two-shifts-225838
16-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jagjit Wrestling Academy girls to represent Punjab at nationals||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 15Girls from Jagjit Wrestling Academy (JWA) in Wariana have made it to the national-level wrestling championships going to be held by the Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) in Karnataka. All the girls have qualified the state-level competition held on February 27 in Mohali. Notably, Until October 2016, only boys were taught wrestling, but it was only after Sakshi Malik won a medal at the Rio Olympics that the need to start wrestling for girls was finally taken into consideration.The girls who have qualified for U-17 nationals are Harpreet Kaur (46kg), Amanpreet Kaur, (65kg), both have won gold at state-level competition. For the U-20 category, Amandeep Kaur (62kg) has been selected, a gold winner at the state-level competition. Samanpreet kaur (50kg), who had won a silver, is familiar with the nationals mat as she had stood third in last year’s nationals.Samanpreet Kaur (17) had recently suffered an injury but her spirits are still high. Daughter of a farmer, she said her brother has been going to Delhi borders in support of the farm stir. “My brother is also a wrestler, these days he is contributing to the movement and I am ready to take on my rivals,” she added.Seema and Veerpal Kaur, both will play in 57kg category. While Seema had won a gold at the state-level competition, Kaur had won a silver medal.Anchal (59 kg), Kirti (55 kg), who had won silver and bronze, respectively, have also made it through to the nationals.The academy was started in the year 2001. The idea of training children was given by former international player Jagjit Singh, who is now posted as ADCP (Headquarters) Jalandhar.Mandeep Sharma, the international coach, said the girls have practiced really hard and he was hopeful that they would certainly bring laurels to the district.Rajinder Singh, the academy’s coach, had earlier shared, “There used to be an akhara near a crematorium then and I used to give training to around 30 youngsters. There were no mats back then, we would play on soil. But then, Jagjit sir saw that the players were performing well in the game and in 2014, a proper academy was established at Wariana and there has been no looking back. We are growing,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jagjit-wrestling-academy-girls-to-represent-punjab-at-nationals-225839
16-03-2021||---||9 get UDID cards at Pingla Ghar camp||Jalandhar, March 15To ensure registration of all eligible specially-abled beneficiaries under the Unique Disability Identity (UDID) scheme, a special camp was held at the Pingla Ghar today.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the camp provided one-stop solution to all beneficiaries with facilities such as on-the-spot registration and medical examination by experts. The DC further stated that a series of camps was being organised in the district and would continue till April 1. The camps would be held at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, on March 16, 18, 23, and 25, in Nakodar, Mehatpur, Jamsher, Kartarpur and Lohian Khas on March 17, 19, 24, 26, and April 1, respectively.Thori further added that as many as 86 beneficiaries participated in today’s special camp, of which 33 beneficiaries got on-the-spot registration while nine others received their UDID cards in the camp. However, 43 beneficiaries were referred to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, for further medical check and would be issued UDID cards after the medical examination.Nodal Officer of the scheme Dr Anu said these mega camps would provide one-stop solutions to all eligible beneficiaries with facilities like on-spot medical examination by expert physicians besides others. He further called upon specially-abled persons to carry their Aadhar card, Voter’s ID card, or any other age proof along with their passport size photo to get themselves registered for UDIC cards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-get-udid-cards-at-pingla-ghar-camp-225863
16-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Society for disabled, blind gets Rs 2L for their welfare||Hoshiarpur, March 15Reiterating the commitment of the Punjab Government for the welfare of Persons with Disabilities (PwDs), Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora has handed over a cheque for Rs2 lakh to the Blind and Handicapped Development Society, Bahowal.While handing over a cheque to the office-bearers of the society and the blind children, Sunder Sham Arora also assured of all possible help and support from the Punjab Government in the future too. The state government, led by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, is fully committed to ensure welfare opportunities for the PWDs in the state, said the minister, adding that several steps were being taken to ensure a barrier-free environment to PWDs, besides safe and free movement of this section of the society. Free facility/half rates of fares of Punjab Roadways/PRTC Buses to blind persons and other persons with more than 40 per cent disability is being provided by the state, said Arora.The minister also pointed out that the state government had also undertaken the task to fill the backlog of vacancies of the people with disabilities in various departments under the recruitments being made as a part of the State Employment Plan 2020-22. Arora said there were 6.5 lakh persons with disabilities (PwDs) in the state. A special scheme for the empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (PwDs), the Punjab Divyangjan Shaktikaran Yojna (PDSY) is being implemented , which would cover two parts, firstly providing all eligible PwDs the benefits of existing government schemes. Secondly, new initiatives/programmes that would be taken by the government to cover those aspects and needs, which have hitherto not been covered under any existing centrally/state sponsored scheme or PwD-oriented schemes of different departments. A budget provision of Rs 5 crore has been made for this initiative in the year 2021-22, said the minister.Sunder Sham Arora stated that the state government presented a people-friendly budget recently, which had secured the interests of all sections of the society to register a holistic development and unprecedented growth across Punjab.Prominent among those present on the occasion included society president Atar Singh, president of Disabled Persons Welfare Society Sandeep Sharma, Jaswinder Singh Sahota, etc.HighlightsSeveral steps are being taken to ensure a barrier-free environment to PWDs, besides safe and free movement of this section of the society. Free facility/half rates of fares of Punjab Roadways/PRTC buses to blind persons and other persons with more than 40 per cent disability is being provided by the state, said Arora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/society-for-disabled-blind-gets-rs-2l-for-their-welfare-225866
16-03-2021||Jalandhar||Kanshi Ram’s birth anniversary: New forum launched||Celebrating Dalit icon Kanshi Ram’s 87th birthday, an organisation ‘Phillaur People’s Forum’ was launched on Monday in Phillaur in the presence of large gathering. People from different villages of Phillaur paid their tributes to Kanshi Ram. Phillaur-based leader Damanvir Singh Phillaur said the land of Punjab had given birth to many gurus, saints, prophets and warriors and Kanshi Ram was one of those who came from a weaker family and raised the voice for the downtrodden people. He said the forum would launch a recruitment drive of volunteers on Ambedkar’s upcoming birth anniversary next month and various cells would be set up to help the people and fight for their rights.Referring to the current political situation, he said that even today the children of weaker section were stumbling for post-matric scholarship grant. He said the forum would help people at every village and create social awareness without any party affiliation. He said that any person irrespective of caste, creed, religion or political party could contribute to the service of the society by becoming a member of the forum. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kanshi-rams-birth-anniversary-new-forum-launched-225868
16-03-2021||Jalandhar||Flower show champion||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flower-show-champion-225870
16-03-2021||Kapurthala||7-yr-old raped in Sultanpur Lodhi||A married man raped a 7-yr-old girl, daughter of his neighbour, living in shanties on the backside of the Rail Coach Factory, in Sultanpur Lodhi, this afternoon. The accused reportedly lured her by offering her biscuits.The police reached soon after the incident. The medical examination of the victim was conducted and the accused Mukesh Kumar was rounded-up for interrogation. He had come here just two weeks back for work, leaving his family in Bihar.The statement of the victim’s family, who are migrant labourers, too, has been recorded, said SHO Harjeet Singh. The parents were out for work and when they returned, their daughter was missing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-yr-old-raped-in-sultanpur-lodhi-225872
16-03-2021||Jalandhar||Students get scholarship||NIT signs MoUA memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology and Government Hydro Engineering College (GHEC) Bilaspur (Bandla) (Himachal Pradesh). The MoU was inked by Prof Lalit K Awasthi, Director NITJ and Prof R K Awasthi, Director-cum-Principal, GHEC, in the presence of Subhash Chandra Ralhan, Chairman – Board of Governors, NITJ. GHEC is a newly established technical institute funded by the state government of Himachal Pradesh, with financial support from NTPC and NHPC. This MoU will provide opportunities for both the institutions to collaborate for mutual cooperation on academic and research. Dr S K Sinha, Chairman, Deans Committee, Dr S K Mishra, Registrar, Dr Anish Sachdeva, Dean (Academics), Dr R K Garg, Dean (Industry and International Affairs), Dr Vinay Midha, Dean (Faculty Welfare), Dr B S Saini, Dean (Planning and Development), Dr Subhash Chander, Dean (Students Welfare) and Dr Arun Khosla, Dean (Research and Consultancy) were also present during the MoU signing ceremony.‘Azaadi de 75 saal’ celebratedThe NSS department of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women celebrated ‘Azaadi Da Amrit Mahotsav’ as per the guidelines of Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India. Celebrating the occasion around 20 volunteers wrote essays in an essay-writing competition. The GOI has initiated the Amrit Mahotsav Yojana to make the 75th year of India’s freedom a memorable year. The Ministry of Higher Education started the same in colleges on Friday. The main aim of this scheme is to enlighten the youth about the Indian struggle and to make them aware about the rich legacy of Indian freedom fighters. Under this they would be told about the freedom struggle and the rich history of our nation. It would also include telling them the global place of India and these celebrations would span over 75 weeks. Principal Dr. Navjot also assured that she would also work in this direction to make this programme a success.Exhibition on Rishi BodhutsavStudents of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised an exhibition on the occasion of Rishi Bodhutsav. The students prepared posters on drug de-addiction, equality of male and female, giving respect to parents etc. The students were made aware about the rich traditional values. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen appreciated the efforts of Dean, Vedic Adhyan Studies, Mamta, and HoD Sanskrit department Dr Meenu Talwar. She appreciated the title ‘Welcome Life’ given to this exhibition. She said that life can be welcomed with a smile only when we will have a positive attitude. Dr Meenu Talwar said that the students beautifully showcased their views against social evils in their posters. They will contribute a lot in making a strengthened society with their awareness. Dean, Vedic Adhyan Studies, Mamta said that Swami Dayanand was such a yogi who devoted his whole life for the welfare of society. She encouraged the students to follow his footsteps to achieve newer heights in their lives.National Pi DayKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated National Pi Day. The celebrations were organised by PG Department of Mathematics. Along with the Pi Day, the 138th birth anniversary of Bharti Krishna Tirath, the founder of Vedic Mathematics was also celebrated with full zeal and enthusiasm. On this occasion, online poster-making and online mehndi-making competition on the theme of ‘Mathematics for the Better World’ were organised. Students through their beautiful posters and attractive mehndi designs presented the applications of mathematics in our daily lives, while they also paid their tribute to Bharti Krishna Tirath. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students on their achievements. She lauded the efforts of Veena Deepak, Head, PG department of mathematics, Anand Prabha and all the faculty members of PG department of mathematics.In poster making competition, Vajinder Kaur and Muskan won the first prize, followed by Meenakshi and Samriti. Consolation prize was shared by Mehrukh and Anjali. In mehndi competition, Kavita, Pallavi and Palak won the prizes.Corporate Training at LPUPhagwara: LPU hosted a massive corporate training programme wherein 1000+ UCO bank officials got two-month long training in eight batches at its campus. For such important training, LPU has ventured into new vistas of corporate training in collaboration with Times Professional Learning (TPL). Titled as ‘End User Training on Finacle 10.X’, this training was aimed at capacity building of bank employees for successful migration to the industry-leading universal banking solution. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal congratulated the collaborative teams in organising the latest version of the training with a vision of technology up-gradation for customer service excellence. Mittal encouraged HRD Centre at LPU for its untiring endeavours in offering the latest training facilities. He also anticipated regular readiness of the centre for significant leap in world class corporate training. Finacle solutions address the core banking, e-banking, mobile banking, CRM, payments, treasury, origination, liquidity management, wealth management, and analytics needs of financial institutions worldwide. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-get-scholarship-225873
16-03-2021||Jalandhar||Top cop takes second dose||Wear mask or face action: MCJalandhar: MC Jalandhar has released instructions for the general public and its staff members to wear masks before entering the premises. It is also mentioned that if anyone including the staff members do not wear masks, they won’t be allowed to enter and action would be taken against them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/top-cop-takes-second-dose-225875
