17-03-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar MC seals six properties||Fruit vendor held with marijuanaJalandhar: The police have nabbed a fruit vendor for selling drugs in the city. The accused has been identified as Chandu Ram, alias Chandu. The police recovered one- kg marijuana from his possession. The accused used to sell fruits near Damorial overbridge from the last around one year. Ashwini Kumar, in charge, Special Operation Unit, said, the accused was arrested from T-point, Black road. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against Chandu. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mc-seals-six-properties-226472
17-03-2021||Jalandhar||Mayorite Cricket League T10||Teacher gets awardIt is a matter of great pride that Head of Postgraduate Department of Punjabi Prof Navroop Kaur has been honoured by ‘Bhai Kahn Singh Nabha Rachna Vichaar Manch’ for her book ‘Dopahar Khidi’. She has been honoured with Kanwar Chauhan Yaadgari Nazam Award. This award was presented to her by legendary poet and writer Padam Shree Surjit Patar. On this occasion, Dr Sukhdev Singh Sirsa, Dr Deepak Manmohan, Darshan Buttar, Dr Joga Singh were also present. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated her and said that it is a proud moment for the institution.Softball championshipThe softball players of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya have bagged gold medal in 42nd Himachal Pradesh Softball Senior State Championship. Students named Dimple, Monica, Nancy, and Akshita participated in the championship and made KMV proud by bagging the gold medal. Dimple and Monica have also got selected for Senior National Softball Championship which is going to be held in Rajasthan. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students on their achievement. Prof. Atima Sharma Dwivedi also adumbrated that KMV will continue to provide these abilities to the students who continue to prove their mettle in sports arena. The Principal also lauded the efforts of Pardeep Saini, coach, and Dr Davinder for this achievement.Virtual conference ICOIORA-2021CT Institute of Management and Information Technology in association with CT University, Ludhiana, and International Journal of Advance Study and Research organised its virtual 4th International Conference on Challenges and Opportunities in the Indian Ocean Rim Association (ICOIORA-2021). The event brought experts and delegates from different countries to take stock of current knowledge, share information, and build consensus on the actions most needed to move forward in the respective fields. Prof Dr Harsh Sadawari, Vice Chancellor, CT University, welcomed the keynote speakers, delegates and presenters across the globe and outlined the aim and objectives of the conference. He also said we received papers from different universities throughout the globe. Prof Dr Zeliha Selamoglu, Faculty of Medicine Nigde Ömer Halisdemir University, Turkey delivered the keynote address. Dr. Elena Battaglini, Senior Scientist, Research Area on Regional Economics, Rome, Italy, illustrated seven-step framework for a socially-engaged architecture and human-centred urbanism. Campus Director and convener Dr Jasdeep Kaur Dhami delivered a vote of thanks to key note speakers, presenters, delegates, and one and all who contributed for the success of the conference.Expert talk on role of scienceAn expert talk by Dr Sanjay O’Neill Shaw, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Regional Meteorological Centre, Guwahati, was organised by DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology on the topic ‘Role of Science and Technology in weather forecasting’. The basic aim of celebrations was to give exposure to students about the latest discoveries in the field of weather forecasting and the achivements made by India. The talk was supported by Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India and Punjab State Council for Science and Technology (PSCST). Dr Kanchan Singh, Head Department of Applied Sciences, welcomed the Heads of the Departments of the institute along with students and teachers. Dr Sanjay introduced meteorology as an interdisciplinary science, which deals with atmosphere, land, and ocean as an integrated system. Dr Shivani Vij extended a vote of thanks and showed her appreciation towards the resource person for taking time out of his busy schedule.Excellent hindi language typistAbhimanyu Kumar, a student of BCA of St Soldier Management and Technical Institute, Mithu Basti, secured the top 17th rank in the Hindi typist’s examination conducted by Indian Space and Research Organisation (ISRO). Chairman Anil Chopra, vice- chairperson Sangeeta Chopra said thousands of students had participated in this examination, in which Abhimanyu got selected. Principal Dr RK Pushkarna honored the student in the presence of Assistant Prof Jaspreet Kaur and said that Abhimanyu is from middle class family but the passion and desire to study and to do something has always been there in him. Abhimanyu thanked the college management. he has been called to Kerala for training and get government level 4 grade salary. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mayorite-cricket-league-t10-226471
17-03-2021||Jalandhar||Dr Bhandari is new Doaba College principal||Chander Mohan, president, Arya Shiksha Mandal and College Managing Committee, on Tuesday appointed Dr Pardeep Bhandari as the 11th principal of Doaba College after completion of interview process as per DPI (C) Punjab and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, norms.Mohan congratulated the newly appointed Principal. Dr Bhandari has served as head, PG Department of Computer Science and IT, and has been a teacher in the college for 20 years. He did his MCA from GNDU Amritsar in 2001 and PhD from Punjabi University, Patiala, in computer science and engineering subject in 2017. He did his PG diploma in business management, PG diploma in education management and administration, three courses in cyber security, cyber crime and forensic tools from NITR Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dr-bhandari-is-new-doaba-college-principal-226470
17-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Rotary Club, Hoshiarpur, enlightens 17 unsighted||Hoshiarpur, March 16The monthly meeting of the Rotary Club, Hoshiarpur, Mid Town, was held under the chairmanship of President Gopal Vasudeva. The campaign being run to help the blind by the club was reviewed. Club Secretary Praveen Palial said the Rotary Club, Hoshiarpur, Mid Town and Plano Metro Rotary Club, Texas, USA, have jointly taken up this project. Under this project, in the month of February, 17 visually blinds underwent corneal implant, in which Punjab had 13 beneficiaries, while Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal and UP had one beneficiary each.Vasudeva told the members that so far, 74 operations have been done in four months. All these operations have been successfully done by eye specialist Dr Shakin Singh of Eye Hospital, Amritsar and Dr Rohit Gupta of Tricity Hospital, Mohali. Project Chairman Manoj Ohri said the expenses incurred on all these operations were borne by the Rotary Club, including the cost for the patient’s operation and medicines. On this occasion, the member of the club and former MP Avinash Rai Khanna’s message was read, in which he praised the work being done by the Rotary Club.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rotary-club-hoshiarpur-enlightens-17-unsighted-226468
17-03-2021||---||Dhina village to be studded with a quality Sports Park||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 16To promote sports on a grassroots level, MLA Jalandhar Cantt constituency Pargat Singh laid foundation stones for the construction of the Sports Park at Dhina village and upgrade of the stadium at Sansarpur village.During the event, the MLA said a total of Rs62 lakh would be incurred by the Punjab Government on these projects, which would be completed within the next two months. He said the Sports Park in Dhina village would come up at a cost of Rs51 lakh with facilities such as athletic track, sprinkle system, boundary wall, rest rooms, washroom, and drinking water while existing sports infrastructure in Sansarpur Stadium would be upgraded at a cost of Rs11 lakh.Meanwhile, MLA Pargat Singh distributed sports kits amounting to Rs2.75 lakh to over 150 budding players of hockey and football games that include sports kits to 100 football and 50 hockey players in both the villages. He also reiterated his commitment to providing all necessary help to the budding players and assured that more kits would be distributed among players whenever required.During a formal interaction with the players, the MLA asked the budding players to lay due focus on studies along with the sports for comprehensive development of their personality. He said that more sports kits would be distributed among budding players to help them practice smoothly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dhina-village-to-be-studded-with-a-quality-sports-park-226467
17-03-2021||Ajay Joshi||Born with an appetite for cooking!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 16Bhavuk Aggarwal remembers his chef moment. He was just 12 when he stepped in the kitchen of his home, pretending to be a chef. But, luckily he managed to cook something. Subsequently, his frequent visits to the kitchen actually turned him into a chef. And winning a cooking competition held at a private university, in 2014, when he was 13 only encouraged him to further enhance his culinary skills.Now 21, this young culinarian is gearing up to become a professional in what he does. "Who says men can't cook? In fact, they can cook better than women,” says Bhavuk, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagar here.A hardcore foodie, even before choosing his hobby as a career, he added several feathers to his cap of achievements.As his journey into the cooking competitions started early, he won several prizes on the spin. The list includes, runner-up of Young Chef competition held at GNA University in 2015, winner of Kitchen Superstar season 5 in 2016 (presented by Big Bazaar), winner of ITC Aashirvad atta presents Baisakhi festival in 2017, winner of Young Chef competition held at GNA University in 2017, runner-up of Big Bazaar and Dainik Jagran presents Kitchen Superstar season 6 in 2017, runner-up in season 7 in 2018, third prize at ‘Lost Recipes of India’, held at Chandigarh University in 2019, stood among the top-12 participants in Punjab De Superchef season 4 in 2019, winner of online Cornito Nachos fight, winner of online dessert fest judged by executive chef Vikas Kumar of Flurys India, runner-up in online Super Chef 2020, winner of online Hariyali Teej festival.Also, as he enjoys cookery lessons, he took up hotel management for his graduation degree. During the lockdown, he also started his social media page ‘cook with Bhavuk Aggarwal’ to enhance his skills with likeminded people. In addition, he is also setting trends in food blogging. He has a network of people from across the country.Apart from conducting online competitions for budding chefs, he also runs live sessions with leading brands, including Amul, Catch Masala, Saloni Oil and others. Presently, he is running Holi special live session through his page and imparts knowledge about healthy and nutritious cooking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/born-with-an-appetite-for-cooking-226466
17-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Satnam Chana’s lining up several inspiring flicks on ‘real’ heroes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 16A writer and a presenter by profession, Satnam Chana, who has a production house in the city, has plans to make films on the real heroes who have inspired generations and are still continuing to inspire.Satnam has presented several shows for Doordarshan and written books based on his research.One of the animated films been made by his production team on the life of Dr BR Ambedkar is also expected to go on floors in the month of June. The film has been directed by ‘Guru Da Banda’ fame young director Jassi Chana, Satnam’s son.A visual medium for farmers’ cryThinkers, writers, and intellectuals have been supporting the farmer movement since beginning. While sharing his thoughts on the farmer movement, Chana said this was the actual ‘sabhyachar’ where people have united, a first of a kind scene. “This is our culture,” he expressed. While talking about his plans and resolutions, he had earlier revealed his plan to direct a film on the farmers’ protest and highlight the topics that would awake society.Chana, who has already written six books, shared, “I feel that today’s generation, although very smart and intelligent, don’t want to spend their time in reading books, which is why I thought of using visual medium to make the young generation know about the history and the great freedom fighters who were the real heroes.”“This is my priority,” he said. His head’s abounding with several topics. “And I am working continuously towards it. Apart from it, I cannot stop writing…that will continue no matter what,” Chana added.An adventure-lover, he has written books after travelling to several places and non-descript villages of Punjab. He always researches intensively before penning anything.Chana had also produced and presented a special programme on Ghadari revolutionaries. He had also paid a visit to Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna’s village and had spent long time gathering information on his life. Thereafter, he shared information with others who wanted to write on Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/satnam-chanas-lining-up-several-inspiring-flicks-on-real-heroes-226464
17-03-2021||---||Bank employees hold strike for second day||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 16Bank employees and officers, including branch managers, observed a complete strike on the second day of the agitation on Tuesday. Notably, Nirmala Sitharaman, Finance Minister, had announced in the Budget speech that two of the public sector banks would be privatised. The bank unions have criticised this and are opposing the move of the government for privatisation of banks.Around 6,000 bank employees in the district remained on strike and 400 bank branches of the city and 750 in the district remained closed.As per the information received, the cash transactions of Rs240 crores was not be carried out today and 30,000 cheques for Rs260 crores could not be cleared, putting the loss of business of Rs500 crores in Jalandhar City on second day.Amrit Lal, convenor of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), Jalandhar unit, while addressing the rally, said, the government was going ahead with privatisation which is neither in the interest of employees nor in the interest of the public. “It will put an end to the concept of social banking and as a result, public money will be utilised by corporate houses for their own interest,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bank-employees-hold-strike-for-second-day-226463
17-03-2021||---||Not paying heed to public advice costs ASI dearly in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 16Not paying heed to a genuine public advice cost an ASI posted with police division number 7 dearly. His transfer orders have been issued and inquiry ordered.As CEO of Haveli Resorts DK Umesh was leaving for his work from Urban Estate, Phase-2, he saw that the cops on duty at a naka were not taking action against those driving without a helmet or not wearing a mask despite orders.Seeing the callous attitude of cops, Umesh got out of his car and asked the naka in-charge ASI Vinay Kumar to perform his duty well and act against those violating the law for the general public. Umesh said, “As soon as I gave my piece of advice, the cop got agitated and started raising undue arguments. He snatched my mobile phone, indulged in manhandling and asked me to accompany him to the police station, which I did.”Umesh said SHO Division No.7 Shrawan Kumar patiently heard both sides. “He reprimanded the ASI for misbehaving with me for an undue reason. I just wanted him to do his duty more diligently over which he perhaps got offended. I even wrote a complaint against the cop to the Commissioner of Police for taking action against the ASI.CP Gurpreet S Bhullar said: “The transfer orders of the ASI from the police station, where he was deployed, have been made. An inquiry will be conducted and the due course of action against him will follow if found guilty.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/not-paying-heed-to-public-advice-costs-asi-dearly-in-jalandhar-226462
17-03-2021||---||Instead of healing wisdom tooth pain, Jalandhar dentist fractures jaw bone, fined||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 16The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed a local dental clinic and a dentist to pay an amount of Rs 40,000 as compensation to a patient, whose jaw bone reportedly got fractured during a surgery for treatment of wisdom tooth pain.Jyoti Gupta (37) of Hardeep Nagar lodged a complaint against Clove Dental Clinic, Model Town, and Dr Ajay Mohan, maxillofacial surgeon. She alleged that she developed a severe pain in her wisdom tooth and hence took medical advice from the doctor, who asked her to get X-ray from the hospital on August 30-31 in 2018. The doctor suggested surgery for which she deposited Rs 3,000 in the hospital.On August 31, 2018, Dr Ajay Mohan conducted surgery ejaculating the wisdom tooth of the complainant and she was told that swelling and healing will take 72 hours and the stitches of the wound would be removed after 15 days and the same was accordingly done from the hospital.However, the patient’s pain did not subside; swelling increased and mouth of the complainant became stiff. She alleged that it was hard to open and chewing became painful for her. In addition, the lower left side of the complainant particularly the chin, lips, tongue became very painful and numb and the life of the complainant became tough due to the surgery.The patient said the doctor told him that since all organs were re-modelling, these will automatically get healed after approximately 15 days. The patient said when the pain became unbearable for her, she took opinion from other medical experts and surgeons of repute. She said she spent Rs600 for the scan of her mouth, which showed that the lower bone of the jaw on the left side was broken, while doing the surgery by the doctor. She took opinion of more doctors, who told her that not only did the bone get fractured, but the nerve of the jaw also got damaged and injured and the entire skull had developed severe pain. A scan was done again, which confirmed the nerve injury which further developed pain in the left ear and Dr Bowry, ENT specialist, opined that there was no problem in the left ear but due to injury to the nerve, the complainant had got severe pain.The patient said she went to many doctors and spent about Rs1 lakh on medical opinion and scanning. She visited a doctor in Chandigarh and he said there was severe problem of paresthesia and that many teeth have virtually become dead and useless. She was also advised psychological treatment. The complainant said she was in a private job and was also raising her family and her two minor children aged about 14 years and 8 years, respectively. She said she could not go to her job and had become a liability on her husband, who, too, was forced to take many leaves from work. She sought a compensation of Rs18 lakh. The doctor was proceeded against ex-parte.The commission with president Kuljit Singh and member Jyotsna observed: “When reasonable care, expected of the medical profession is not rendered, the same amounts to negligence. If doctor fails to perform his duty during treatment, then he is liable for medical negligence.”They directed the hospital and the doctor to pay Rs40,000 as compensation for mental harassment and physical harassment faced by the complainant. The complainant is also entitled for Rs5,000 as the cost of litigation. The commission also ordered that Rs5,000 be deposited in the Legal Aid fund of the office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/instead-of-healing-wisdom-tooth-pain-jalandhar-dentist-fractures-jaw-bone-fined-226461
17-03-2021||Ajay Joshi||‘Technical glitches’ impede Covid testing drive||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 16While the state government is stressing on conducting more and more RT-PCR tests, residents here are complaining of not receiving their reports.Already at the receiving end, they again have to throng the flu corner at the Civil Hospital to enquire about their reports. Private labs are also being approached for quick reports.Though, proper awareness campaigns are being organised to compel people to get themselves tested, there is no check on whether people are getting their reports or not. The mobile units of the sampling teams comprising doctors are convincing residents to go for RT-PCR testing by telling them that they would receive their reports in two days on their registered mobile numbers, however, a large number of people have complained that they don’t receive their reports even after 12-15 days of tests. It has been four days, a frontline worker hasn’t received his report.Apparently, the Health Department is only focusing on fulfilling the target of registering 3,500-5,000 people daily for RT-PCR test.As many as 42 testing centres have been installed here for the Covid tests. While 25 units are covering urban areas, the remaining are in rural areas.Amid the recent spurt in the coronavirus cases in the district and surging fatality rate, increased testing has seen a way to ensure that the spread of the virus is contained. Dr Manav Middha, Covid sampling in-charge at the Civil Hospital, said approximately 3,500-4,000 RT-PCR tests are being conducted in the district for the past two weeks.Risking his health, Prem Bali (79), a resident of Quila Mohalla, arrived at the flu corner to get his report on Tuesday. “I went for my RT-PCR test on March 3 and after failing to receive my report on March 4 on my phone number, I had to come here to ask about the delay. After the tests, there seems no tracing of samples. Coming to the Civil Hospital means inviting risk, but there is no other option left,” Bali said.Similarly, Pankaj (44), another resident who had to show his Covid test report for a job interview, said it’s been over a week and he hasn’t received his report. The company he had applied for had strictly asked for an RT-PCR report.Pradeep, a technical operator at the flu corner, also confirmed that people were not receiving their RT-PCR reports on their phones due to some technical errors and it was extra time. He said nearly 20 such cases were being reported daily.Kuldeepak (40), a resident of Basti Danishmanda, had arrived at the hospital on Tuesday for the same query and returned after taking the test report personally. He needed the test to travel to Delhi. In another case, even the test was shown inconclusive due to an error.What is RT-PCRRT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) is a testing technique, wherein RNA template is used for detection and amplification of viral RNA. In this test, a swab is taken from the throat or nose of the person who is getting tested. This swab contains a small quantity of the RNA of the virus, therefore it is amplified to produce material that is enough for testing whether coronavirus has or not infected the person. To detect the same in the test, the RNA is converted into a two-strand DNA, using the process known as reverse transcription. Although this test is more accurate than a rapid antigen test, the time taken is also more. The test can be completed in four to eight hours, however, the results are available in one day due to time taken in collection and in transportation of samples to the labs. For air passengers, the test report has to be within 72 hours prior to the flight. For rail passengers, the report should be within 96 hours before their train.Hoshiarpur records highest single-day spike of 256 cases Hoshiarpur: The district recorded the highest single-day jump of 256 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the number of infections to 10,555, while the death toll climbed to 416 with three new fatalities. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said that 225 new positive patients were reported in the district, while 31 patients belonging to Hoshiarpur district were reported from other districts. The number of active cases is 1,556 while 9,094 patients have recovered. Out of today’s 225 positive patients, 22 are from Hoshiarpur city and 203 are related to other health blocks in the district. Out of three Covid deaths reported in the district, a 63-year- old resident of Garhshankar died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, while two 69-year- old patients from Tanda died at a Ludhiana hospital. He urged the residents to strictly follow the instructions issued by the Health Department without taking this pandemic lightly. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/technical-glitches-impede-covid-testing-drive-226460
