18-03-2021||---||Bank robbery foiled, 1 held||Jalandhar, March 17A 55-year-old man on Wednesday tried to rob a man of Rs5.50 lakh at Punjab National Bank near Rama Mandi flyover.Around 2 pm, when the victim had gone to the bank to deposit his money, the accused, who even followed him inside the bank, snatched his bag and tried to run. However, with the help of the staff and security guard at the bank, the robbery was foiled. The security guard also managed to nab the accused and later handed him over to the police.The accused was identified as Harinder Kumar, a resident of Jalandhar Kunj. SHO Rama Mandi said a case under Section 389 B of the IPC was registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bank-robbery-foiled-1-held-226832
18-03-2021||---||FIR against pvt lab for overcharging||Jalandhar, March 17Adopting a tough stance against institutions overcharging for the Covid-19 tests and treatment, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori ordered the registration of an FIR against a private laboratory — Atulya Lab, located at Green Park.The DC said a complaint was received against the laboratory for charging Rs1,500 for conducting RT-PCR test for Covid-19, whereas the state government has capped the price as Rs900 per test. The complainant also mentioned that the lab didn’t provide him a receipt for the payment it received as testing charges. The complainant also submitted the video evidence against the laboratory, which was thoroughly examined by the officials.On receiving the complaint, the DC then marked an inquiry into the matter to the Public Grievance Officer (PGO), who in his report had found the allegations of overcharging to be true prima-facie. Keeping in view the inquiry report of the PGO, the DC had written to the Commissioner of Police Jalandhar for lodging an FIR against the lab under Indian Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the IPC and under other prevailing laws after a thorough probe.Thori further formed a four-member committee to initiate a thorough investigation against the laboratory to find out in how many cases it had overcharged for Covid-19 related tests. The committee comprises SDM-1, Joint Commissioner Municipal Corporation, Civil Surgeon Jalandhar and District Family Planning Officer Dr Raman Gupta. They have been asked to complete the inquiry within three days and submit a detailed report before the DC. Further, he directed the committee to also recommend cancelling registration of this laboratory.The DC asked all private labs/diagnostic centres and hospitals to adhere to the guidelines issued by the state government regarding testing and treatment of Covid-19 patients as any kind of laxity would be dealt with a heavy hand. He categorically mentioned that all laboratories would be checked by officials randomly and strict action would be taken against violaters.Rates for private institutionsGovt staff who worked during Covid to be taken as frontline workers Jalandhar: Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday said all those officials/employees of the various departments who had worked on the novel coronavirus duties would be registered as frontline workers and would be inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive. The Deputy Commissioner said several departments and their staff members, who were part of the Covid management team, would be given a vaccine shot as frontline workers. The DC said personnel from the Revenue, Panchayati Raj, Sanitation, Food and Civil Supplies, PSPCL and education Departments were engaged in Covid-related works and they actively took part in the management of Covid pandemic since its beginning. Ghanshyam Thori directed all these employees just to carry their IDs at the session sites set up in 22 government and 44 private health institutions in the district. He said till today, as many as 16,359 healthcare and 14,573 frontline workers, 3,036 in the age group of 45-59 with co-morbidities and 13,523 above 60 had received their first shot of vaccine and second dose had been given to 6,178 healthcare and 2,777 frontline workers in the district. Prominent among those present on the occasion were ADCs Vishesh Sarangal, Jasbir Singh, SDMs Rahul Sindhu, Gautam Jain, Sanjiv Sharma, Dr Jai Inder Singh, Dr Vineet, etc. TNS5 die, 165 test +ve in Hoshiarpur Hoshiarpur: On Wednesday, the reports of 2,917 samples were received in the district, of which 165 persons tested positive. With it, the tally of Covid patients rose to 10,720. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said since the onset of the pandemic, 3,53,110 samples have been collected in the district, of which 3,37,126 were negative and the reports of 6,925 samples were still awaited while 202 samples were invalid. The number of active cases is 1,401, while 9,434 patients recovered. Due to the death of five patients, the Covid toll increased to 421. Of the 165 patients found positive on Wednesday, 15 are from Hoshiarpur city, while the remaining 150 are from other health blocks. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fir-against-pvt-lab-for-overcharging-226833
18-03-2021||---||Level-III pvt hospitals directed to increase bed capacity by 30%||Jalandhar, March 17Keeping in view the surge in fresh Covid infections, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday asked all 19 private level-III Covid care hospitals to increase their bed capacity by 30 per cent with immediate effect.The DC also appointed nodal officers to conduct regular visits to these Covid care hospitals, so that their level-III bed capacity could be increased well in time. He said as many as 50 additional beds have been arranged in level-III Covid care facilities by nodal officers. He directed all nodal officers to keep visiting these Covid care institutions until their bed capacity was increased.Thori, while presiding over a review meeting, said the numbers of fresh cases have witnessed a surge in the past few weeks and the administration needs to be prepared to tackle this wave efficiently, as it was handled during the first wave.The DC said the administration had declared these private hospitals as level-III Covid care institutes, which were extending treatment to Covid-19 patients. These hospitals are Kidney Hospital, Armaan Hospital, Sarvodaya Hospital, PIMS, SGL Hospital, Johal Hospital, Shrimaan Super Specialty, Capitol Hospital, Patel Hospital, Sacred Heart Hospital, Joshi Hospital, NHS Hospital, Innocent Hearts Hospital, Mann Medicity, Ghai Hospital, Cardinova Hospital, Caremax Hospital, New Ruby Hospital, and Sharanjit Hospital. He asked these hospitals to adhere to the government’s guidelines for level-III facilities, which mandates for availability of requisite equipment and staff.Meanwhile, the DC asked officials to boost daily sampling to identify clusters, where positive cases were being reported at a higher rate, so that intensified sampling could be launched in such places. Further, he asked officials to ensure maximum contact tracing of a positive person, as these steps could play a vital role in keeping case fatality rate (CFR) under check.Prominent among others present included ADCs Vishesh Sarangal, Jasbir Singh, SDMs Rahul Sindhu, Gaurav Jain, Jai Inder Singh and Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/level-iii-pvt-hospitals-directed-to-increase-bed-capacity-by-30-226835
18-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Less is more: The Longewala Battle never gets old||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 17Gurmeet Singh (then a rifleman) was just 19.5 years old when he was a part of the 120-member troop that gave a humiliating defeat to the 2,000-strong Pakistani Army in the Longewala Battle. Fought between December 4 and 7, 1971, this is the golden jubilee year of the India’s triumph.Having retired as Subedar Major from ‘23 Punjab’ and now settled at Adraman village of Mehatpur sub-tehsil here, the braveheart recalled his 50-year-old encounter in the battle as he was invited at Virsa Vihar on Wednesday for a talk. Major General Balwinder Singh (retd), chief of the Jalandhar chapter of Guardians of Governance, honoured him on the occasion.Recalling how the troops led by Brig KS Chandpuri (then a Major) were motivated ahead of the intense fight, he said a proper planning and timely support from the Indian Air Force led to the felling of 37 tanks of the armoured brigade of Pakistan, which ultimately was compelled to return.My first posting was at Indo-China border in 1968. We were at a post in Sikkim which was at a height of 13,400-ft above the sea-level. After a two-year training, our platoon moved to a peace posting at Bikaner, which served as a good ground for training purposes. We received orders to move to a forward post by Oct 1971 and intensify patrolling. We received information of a likely attack and got positioned on December 4, 1971 night. At 2:30 am, we received the first fire. At 6:30 am, the first tank of the Pakistani army neared our post and it was destroyed. Around 8:30 am, the enemies tried to create a smokescreen in the battlefieldbut we did not give in. —Subedar Major Gurmeet SinghSharing the start of his journey, he said, “My first posting was at Indo-China border in 1968. We were at a post in Sikkim which was at a height of 13,400-ft above the sea-level. After a two-year training, our platoon moved to a peace posting at Bikaner, which served as a good ground for training purposes. We received orders to move to a forward post by October 1971 and intensify patrolling. We received information of a likely attack by the enemy and got positioned on December 4, 1971 night. At 2:30 am, we received the first fire. At 6:30 am, the first tank of the Pakistani Army neared our post and it was destroyed. Around 8:30 am, the enemies tried to create a smokescreen in the battlefield but we did not give in.”Gurmeet said it was unfortunate as three jawans of the platoon got killed but still we kept going on. “The actual scene at the site was much more difficult than what you all saw in the Bollywood film ‘Border’,” he told the NCC cadets and retired Army personnel listening to his talk.He proudly shared, “We were aptly rewarded. The battle gave due recognition to our platoon. We were renamed as ‘23 Punjab Longewala’. We got one Maha Vir Chakra, two Vir Chakras and two Sena Medals. A memorial still stands at the site.”Asked how the families reacted when they got to know of the battle, he shared, “They were in Bikaner. While the battle had started, the news was already broadcasted. Our families got to know of it and were really panicky. But after we left the post and reached back at our station, we got a rousing, hero’s welcome.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/less-is-more-the-longewala-battle-never-gets-old-226838
18-03-2021||Hoshiarpur||Doctor arrested for molesting patients||Acting on a tip-off, the city police arrested a BAMS doctor on the charge of molesting female patients on the pretext of treatment and recording his indecent acts with a camera hidden in his clinic’s massage room. The police have seized the camera hidden by the accused in the treatment room. Giving information this evening, Inspector Balwinder Singh Joda, SHO in-charge of the police station, said that District Police Chief Navjot Singh Mahal had formed a special team under SP (D) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu to check crimes against women. He said that the police had received secret information that a doctor running a clinic near Sessions Chowk was allegedly indulged in vulgar acts with women coming for treatment. He said that a special plan was made to nab the accused, Dr Vartpal P Sannad, a resident of Heera colony.He told that the police were informed that when the women come to the accused doctor for treatment, he allegedly molests them during the massage and to record this, he has also kept a secret camera in his treatment room. The SHO said that the police raided the clinic and recovered the footage of the camera from the treatment room during the search on Wednesday. The doctor has been arrested and an FIR has been registered under Section 354B and 354C of the IPC against him in the city police station. More revelations are expected so the accused will be further questioned after receiving remand by presenting him in court tomorrow, the SHO said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctor-arrested-for-molesting-patients-226839
18-03-2021||---||Use ‘Panchkarma’ to cure diseases, docs told||Jalandhar, March 17Dayanand Ayurvedic College, is hosting a week-long national-level Continued Medical Education (CME) for ‘Panchkarma’ teachers. It will be started from March 15 to 20. The event is sponsored by the Rashitriya Ayurveda Vidyapeeth, New Delhi.Principal Dr Sanjeev Sood welcomed the chief guest Dr Sanjeev Goyal, Registrar Guru Ravidas Ayurveda University, Hoshiarpur, along with guest of honour Vaid Jagjit Singh, Chairman Ayurvedic & Unani Board, Punjab and Vaid. Anil Bhardwaj, Secretary All-India Ayurved Congress, Chandigarh.Briefing about the importance of ‘Panchkarma’ as purification method, Sood stressed the Ayurvedic doctors to use ‘Panchkarma’ therapy to cure skin diseases, neurological, joint problems, abdominal disorders and many other chronic diseases of the body. He said thousands of patients were cured in the state-of-art panchkarma centre of Dayanand Ayurvedic College, Jalandhar, in which different types of Keralite massage, steam bath therapy, emesis therapy, purgation therapy and enema therapy is routinely done. He also gave a guest lecture on ‘Virechana karma’ and its clinical applications in various diseases.Dr Santosh Bhater, a resource person from the All Indian Institute of Ayurveda, New Delhi, delivered a lecture on Snehan Karma and its benefits in different diseases, which was informative. He briefed about the role of different types of medicated oils and ghee in healthy state of human being and in different diseases suffered by humanity now a days.Dr Parveen kumar, coordinator of the programme, said 30 teachers of ‘’Panchkarma’’ from various Ayurvedic colleges from all over India are participating in the CME.Know the techniqueCalling 'Panchkarma' a purification method, Dr Sanjeev Sood asked Ayurvedic doctors to use 'Panchkarma' therapy to cure skin diseases, neurological, joint problems, abdominal disorders and many other chronic diseases of the body. He said thousands of patients were cured in the state-of-art panchkarma centre of Dayanand Ayurvedic College, Jalandhar, in which different types of Keralite massage, steam bath therapy, emesis therapy, purgation and enema therapy is routinely done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/use-panchkarma-to-cure-diseases-docs-told-226840
18-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||City lad Gurindervir sprints to gold, clocks 10.32 sec||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 17Gurindervir Singh (21) won a gold medal in the 100m race event at the 24th Federation Cup Senior Athletics Championships 2021 held in Patiala on Tuesday.He clocked 10.32 seconds. Son of a Head Constable in Punjab Police, city boy Gurindervir has once again proved that nobody can beat him. He has already won several medals in various championships. He completed the race in 10.32 seconds.His coach Sarabjeet Happy was glad with the achievement. However, he was hoping that Gurindervir would make a new record.“At present, the national record in the 100m race is 10.26 sec, I really wanted him to overwrite it. But, I would have to say that because of the pandemic, there remained a little problem with training, but still I ensured that he doesn’t miss out on anything. Is vaar nai, te agli vaar sahee (perhaps, next time),” the coach said. He also shared that he wanted the youngsters to follow in his footsteps.At present, the national record in the 100m race is 10.26 sec, I really wanted him to overwrite it. But, I would have to say that because of the pandemic, there remained a little problem with training, but still I ensured that he doesn't miss out on anything. Is vaar nai, te agli vaar sahee (perhaps, next time). —Sarabjeet Happy, Gurindervir Singh's coachHe practiced at his village during the lockdown. Now, the sprinter is eyeing World University Games, scheduled for August in China. Sarabjeet had also raised the issue of absence of proper athletic track in the city with the Sports Minister where the athletes could practice swiftly. “If the players have such quality tracks, they would do wonders,” he said. The athlete’s list of achievements entail a gold at the 2017 Youth Asia Championships, a silver medal at South Asian Games 2019, a bronze at Junior Asia Championships 2018 in the relay event and another gold in the Euro-Asian ChampionshipsHis achievementsHe won a gold at the 2017 Youth Asia Championships, a silver medal at South Asian Games 2019, a bronze at Junior Asia Championships 2018 in the relay event and another gold in the Euro-Asian Championships.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-lad-gurindervir-sprints-to-gold-clocks-10-32-sec-226841
18-03-2021||Sultanpur Lodhi||Rs 5 lakh for  family of farmer Baldev Singh||Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema has handed over a cheque of Rs5 lakh to the wife of farmer Baldev Singh, who died at Singhu border on March 9.Attending the antim ardas of the deceased farmer on Tuesday, MLA Cheema and SDM Sultanpur Lodhi Dr Charumita handed over the cheque to his wife Narinder Kaur. Speaking on the occasion, MLA Cheema came down hard on the Union Government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-5-lakh-for-family-of-farmer-baldev-singh-226842
18-03-2021||Famed wrestler Kartar Singh||He can’t wait to go back to work||To cheer up the sagging morale of farmers protesting at the borders for the last four months, the Punjab Wrestling Association had decided to organise wrestling competitions at the Singhu border from February 3. Kartar Singh, president of the association, had announced his support after the Red Fort incident. But due to certain reasons, the matches could not be held.Not even once did I felt depressed because of Covid. All my concentration was on pending works related to the stir. May be it's my sporting background that the strain couldn't affect me much. I kept on having giloy and other homemade concoctions. Until now, I don't have any breathing-related symptoms and all other reports are good. —Kartar Singh, Arjuna awardee wrestlerBut Singh had been planning to hold matches now at the borders, but, he contracted the virus. As he awaits the report of his third test, the Padma Shri recipient shares his experience:"I and my wife developed fever and then cold. Without any delay, we got tested and the results came out positive. We didn't have any major symptoms, so we were advised home isolation. Although I am still positive, I am feeling alright. There are no physical issues now. I am just waiting for my test to come negative."Not even once he felt depressed because of Covid. All his concentration is on the pending works related to the stir. "May be it's my sporting background that the strain couldn't affect me much. I kept on having giloye and other homemade concoctions. Until now, I don't have any breathing- related symptoms and all other reports are good," he told, before adding, "I am just waiting to get back to work as soon as possible." — (As told to Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-cant-wait-to-go-back-to-work-226847
18-03-2021||Ahead of the next legislative assembly elections (2022)||Put to work||Religiously following renovationOwing to the development of infrastructure in the religious institutions, a grant of Rs5 lakh was provided to committees of different religious places of worship. Congress MLA Phagwara, while handing over the cheques to the committees, stated that no institution will be shut for pilgrims during the renovation task. A large number of workers would be hired to complete the works.Sanitary pad vending machine installedA sanitary pad vending machine was installed at SD Girls Education Centre Hadiabad by the members of Inner Wheel Club, Phagwara. Celebrating the week-long service programme on the occasion of International Women’s Day, a medical camp was organised for routine check-ups of the women and teenage girls. Navita Chabra, president of the club, stated that an incinerator machine for sanitary waste disposal was also installed at the same place for the convenience of the girls. Dr Vinny Sharma, a member of the club, also provided free medical consultation to women in her homeopathy clinic.(Contributed by Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/put-to-work-226849
18-03-2021||Jalandhar||Youth Fest winners honoured||Soumya outshines in JEE MainSoumya Gupta, a student of Delhi Public School, has scored a percentile of 99.662 and bagged the second position in the district in the JEE Main examination conducted by National Testing Agency in February 2021. Principal Ritu Kaul congratulated him for his commendable achievement on the combative platform and wished him success in future endeavours.Webinar on consumer protectionTo enlighten the students with consumer rights, Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised a webinar under theme 'Consumer Protection'. The resource person for the webinar was Chahat Dhir (Public Prosecutor in criminal justice system). Punit Kumari (cultural coordinator, Innocent Hearts Group) welcomed the guest speaker. Chahat stated that consumer protection plays a vital role in national economy. It protects the buyers from unfair practices in the marketplace. She acquainted the students with types of consumer rights and their responsibilities also. Chahat stated that a consumer must be acquainted with proper knowledge and skills to utilise the product. One must purchase the products that will fulfil their immediate needs and also provide long term interest. The interesting area of discussion was to way out the e- consumer redressal. She also discussed the e-complaint facilities to register their complaints online. Dr ShaileshTripathi (Director, Innocent Hearts Group) presented a vote of thanks to the resource person. He stated that consumers should know their rights and must exercise them. Only then real consumer protection can be achieved, she stressed.Badminton selectionHardik Makkar, a postgraduate student of Lyallpur Khalsa College and a badminton player has qualified to participate in the World University Games to be held in Chengdu, China, from August 18 to 29. Hardik hails from Haryana and is presently a student of Master of Arts in Sociology at LPU. Recently, Hardik had outclassed a number of players in his seven matches held in Bengaluru, where 124 other players had competed in different matches and categories. The Bengaluru competitions have paved Hardik's way to 31st World University Games, China.Online KG exams heldThe kindergarten kids of Nobel School have taken exams via online enthusiastically and by removing the exam fever. In this ongoing pandemic situation where everyone thinks that online exams are full of pressure here, this perception has been proven wrong by the kindergarten Nobelians who got motivated and encouraged to take the exams actively. The parents co-operated with the school wholeheartedly.Skill Development EducationDeen Dyal Upadhaya Kaushal Kendra awarded by the Government of India to Kanya Maha Vidyalaya has been running nine BVoc and three MVoc courses to provide skill development education to the students. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi said that the college has BVoc courses in animation, retail management, management and secretarial practices, artificial intelligence and data science, hospitality and tourism, photography and journalism, nutrition, exercise and health, textile design and apparel technology and beauty and wellness and three MVoc courses in animation and VFX, retail management and textile design and apparel technology under its umbrella. Principal lauded the efforts of director, DDU Kaushal Kendra Dr Gopi Sharma, various course in-charges and also the faculty for their constant efforts.Azadi Ka Amrit MahotsavAs per the guidelines of Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, GOI, the NSS unit of MGN College of Education celebrated 75 years of Independence by organising an essay writing competition. The themes for this competition were '75 years of Independence', 'First war of Independence', 'Discovery of India', 'Role of Revolutionary Freedom Fighter in the struggle', 'Change in Education system in Pre and Post-Independent Era', and 'I am a free human being with an Independent will'. The purpose of organising this competition was to make the youngsters realise the true importance of freedom and to make them recognise the efforts of freedom fighters for freedom struggle. More than 50 students participated in the competition. Sunali from BEd (Sem-I) stood first, Pallvi Sharma from BEd (Sem-I) remained second, Arshia bagged the third position and Manjot Kaur and Srishti Soni from BEd (Sem-I) got consolation prizes. Principal Neelu Jhanji congratulated the winners of the competition. The judgement of the competition was done by Dr Ravjeet Kaur and Geetanjali Mittu. Dr Kiran Walia and Gaganpreet Kaur conducted the event. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-fest-winners-honoured-226852
18-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||How Jalandhar firm captured cricket helmet market||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 17When Australian cricketer Phillip Hughes died in 2014, after being struck on the head while batting, a debate ensued about ways to make cricket headgear safer, and the authorities and the manufacturers began to work on the challenge. Among those manufacturers was Jalandhar-based Shrey Sports, whose management was determined to create safer equipment for the sport.Raghav Kohli, owner of Shrey Sports, says the company’s research and development team worked to identify and analyse the best material for helmets. Now their product is a hit — the company says that most of the IPL teams use their helmets.The helmet manufactured by the company is 700-720gm in weight, has a shell of plastic resins, a titanium face guard and a new Koroyd honeycomb-shaped layer in the inner cushioning part.“My helmet remains tried and tested by all bigwigs in the game including Virat Kohli, England captain Joe Root, Australian batsman Steve Smith, Shikhar Dhawan, Hardik Pandya, Ben Stokes and David Warner,” Kohli says.Kohli, whose family is in its fourth generation in this business, added: “IPL brought me very good orders. I have manufactured helmets for almost all the teams, including Kolkata Knight Riders, Mumbai Indians, RCB, Rajasthan Royals and CSK. More than 70 per cent players are using our helmets. In fact, more than 60 per cent of players in international cricket are using our helmets.”KoroydKoroyd is a welded tube structure which is used in various safety products in sports, such as helmets and skis. The material is extremely breathable and ultra-lightweight. “The use of Koroyd layer is giving us good results. It is a patented product which we get from Monaco. It has made the helmets more cushiony and breathable, so it’s comfortable to use in even hot, humid weather,” Kohli says. This version of the helmet is priced at Rs 24,000.Kohli says the Hughes tragedy made the helmet manufacturing norms very stringent. “For testing, the balls are thrown at helmets at 150 kmph. Since the Hughes tragedy, the ICC has made CE certification (quality rating for European Economic Area) a must for helmets to be used by the batsmen,” adds Kohli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/how-jalandhar-firm-captured-cricket-helmet-market-226902
