19-03-2021||---||Another lab issued show-cause notice for delay in reporting||Jalandhar, March 18A day after the district administration lodged an FIR against Atulya Lab for overcharging for Covid tests, the Health Department on Thursday took another laboratory to task.It has issued a show-cause notice to Lal Path Laboratory for delay in reporting of positive patients.The notice was issued to nodal officer of the laboratory, Pardeep Kumar, who was responsible for sending real-time information of positive patients to the district administration. As per the notice, Pardeep was asked to furnish a written reply to the Civil Surgeon’s Office within two days, failing which the matter would be referred to higher authorities for further action.The notice issued by Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh stated that the delay on the part of the lab in reporting the cases subsequently caused trouble in the procedure of home isolation of positive patients, which is a serious matter of concern for the department.The Civil Surgeon said this sort of approach was unwarranted and stern action would be taken against the erring institutions, as the reporting timing was of paramount importance, when it comes to stem the virus spread. He said the officials were asked to conduct checking in all private labs offering Covid-19 testing, so that a real-time reporting of positive cases could be ensured besides the implementation of other government protocols.In another development, the lab after receiving the notice from the authorities, reported 78 positive cases from March 8 to 10. With the fresh details furnished by the laboratory, the district administration started a special drive to ensure home isolation and contact tracing of all reported 78 patients. Notably, the delayed reporting of these old 78 cases is believed to have led to the surge in new infections.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has asked all labs to strictly adhere to the state government guidelines as timely reporting can ensure early checking of the virus spread. He said any kind of delay in reporting would attract action from the authorities, as such instances would be reported to the higher authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/another-lab-issued-show-cause-notice-for-delay-in-reporting-227474
19-03-2021||---||Jalandhar district reports highest single-day spike of 510 cases||Jalandhar, March 18With 510 fresh cases, the district on Thursday recorded the highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases. Around 500 cases were reported in the month of September last year, during the peak of the first phase of Covid outbreak.In addition, five more people succumbed to the virus on Thursday. For the last 15 days, the daily Covid cases tally is crossing the 200 mark, making the situation more alarming.Following the directions of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the cops have not only strengthened patrolling against the unnecessary movement of people and vehicles, but have also intensified the challan drive against Covid violations. Apart from issuing challans of Rs1,000 to over a dozen residents sans face masks, the police also took action against shopkeepers for keeping their shops open during the curfew hours. People sitting in groups violating social distancing norms were also taken to the task by the police.Eight fall prey to contagion in Hoshiarpur distHoshiarpur: The health authorities reported 216 fresh positive cases in Hoshiarpur district. With this, the number of positive patients reached 10,872. The authorities reported eight deaths today and the number of casualties increased to 429. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said reports of 1,719 samples were received. He said report of as many as 7,483 samples was awaited and the number of active cases was 1,338. He said a total of 9,705 patients recovered in the district. Out of today’s 152 positive patients, 20 were from Hoshiarpur city and 132 from other health blocks. The deceased include a 44-year-old resident of Hariana, a 55-year-old resident of Tanda, a 57- year-old person of Tagore Nagar, a 75-year-old woman of Mandi Faqir Chand, a 85-year-old woman of Nathopur, a 40-year-old woman of Paldi, a 70-year-old woman of Naru Nangal and a 32-year-old woman of Sherpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-510-cases-227475
19-03-2021||Garhashankar||Ex-serviceman held for ‘rape’||Three held with heroin, Rs 2.7 lakhHoshiarpur: Cops of Mehtiana police station arrested three smugglers and seized 50 gm of heroin and Rs2.7 lakh drug money from them. Two of the accused were on parole. Investigating Officer (IO) ASI Buta Singh said a police patrolling party at Pandori Bibi village signalled two cars to stop. During search, 50 gm of heroin and Rs2.7 lakh drug money was found in the cars. Besides, the police also recovered an electronic weighing scale which was reportedly used to weigh heroin. The IO said the accused had been identified as Deepak, alias Kaka, of Ravidass Nagar, Gautam Kalia, of Arora Colony, and Gaurav Kumar, of Bali Colony, Rahon Road, Ludhiana. He said several FIRs were already registered at various police stations against the three accused. Deepak Kumar and Gautam Kalia were out on parole and their cars had been impounded, the IO said. He said the three were produced in a court, which sent them to judicial custody. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ex-serviceman-held-for-rape-227476
19-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj---||Chess champion feels left out, vents her anger on Twitter||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, March 18 Mallika Handa, a city-based speech and hearing-impaired chess champion, on Thursday tweeted and vented out her anger against the state government for not giving her a job. Notably, Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi posted that 26 sportspersons were given jobs today. She tagged the official handle of Sodhi and tweeted, “I am also a world champion in chess. Why I was not invited. I am sitting at home and feeling depressed. No one is seeing my efforts.” Suresh Handa, father of Mallika, said he along with her daughter had met the sports minister and Sodhi had given them assurances, but nothing happened. “Mallika will complete her graduation. We hope that she gets what she deserves. She has made the country proud by winning medals at the national and international-level,” he said. Suresh added that Mallika often gets depressed as the the state government has not acknowledged her efforts. Mallika had won the National Chess Championship for Deaf, which was held at Mysuru from January 8 to January 12 last year.  She had won a silver medal in the World Deaf Blitz Chess Championship held in Manchester. She has also competed with able-bodied players in the 43rd World Chess FIDE Olympiad, which was held in Georgia. Her mother, Renu Handa, said Mallika has played several state and national-level competitions and won medals, but the state government never extended any help to her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chess-champion-feels-left-out-vents-her-anger-on-twitter-227477
19-03-2021||---||Master Saleem challaned for not wearing mask||Phagwara, March 18Getting tough with those not wearing a mask during the current health crisis, the Phagwara police on Thursday issued a challan to popular Punjabi singer Master Saleem.Saleem, who resides in Jalandhar, was passing through Phagwara with his crew in his Fortuner car when he was signalled to stop by a Sub-Inspector and his team deputed on the flyover. The car stopped and Saleem came out of it. He got into an argument with the cop. An interesting conversation started between the two a video of which went viral this evening.Saleem donning a red T-shirt and a scarf on his head was seen daring the cop to issue a challan. As he realised that the cop was serious as he took out the challan book, Saleem urged him, “Chhad deyo maharaj. I have been operated upon.” At this, the cop told him, “Agreed. But was everyone else with you also operated upon?”The cop further said, “Aiwein buzdili na vikhayo, malik ne tuhanu bahut kuchh ditta (Please don’t show cowardice. The Lord has given you so much.” At this, Saleem opened the door of the car and was about to get in when the cop asked him to pay the challan. Saleem got a bit agitated as he told the cop to keep patience and then hit back at the SI again saying, “All your people come to me for getting selfies clicked with me. At least give me some respect.” Saleem then finally asked his team members to pay the challan amount.How it went viralSaleem, who resides in Jalandhar, was passing through Phagwara with his crew in his Fortuner car when he was signalled to stop by a Sub-Inspector and his team deputed on the flyover. The car stopped and Saleem came out of it. He got into an argument with the cop. An interesting conversation started between the two a video of which went viral on Thursday.Saleem was seen daring the cop to issue a challan. As he realised that the cop was serious, as he took out the challan book, Saleem urged him, “Chhad deyo maharaj. I have been operated upon.” At this, the cop told him, “Agreed. But was everyone else with you also operated upon?” The cop further said, “Aiwein buzdili na vikhayo, malik ne tuhanu bahut kuchh ditta (Please don’t show cowardice. The Lord has given you so much.” At this, Saleem opened the door of the car and was about to get in when the cop asked him to pay the challan. Saleem got a bit agitated as he told the cop to be patient and then hit back at the SI again saying, “All your people come to me for getting selfies clicked with me. At least give me some respect.” Saleem then finally asked his team members to pay the challan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/master-saleem-challaned-for-not-wearing-mask-227478
19-03-2021||---||Rs 40 crore sanctioned for ‘Model Railway Station’||Sultanpur Lodhi, March 18MLA from Sultanpur Lodhi Navtej Singh Cheema said that the Union Ministry for Railways has sanctioned Rs40 crore for the development of railway station at Guru Ki Nagri Sultanpur Lodhi as a ‘Model Railway Station’.Terming it as a result of concrete efforts of MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa, MLA Cheema, said, “This step would further facilitate the efforts of the Punjab Government to make this holy city as a religious tourism hub.”Under this, expansion of railway station, development of infrastructure, improvement of signal system with installation of modern technology, development of other facilities for passengers would be done. An amount of Rs230 crore has also been sanctioned for Amritsar railway station.While thanking the MP for his contribution in the development of the holy city and taking personal interest in sanctioning Rs40 crore for the railway station, the MLA said that after the Punjab Government had celebrated the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev in a memorable manner, Sultanpur Lodhi had emerged on the map of international tourism, which has led to a huge increase in the number of pilgrims from home and abroad.He said the government was making an all-out effort to improve the road and railway connectivity of Sultanpur Lodhi with other cities so that sangat would not face any difficulties. A new bus stand has already been constructed by the Punjab Government recently at a cost of Rs5.89 crore.Sultanpur Lodhi was included in the ‘Smart City’ project by the Punjab Government on the occasion of 550th Prakash Purb, under which projects worth Rs 271 crore have been started. Out of these, developmental works worth Rs134 crore have been recently started by the Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-40-crore-sanctioned-for-model-railway-station-227479
19-03-2021||---||FDI hike in insurance sector flayed||Jalandhar, March 18 Members of the All-India Insurance Employees’ Association and LIC Class-I Officers’ Federation under the banner of Joint Front observed their one day strike on Thursday. The strike was held against the amendment in the Insurance Act, 1938, to increase FDI in insurance sector from 49 per cent to 74 per cent and allowed foreign ownership in the insurance sector.  The National Federation of Field Workers of India staged two-hour walkout in support of the one-day strike. A massive demonstration was held at the local divisional office against the Centre.  The representative of different associations said at present, the government holds 100 per cent stake in the LIC. The domestic savings of policy holders help capital formation and are utilised for the development activities in the country. They said there was immense contribution of the LIC to the five-year plan, investment in social sector to the tune of more than 80 per cent of its total investment etc. In the last 65 years, the LIC received a great setback with this move of the government. This is obviously against the national interest. The representative of the associations narrated in detail that the LIC was today growing at a rate which was much more than the growth of the GDP. There was no justification for FDI in insurance industry. The actual share of FDI in the total investment in the private insurance industry in much less than the current limit of 49 per cent. FDI hike in insurance industry would only help foreign capital gain control over our precious domestic savings, they said. They are mobilising public opinion against the IPO of LIC and disinvestment of public sector general insurance companies and against FDI hike in insurance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fdi-hike-in-insurance-sector-flayed-227480
19-03-2021||---||‘Govt has fulfilled 85% of its promises’||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, March 18On completion of four years of Capt Government, Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary on Thursday said that with fulfilment of 85 percent promises made up with the people during run up to the Vidhan Sabha polls, the rival political parties in the state had become issueless and directionless, which were hell bent to find ‘political ground’.While interacting with mediapersons here at the District Administrative Complex on completion of Capt Amarinder-led Punjab Government’s four years in office, Aruna Chaudhary asserted that the state government had taken landmark decisions to safeguard the interest of all sections of society besides scaling new heights of growth and prosperity for Punjab.The minister said the government had decided to construct seven state-of-the-art hostels for working women across the state at an outlay of Rs 50 crore, of which Rs 11 crore had been released and the work on two working women hostels at Barnala and Mansa would start shortly. The government had opened Sakhi-one stop centres in all districts were proving immensely helpful for women facing different atrocities, made 50 per cent reservation for women in panchayats and urban local bodies, said minister adding that a monthly monetary assistance of Rs 8,000 are also being provided to victims of acid attacks in the state.Accompanied by MLAs Pawan Kumar Adia and Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal, the minister, while answering another question pertaining to the issue of aanganwari workers, said that major issues of anganwadi workers had already been addressed and the rest ones would also be considered sympathetically. She informed that as many as 32 child marriages were stopped alone in lockdown period.Sham Churasi MLA Pawan Kumar Adia said that 80 per cent construction of Government College at Dholbaha had been completed and the rest 20 per cent would be accomplished soon. Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar thanked the state government for unprecedented development in his constituency in the last four years and said that the land had already been acquired in Mukhliana for construction of Government College (co-ed) at a cost of Rs 16 crore. For setting up of ITI in Chabbewal constituency, the government had already given in-principal approval, said Dr Raj Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-has-fulfilled-85-of-its-promises-227481
19-03-2021||We catch up with Brig His Highness Sukhjit Singh sitting calmly under a huge tree in the gardens of the Villa Buona Vista||Villa Buona Vista of Kapurthala; tale of loyal service to royalty||Surrounded by dogs all around him, he has just gone through the English newspapers of the day. Amid a continuous chirping of birds, he talks about his royal past. “Born and raised in a palace (the now Sainik School Kapurthala building) amid all the luxuries of life was indeed a unique experience that came my way by virtue of my birth in the family. Of all the experiences of the royal culture, one of the most memorable ones include my rides in the zebra-driven chariot in the zoological park of the palace. My grandfather had a unique collection of exotic animals,” he is still maintaining some healthy horses.The 86-year-old recalls the old times, “But my most cherished moments were watching my grandfather attend to his subjects. He was so much passionate about his people. He knew many of them personally. The kind of relationship he shared with his subjects as the ruler cannot match the materialistic approach of the present-day politicians. My grandfather had always been my mentor and I tried to imbibe some of his virtues. He never went to a school but was home-tutored. I have tried to recollect all my memories with him in a book ‘Prince, Patron and Patriarch: Maharaja Jagatjit Singh of Kapurthala’ that I authored along with the US-based Cynthia Meera Frederick. We released the book three years ago and it’s available on Amazon.”In the fieldAnyone who has met Sukhjit talks about a unique aura around him which perhaps stems from the mix of the royal and military touch. “I spent nearly 26 years in the Army. I had then even asked Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh to join the Army and he did it on my suggestion. I motivate every youth I meet to join the forces.”He is one of the oldest 1971 Indo-Pak War heroes and a Maha Vir Chakra awardee, he was honoured recently at Vajra Corps on the occasion of the celebrations of the 50 years of the war. He recalls a very interesting anecdote, “The 1971 War was raging. I was Lieut Col at that time. My troops managed to round up Pakistani soldiers. Among them was a tall, smart guy with whom I began talking just to cull more information. As our conversation was on, he told me, ‘I have one last wish’. I replied, ‘What makes you think that we are going to kill you?’ During further inquiry, we got to know that he is the son of Sikandar Hayat Khan, a former Premiere of Punjab. He was among those who were set free. Much later, I met the family as well.”About VILLA KOTHIBrig His Highness Sukhjit Singh, grandson of Maharaja Jagatjit Singh, who was the last ruler of the princely state of Kapurthala, shared, “The house that I am living in is a European prototype. It was commissioned in 1894. Since it falls on the bank of Bein river it used to be a perfect place as my grandfather’s shikargah (hunting lodge).” The villa has also served as the residence of Tikka Raja Paramjit Singh and Tikka Rani Brinda’s residence. It has hundreds of fruit trees all around, most of the varieties of mangoes and loquat.The GHARIALOne of the most attractive pieces in the house is a 15-ft 10-inch stuffed gharial hanging on the walls of its verandah. The gharial was shot by Brig Sukhjit’s grandfather Maharaja Jagatjit Singh on January 13, 1913, at Bein rivulet. “My grandfather told me that it was a man-eater because when he sent it for preservation, bangles worn by women was found in its gut. He presumed that these must be of the women who were found missing after they went to fill water from the rivulet,” he points to a description written along the massive, precious catch.His majesty: Brig Sukhjit Singh with his grandfather Maharaja Jagatjit Singh. Courtesy: The Kapurthala CollectionSukhjit shows the jointly authored book titled ‘Prince, Patron and Patriarch: Maharaja Jagatjit Singh of Kapurthala’.Nobody but you: It was designed by JOS Elmore in the year 1899. Once a hunting lodge of the royal family, it was later converted to a living quarter for Anita Delgado — Maharaja’s Spanish wife.Round of applause: The second highest military award of India, Maha Vir Chakra, was presented to Sukhjit for his courage at Naina Kot sector in December 1971. He was then posted as Lieutenant Colonel.Riding good times: The Maharaja riding with his grandchildren Sukhjit Singh and Asha in a zebra cart at the zoological park of the palace which housed many exotic animals. Courtesy: The Kapurthala collectionDream home: The villa is located on New Cantonment Road in Kapurthala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/villa-buona-vista-of-kapurthala-tale-of-loyal-service-to-royalty-227509
