20-03-2021||Jalandhar||Back to square one for educational institutions||On March 16, 2020, all schools and colleges had been ordered to remain shut owing to the fear of spread of coronavirus. All school boards and universities had cancelled their ongoing examination. Hostellers had been sent back home.Exactly after one year, it is the same situation as of today. After a sudden spurt of cases in Punjab, the state government on Friday ordered all schools and colleges to remain shut till March 31. All ongoing examinations which were being conducted by Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) and IK Gujral Punjab Technical University have been postponed till further orders. Even the state government has ordered that all ongoing examination at government schools to bepostponed. “We will decide the fresh date sheet seeing the situation after March 31,” said Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla.The attendance at schools and colleges had just begun to normalise by January-end or February when the spurt in cases started. Even nursery schools had opened. Almost all schools had planned to hold examinations on campus. But by the time the exam dates neared, the cases saw a spike and it was announced that examination for only Classes IX and XI would be and the remaining students would take examination digitally. The government schools, however, were holding offline examination for even the non-board classes till today but these got cancelled all of a sudden after an announcement by the Punjab CM this afternoon.All local colleges today announced to cancel their ongoing examination. All offline classes have been suspended. GS Samra, Principal of Lyallpur Khalsa College, said, “Since today we have got instructions from the government to cancel all offline classes and ongoing examination, we will surely abide by them. We will have online classes from tomorrow. Students have been asked not to come to campus. Teachers, however, have been called. We will hold a meeting and decide to how to proceed further. If teachers insist that they should also be allowed to operate from home, we may allow that as well after some days.” Regarding hostellers, he said, “We need to plan about their stay as well. We will take the final call tomorrow.”Anjali, a first year collegiate, recalled, “Last year, at this time, I was taking my Class XII CBSE examination, which got cancelled midway. A year thereafter, I was taking my first semester examinations now in the college, which have once again got cancelled midway. It had been just two months since I had begun to attend college and I am again at home now as things again seem to have taken a wicked turn.”Interestingly, Lovely Professional University, which has had students from almost all the states of India and abroad, could not hold offline classes even for a single day for the whole last academic year. Aman Mittal, LPU director, said, “Since things were beginning to look better, we were planning to hold regular classes from March but the plan had to be shelved again. In any case, the pandemic gave us a very good chance to develop our online mode of teaching and take it to a new level. We have invested very heavily into it. We have a single application where the students mark their attendance, attend classes, get assignments and take examination. They do not have to open multiple accounts for anything. Another good thing that we managed to handle is that our sessions are running as per the 1-year-old schedule and we did not have to wait for months to hold examination or prepare results. We were prompt with our decisions and developed hi-tech mechanisms to ensure that the students were being closely monitored while attempting exams online.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/back-to-square-one-for-educational-institutions-227898
20-03-2021||Jalandhar||Wear mask or undergo test & pay fine, says Jalandhar DC||Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday directed police and health authorities to integrate challaning and Covid testing drives together. Now, those who will not wear masks have to undergo a Covid-19 test along with a penalty of Rs 1,000.The Deputy Commissioner said keeping in view the spike in Covid cases, it had become even more important to adopt Covid appropriate behaviour strictly. In order to check violation of these norms, especially wearing masks, the joint nakas of police and health teams would be formed across the district.415 new cases, 10 deaths in HoshiarpurThe district reported 10 more Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, taking the death toll to 439, while 415 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 11,228. Giving the latest information about the status of Covid in the district, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said reports of 4,088 samples were received on Friday, out of which 356 new positive patients were found. Of these 56 are from Hoshiarpur city and the rest from other health blocks in the district. Also 59 Hoshiarpur residents were reported positive from other districts. The number of active cases in the district is 1,571 while 9,877 patients have recovered.He mentioned that those not wearing masks would have to undergo a Covid-19 test besides paying a penalty for their act. The Deputy Commissioner categorically mentioned that the implementation of Covid appropriate behavior was a key to stem the spread of the virus and those not adhering to these guidelines would be dealt with a heavy hand.TheDeputy Commissioner stated that the district administration had already appointed monitors and nodal officers to check gatherings at marriage palaces and banquet halls. Further, the district had already enforced all protocols strictly and heavy penalties were imposed on the violators.The Deputy Commissioner further appealed to people to follow all guidelines so that the virus could be kept at bay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wear-mask-or-undergo-test-pay-fine-says-jalandhar-dc-227908
20-03-2021||Jalandhar||Vaccine being administered at 94 sites in Jalandhar||To intensify the inoculation drive, the district administration has started vaccination at all 49 government healthcare institutions with immediate effect.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said a total of 94 sites (49 government and 45 private-run centres) have been made functional having a capacity to administer 9,400 doses daily. The government facilities include nine rural community health centers, two sub-divisional health centres, 28 primary and mini-primary health centres, and 10 urban sites.The Deputy Commissioner added that as many as 5,000 samples were being collected every day and 5,300 samples were taken on Thursday.“A total of 24,992 samples have been taken in the last seven days. Jalandhar has done maximum sampling in the state (at a rate of 3,06,680 tests per million population). Thori further mentioned that the contact tracing ratio of the district stood at 18.6 with 100 per cent sampling in micro-containment zones.The Deputy Commissioner said spike in the caseload was due to high positive percentage in the Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT), which stands at 13 percent of the total tests conducted.Sharing details regarding the vaccination drive, the Deputy Commissioner said 10,619 healthcare workers, 12,393 frontline workers, 3,696 beneficiaries between the age group 45 and 59 with co-morbidities, and 16,090 senior citizens have been inoculated in the district, so far.As per information, as many as 2,372 people have been challaned for not wearing masks and a penalty of Rs 23,72,000 was imposed on violators in the last one week.A strict vigil was being maintained over social gatherings to keep it under check.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccine-being-administered-at-94-sites-in-jalandhar-227914
20-03-2021||Jalandhar||Family members plan to welcome Ranjeet Singh by organising ‘Gatka’||Nawanshahr-based farmer activist Ranjeet Singh, who was among the youths accused of attacking the police during the Singhu border violence, was released on Wednesday evening after he was granted bail on Tuesday. Back in Kajampur village, the happiness of parents Rawal Singh and Sarabjeet Kaur knew no bounds.Ranjit Singh, accused of attacking cops at Singhu border, gets bail“Main gatka khidaake swagat Krna munde da (I will welcome my son with gatka events),” said an elated Sarabjeet Kaur, mother of Ranjeet.She said Ranjeet would often ask her why he was not granted bail yet. “I would always give him assurance that we all were with him and he would get it soon. “Saareya di duava laggiya hain” (Everyone’s blessings worked in his favour’),” Sarabjeet Kaur expressed her feelings.Videos and still images of police ‘assault’ on the 22-year-old had gone viral on social media. Ranjeet’s video grabs of being beaten up with lathis and picked up seemingly unconscious too had gone viral.The mother shared his son’s sadness during the entire time. “Although he is very calm, the incident made him very low. But my son is brave and is in high spirits now,” she said. Sarabjeet added that when she had seen the videos and pictures of her son being thrashed by the police, it made her cry.Rawal Singh, father of Ranjeetm, said, “Bura time si, nikal gaya. Now we are just waiting for him to come back.” The father also said that no matter what happened, they would always support the farmers’ movement. “The farmer unions remained with us. Everyone was there for help. We felt strong,” he said.Rawal Singh also shared that Sarabjeet Kaur had been planning functions on the return of their beloved son who remained away from them for three months.Pardeep Singh, brother of Ranjeet, said they would come back to the village on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/family-members-plan-to-welcome-ranjeet-singh-by-organising-gatka-227915
20-03-2021||Jalandhar||‘Arrangements in place for coming paddy season’||Director Distribution PSPCL DPS Grewal convened a meeting of Jalandhar and Kapurthala circles officers of north zone here on Friday and directed distribution officers to put in their level best efforts and focus on result-oriented arrangements for reliable and uninterrupted power supply to the consumers in the coming paddy season.Grewal said regular maintenance of the distribution transformers and feeders were being carried out by the distribution officials for reducing outages time. He said that regular monitoring of the maintenance activities was being done through WhatsApp groups wherein officials from different field offices get to learn from each other and healthy competition motivated them to perform even better. Customer care services are being strengthened for prompt disposal of complaints, he added.Grewal said for the improvement of power supply in Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr under PSPCL, various system strengthening works like de-loading of overloaded feeders and distribution transformers, replacement of worn out conductor etc were being carried out. He said 30,184 distribution transformers and 480 overload 11 KV feeders have been de-loaded this year. He said that transmission works of 66 KV grid substations and 66 KV lines in the region which were stalled for several years due to one or the other reason had been resolved through active intervention and as a result a new 66 KV Kartarpur corridor line to de-load existing 66 KV Tanda Road line and a new 66 KV grid substations at Paragpur in Jalandhar were commissioned in December 2020 and January 2021, respectively. “Another such 66 KV grid substation at Focal Point-2 will be commissioned by April 15, which will be a big relief for consumers of the region,” he said.He said PSPCL had adopted analytical approach for finding out the suspected power theft and unauthorised load cases based on the data mining reports of information technology cell, so that only the culprits were targeted and the honest genuine consumers were not harassed unnecessarily. He said that to bring more improvement in working and for accurate feedback, PSPCL has formed WhatsApp groups for industrial and for prominent consumers in the state. The director said capacity of 1912 call centre was doubled from 60 to 120 seats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/arrangements-in-place-for-coming-paddy-season-227916
20-03-2021||Jalandhar||Traders threaten to close down units||Rubber industrial unit owners have expressed their concern that they were facing big slump because of sky-rocketing prices of chemicals used in the manufacturing of products. Neeraj Arora, president of Rubber Footwear Manufacturer Association, said this happened first time in the history where the prices of the chemicals have got doubled.The members of the association have announced that if the government doesn’t help them in this problem, they will lock their units. The industry is already going through several problems, and this new issue has only proved double whammy for the manufacturers.Punjab’s rubber industry is concentrated in Jalandhar which had over 300 units of rubber footwear industry. These have now been reduced to around 100, as per members of the Rubber Footwear Manufacturer Association.Arora, while earlier highlighting issues of the industry, had said non-refund of VAT and GST on rubber have jeopardised the future of industrialists as they were facing a huge shortage of working capital.The members had been writing to every minister and officials of the Industry Department at local, state and central level, but to no avail. The major problem which has come with the GST for the manufacturers is the difference in rate of the GST on various raw material and finished goods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traders-threaten-to-close-down-units-227917
20-03-2021||Kapurthala||Police arrest 50 POs in 2 months||Rs1.5 Lakh looted from salesmanAmritsar: Two armed persons looted Rs 1.5 lakh from a petrol pump near Jahajgarh here on Thursday late evening. Sunny, the complainant and owner of the petrol pump, said that he was at home when he got the phone from his salesman Udhan Pandey that he was looking after the cash, when two bike-borne persons came and snatched Rs1.5 lakh at gunpoint. The police registered a case under Sections 379-B (2) and 34 of the Indian Penal Code against unknown persons while further investigations were under progress. The police authorities said that they were analysing the CCTV grabs of the petrol pump and the nearby areas to find clues in the case. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-arrest-50-pos-in-2-months-227918
20-03-2021||Jalandhar||Work is truly worship for him||Organising number of camps on a daily basis, doing extra duty as BLO, and taking every extra responsibility with a smile, this is what Tarsem Lal (48), the Block Extension Educator (BEE), District Hospital Nawanshahr, has been doing since the pandemic started. The Tribune takes a peek into his life.The moment the clock strikes 6 am, Tarsem gets ready and goes for a soccer game. After spending about two hours there, sweating hard, he comes back to his home at 8. His shift at the hospital begins at 9, so to avoid running late he takes his breakfast along with him.Highly qualified, Tarsem shares that he has two interests in his life, playing and studying. He has done masters in Punjabi, postgraduate Diploma in Health, Family Welfare and Population Education, postgraduate diploma in mass communication and masters in political science and now he is eyeing PhD.As he reaches the hospital, Tarsem plans his day and then follows holding several camps at various spots on daily basis, writing press notes, convincing people to get them tested, and these days, he has been making people aware to get inoculated to avoid getting infected. He has also been given the biggest responsibility of cremation of the patients who die of Covid.He does all his duty with full dedication. “I feel we all must do our duty with sincerity, then only we can succeed. I accept every assigned duty wholeheartedly and I never say ‘no’,” he says.The BEE remains on-duty until 5 in the evening, even as the working hours are 9 am-3 pm, and when he comes back, he starts planning for the next day and also makes phone calls to various school heads to ensure samples are being taken regularly.Recently, he was also awarded an appreciation letter on Republic Day for his commendable contribution and organising awareness programmes and best services in Nasha Mukt Bharat campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/work-is-truly-worship-for-him-227919
20-03-2021||Jalandhar||‘Don’t blame govt for not doing anything for industry’||The Jalandhar Auto Parts Manufacturers Association organised SIDBI-MSME Partners’ meet here on Thursday to apprise the industry about SIDBI schemes on ‘Financial Support For MSMEs’. Rahul Priyadarshi, GM, SIDBI, was the chief guest and Prashant Sardar, DGM, SIDBI, was the guest of honour at the interactive seminar.Sanjeev Juneja, president of the association, while welcoming all the guests and members said that most of us blame government for not doing anything for the industry. “But there are a number of benefits given by government especially for MSMEs but we don’t know about them. If there is some specific need, the government is open with your feedback and is ready to make new policies and programmes that can benefit industry at large.”Rahul Priyadarshi told the members that SIDBI’s mission is to facilitate and strengthen credit flow to MSMEs and address both financial and developmental gaps in the MSME eco-system. He further said that SIDBI is mandated to serve as the principal financial institution for executing triple agenda of promotion, financing and development of MSME sector. He added that SIDBI has emerged as a single window for meeting the financial and developmental needs of the MSME sector.Keshvan Iyenger, AGM SIDBI, apprised members about the subsidy schemes and interest rates of SIDBI for various industries. He informed members that SIDBI has special schemes for start-ups.Balram Kapoor, Chairman of the Association, emphasised the need to conduct more such events to bridge the gap between industry and various government departments.The industrialists also presented their doubts and grievances and requested for better rate of interest in present situation as private sector banks and other commercial banks have become more competitive. Vote of thanks was proposed and presented by Tushar Jain, general secretary of association.The meet was attended by Narinder Sagoo, president Focal Point Extension Association; Manish Arora, president Surgical Complex; Tajinder Bhasin, president, Gudiapur Association; Harvinder Singh,Surgical Goods Association; Neeraj Arora, president Rubber Footwear Manufacturers Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dont-blame-govt-for-not-doing-anything-for-industry-227920
20-03-2021||Jalandhar||TEDx speaker inspires students||Student gets jobPhagwara: Sourav Kumar, a students of Civil Engineering of GNA University added another feather to his cap by getting placed with Ultra Tech via university placement. Sourav Kumar, the student of BTech (Civil Engineering) got selected in Ultra Tech. Sourav Kumar said “The university gave me courage, technical skills, team management skills and how to handle things at difficult times”. Dr Vikrant Sharma, Dean Faculty of Engineering, congratulated Sourav and the whole department for this wonderful achievement. Gurdeep Singh Sihra, Pro-Chancellor, GNA University applauded the efforts of the department and also congratulated the student on his success.Writing research paperJalandhar: Pyramid College of Business and Technology conducted a session on ‘How to write research paper’ for the students and teaching faculty. The session was conducted by Dr Tajinder and Dr Reena. The objective of session is to explain the objectives and process of conducting research and its application in business and academics, and analysing the different types of research design and experimental errors. The session was attended by 48 final semester students from MBA, BBA and BCom. Speakers shared various examples to find the research problem to conduct the study on those problems. The students were encouraged to write research papers to improve the chances of employability. On this event Dr Sanjay Bahl, director, Pyramid College of Business and Technology, lauded the efforts of students and staff. Promoting such events Prof Jatinder Singh Bedi, chairman, Pyramid College of Business and Technology, said it is with such session that students can get insight of the skills required for bright future of students. Prof Bedi encouraged students and staff for greater planning and learning process.Refresher programmeThe Department of Mechanical Engineering, DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology, is organising a week-long refresher programme sponsored by All India Council for Technical Education and Indian Society for Technical Education for faculty members of technical education institutes. Titled as ‘Advance Materials and Processes for Sustainable Intelligent Manufacturing’, the programme has been conceived to provide the knowhow on current state of research and development in the field of materials and manufacturing processes especially with focus on sustainability, to be conducted in completely online mode. More than 100 faculty members from different states of the country including Karnatka, Andhra Pradesh, Manipur, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi-NCR, Punjab etc. have registered for participation. The event was inaugurated with the august presence of Prof. Rajeev S Mishra, Director, Advance Materials and Manufacturing Processes Institute, University of Texas, who joined from United States and also delivered a keynote address on ‘Alloy design and disruptive manufacturing technologies’.Online Competition Fiesta-SpinningDelhi Public School bagged positions in online competitions ‘Fiesta–Spinning Challenges’ organised by Delhi Public School, Vasant Vihar, New Delhi, and ‘IGNIS-Ignite the Fire Within’ organised by Delhi Public School, Bengaluru. In Fiesta, Hridhan Aggarwal from Class IV stood third in dance competition ‘’Nritya Srijan’’. The theme was ‘’Khairiyat’’ and was presented beautifully by the student. Pranshu Gupta from Class V bagged consolation prize in ‘Creative Brush’. On the theme ‘’Eco Vs Ego’’, he made a colourful painting which was a delight to see. The children came up with flying colours in IGNIS competition too. Namandeep Kaur from Class II bagged the first position and Aayat Anis Mirza from Class I bagged the third position in ‘Shudh Desi’ story telling with puppets. Sharon Ahluwalia of Class I got second position in Scavenger Hunt (Recycling). She made beautiful caterpillar puppet out of used and waste material available at home. Principal Ritu Kaul congratulated the achievers.Online Innovative Session heldThe Institutional Innovation cell of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised another virtual innovative session on ‘Responsible Innovation and Frugality’ under the aegis of MHRD to acquaint the students of our social, environmental and economic responsibility towards innovation. Dr Anjana Bhatia, Incharge, Institutional Innovation Cell, presented a warm welcome to the resource person and highlighted the features of innovative policies issued by Government of India. Dr Swati Mehta, Post Graduate Doctorate from Panjab University, Chandigarh, member of Board of Control Punjab School of Economics, GNDU, and an awardee of Korean Foundation of Advanced studies Inter-Scholar Exchange Fellowships, highlighted the historical perspective of innovation. In the end, she highlighted the concepts like social harmony, degradation, depletion of natural resources and inequalities on income while innovating any new concept or product. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tedx-speaker-inspires-students-227921
20-03-2021||Kapurthala||PGSC celebrates 16th annual day||Pushpa Gujral Science City (PGSC) celebrated its 16th annual day on a virtual mode. Around 200 professional college students from all over Punjab participated in the programme. Dr Neelima Jerath, director general, Science City, recalling achievements at the occasion said Pushpa Gujral Science City has received overwhelming response from the region.In her speech, she said, “More than 45 lakh visitors have visited Science City since its opening to the public in 2005. Further, two galleries on mathematics and electricity being set up at PGSC with financial assistance of State and Centre will be upcoming attractions for its visitors. Technology upgradation of ‘space theatre’ will also be taken up shortly as the state government has already made a provision of Rs11 crore during the financial year 2021-22.”She added that while schools in Punjab remained closed during the lockdown, PGSC ensured that the students’ tryst with science continued with a renewed vigour. More than 125 online programmes, including webinars, science camps, workshops, innovative ideas were organised reaching out to students, teachers and general public.Speaking on the occasion, Prof Shouribrata Chatterjee, Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, delivered a special talk on ‘wireless and radio frequency circuits: from Maxwell to the modern cell phone’. During his talk, he said that modern cell phone is a wonder of the world that works reliably for all of us which allows us to communicate with others in different locations without the use of any physical connection. He talked about the evolution of wireless and RF circuits from early inventors and Maxwell's equations to the modern cell phone. Further, he discussed about modern innovations that have led to groundbreaking changes in the industry, including cell planning, and envelop tracking power amplifier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pgsc-celebrates-16th-annual-day-227922
20-03-2021||The All-India Milking Championship was recently organised by the Progressive Dairy Farmers’ Association at Jagraon near Ludhiana where the cow of Chaman Singh||Record breaking yield!||Audit of saplings mustFounder of NGO Go Green International Ashwani Kumar Joshi has appreciated a proposal made by the Punjab Government regarding planting of 400 tree saplings in every village of the state in commemoration of the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur. Joshi said that he expected 48 lakh trees to be planted in entire Punjab this year and about 1.75 lakh trees in Nawanshahr. He said that while planting more trees, it is important that the audit of the previously planted saplings also be done to check their success rate. Joshi had earlier proposed the idea of setting up mini forests in small panchayat lands in every village and he had started to set up a model plan at Dilawalpur village near here. Tewari raises upgradation of Banga-Garhshankar- Anandpur Sahib road in Lok Sabha Anandpur Sahib MP and former Union Minister Manish Tewari raised the issue of the upgradation of Banga-Garhshankar-Anandpur Sahib-Mata Nayana Devi road in the Lok Sabha on Friday. Tewari said he laid the foundation stone of the road in February 2019. He said celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur’s 400th Parkash Purb were going on and this road provided connectivity between Harimandir Sahib to Takht Shri Kesgarh SahibNever forgottenDistrict Planning Committee Chairman Satveer Singh on Friday handed over the cheque of Rs 5 lakh to the family of farmer Gurnek Singh of Mahal Khurd village, who had lost his life during the farm protest. Notably, he had gone to protest against the three farm laws and support the movement, but Singh fell ill during the protest and came back home. After coming back, he died. The chairman gave the check to wife of the deceased. (Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/record-breaking-yield-227923
20-03-2021||Jalandhar||DGP disc for DSP Sarabjit Rai||Deputy Superintendent of Police Sarabjit Singh Rai was today bestowed Director General of Police’s honour and disc for exemplary ‘Seva to Society’ by Inspector General of Police (Jalandhar range) Ranbir Singh Khatra.Sarabjit Rai had been selected for the coveted award due to meticulous work done by him during the Covid-19 relief operations early last year. His name was approved by the Director General of Police after meticulous screening and examination of various nominations sent by the Senior Superintendent of Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dgp-disc-for-dsp-sarabjit-rai-227924
