21-03-2021||Ajay Joshi||Without mask? Get ready for Covid test at nakas||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 20Taking strict action against offenders of Covid norms, the administration on Saturday installed joint nakas of the Police and Health Department at various locations in the district. The development comes amid unexpected rise in Covid-19 infections and surging fatality rate.On Saturday, too, as many as 390 people were found infected with the deadly virus and 12 patients succumbed to it. With this, the Covid case tally has mounted to 25,581 and with 810 fatalities, the total death count is shortly going to touch the 1,000 mark. In the month of March only, 3,884 people have tested positive for the virus so far and 105 people lost their lives.As the situation is worsening every day, new measures are being adopted by the administration to contain the Covid spread. Following the direction of Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, the joint nakas were held at 16 locations across the district.A mobile team of 4-5 health workers along with five cops were asked to do the RT-PCR tests of those not adhering to Covid rules. Consequently, violators of the government protocol were made to undergo compulsory Covid-19 testing at these nakas.Surprisingly, people who were wearing masks and following social distancing were also forced to undergo the Covid test by the police. Auto-rickshaw drivers and passengers sitting inside were also not spared. While around 30-40 tests were conducted at every such location, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said around 379 violators were made to undergo the compulsory Covid tests on the spot on Saturday. The health workers were seen taking the swab of locals and collecting their samples for the RT-PCR tests. Those who were tested, would receive their reports on their registered mobile number, a health worker said.The locations where special checkpoints were installed include SDM-2 (Reru Bypass and Maqsudan Chowk), SDM-1 (Nangal Shama, BSF Chowk and Near Jalandhar heights), SDM Nakodar (Kang Sabhu naka, Littran, BSNL tower Mehatpur, police station Mehatpur, Sewa Kendra Mehatpur and Uggi naka/govt hospital), SDM Shahkot (T Point Lohian Khas, Shahkot, Railway Overbridge Shahkot, Salaichan Chowk Shahkot) and SDM Phillaur (near Sutlej bridge and near Civil Hospital Phillaur)Drive initiated against violators in Hoshiarpur tooIn order to ensure effective implementation of Covid health safety protocols, the district police on Saturday initiated a drive against those violating the stipulated guidelines by taking them to Police Lines Hospital for RTPCR test. Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal informed that as many as 310 challans were issued for not wearing masks in the last 24 hours, besides registering seven cases for violating night curfew.He said the district police would intensify the drive against those persons who were found flouting Covid appropriate behaviour. He appealed to the people not to violate the health safety protocols. On Saturday, SP RPS Sandhu and DSP Madhvi Sharma, on the directions of the SSP, reviewed the drive against the violators.Vaccination Drive: As many as 43,492 doses have been administered so far in the district. District Immunisation Officer Dr Seema Garg said 43,492 doses of Covid vaccine had been administered in the district so far. She said 7,656 health care workers received the jabs of the first dose of vaccine while 3,219 inoculated with second dose. In frontline workers, 5,830 got the first dose and 2,679 received the second dose whereas 23,808 above 60 yrs and above 45 years with co-morbidities were vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/without-mask-get-ready-for-covid-test-at-nakas-228381
21-03-2021||---||Prof Chahal develops ‘sparrow map’ for Jalandhar||Jalandhar, March 20Having initiated a move 14 years back to save the dwindling population of sparrows in Punjab, Prof Sandeep Chahal of local Doaba College has recently come up with a ‘sparrow map’ of Jalandhar depicting various urban and rural pockets where house sparrows are frequently spotted.Through his NGO, Dastak Welfare Council, with teachers, doctors, science students and environment lovers as its volunteers, he launched ‘Save Sparrows’ campaign in Jalandhar and since 2007 has installed 2,400 water and termite-proof wooden nests free of cost in the residential urban and rural places to save the birds. As per NGO’s estimate, sparrows have hatched their eggs four times in these innovated wooden nests during the onset of breeding October season every year, and this has led to an increase in its population by 9,000 nestlings till date.Prof Chahal says his council recently surveyed 78 urban areas and most of the villages by using binoculars and used scientific line trans-sanction methods by noting the sightings of male, female and juvenile sparrows’ population at morning, afternoon and evening in a particular area and took mean of the daily three readings to record the total reading of sightings. Then they made a ‘sparrow map’ depicting pickets of sparrow population. In their binocular survey it was found that most of the villages which have vegetable fields have abundant population of butterflies in flowering season where they lay their eggs on the leaves of vegetation and when larvae comes out of eggs they form primary diet of all juveniles of all birds due to their rich protein content.Dastak Welfare Council’s campaign has effectively served as a home for house sparrows whose existence seemed to be threatened. The NGO recommends people to place traditional feed of satnaja- feed viz sun flower seeds, granules of wheat, porridge, bajra, millet, rice, etc to attract house sparrows in their region and by installing special wooden nests.The NGO has also motivated city’s urban and local populace to grow citrus trees with thorns viz kinnow, lemon, bougainvillea, etc in their gardens as they provide natural foliage to sparrows as it will shelter them from predators like eagle, shikra, kite, snake and cat. “Such congenial ecosystem attracts sparrows nearby to come and eat the seeds of annual plants such as chickweed and plantains, and insects. Thereafter, it may enter the nest installed by us”, said Sandeep, who firmly believes that sparrows have an innate instinct prior to an earthquake. He adds, “Sparrows become restless, start chirping and abandon their nests immediately whenever earthquake comes and warn human beings of the impending danger.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/prof-chahal-develops-sparrow-map-for-jalandhar-228382
21-03-2021||---||Students demand reopening of colleges & varsities in Jalandhar dist||Jalandhar, March 20The Punjab Students’ Union (PSU) on Saturday strongly condemned the decision taken by the state government to close colleges and universities till March 31 and demanded reopening of educational institutions. The students, while holding a protest, stated that the shutting of colleges would badly affect their studies.District president Varjit Kaur and district secretary of the union Ramandeep Kaur stated that the students oppose the decision taken by the government to discontinue the offline education.“The students have been taking necessary precautions. We have already suffered a lot during the last year’s lockdown as online classes completely failed to finish the syllabus. While there was no clarity on the schedule of the digital classes, there were many students who didn’t even have smartphones or internet packs to attend the classes. Moreover, almost all the institutions, including multiplexes and transport services have been opened, but institutes of higher education have been kept closed. The government is creating an atmosphere of fear in the state by closing down educational institutions in the wake of the pandemic. It is affecting studies of students and their placements. It is being used as a means to keep students away from political activities,” alleged protesting students.Varjit added that if political rallies and meetings could be organised amid Covid, then why there is ban on educational institutes. The government should allow opening of colleges for at least limited hours and students should be called in a phased manner.“Online education cannot be a substitute for education received in classes as it is very important for students to have access to classes, libraries, playgrounds and labs for the overall development. However, instead of chalking out a plan on how to reopen the institutions, the government is running away from its responsibilities and boosting online education,” added Ramandeep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-demand-reopening-of-colleges-varsities-in-jalandhar-dist-228383
21-03-2021||Hoshiarpur||4 die, 239 +ve in Hoshiarpur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-die-239-ve-in-hoshiarpur-228384
21-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Food safety lab on wheels||Hoshiarpur, March 20Reiterating the Punjab Government’s resolve to check adulteration in food items, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Friday flagged off ‘Food Safety on Wheels’ to check on-the-spot adulteration vis-a-vis sensitising people towards pure and hygienic food items.While dispatching the van from local Session Chowk, which was sent by the State Food Commissioner, the minister said the van would collect samples of food items at different places across the district and give on-the-spot test report for the information of both vendors and consumers. He further added that both would be able to know the quality of food products within 10 minutes of taking samples as the van was equipped with ultra modern machinery.The minister said the aim was to ensure maximum awareness at the grassroots level and not to initiate any kind of action against anyone. Under the Mission Tandarust Punjab, pure and hygienic food products were necessitated amid current Covid crisis, said the minister adding that the aim of pure food and healthy items could only be fulfilled with collective efforts.District Health Officer Dr Lakhvir Singh said the van would collect samples of sweets, milk, pulses, spices and other liquid products to make both sellers and buyers aware of their quality. He said besides Hoshiarpur city, the van would go to far-flung areas of the district so that the majority of people could be sensitised.Those present on the occasion included Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra, Improvement Trust Chairman Rakesh Marwaha and several municipal councillors, among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/food-safety-lab-on-wheels-228400
21-03-2021||---||‘Put out water bowls, grains to save sparrows from extinction’||Phagwara, March 20World Sparrow Day was celebrated with great zeal at MLU DAV College, Phagwara. Principal Kiranjeet Randhawa chose to celebrate the day as a step towards awareness of nature and said everyone has some kind of special bond with nature since childhood and it should be cherished in today’s materialistic life.A webinar was organised to appreciate the beauty of nature and to raise awareness about sparrows and other common birds affected by the environment, which are on the verge of extinction. The resource person was Janmeja Singh Johl, a writer on flora and fauna. He discussed how due to our materialistic life we forget nature, adding that in our childhood we used to wake up by melodious chirping of sparrows, but these things were memories now. Because of huge and large towering buildings, birds and animals get disturbed. All faculty members interacted about the protection of the house sparrow and other such birds so that people admire the beauty of biodiversity and nature.Janmeja Singh Johl discussed about the ways with which we can save sparrows.“Befriend them. Keep a bowl of water and some grains for sparrows to feed on. Plant trees in and around your homes to create shelters for them or keep bird feeders outside your house. Do not use chemical insecticides and pesticides in your garden as it is harmful. The only way to bring the sparrow back is by people’s participation. We need sparrow feeders, photographers, bloggers, poets and volunteers and people from all walks of life to do their bit to create a harmonious space for the house sparrow to co-exist with human beings,” he said.He said sparrows are special as they have a beautiful voice and their chirping and singing can be heard all over. Johl concluded that we all should enjoy the beauty of nature and make our lives stress-free.Save sparrows to save humanity: Sparrow Man KAPURTHALA: Pushpa Gujral Science City celebrated World Sparrow Day by organising a webinar on Saturday. Mohammed Dilawar (in pic), the sparrow conservation crusader, was the key speaker. He said five different species of sparrows are found in India. “Out of the five, only one species is migratory, while the rest are native to the Indian subcontinent. The most abundant and widespread is Passer domesticus. It is important to save sparrows by installing nest boxes, bird feeders, planting native plants and reducing use of chemical pesticides and fertilisers,” he emphasised. Gitanjali Kanwar, coordinator, WWF-India, said there were about 50 species of birds that live closest to human dwellings. These birds include bulbul, sparrows’ pigeons, warblers, parakeets, etc. Such birds find birdhouses safer, protective and habitable. It is the survival instinct that urges the endangered sparrows to shift their natural habitats from houses and buildings to the artificially built bird houses. Neelima Jerath, director general, Science City, said humble house sparrow or Passer domesticus (gharaan di chidi) is a bird most of us grew up with. The chorus of chirping that greeted us at sunrise and sunset was as good as clockwork, but slowly and surely these little delightful and hyperactive birds have bid adieu to our homes and cities. This has been an ongoing process since the 1990s. Further, each year March 20 is observed as the World Sparrow Day and rightly so, as these birds deserve our sincere conservation efforts to restore these birds to their genuine habitats. Delivering the vote of thanks, Dr Rajesh Grover, director, Science City, said: “It is very important to raise awareness about the decreasing population of sparrows or else we may have to tell stories starting once upon a time there was a little bird called a sparrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/put-out-water-bowls-grains-to-save-sparrows-from-extinction-228403
21-03-2021||---||Empowering children with Down Syndrome||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 20City-based Chanan Association for intellectually disabled children observed ‘World Down Syndrome Day’ on behalf of Jalandhar Academy for Paediatrics on Saturday.Association chairman Bhupinder Singh Makkar’s son-in-law Pankaj Sharma and daughter Nagma were the chief guests. They also donated new air conditioners, sanitisers, masks thermometers to society. Having met the children with disabilities, they assured them to remain associated with the association for the welfare of the children.The theme of the programme was empowering individuals with Down Syndrome. The experts present on the occasion said occupational therapy, speech therapy, can be developed with physical therapy. Many problems could also be avoided by visiting doctors regularly.Dr Chawla and Dr Pankaj Paul said with better care, the parents of children with Down Syndrome could work on their child in finding their talents and keeping them mentally occupied. This would help them in their growth.Down Syndrome children Bhavnish, Jasjit Kaur, Ishwinder, Chamandeep, Harman, Pranav cut the cake on the occasion.President of the association Amarjeet Singh Anand, general secretary Manish Aggarwal said all children have the ability and the only need to give them was right opportunities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/empowering-children-with-down-syndrome-228404
21-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||A space beyond the word ‘garden’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 20Calling the outer space of the house of Col Mandip Grewal at Sofi Pind here a ‘garden’ would be an understatement. In fact, he has developed a whole natural eco-space for a variety of plants and birds at his place, which falls just adjoining the Jalandhar Cantonment area.A visitor standing even 200 metres away from his house can hear out a continuous chirping of the birds from the frontal garden of his house. Raising a variety of birds, including budgerigars, weaver birds, quails, hens and some cocker spaniel dogs, he also has a variety of plants and flowering shrubs growing in helmets, buckets, mugs, wash basins, ponds, driftwood pieces, bamboo stems, rocks, troughs, wooden and iron stands, meshes, and fountain stands collected from various places.A variety of roses, bougainvilleas, petunias, poppies, etc are growing in various corners, besides unique plantations such as sandalwood tree, chikoo, sugarcane bushes make a nice landscape on the sides and the backside of his house. Bonsais of various varieties of flowering plants readied by him recently and rose creepers with over 200 buds are other attractions which he enjoys talking about. Pointing to the flower beds, he tells, “I have never grown a hybrid plant in my garden. All of them are sown from desi seeds which re-germinate on their own in the same beds when it is the right season for their growth.”A unique attraction in Col Mandip’s house is a tall, wide bismarckia palm in the front lawns, which has as many as 15 nests made by the weaver bird. “Every year, we spot the male birds arriving here and weaving the nests. The female birds follow later. It is such an interesting phenomenon to see how they create a cozy little space,” he shared, adding that his house is also frequently visited by a variety of snakes. “But having lived in the North East for 14 years of my service and being a part of the Gorkha regiment, this is nothing unusual for me,” beamed the Sena Medal awardee.Seated in the garden furniture placed at the centre of the lawn, the Colonel said he has never had a gardener and does all work, including designing, making pathways, beautifying corners, creating shelters and cages for the birds, providing them feed, perching spaces, etc all by himself. “The agenda of continuously working to develop and beautify my garden keeps me busy all mornings and evenings. I do not go for a walk or exercise and spending two hours in the garden itself is a big laborious daily task for me,” he quipped.Milestones to remember...The Colonel’s garden has designer woodwork done all around. He has got painted the names of all his family members, including domestic helps in a plate set up in the garden. The garden also has milestones directing the visitor to various corners. “My favourite spot in the garden is that stone which bears my name and that of my father and grandfather. I am yet to get the name of my son painted on it as he, too, has joined the Army and is the fourth generation fauji in our family,” he proudly remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-space-beyond-the-word-garden-228405
21-03-2021||With the introduction of New Age Programmes||New age programmes||Lit Fiesta eventTo hone the management skills of students, CT Institute of Management Studies (CTIMS) organised a fun-filled event called Lit Fiesta, a marketing skill based event with a touch of culture. It was an inter-departmental event in which the students from business management, engineering, pharmacy and hotel management etc participated in the different activities. The students from BBA and MBA background showcased their marketing skills by portraying various stalls like games, eatables, art and so on. They sold their items to the target audience ie the students and staff, who became the speculators and witness of the cultural event. At the same time, it was a corporate strategy being adopted by the students as on one hand they entertained them by showcasing cultural like dance, singing, acting, standup and many more alike.Start-up Challenge Hult PrizePhagwara: Lovely Professional University is slated to host two-day regional final of one million dollar startup challenge-Hult Prize at its campus on March 19 and 20, virtually. ‘Hult Prize Punjab Impact Summit’ will witness on-campus rounds for winning 74 teams of the colleges and universities of five countries- Mexico, Nepal, Ghana, Bangladesh and India. Former President of the US Bill selects the challenge topic and announces the winner each September. The theme of the challenge this year is ‘Food for Good: Food for Impact’. LPU has been chosen among world’s 50 co-hosts from a record number of bids made by 3,000+ organisations including foundations, NGOs, and higher- education institutions from across the world. Some of the other locations for ‘Regional Impact Summits’ world over are London, Melbourne, Toronto, Nairobi, Vienna, St. Petersburg, Dubai, Kuala Lumpur, Bangkok, Manila, Taipei and more. The two-day regional Impact summit will showcase inspirational events where youth share innovative ideas, learn from peers and industry experts. The activity is awarding the most prestigious startup prize in the world. It is a one million US $ seed capital grant to a university team of students who will be selected as Hult Prize Laureate at the annual awards ceremony hosted by the United Nations.Lecture on hospitalityPhagwara: GNA University organised a guest lecture on ‘Career Prospects of Indian Hospitality Students in the USA’. Dr Robert J Thompson, Chair and Assistant Prof, Department of Hospitality and Tourism Management, The University of South Alabama, USA, was the resource person on the occasion. The main aim of the lecture was to make the students apprised of the career prospects of hospitality sector abroad. The resource person in his lecture gave insight on preparations to be done by the students, who aspire to work in USA. The major focus of the talk was to improvise student’s social media profile especially LinkedIn, International test of English proficiency, tips to approach employers and for acing in interviews. The students were very receptive to the session and asked questions, which in turn were answered by the expert.Yajna at DAV College of EducationPhagwara: GNA University organised a guest lecture on ‘Career Prospects of Indian Hospitality Students in the USA’. Dr Robert J Thompson, Chair and Assistant Prof, Department of Hospitality and Tourism Management, The University of South Alabama, USA, was the resource person on the occasion. The main aim of the lecture was to make the students apprised of the career prospects of hospitality sector abroad. The resource person in his lecture gave insight on preparations to be done by the students, who aspire to work in USA. The major focus of the talk was to improvise student’s social media profile especially LinkedIn, International test of English proficiency, tips to approach employers and for acing in interviews. The students were very receptive to the session and asked questions, which in turn were answered by the expert. TNS20 members elected unopposedHoshiarpur: The election of 20 members of DAV College Managing Committee (DAVCMC), Hoshiarpur, which runs about a dozen educational institutions, schools and colleges in the state, was concluded here at DAVCMC office at Arya Samaj road. Voting was proposed for March 21 for the five-year election (2021 to 2026) for electing 20 members of the DAVCMC, secretary principal (retd) DL Anand said that only 20 persons filed their nominations on the last day and all were elected unopposed. Dr Anoop Kumar, DL Anand, RM Bhalla, Dr Arvind Kumar, Sharanjit Saini, YP Joshi, Davinder Mohan Sharma, Gautam Mehta, Rajeev Sood, Harjinder Singh Saini, Vijay Bagga, Prabodh Bala, Amar Deep Chand, Dr Avnish Ohri, Chander Mohan, Jarnail Singh Saini, Subhash Chander, Rahul Sharma, Manoj Kumar Kapoor and Vinay Sharma were declared elected unopposed as members of the DAV College Managing Committee. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-age-programmes-228407
21-03-2021||Jalandhar||PSPCL fines 25 consumers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pspcl-fines-25-consumers-228409
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Jalandhar sees 87 deaths in 2 weeks||Doaba seems to have emerged as the epicentre of a second Covid spike in the state. Half of the state’s deaths in the last two weeks have been reported from Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and SBS Nagar districts.Daily cases above 40K after 111 daysNew Delhi: The daily Covid cases breached the 40,000-mark (40,953) after 111 days on Saturday. The total cases reached 1,15,55,284, while vaccinations have crossed 4.2 crore. Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab accounted for 76.22 per cent of the active caseload.As per the Health Department, the state reported 370 deaths and 23,118 cases in the past two weeks. Of these, 181 deaths and 7,306 cases were reported from the three Doaba districts. With 87 deaths and 3,171 cases, Jalandhar is the worst-affected district. It is followed by Hoshiarpur, which saw 63 deaths and 2,398 cases. SBS Nagar, where the first Covid case in the state was detected last year, witnessed 31 deaths and 1,737 cases during the same period.Meanwhile, there is no let-up in new infections in the state, which saw 2,587 cases in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-jalandhar-sees-87-deaths-in-2-weeks-228124
21-03-2021||Nawanshahr||Released on bail, farmers activist Ranjit Singh returns home||Released on bail nearly 50 days after his arrest by the Delhi police in connection with violence at the Singhu border, Ranjit Singh was today given a warm reception at his native place Kajampur near Balachaur here.Ranjit Singh reached home in a cavalcade of cars along with SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC ) chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa. Villagers honoured him with garlands and siropas. Ranjit Singh was welcomed by his mother Sarabjeet Kaur, who gave him a warm, tearful hug.The SAD and DSGMC announced an aid of Rs 2.50 lakh each to Ranjit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/released-on-bail-farmers-activist-ranjit-singh-returns-home-228129
