22-03-2021||Open House||Another lockdown not a good and practical solution||Lockdown not a good idea to tackle virusCases of Covid-19 have started increasing sharply not only in India but also in many other countries of the world. The vaccination drive is under way in the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also addressing the nation regarding the vaccination programme. On the other hand, the majority of people have sidelined the Health Ministry’s safety guidelines. People are not wearing masks at functions and at marketplaces while shopping. They are also ignoring the use of hand sanitisers and are not maintaining social distancing. Imposing the lockdown would not help in curbing the rising menace of Covid-19 as during the previous lockdown the major sufferers were middle-class families who had to use all their savings during the lockdown. The government provided food to only poor people, but middle-class families were not even provided ration and food material at subsidised rates. Rather electricity bills were issued to them. No doubt the Union Government had to pump in financial assistance to boost the economy, the lockdown is still not the remedy because if the government tries to enforce the lockdown again, it should provide special benefits to middle-class families. Even clamping night curfew in many districts of the state is not going to help the government in its effort to contain the virus. The administration should strictly implement the prescribed norms rather than imposing a lockdown and try to reduce the working hours of shops.Rajat Kumar MohindruHeavy fines, night curfew can work If things don't improve and continue to go downhill then the lockdown's a reality and not a choice, to stem the flow of cases. A population, unwilling to follow SOPs (standard operating procedures) has to be handled differently. Here imposition of fines could work well and alongside generate substantial sum, to go forward as incentives to police personnel for exemplary vigil duties. At the same time such impositions would have a deterrent effect on the common man who would then be pressured by his employer to follow the SOPs. Even now, the fear of fines could be re- imposed. Alongside a night lockdown to deter nightlife and dines could be imposed. Gatherings of not more than six persons, at a table with masks, at enclosed restaurants could be imposed. Failure should result in a heavy fine for eatery owners and not clients. Similarly, wedding party of 20 with masks, with owner of restaurant or marriage area disallowing any flouting of rules (as he could be paying a massive fine for the demeanour), could prove a very strong deterrent. Countries like South Korea, used a policy of:And thus, it saved livelihood and lives by successfully checking the spread. In India many unorganised sectors remain employer-less and out of this ambit, thus continue to remain unchecked.Rashmi TalwarIt’ll adversely affect businesses, industryA fresh spike in the number of Covid-19 cases has forced the state government to impose night curfew from 9 pm to 5am. The new strain of Covid-19 detected in the UK is more dangerous and spreads rapidly. Previously, at the outbreak of the pandemic, the lockdown and curfew restrictions were announced so as to keep the spread of the virus at bay. Measures like social distancing, sanitisation, repeated hand-washing and mask wearing were taken for the safety of people. The measures helped in checking the spread of the contagion. On the other hand, the lockdown adversely affected businesses and industry. Our nation’s economy witnessed contraction of up to 11.64 per cent during the early two quarters of this fiscal. All educational institutions remained closed for almost the entire year and the students had no alternative but to follow online courses. However, as soon as the situation improved and relaxations were given, people became careless and did not follow all norms and instructions while shopping in markets. They did not follow social distancing norms at social gatherings and functions. After reopening schools and colleges to cover the learning gaps, even students/ teachers did not adhere to the guidelines, resulting in an abrupt surge in the number of infections again. During this second wave, it is feared that the number of casualties is going to be higher, so the authorities concerned are prompted to redraw strategies to tackle the menace. Schools have been ordered to shut again and exams postponed for four weeks. Rumours of the imposition of the lockdown again are doing the rounds. If implemented, it is bound to further impact our economy which has started showing signs of recovery. As such, confining people at home through the lockdown period or other stringent restrictions perhaps may be a temporary solution to prevent the spread of the disease, but its effects will be disastrous on the economy. Besides, other preventive steps should be taken at all levels. With concerted efforts, perseverance and determination, we will certainly root out the virus and bring back the normalcy to the world again.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathPeople must follow guidelines strictlySince Covid cases are on the rise again and the virus has once again started spreading its tentacles all over the country again. As the daily count of cases and deaths have started rising, do we need another lockdown? Some of us may be in its favour while some of us might not be. But one thing that we all can agree to is that in the initial stages the fear of Covid-19 was extremely high, which ultimately led to people being highly cautious, but gradually people got used to it and everyone learned to live with it, and its terror kept on fading with time and so did the protocols. I feel if only we could follow the guidelines strictly, the situation might get better. A complete lockdown all over again might have some pros but the other side of the coin can also not be ignored. Since the vaccination process has already begun, it is fair to assume we will get rid of this infectious disease soon. But for now, we need to understand the seriousness of the situation and follow the Covid guidelines strictly.Kalpana BhatiaViolators wouldn’t be deterred by itThree photos on page 2 of Jalandhar Tribune (March 15) are ample proof of the sorry state of affairs in Punjab. No wonder that there is a new surge in the number of Covid-19 cases and also in the number of deaths in many parts of the state. Though night curfew has been imposed in many cities, it would not deter people from flouting the norms and the guidelines to stop the spread of the virus. In the times of the current health crisis, prevention is the only solution. In some hotels and marriage palaces, where wedding parties are held their managements have put the partition to accommodate only one hundred people on two sides. But to fool the law-enforcing agencies, they have made a way between the two enclosures so that they can come and go to the two segments of the hotel or marriage palace to mingle with one another. This is just a path to self-destruction. As per news reports, six states, including Punjab, accounted for more than 80 per cent deaths every day. Governments should punish and fine those people who do not wear masks while going outside. Though night curfew has been imposed in many cities, we need stricter measures to check the spread of the virus. As per a news-item, just as the arrest warrant was issued against a woman who refused to wear a mask at a Texas bank, similar steps should be taken in Punjab.Dr JS WadhwaA fresh lockdown to shatter economyThe fresh surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab is very disturbing. Till date, the state is placed second after Maharashtra as far as highest single-day fresh cases are concerned. More alarming is the fact that the state is leading in terms of fatalities due to the virus. As regards the vaccination drive, the pace is very slow and even mandatory vaccination of healthcare workers could not be completed within the timeframe. It is shocking that about half of the workforce is still to be inoculated. Given such a scenario, the state is left at the mercy of administrative and legal remedies of the highest order only. There is no doubt that the state is still facing the impact of the previous lockdown and a fresh lockdown would shatter the economy. However, the state should ensure that nobody step out of the house without wearing a mask. The limit of individuals at gatherings should be reduced to half of the permitted number. The shops selling non-essential items should be allowed to be opened on selective dates only. The night curfew may be imposed all over the state with increased duration thereof. Such measures may be categorised as consequential to partial lockdown in the state.JAGDISH CHANDERMany nations have re-imposed lockdownDespite its devastating impact on the economy, several nations across the world have re-imposed the lockdown to combat the equally dangerous second wave of the novel coronavirus pandemic with mysterious new variants. The rationale behind it is more important to save precious human lives than economic growth. In India also, some states, including Punjab, are grappling with the re-emerging Covid situation that is worsening day by day. Though the state government is pursuing the inoculation drive aggressively, the fresh spurt in positive cases and fatalities has sounded alarming bells. Time and again, the authorities have reiterated their determination to enforce strict compliance with safety norms but they have failed to achieve the desired results. At crowed places such as markets, weddings or even otherwise, the general public is seen frequently flouting the Covid protocols with impunity. Obviously, the government either lacks political sagacity and will or seems afraid of earning the voters’ wrath in the Assembly elections slated for the next year. Any evasion of its moral duty to maintain the health of citizens reflects poorly on its prioritised campaign for a ‘Tandarust Punjab’. Faced with the worst-ever humanitarian crisis in history, the government should ramp up its efforts to strengthen healthcare services and ensure proper Covid behaviour in the state. If night curfew and restrictions on large gatherings do not serve the purpose, clamping another lockdown till the scenario improves is the last alternative, notwithstanding its social and economic repercussions. It is time not for complacency but for eternal vigilance. But the question is: when will the government act in the right earnest?DS KangPeople need to act sensiblyThere is no need to impose the lockdown in the city since people have already encountered huge afflictions during it. It is needless to say that cases are rising and people are not wearing masks whenever they go out. However, certain people are stubborn and do not follow the safety protocols which is a deep matter of concern. They have no right to put others life in danger. But if government takes stringent steps like last year, everyone will be in trouble. Hence, people need to understand the current situation and act sensibly. The only way to get rid of this Covid is to take precautions otherwise dreadful consequences await us.SAAHIL HANSThere’s no need to impose lockdownThere is a spike in the number of Covid cases and the test positivity rate is very high. The death rate has also increased manifold. The guidelines have been revised following the recommendations of the state’s Covid-19 technical advisory committee to prevent the fresh wave of the pandemic. These guidelines already exist but have been relaxed in a few months when cases were on the decline. Now cases are again rising. So there is a need for strict enforcement. Around 50 people should be allowed to attend birthday and other parties, funeral/death and other events. There is no need to impose curfew. It would not affect rich people as they can manage with their savings, lower class is also getting food from NGOs and other sources. The worst sufferer is middle class which is already suffering due to the closure of businesses. People are roaming without masks and in groups, hardly caring about the infection. So instead of imposing curfew, a heavy penalty should be imposed if people do not wear masks. People must follow the social distancing norms and stop visiting friends, make it a habit to wash hands properly daily. Sadly, people are not bothered about safety. Just visit any hospital, private or government where there is high risk, nobody bothers about maintaining safe distance. There is no need of imposing curfew because if lives are important, livelihood is equally important, imposing curfew is not the solution. Schools and colleges are already closed. Hospitals should be properly monitored to follow the guidelines. People need to understand their responsibility and put in effort to contain the spread of the virus. Nation cannot be shut. We need businesses to run, so let us keep ourselves safe and save others.Shashi KiranPandemic is back with a bangWith the upsurge in cases and the irresponsible attitude of the people who have flouted all norms, the pandemic is back with a bang. With religious festivities approaching caution is thrown to the winds and people are unaware of its consequences. We will be facing the same grim situation as of the first phase. The administration has imposed night curfew in many districts which is being taken lightly by public and the urgent need is to impose total lockdown with only the minimum services to essential needs be given. Only Lockdown will help control the spread.Indu AuroraTime for preventive lockdownA complete lockdown in states with increasing cases is necessary to curb the surge in Covid-19 cases. The innumerable warnings to people for wearing masks and maintaining social distancing is not being taken seriously. Although, the vaccination process has begun it will take a lot of time to reach every common person and immunise them. Temporary actions of the Section 144 and night curfew are not yielding any major benefits. The situation is similar to some other countries that have experienced a second wave that makes it clear that the lockdown is the only alternative. New variants of the virus from South Africa, Brazil and the UK have added to the concern. If a lockdown is not imposed then the hazard will walk straight into the rural areas with improper or drained medical services from the previous wave. A lack of action can increase cases in other states that are in a better position. The economy can be improved in future, but lives cannot be saved later.Saakshi GuptaQUESTIONThe issue of contaminated water and limited water supply has troubled residents in various parts of the city. Is the Municipal Corporation acting on the complaints and taking swift action?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (March 25).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/another-lockdown-not-a-good-and-practical-solution-228721
22-03-2021||---||Applications for fellowship invited||Jalandhar, March 21The Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Ministry in an initiative to upgrade the skill of the youth has invited applications for the Mahatma Gandhi National Fellowship (MGNF) from across the country. The MGNF aims to strengthen the district-level skill ecosystem for decentralised skill development governance. In the course of their training the fellows would be an asset and resource person for the district skill committee (DSC) to develop, manage and coordinate the skill programmes at district- level.A spokesperson of the Punjab Government said that as part of Sankalp, the Ministry of Skill Development Entrepreneurship has launched the Phase-II of Mahatma Gandhi National Fellowship (MGNF) programme with IIM Bangalore, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Kozhikode, Visakhapatnam, Udaipur, Nagpur, Ranchi and IIM-Jammu as academic partners. The spokesperson further said that the selection of fellows would be done by Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, through a common ongoing admission process. The last date for receipt of applications online is March 27.The Mahatma Gandhi National Fellowship is a two-year academic programme and the fellows would acquire academic expertise and technical competency in understanding the overall skill ecosystem and help the DSCs to manage skill development planning at the district-level by formulating district skill development plans (DSDPs).The last date for applying is March 27 and for details visit the online link at http://www.iimb.ac.in/mgnf/The interested candidates must have a minimum graduate degree from a recognised university and should be citizens of India in the 21-30 years of age-group. The selected fellows will receive stipend of Rs 50,000 per month in first year and Rs 60,000 per month in second year of their fellowship as compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/applications-for-fellowship-invited-228720
22-03-2021||Talwara||Man dies after sambar hits bike||Fitness tribute on Shaheedi DiwasJalandhar: On the occasion of the martyrdom anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Shaheed Rajguru and Sukhdev, Colonelz SharpShooterz Jalandhar organised a seven-day virtual fitness event — the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Memorial Fitness Week 2021 from March 21 to 27. People participated in running, cycling and yoga on the first day. The aim was to pay tributes to martyrs, combined with the aim of spreading awareness about health and fitness. Chief organiser and mentor Col Jasdeep Nagpal (retd) expressed delight over the participation of people and awareness created about the importance of fitness amid the pandemic. “People of all ages are participating with great eagerness and enthusiasm. They can perform activity any time anywhere according to their convenience by complying to social distancing rules. People from different societies, school children, youth have taken this opportunity with great enthusiasm and eagerness and performed activities at home and in nearby areas. Registration is free and available online on Colonelz SharpShooterz website. Each participant will get an e-certificate,” the chief organiser said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-dies-after-sambar-hits-bike-228724
22-03-2021||Jalandhar||Sharp increase in raw material prices hits industrial units hard||Exactly a year ago, the pandemic hit the nation and lockdown was imposed, the industrial units got shut leaving manufacturers, traders, industrialists in trouble. Towards the end of the year 2020, the situation got a little normalised and the manufacturers gathered some courage to get back on track. But the relief was little, as high prices of raw material like iron, copper, furnace oil, zinc, rubber chemicals, played a major spoil sport. The industrialists are not able to work properly, failing to meet the deadlines of the orders because of skyrocketing prices of the raw materials.Now, the second wave of Covid has proved double whammy for the industrial unit owners. The industrialists in the city are a harried lot. The manufacturers said that they had started managing their units after big difficulties, but this second wave and other issues have made them handicapped. Hand tool manufacturer Gursharan Singh said, “Unit chalavange te nuksaan, nai chalaayi te nuksan. We have our customers, if we fail to act according to their orders, we will lose them,” he said adding that they were not even getting the GST refunds.Ram Datta, a maker of transformers, said that there were no orders these days. “The price of raw material copper has increased from Rs 480 to Rs 760 in the last month. It is a big problem for us. We are sitting idle,” he said.Rakesh Chawla, a pipe fitting manufacturer, said that the units were started with much difficulty, but increase in the raw material price has brought everything to square one.Recently, Neeraj Arora, president of the Rubber Footwear Manufacturers Association, said this happened for the first time in the history where the prices of the chemicals had doubled. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sharp-increase-in-raw-material-prices-hits-industrial-units-hard-228717
22-03-2021||---||Covid-19: 6 fall prey, 393 fresh cases reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, March 21On Sunday, six persons succumbed to the Covid-19 pandemic in the district. The health authorities reported as many as 393 fresh positive cases today.Most of the cases were reported from Bhogpur, JP Nagar, Abadpura, Model Town, Urban State, Chhoti Baradari, DAV Girls hostel, Mohalla Ravidaspura (Phillaur) and Mohalla Chaudria, among others.Heavy police force was deployed at Sunday Bazaar in Jyoti Chowk to keep a tab on social gathering. While the Sunday Bazaar was open today, considering the spike in the pandemic, it’s likey to remain close from coming week onwards.SHO police division No.4 said vendors and shopkeeprs were directed to follow the health guidelines and not lower their guard.The police and health teams today forced 1,890 people who were found roaming without face masks to undergo mandatory RT-PCR tests at various locations in the city.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the city has been witnessing a sudden rise in the Covid cases and they set up 17 nakas and took stern action against the violators. He appealed locals to adhere to the Covid norms to avoid any police action.From now onwards, those between 45 years and 59 years will be able to get the vaccine without a certificate.Those above 45 having sugar, blood pressure or any other comorbidity, no longer require certificate to get inoculated. Instructions have been issued by the Director Health and Family Welfare to all the Civil Surgeons in this regard.The person concerned would be administered the vaccine only after seeing the prescription of his treatment and no additional certificate would be asked from him.Website for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-6-fall-prey-393-fresh-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-228718
22-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Shunning drugs — a dribble at a time||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, March 21Nawanshahr-based ‘Daily Morning Club’ is proving a boon for those who want to quit drugs and lead normal lives.Started by coaches Sukhdev Singh, Inderjeet Singh and other sports lovers, the club provides a platform for soccer players to come and practice their sport.Sukhdev Singh, Coach, 'Daily Morning Club'I am 71 now. I share my life experiences with players who come here to play. I specially tell drug addicts to follow a path that will always make them win. It is tough, but continuous perseverance can definitely bring about a change.Notably, the district administration has been encouraging master trainers at the OOAT centres to take responsibility of at least 10 drug addicts and ensure that they shun drugs under Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyan. Tarsem Lal, a Block Extension Educator (BEE), who is a member of the club and also associated with the district hospital, said being a health official, he, too, was motivating youths, who have fallen prey to drugs, to come and play football.Coach Sukhdev Singh said: “I am 71 now. I share my life experiences with players who come here to play. I specially tell drug addicts to follow a path that will always make them win. It is a tough task, but continuous perseverance can change them too.”There is a success story too: Twentyfive-year-old Sushil (name changed) of Nawanshahr, whose father is a truck driver, was a drug addict. He first completed his treatment from OOAT centre, joined the football club and started coming to the ground at 6.30 in the morning every day.Now, he has moved on in life, left drugs and is leading a normal life and also represents a village team in the district.“He has not only forgotten about his past, but at present is playing from a village team in Nawanshahr. He came to me and voiced his urge to shun drugs. He wasn’t only consuming drugs, but also supplying it. Once he completed his course at the centre, he started coming to the ground daily and has now left behind his past to lead a peaceful life,” Tarsem said.One of the members of the club said at least two persons who are coming to the OOAT centres have started coming to the club and are showing progress. Tarsem said it has become an aim to bring and persuade youngsters so that they could divert their mind and utilise it in a positive direction.There is a special team for players above the age of 40 too! Various tournaments are organised by the club regularly. With such motivation, there are other success stories waiting to be written.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shunning-drugs-%E2%80%94-a-dribble-at-a-time-228710
22-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid-19: Hoshiarpur district logs 10 deaths, 259 fresh cases||Hoshiarpur, March 21The district on Sunday reported 10 deaths due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 453. Meanwhile, the district witnessed 259 fresh cases of infections, taking the tally to 11,664.Giving information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said on Sunday, the reports of 2,774 samples were received and out of them, 223 new cases were reported while 36 more patients were reported from other districts. The number of active cases stood at 1,765 while 10,167 patients recovered. Hoshiarpur city reported 24 new cases while the remaining ones were reported from various health blocks of the district.Of the 10 deaths due to the virus reported today, five patients died at the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, while three patients died at private hospitals in Jalandhar and one each died in Ludhiana and at Government Medical College, Amritsar.More restrictions put in placeSeeing the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the district administration on Sunday issued orders of additional restrictions in compliance with the guidelines of the Punjab Government to break the Covid-19 transmission chain efficaciously.As per the orders, the cinemas, multiplex, restaurants, etc, would remain closed on Sundays. However, home deliveries have been allowed at all times except during curfew hours. From March 27, one hour silence from 11 am to 12 pm to be observed on all Saturdays as a mark of respect to all those who died due to the virus. No vehicle would be allowed to ply on roads during that time. The situation would be reviewed after two weeks.Issuing the orders, Additional District Magistrate-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner Amit Kumar Panchal said these additional restrictions would be implemented across the district. The orders stipulated that all educational institutions like schools and colleges would remain closed till March 31. However, the entire teaching and non-teaching staff should continue to attend their duties on all working days.All medical and nursing colleges would remain open whereas 50 per cent seat occupancy in all cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, etc, would be allowed. Besides, only 100 persons would be allowed in malls at one time. The night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am would strictly check non-essential activities. However, all essential activities, including operations of industry as well as ‘to and fro’ movement of passengers (travelling via air, trains, buses, etc) would be exempt from the curfew restrictions.Any violation of these guidelines and the lockdown would be punishable under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-hoshiarpur-district-logs-10-deaths-259-fresh-cases-228715
22-03-2021||Jalandhar||Insurance firm told to pay Rs11.85L to officer for repudiating mediclaim||The District Consumer Redressal Commission has directed a Mumbai-based insurance firm to pay Rs11,85,250 to a city resident for repudiating his medical claim. Sanjay Kainth (44), a resident of Shastri Nagar, used to work as a development officer in Pucca Bagh-located Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) office since 1996. LIC purchased a group medical health insurance policy for all its employees known as ‘Tailor made Group Medi Claim Cashless Policy’ from Mumbai-based New India Assurance company, vide which all employees of the LIC were medically insured. Another insurance firm India Health Insurance acted as a mediator. Being the permanent employee of LIC, Kainth became the beneficiary and was insured under the said medical policy of the company to the tune of Rs10 lakh. The insurance amount was enhanced to Rs20,00,00 in 2018 as part of the annual renewal policy.  Unfortunately, on December 16, 2017, during the insured period, Kainth felt severe pain in his abdomen and was immediately taken to a private hospital, where he remained admitted for one week. Since no major improvement was seen in his health, he was referred to DMC Hospital in Ludhiana. A bill to the tune of Rs65,075 was generated by the private hospital. Since the said hospital was not an empanelled hospital of the insurance firm for cashless facility, Kainth paid the entire bill of Rs65,075 with the impression that the same would be reimbursed by the insurance company.  At DMC, he remained hospitalised for about 19 days from December 23 to January 11, 2018, for his treatment. At the time of discharge, a bill of Rs2,52,037 was generated by the DMC Hospital, but as it was an empanelled hospital of the insurance company, cashless facility was available to the complainant. As such, no amount was to be payable by him towards his medical treatment expenses, as the same was to be paid by the company directly to the DMC Ludhiana.  Within eight days of his discharge, he again suffered severe pancreatic disorder and remained hospitalised for about 49 days. During his treatment, Kainth requested the hospital to give him cashless treatment, but the hospital authorities told him that the company had refused to provide him the cashless facility. He was also told that even the earlier bill of Rs2,52,037 was not paid by the company. Hence, he had to pay the entire treatment expenses.  The complainant immediately spoke to the company regarding the same, who told him that they had not denied the claim of the complainant and they had only denied cashless facility to him, however, he could get reimbursement of his claim. He was compelled to pay the entire hospital treatment charges including medicines and lab expenses. He paid the entire refund of Rs9,95,737 to the DMC.  After taking discharge, he applied for reimbursement of his claims, but he was denied the same and was made to run from pillar to post for the settlement of his claim, but to no avail. Meanwhile, he again underwent an operation and paid Rs1,14,313 at the DMCH. Following the repudiation of his claim by the insurance company, he filed a complaint against the company on January 21, 2019, and sought reimbursement of the bill and Rs50,000 as the cost of litigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/insurance-firm-told-to-pay-rs11-85l-to-officer-for-repudiating-mediclaim-228722
22-03-2021||---||Jalandahr district tops in e-card generation under Sarbat Sehat Beema Yojana||Jalandhar, March 21Jalandhar district has secured the first rank in Punjab for enrolment and e-card generation under the Sarbat Sehat Beema Yojana aimed at imparting quality health services to people.Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy CommissionerThis is roughly 81.8% of the total beneficiaries. Jalandhar was able to secure this distinction within three months. In December, the percentage of total beneficiaries was only 46.13% with only 1.31 lakh families covered under it due to which Jalandhar was at the 15th rank in the state. This position has bestowed more responsibility on the administration to ensure that 100 per cent beneficiaries are covered for enrolment and e-card generation soon. I exhort people to get themselves enrolled in the ongoing camp at the nearest place. The administration will cover more than 90 per cent of the people by the end of this month.As per the information, under the scheme, eligible beneficiaries were entitled for cashless health benefits up to Rs5 lakh and Jalandhar has targeted 2.62 lakh family groups of which 2.14 lakh have already been covered so far for enrolment and e-card generation. Also, 4.75 lakh individual cards have been generated so far in the district.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said this was roughly 81.8 per cent of the total beneficiaries. He said Jalandhar was able to secure this distinction within three months. “In December, the percentage of total beneficiaries was only 46.13 per cent with only 1.31 lakh families covered under it due to which Jalandhar was at the 15th rank in the state,” the DC said.However, with renewed zeal and thrust, to extend benefits of this scheme to people, the district administration was able to secure the first place within three months, he said. Complementing the entire team of district administration for this rare feat, he said this was fruit of hard work and diligent efforts made by all of them. He said the tireless efforts of the entire team comprising all SMOs, BDPOs, CDPOs, SDMs, DPO, and other line departments made this possible.Thori said this position has bestowed more responsibility on the administration to ensure that 100 per cent beneficiaries were covered for enrollment and e-card generation soon. He exhorted people to get themselves enrolled in the ongoing camp at the nearest place, adding that the administration would cover more than 90 per cent of the people by the end of this month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandahr-district-tops-in-e-card-generation-under-sarbat-sehat-beema-yojana-228723
