23-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jalandhar MC may fall short of Rs42-crore target||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 22With the financial year coming to an end, the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation may fall short of its target of recovering Rs42 crore as property tax. The civic body has been able to recover only Rs24 crore to date.Last year, the property tax wing had recovered Rs29 crore. Officials said they could not meet the target in the wake of the pandemic.Officials sealed four properties and a hotel in civil lines and the Police Lines area today. The defaulters have been asked to pay property tax till March 31 to avoid penalty. On daily basis, around four properties were being sealed by the MC.Bhupinder Singh Brring, superintendent, property tax wing, said due to the Covid-19, collection of recovery tax started in July 2020.“We are asking defaulters to pay property tax before March 31. Else, they will have to pay 20 per cent penalty along with interest. People thought some relaxations will be given in the wake of the pandemic, but there is nothing as such. To avoid further action, defaulters should pay the tax,” he said.Billboards have also been installed at various places to encourage residents to deposit property tax and messages are also being sent on mobile phones. Officials were also planning to run awareness campaign on radio as well.Inspectors have been going to the field to recover property tax and defaulters who have not paid the tax were being served notice under Section 112 of the Municipal Corporation Act, to which the owner must give a reply within three days, failing which another notice of sealing the property is served under Section 138 of the Municipal Corporation Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mc-may-fall-short-of-rs42-crore-target-229287
23-03-2021||Jalandhar||Insurance firm told to pay Rs11.85L to officer for repudiating mediclaim||The District Consumer Redressal Commission has directed a Mumbai-based insurance firm to pay Rs11,85,250 to a city resident for repudiating his medical claim.Sanjay Kainth (44), a resident of Shastri Nagar, used to work as a development officer in Pucca Bagh-located Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) office since 1996. LIC purchased a group medical health insurance policy for all its employees known as ‘Tailor made Group Medi Claim Cashless Policy’ from Mumbai-based New India Assurance company, vide which all employees of the LIC were medically insured. Another insurance firm India Health Insurance acted as a mediator.Being the permanent employee of LIC, Kainth became the beneficiary and was insured under the said medical policy of the company to the tune of Rs10 lakh. The insurance amount was enhanced to Rs20,00,00 in 2018 as part of the annual renewal policy.Unfortunately, on December 16, 2017, during the insured period, Kainth felt severe pain in his abdomen and was immediately taken to a private hospital, where he remained admitted for one week. Since no major improvement was seen in his health, he was referred to DMC Hospital in Ludhiana. A bill to the tune of Rs65,075 was generated by the private hospital. Since the said hospital was not an empanelled hospital of the insurance firm for cashless facility, Kainth paid the entire bill of Rs65,075 with the impression that the same would be reimbursed by the insurance company.At DMC, he remained hospitalised for about 19 days from December 23 to January 11, 2018, for his treatment. At the time of discharge, a bill of Rs2,52,037 was generated by the DMC Hospital, but as it was an empanelled hospital of the insurance company, cashless facility was available to the complainant. As such, no amount was to be payable by him towards his medical treatment expenses, as the same was to be paid by the company directly to the DMC Ludhiana.Within eight days of his discharge, he again suffered severe pancreatic disorder and remained hospitalised for about 49 days. During his treatment, Kainth requested the hospital to give him cashless treatment, but the hospital authorities told him that the company had refused to provide him the cashless facility. He was also told that even the earlier bill of Rs2,52,037 was not paid by the company. Hence, he had to pay the entire treatment expenses.The complainant immediately spoke to the company regarding the same, who told him that they had not denied the claim of the complainant and they had only denied cashless facility to him, however, he could get reimbursement of his claim. He was compelled to pay the entire hospital treatment charges including medicines and lab expenses. He paid the entire refund of Rs9,95,737 to the DMC.After taking discharge, he applied for reimbursement of his claims, but he was denied the same and was made to run from pillar to post for the settlement of his claim, but to no avail. Meanwhile, he again underwent an operation and paid Rs1,14,313 at the DMCH.Following the repudiation of his claim by the insurance company, he filed a complaint against the company on January 21, 2019, and sought reimbursement of the bill and Rs50,000 as the cost of litigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/insurance-firm-told-to-pay-rs11-85l-to-officer-for-repudiating-mediclaim-229288
23-03-2021||Ajay Joshi||There’s no stopping snatchers, robbers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 22The city police continue to grapple with the rising crime incidents such as murders, firing and offenders of Covid-19 norms and seem inefficient in controlling petty crimes such as snatchings and vehicle thefts and robberies at homes.For the last 4-6 months, such crimes have increased manifold and due to the non-traceability, these are only amplifying. Post the lockdown, thieves have become more active and valiant in the city, as they mostly strike in broad day light. This has created a sense of insecurity among residents, as the police have also failed to nab them.While last night three motorcycle-borne miscreants targeted a house is Gobind Nagar, in the area of police division eight, the dealers at Phagwara electricity market are continuously complaining against theft in electricity stores. At a house in Basti Danishmanda, jewellery worth lakhs and cash amounting of Rs10,000 was stolen on Sunday.Even though the CCTV footage of the incidents go viral on social media, the police, in most of the cases, fail to identify and trace criminals.In the wee hours on Monday, two miscreants managed to barge into an electrical store and fled with goods worth lakhs. The incident took place between 4.30am and 5 am, during the curfew hours. Sanjay Kochhar, the owner of the shop located in Char Bagh, Phagwara electricity market, said two men came in a vending cart and after breaking the locks, stole all electrical items. Meanwhile, they also made three rounds to take away all items.He said robbery incidents have become common in the market. This was the sixth such incident in the last 4-5 months. Earlier, ML Tools, Tirath electricals, Unique electricals, Chopra electricals and Shivraj Garah cycle store were among the targeted stores.A Verna car was also stolen from Central Town area. Kocchar said no FIR was registered in the case and cops at police division three only registered a complaint.Residents claimed that the police were making false claims of tightening the noose around thieves, as they had failed to check theft incidents in the city. The rise in cases betray the city police claims of launching drives to keep a check on the activities of criminals. Amit Sehgal, president, Phagwara Electrical Market Association, said the non-availability of security at the market was promoting robberies in the area. Shopkeepers have also claimed that the police are inefficient to solve the crimes.A shopkeeper accused the police of making them waste their money on CCTV cameras as despite having visuals, cops miserably fail in tracing the thieves.Sub-Inspector Kamaljit Singh, SHO police division eight, confirmed that snatching, theft and robbery incident have spiked and cops at his police station have arrested five persons on Sunday and solved seven such incidents.Similarly, SHO at police division number three Mukesh Kumar said the cops under his team have also solved such crimes recently. However, both of them failed to provide the statistics. Phagwara gate lies in the jurisdiction of Mukesh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/theres-no-stopping-snatchers-robbers-229289
23-03-2021||---||Jalandhar district reports 9 deaths, 309 new infections||Jalandhar, March 22The district on Monday reported 309 new Covid infections and nine deaths. With this the total case tally crossed the 26,000 mark and the death toll rose to 825.10 die, 215 positive in Hoshiarpur districtAfter 215 persons tested positive on Monday, the tally rose to 11,879 in the district, while with 10 deaths the district toll reached 463.Dr Ranjit Singh, Civil Surgeon said of the 215 new positive patients found on Monday, 15 were from the city, while the remaining were from other health blocks in the district. The number of active cases is 1,766, while 10,386 patients have recovered so far.Bankers, senior citizens get the jabThe Citizens Urban Cooperative Bank kick-started the Covid-19 vaccination drive for its staff and senior citizen members. The vaccination camp was inaugurated by bank chairman KK Sharma.The camp was organised in association with superspeciality hospitals in Jalandhar. On the first day, 62 eligible persons were registered for the first dose of vaccination. The drive will continue in a phased manner over the next few days covering senior citizens and the bank staff. The chairman appreciated the relentless service of the staff members amid such tough times and felt that to ensure sustenance of uninterrupted customer service, the team of the bank should be hale and hearty.Sharma appreciated the spirit of senior citizens for their whole-hearted participation and ensured that the bank stands with them in this tough time.“The pandemic has impacted almost every corner of life, causing global economies to stall, changing the way we work and interact with our loved ones. Covid-19 vaccination is now offering a way to transition out of this phase of the pandemic,” he said. The chairman ruled out all misconceptions precipitating regarding the safety of Covid-19 vaccination by being the first member to get the jab and said large scale administration of the same was the need of the hour.49,600 doses administered in Hoshiarpur so farHoshiarpur: As many as 49,600 doses of Covid vaccine have been administered in the district through more than 50 session sites at government hospitals and health centres, while more than 10 private hospitals in the district were also administering the vaccine. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait has appealed to the eligible beneficiaries to get vaccinated at their nearest hospital or health centre as soon as possible. Riyait said 7,927 health care workers have been administered the first dose and 3,288 the second dose. Similarly, the first and second doses of the vaccine have been administered to 6,284 and 3,150 frontline workers, respectively. As many as 28,951 persons aged 60 years or above and those aged 45 to 59 years having co-morbidities have been vaccinated. Meanwhile, Additional Deputy Commissioner Amit Kumar Panchal was administered the first dose of the vaccine at the local Civil Hospital. He appealed to the eligible beneficiaries to come forward for immunization, which is urgent at present. Meanwhile, Covid vaccine was administered to 360 beneficiaries at the Police Lines hospital on Monday. OCHoshiarpur Police distribute 14,257 masks Acting tough against violators, the police on Monday took as many as 1,616 persons roaming without mask to civil hospitals/health centres for RT-PCR tests and booked four persons for violation of directives. Cops are conducting a vigorous campaign to sensitise and educate people about the pandemic and its effects. The SSP warned that no one violating the Covid appropriate behaviour would be spared at any cost. Of the total 1,616 violators, a total of 125 tests were conducted in Garhshankar, followed by 203, 385, 180, 327, and 369 in Tanda, Dasuya, Mukerian, Hoshiarpur rural, and Hoshiarpur city, respectively. As many as 27 persons were taken to health centres for tests by the traffic wing. Total 14,257 masks distribution comprised 1,700, 1,800, 3,500, 1,400, 3,000 and 2,800, in Garshankar, Tanda, Dasuya, Mukerian, Hoshiarpur rural, and Hoshiarpur city sub-divisions, respectively, besides 57 masks were distributed by the traffic police. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-9-deaths-309-new-infections-229290
23-03-2021||Hoshiarpur||2 booked for opening fire on car||Some assailants fired seven shots at a car at Talwandi Araiyan village close to Sham Chaursai town here on Monday afternoon. Luckily, no occupant present in the car was seriously injured in firing.  In Talwandi Araiyan, a village close to Sham Chaurasi town in the district, some assailants fired seven bullets on a vehicle, but luckily, there was no serious injury to the occupants. Sukhjit Lal, alias Sabi, son of Kashmiri Lal, a resident of Araiyan village, was taking his father to hospital in his car when some assailants on a motorcycle surrounded their car on the way. Just before he could get understand anything, they opened fire on their car and escaped. Luckily, Sabi and her father Kashmiri Lal had a narrow escape during the incident. He informed the police about the incident. On receiving the information, Shamchurasi outpost in-charge Inderjit Singh and Bullowal SHO Pradeep Singh along with the police party reached the spot and started investigation into the case. Police Station Bullowal SHO Pradeeep Singh told this reporter late in the evening that a case had been registered against two accused Ashish Kumar, alias Ashu, a resident of Chalupur village, and Sukhwinder Singh Sukkhi, a resident of village Rapur, in this regard. According to the SHO, an old enmity is being stated as the reason behind the firing incident. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-booked-for-opening-fire-on-car-229292
23-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Trees being axed on Kapurthala road, residents protest move||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, March 22As hundreds of young trees on either side of the Jalandhar-Kapurthala 703, a national highway, are being axed, the residents are daily standing at the site holding placards as a mark of their silent protest.The trees are being axed along the 10 km stretch of the highway from Mand village in Jalandhar to IKG Punjab Technical University in Kapurthala. Most of the trees include varieties of babool, kikkar and eucalyptus.Forest Range Officer Davinder Singh said, “The trees had to be axed owing to a project for widening of the highway. We have taken due clearance from the Ministry of Environment, which is a long drawn process.”Asked if the young trees could be transplanted instead of being axed, “It is not an easy process to transplant such a huge number of trees. The root system of the plant gets disturbed and the mortality rate is very high after such a herculean task.”Enquired about an alternate site where compensatory plantation is to be done, he said, “The clearance we get for uprooting trees is always on the basis of creating an alternate plantation of trees elsewhere. We will surely do plantation at an alternate site.”A senior government functionary shared that the road widening project had been planned nearly two years back ahead of the 500th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak so that there could be an easy movement of traffic. While the gurpurab celebrations got over in November 2019, the work has begun now and many feel that it was actually not required.Meanwhile, not just the residents, even the students of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University have been actively participating in the protest against the felling of trees. A placard by one of the students read, ‘every year over 700 crore trees are axed’. Another beamed, ‘if trees could bleed, there would have been a gushing flow of blood across all highways of Punjab’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/trees-being-axed-on-kapurthala-road-residents-protest-move-229293
23-03-2021||---||Biz First Portal — a faster way to set up enterprise||Jalandhar, March 22 Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday issued an in-principle approval certificate under the Punjab Right to Business Act, 2020, to businessman Karun Dhawan for setting up a pipe fitting industry in the city. The DC accompanied by SDM Rahul Sindhu and General Manager (Industries) Deep Singh Gill handed over the certificate to Dhawan for starting a pipe fitting unit in Jalandhar, Welbond Pipes & Fitting Pvt Ltd, after he applied at Business First Portal. Thori said under this Act, all the NOCs related to setting up a new enterprise were completed within 15 days after applying at the ‘Business First Portal’. All the formalities and NOCs related to the new business/business start-up would be awarded through this single medium in a record time, he added. The DC further mentioned that the applicant needed to obtain the requisite NOCs from the departments concerned within a time period of three years. However, he got an in-principle approval certificate to start his business. The DC said the Department of Industries and Commerce had taken this new initiative to promote the business in the state, besides providing ease of doing business with the required approvals. He also mentioned that the advent of new industries would also open new vistas of employment for the youth. Deep Singh Gill urged the industrialists to avail the benefits of ease of doing business initiatives for various regulatory clearances and fiscal incentives through Business First portal of the Department of Industries and Commerce, Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/biz-first-portal-%E2%80%94-a-faster-way-to-set-up-enterprise-229294
23-03-2021||---||Pledge to preserve the elixir of life||Jalandhar, March 22Pushpa Gujral Science City celebrated World Water Day by organising a webinar on Monday. As many as 175 students from all over Punjab participated in the programme through Zoom.Dr Neelima Jerath, director general, Science City, stressed on the need to implement strategies that have demonstrated success in conservation and purification of water. She said if the current trend of using water continues, about 60 per cent of all aquifers in India will be in a critical condition in the next 10-15 years.“There is a dire need for taking effective measures to address the critical threat of groundwater overexploitation. Further, we must save and keep natural water resources if we really want our children to lead a healthy and prosperous life,” she emphasised.Dr Satnam Singh Ladhar, former director, Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, Chandigarh, was the key speaker. He said rapid population increase has resulted in increase in water demand to meet the domestic, agricultural, industrial and power generation requirements. “With the growing need of water for various purposes, water is becoming a scarce natural resource. Further, increasing water pollution due to rapid urbanisation, large-scale industrialisation and use of fertilisers and pesticides for increased agricultural production is causing deterioration of water quality in both surface and groundwater and affecting the net availability of fresh water for consumptive uses,” he said.He said the number of tube wells in Punjab have increased from 1,92,000 in 1970 to more than 15 lakh and this has resulted in the depletion of groundwater levels at the rate of 23-50 cm per year, he saidDr Rajesh Grover, director, Science City, said lack of conservation and misuse of water was putting a great strain on the supply of fresh water. He appealed to students to value water whatever water was left for consumption and also participate in activities that help to protect and restore local streams, rivers, lakes and wetlands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pledge-to-preserve-the-elixir-of-life-229295
23-03-2021||Phagwara||Webinar on impact of cyber crime||The Department of Government and Public Administration of Lovely Professional University organised a webinar on ‘cyber crime in India and its socio-economic consequences’.  Renowned academician and columnist from Logistics Division, Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Government of India) Dr Sameer Shekhar was the resource person. A post-doctoral fellow at Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT), Dr Shekhar explored relevance and relationship of the cyber security and threats thereupon. While talking about different modes of cyber attacks/crimes and its socio-economic consequences, he also forwarded advice to the participants to be more vigilant, especially during the current pandemic phase. Providing an overview of cybercrime scenarios in the country, expert Dr Shekhar also elaborated various dimensions of cyber attack by citing examples of other countries, including USA, Germany, China, Russia, Mexico and others. He discussed the major impact of such attacks, and also suggested effective measures to avoid these. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-impact-of-cyber-crime-229297
23-03-2021||---||NAPA wants NRI courts to settle cases within a definite time frame||Jalandhar, March 22Urging the Punjab Government and the judicial authorities in the state to ensure that NRI courts settle cases within a time frame, Satnam Singh Chahal, executive director, North American Punjabi Association (NAPA), said no Act would have any meaning till NRIs get a special treatment in courts.In a press release issued here, Chahal said the previous Akali-BJP government in Punjab cleared a proposal for the NRI Property Safeguards Act during its Cabinet meeting. Chahal sounded a note of caution that it would not serve any purpose till the responsibility of the officers was fixed to settle cases within a time frame.He said: “The Punjabi Diaspora feel that NRI courts in Punjab should be given more power and officers made accountable if the NRI Property Safeguards Act is to serve its purpose. We appreciate some gestures of the government but our bad experience with the powers that be makes us wary. It did not honour its commitment on easy investment and grievance redressal mechanisms,” Chahal said.He said: “The NRIs face difficulty in getting back the possession of their land because of the cumbersome legal process. The false owner of the NRI property takes the possession and later files a case, which drags for years. In case an NRI produces a document to prove that the disputed property is in his name, he should be given the possession. A case, however, can continue,” Chahal said.“The success of any policy depends on its implementation. Delaying tactics by revenue officials has been the biggest concern for NRIs. Interference by politicians including their henchmen is even a bigger problem.”Chahal said: “Former deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal had, in 2013, said the state was to become an ideal investment destination. Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal had, in 2014, sought investment from NRIs. The present Punjab Government also nominated several representatives to attract investment from NRIs but nothing has happened so far owing to the obvious reasons.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/napa-wants-nri-courts-to-settle-cases-within-a-definite-time-frame-229298
23-03-2021||Jalandhar||Bhagat Singh’s statue unveiled||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bhagat-singhs-statue-unveiled-229299
23-03-2021||Jalandhar||The experience of making jaggery||World Poetry DayKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated World Poetry Day with full zeal and enthusiasm. The celebrations were organised jointly by the Department of Student Welfare and PG Department of English. During the celebrations, the students made their videos reciting the poems composed by them on various themes and sub themes. Students named Aarzoo Sharma, Pranavcheet Kaur, Varinder Kaur, Jagdeep Kaur, Anshuman Sharma, Jaspinder Kaur and Jasmeen Jeevan shared their beautiful poems written on the themes of self-reflection, mysticism, patriotism and nature. The students also sang different heart touching poems of renowned poets such as Robert Frost, William Wordsworth, Oscar Wilde and John Keats. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that with the rise of technology and smartphones, some might believe that poetry might be a forgotten art. However, this very day aims to get rid of these misconceptions. She further maintained that in KMV poetry competitions are regularly held to encourage young students to write so that poetry can be promoted in different parts of the world. The Principal congratulated the students and lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, head, PG Department of English and Dean, Department of Student Welfare, for organising the celebrations and encouraging the students to pursue the fascinating art of poetry.World Sparrow Day celebratedWorld Sparrow Day was celebrated in the premises of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidayala. The theme of this year’s Sparrow Day was ‘I love Sparrows’. On the occasion, Dr Ajay Sareen said, “We must rejuvenate the relationship between humans and sparrows and raise awareness to protect the bird.” Water and millet bowls for the birds were placed at various locates in the premises of HMV. Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur, dean academics, Dr Seema Khanna, staff secretary, Dr Anjana Bhatia, joint staff secretary, Dr Harpreet Singh, in-charge research promotion cell, Urvashi, dean student council, Meenakshi Sayal, school coordinator, Lakhwinder Singh, Ravi Maini, horticulture and supporting staff were present on the occasion.HMV gets silver, bronze medalsPlayers of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya participated in Pencak Silat (martial arts) Senior State Championship and won several medals. Arti won silver medal, Saraswati and Ramandeep Kaur won bronze medal. Principal Ajay Sareen congratulated the medal winners and coach Sunil Kumar. On the occasion faculty members Ramandeep Kaur and Harpreet Kaur were also present. TNSDr Anoop is DAVCMC president againHoshiarpur: Dr Anoop Kumar was unanimously elected the president of the DAV College Managing Committee (DAVCMC), Hoshiarpur, again for the year 2021-22, in the meeting held on Sunday. Principal (retd.) DL Anand was also elected as the secretary of the committee unanimously again. Principal Anand said Prof RM Bhalla was unanimously appointed the vice president, Prof Sharanjit Saini as joint secretary, Harish Chandra Sharma as treasurer and YP Joshi as secretary Moffusil Schools. During the meeting Dr Ajay Bagga, Baljit Singh Saini, Navroz Sharma, Harish Chander Sharma and Swaren Kumar were co-opted as the members of the committee. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-experience-of-making-jaggery-229302
23-03-2021||---||Phagwara industrialist to head CII Punjab||Phagwara, March 22Phagwara-based industrialist Bhavdeep Sardana was elected as the Chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Punjab for 2021-22.Bhavdeep Sardana is the senior vice-president and CEO at Sukhjit Starch and Chemicals Limited. He has been actively engaged with the Punjab and Central governments on policies affecting the agro-processing industry and ease of doing business reforms. He is also a member of the Punjab State Planning Board. Sardana will head the CII Punjab state which comprises Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh and Mohali.Elaborating on the priorities for 2021-22, Sardana said: “Our initiatives for the year will primarily focus on enhancing industry competitiveness, fostering ground for favourable industry policies, skill development and inclusivity, adoption of contemporary technology and innovations and working towards provisioning opportunities for industrial growth and development. A wide array of new initiatives and activities are planned and some innovative ideas would be auctioned over the course of this year.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-industrialist-to-head-cii-punjab-229303
23-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar youth donates 3,500 books on Bhagat Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 22An advocate by profession, Yuvraj Singh, 25, has been donating books on Bhagat Singh to anyone interested in reading these for the past year. Having donated 3,500 books in a year, Yuvraj urges every recipient to pass on the book to a friend or an acquaintance after reading it.Yuvraj says, “A few years ago, I read the jail diary of Bhagat Singh and his autobiographical discourses like ‘Why I am an Atheist’, and his essays. I felt that every Indian youth must go through these and know about the thoughts of the icon. At that time, I did not have any money to proceed with such plan, but I kept working on the idea.”An LLB from Guru Nanak Dev University Regional Campus, Ladhewali, Yuvraj says it took him some time to save to begin with his mission. “The first thing I did was to procure 700 books. Of these, I took 300 to my native village Noorpur and contacted some youth there. I distributed the copies to them and told them to read and redistribute these. They did so and it gave me a great satisfaction,” he said.“I used the social media, including WhatsApp groups and Facebook, to circulate the message that anyone interested in getting a free copy of the book could contact me. Many people from Jalandhar and other areas expressed interest. I took the help of friends to send books to nearby towns of Nakodar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, etc.,” says Yuvraj Singh.Now 11 volunteers, including his cousins, help him out in his mission. “I have also developed my personal library. I am always there to offer a free copy,” he says.About his plans for the Martyrdom Day function tomorrow, he says, “Some of my friends, activists and I have planned a programme tomorrow at the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall. Some people have contacted me for the books and I will distribute these at the venue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-youth-donates-3-500-books-on-bhagat-singh-228982
