24-03-2021||---||Taxi drivers protest hike in permit fee||Jalandhar, March 23Shutting the work for three hours, the taxi drivers in the city on Monday held a protest against the annual tax paid under national permit and the Motor Vehicles Taxation Amendment Act 2021, passed in the state Assembly.Gurmeet Singh Aulakh, a taxi driverThe tax amount of Rs 75,000 under the permit is unreasonable. How will we pay the taxes when we don’t have enough passengers? The amount needs to be capped up to Rs 2,000 per seat and there should be same rules and taxi policies for taxi drivers and owners across the country. The protest was conducted outside the bus stand under the banner of Punjab Taxi Trade Union and the United Sangharsh Committee.The taxi drivers demanded that due to the unfriendly policies of the central as well the state government, they were losing their business. “While we are already reeling under losses, Rs40,000 tax imposed upon us instead of Rs800 per seat is pushing us under debts. The tax amount need to be relaxed”, demand taxi drivers.Gurmeet Singh Aulakh, Gurmukh Singh, Balwinder Singh, Sanjay Sharma and other members of the unions alleged that taxi drivers were being looted by the government in the name of national permit.“The tax amount of Rs75,000 under the permit is unreasonable. How will we pay the taxes when we don’t have the enough passengers? The amount needs to be capped up to Rs2,000 per seat and there should be same rules and taxi policies for taxi drivers and owners across the country. We also demand the private taxi companies like Ola and Uber be cover under the policies of the government,” said Gurmukh Singh.The taxi drivers also condemned the increasing fuel rates and asked for subsidies. They said the traffic police should also be stopped from issuing challans to the taxi drivers for putting carriers on the vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/taxi-drivers-protest-hike-in-permit-fee-229494
24-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Deputy Commissioner hands over job letters to 19 youths||Hoshiarpur, March 23Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Tuesday handed over appointment letters to 19 youths, who have been selected for jobs at various branches of Punjab National Bank under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission’.While receiving job letters, the overwhelmed beneficiaries thanked Capt CM Amarinder Singh-led government for its efforts to provide jobs to unemployed.Lauding the efforts of the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise (DBEE), the DC reiterated that the state government’s resolve to provide maximum employment opportunities to youths by offering employment in different sectors besides self-employment options.Notably, the bank had invited applications from the eligible candidates for the various positions, after which the DBEE had played a key role to get maximum youngsters enrolled for this job opportunity. “The bank management selected eligible candidates on merit basis, who are being given these appointment letters, she said.Meanwhile, reviewing the preparedness for the seventh round of ‘mega job fair’ scheduled for next month, the DC asked officials to whip up 10,000 job vacancies to provide employment to unemployed youth. She added that the job fairs would be organised at tehsil and block levels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deputy-commissioner-hands-over-job-letters-to-19-youths-229495
24-03-2021||---||Punjab Agricultural University’s handballer gets ‘sporting colours’||Sultanpur Lodhi, March 23In recognition of his outstanding performance in handball, Parminder Singh of Kapurthala has been awarded ‘university colours’ for excellence in sports by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, which is the second highest honour conferred by the university in the field of sports.Parminder, who is studying MSc (extension education) and a resident of Mangupur village at Sultanpur Lodhi town, is the only player from the district to have received this honor from the varsity.The award includes a blazer with the official logo of the Punjab Agricultural University and an appreciation letter. He will also be given a ‘Roll of Honour’ – the prime sports award of the university – during the athletics meet next year.Under this, the name of the player is embossed on the wall of the students’ home along with the achievements. Parminder, who hails from an agriculturist’s family, said a team of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, comprising him had won gold medal in handball inter-university championship, North Zone competitions, which is the only gold medal won by the Punjab Agricultural University in the history of sports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-agricultural-universitys-handballer-gets-sporting-colours-229496
24-03-2021||---||Students exhorted to keep revolutionary spirit alive||Jalandhar, March 23To pay homage to revolutionary comrades — Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev — various institutes organised different programmes to mark Shaheedi Diwas.Innocent Hearts Group of InstitutionsTo pay homage to revolutionary comrades — Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev — Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions celebrated Martyrs’ Day. Three activities, including patriotic songs, painting and poem recitation were organised to recall the sacrifice of freedom fighters. A large number of students from all departments participated in the activities enthusiastically to celebrate historic Martyrs’ Day and presented inspiring poems and patriotic songs. Beautiful paintings were also prepared by them to showcase various incidents related to freedom struggle. Dr Shailesh Tripathi (group director, IHGI) congratulated the cultural team for organising the virtual event. He stated that Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev played pivotal role in India’s freedom struggle and inspired the youth of the nation to fight for the nation’s freedom.Patriotic songs competition results:First: Akanksha (BCom semester-VI)Second: Aliza (BCom-II )Third: Manroop (MBA semester-IV)Poem recitation results:First: Sunali Sharma, BSc (Agri) semester-VISecond: Kirandeep (BCom semester-VI)Third: Manisha Malhi (BCA-1st)Painting competition results:First: Alpna (BCom semester IV)Second: Ekta (BCA semester IV)Third: Ansh Sharma, BSc (Agri) semester IVKanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Maha Vidyalaya paid a nostalgic tribute to Bhagat Singh on his martyrdom day at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Heritage Memorial situated in the college. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi along with faculty members paid nostalgic tribute to the great martyr. Dwivedi averred that every time she thought of the sacrifices of the magnitude of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev, she was indeed humbled. She exhorted one and all to idolise Bhagat Singh and to carry forward his message as this will be the true tribute to the national hero. She further said that it was a matter of great pride that KMV had a close connection with Bhagat Singh as he was very close to KMV’s then Principal Acharya Lajjawati and used to take shelter at KMV during the struggle for national freedom. As a mark of our tribute to Bhagat Singh and to cherish close connection and association with him, KMV has constructed a heritage memorial in the surroundings of KMV hostel. On this occasion, PG Department of Music also presented beautiful musical renditions dedicated to the memory of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. The Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, dean, department of student welfare, Dr Gurjot, head, department of history, Dr Poonam Sharma, head, PG Department of Music, Parmjit and Balwinder, hostel wardens, for organising the celebrations.Lyallpur Khalsa College for WomenThe NSS and PG Department of History, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, celebrated the martyrdom day of Bhagat Singh. To mark the day, Principal Dr Navjot in her online address said, “If today we are living free in an open environment it is only due to the pious sacrifices by these freedom fighters.” She said that the only dream of these visionaries was to have a society free of caste, creed and religion. “We all must also thrive to make their dream a reality,” she told the students. She also motivated the students to debar from misconducts like bribery, corruption, dishonesty and whole heartedly fight against these social evils. Towards the end the Principal appreciated NSS officers Manita, Manjeet, Atma and Dr Maninder Arora, head, Department of History, for celebrating this authentic day.Apeejay College of Fine Arts pay homage onlineThe NSS Wing and Department of Punjabi of Apeejay College of Fine Arts paid homage to Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev for the sacrifices they had made to make the nation independent. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra sharing her views put forth that Bhagat Singh was patriotic with an incredible personality and a revolutionary spirit. Today’s youth can take inspiration from them and can become a better and more responsible citizen. Sandeep Singh and Lovepreet Kaur from Department of Punjabi recited a poem on the occasion highlighting the aspects of life and personality of Bhagat Singh. Anuradha from the same department presented the video on Bhagat Singh’s days in prison and his undying revolutionary spirit to make the nation free from the clutches of English people. College student Harleen Singh recited a poem where he put forth his gloom and felt deeply sorry on the behalf of today’s youth who have forgotten the sacrifices of such great souls. Principal Neerja Dhingra congratulated the entire Punjabi Department and Simkee Dev, dean NSS, for successfully organising the event.Lawyers observe Martyrs’ DayJalandhar: Advocates for Farmers and Labourers on Tuesday observed Martyrs’ Day at Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall and announced that they would continue to build up support in the ongoing protest of the farmers at Delhi borders. The lawyers gathered in large numbers at the entrance of the hall under the leadership of advocates Navjot Kaur Sidhu, Sudesh Kumari, Sukhvir Kaur Anju and Indu. The rally started with the raising of slogans ‘Inquilab Zindabad’ and ‘Bhagat Singh teri soch te, pehra deyange thok ke’. The lawyers including women themselves wore yellow and green turbans as a mark of solidarity towards Bhagat Singh’s ideology and the ongoing farmer movement and offered turbans to the passersby who were willing to join their protest. The members said that even as the lawyers had played a major role in the freedom struggle, similarly their role was vital even for the ongoing fight of the farmers against repealing the three farm laws. The members marched towards the District Administrative Complex where Lakhvir Singh Sandhu, advocate, said that it seemed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had not read the history of Punjab which was full of stories of sacrifices. Convener of Advocates for Farmers and Labourers Gurpreet Singh Kahlon said the protesting farmers would win in the end. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-exhorted-to-keep-revolutionary-spirit-alive-229486
24-03-2021||---||Covid-19: 13 deaths, 322 new infections reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, March 23The Covid-19 cases continue to graph upwards in the district. On Tuesday, the fresh cases crossed 300-mark and as many as 322 people were found infected with the virus. In addition, the fatality rate is also increasing with each passing day. With 13 deaths on Tuesday, the fatalities in the district have surged to 338. Till now this was the highest single-day death record of this month. And as per the experts, the cases and deaths will jump further by the end of this month. While 26,605 is the confirmed number of cases here, at present the total active caseload in Jalandhar are 2,629.9 more deaths, 192 +ve in Hoshiarpur districtAs many as 192 persons tested positive for Covid in Hoshiarpur district taking the toll to 12,029. With nine more deaths, the toll rose to 472.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said of the 192 new patients, 20 were from the city, while 130 were from other health blocks in the district and the remaining 42 were reported from other districts. The number of active cases is 1,821 in the district, while 10,502 patients have recovered. — OC11 villages declared micro-containment zonesDistrict Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, keeping in view the current conditions of Covid-19 in Hoshiarpur and following the directions of the Health Department, has declared 11 villages as micro-containment zones. As per the orders issued, six villages of Hoshiarpur sub-division, including Alowal, Dholanwal, Satour, Talwandi Araiyan, Singriwala and Mitthewal were tagged as micro-containment zones. Similarly, two villages of Mukerian sub-division, including Sardulpur Kalota and Sulehri Kalan have been declared micro-containment zones.Also, three villages of Garhshankar sub-division, including Posi, Badesron and Langeri are micro-containment zones.In the orders issued here this evening, she said that only the medical emergency and essential works will be allowed into these places. The Health Department teams would go door-to-door in and conduct survey tracing of contacts. — OCWebsite for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-13-deaths-322-new-infections-reported-in-jalandhar-district-229480
24-03-2021||---||Jalandhar residents seek action for killing stray dog||Jalandhar, March 23In protest against the alleged killing of a stray dog at Satnam Nagar locality five days ago, residents of the locality held a protest outside police station division no. 2 on Tuesday.Arjun Trehan, A resident who was leading the protestAn FIR was lodged but it was against unidentified persons. We have a video footage to prove as to who was behind the crime. We also have statements of eyewitnesses, who are ready to testify as to who killed the dog.Residents said a stray dog, who was jointly fed by all of them, had been brutally killed by a person with sharp weapons. Arjun Trehan, who was leading the protest, said on their complaint, an FIR was lodged but it was against unidentified persons. “We have a video footage to prove as to who was behind the crime. We also have statements of eyewitnesses, who are ready to testify as to who killed the dog,” he said.Trehan said the dog used to raise an alarm when a known dealer of illicit liquor used to get customers at his place in the thick of night. He said the dealer killed the dog. He said various NGOs had joined hands to rake up the matter and bring the guilty responsible for cruelty behind bars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-residents-seek-action-for-killing-stray-dog-229485
24-03-2021||Jalandhar||Blood donation camp in Begowal||School named after Bhagat SinghJalandhar: Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry on Tuesday laid a foundation stone for setting up Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Government High School at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony here. Henry said the school would be set up at a cost of Rs2 crore and it would be a smart school with all modern amenities for imparting quality education. Area councillor Sushil Kalia, too, joined Henry in laying the stone on the occasion of the martyrdom day. TNSFlower show at Virsa ViharJalandhar: Virsa Vihar has decided to organise a flower show for residents on March 28. Maj Gen Balwinder Singh, vice-chairperson of Virsa Vihar, said the idea to hold the contest was to spread some positivity in the present difficult environment “We will have flower competition (potted) for Jalandhar residents on Sunday from 10 am to 6 pm,” he said. The entries in show will have to pay a fee. “Rs35 will be charged for a single pot entry. A contestant for a set of five pots in the same variety will have to pay Rs100 and for different varieties Rs130. For taking part in a contest for three pots of same variety, an entry fee of Rs70 will be charged and for different varieties, it will be Rs90,” the release mentioned. The display of flowers will begin on March 26 from 4 pm onwards and prize distribution will be held on March 28. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blood-donation-camp-in-begowal-229497
24-03-2021||---||Labourer dies as roof collapses||Jalandhar, March 23Rajinder Kumar (26), a migrant from Bihar, lost his life after the roof of a residential building collapsed during its demolition. The incident took place in the Laddhewali area this evening.A contractual labour, the victim was working inside the building when it crumbled and he got buried under it. Though the cops at Rama Mandi police station arrived immediately after the incident, the labourer succumbed to his injuries on the spot.The police have sent the body for postmortem. As the labourer had come from Chandigarh, his family members have been informed about the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labourer-dies-as-roof-collapses-229498
24-03-2021||---||2 murders, robbery during curfew hours rock Jalandhar city||Jalandhar, March 23Two murders and a robbery rocked the city during the curfew hours on Monday.While in the first incident, a man was found dead on Zinda Road near the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway, in another incident, a man killed his brother-in-law’s friend with an iron rod. Similarly, some unidentified miscreants looted a petrol pump in Kathar area located on Hoshiarpur Road.Seventeen-year-old Dharampreet Atwal died on the spot after he was hit with an iron rod at New Pannu Vihar in Basti Bawa Khel area. He was reportedly killed amid a dispute between a man and his brother-in-law. The accused has been identified as Ajay Pal Singh, a migrant worker. SHO Basti Bawa Khel, Gagan Deep Singh said, around 9.30 pm, the accused Ajay Prashad and his brother-in-law, Raj Kumar, embroiled in a verbal spat and hurled abuses at each other.When the arguments turned ugly, Raj Kumar called his friends, including Dharampreet, for help. Subsequently, they reached his house.While a case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered against Prashad, he told the police that he didn’t intend to hit the deceased. Dharampreet came in between while he attacked Raj Kumar. He was arrested later and sent to the police custody.In the second incident, locals informed the police about an unidentified body dumped near a drain at Lidharan village on the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway. There were deep cuts around his neck. A team of cops from police division one, Kartarpur police and senior police officers arrived on the spot at night.Similarly, around three-four miscreants robbed a petrol pump in Kathar area on Hoshiarpur Road. The cops said the incident took place around 9 pm, when three youths arrived in a car and demanded cash from a worker at the petrol pump. When he refused, they opened fire and threatened him. Later, they fled with the bag of money. The police are tracing the whereabouts of the accused, who were captured in the CCTV camera.In a nutshellIn the first incident, a man was found dead on Zinda Road near the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway, in another incident, a man killed his brother-in-law’s friend with an iron rod. Similarly, some unidentified miscreants looted a petrol pump in Kathar area located on Hoshiarpur Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-murders-robbery-during-curfew-hours-rock-jalandhar-city-229499
24-03-2021||---||Row erupts over statue of Shaheed Bhagat Singh||Jalandhar, March 23A controversy has erupted regarding the statue of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, which was unveiled at Bhagat Singh Chowk on Monday.Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister Manoranjan Kalia, who went to to pay homage on the occasion of the martyrdom day, said he was shocked to see that the statue did not actually resemble Bhagat Singh.“Facial expressions on the statue are contrary to his gestures usually seen in photographs and books. There is hardly any resemblance with the martyr,” Kalia alleged. He said the name of Shaheed Bhagat Singh was in smaller font, while leaders who unveiled the statue, including MLA Bawa Henry and Mayor Jagdish Raja, were mentioned in bold letters.It’s learnt that the Municipal Corporation got the statue made free of cost from a local artist. When asked about the same, Mayor Jagdish Raja said, “There is a possibility that Manoranjan Kalia could be correct on all issues. I will get the things checked and try to sort out all the objections he has raised.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/row-erupts-over-statue-of-shaheed-bhagat-singh-229500
24-03-2021||---||Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner orders Covid vaccination for govt teachers as frontline workers||Kapurthala, March 23Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said all government teachers in the district would undergo volunteer vaccination as frontline workers in the district. Besides, ASHA workers, anganwari workers, revenue officials have also been asked to go for vaccination as they could turn to be the super-spreaders.At a meeting to review the vaccination process with all ADCs, SDMs and police officials, the DC said due to the upcoming procurement season, all officials and employees of the Food and Civil Supplies and District Mandi Office must be treated as frontline workers and should be vaccinated till March 31.She asked the AETC to strictly enforce the Covid norms in marriage palaces as supervisors have been deputed to keep a hawk eye in functions at marriage palaces etc.The DC also asked the Health Department to increase session sites, as presently 28 sites have the facility for vaccination, which includes 24 government hospitals and Primary Health Centres along with four private hospitals.District Immunisation Officers said so far 12,873 people have been vaccinated across the district. Taking serious note of low vaccination of health, revenue and social security workers, the DC said all SDMs would personally ensure the vaccination of all workers besides covering all employees of the District Administrative Complex, Kapurthala.She asked the health officials to speed up the process to cover people with comorbid conditions, as they fall under the high-risk category.Prominent among those present on the occasion include ADC G Rahul Chaba, ADC D SP Angra, ADC Phagwara Rajiv Verma, SDMs Varinderpal Singh Bajwa, Dr Charumita, Balbir Raj and Shayari Malhotra, Civil Surgeon Dr Seema, DSP Sandeep Singh, District Immunisation Officer Dr Randeep Singh, District Mandi Officer Arvinder Singh, DFSC Geeta Bishanbhu and Dr Rajiv Bhagat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-deputy-commissioner-orders-covid-vaccination-for-govt-teachers-as-frontline-workers-229501
