25-03-2021||---||10 yrs on, no development in Jalandhar's Surya Enclave Extension||Jalandhar, March 24Residents of Surya Enclave Extension developed by the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) are a harassed lot as they allege that their locality has not been developed even after 10 years.Expressing their grievances at a press conference on Wednesday, residents led by ML Sehgal, chief, Surya Enclave Extension Welfare Society, said, “In 2011, the JIT launched freehold residential plots for which final payments were given in 2014. The JIT did not do any development work and the scheme almost failed. The scheme was re-launched in 2016 and several new applicants came, but nothing happened. Illegal encroachments have marred the scheme, especially in C block. Parks, too, have been encroached upon.”Sehgal rued, “At the time of the launch, a 120-ft road was announced, which had to connect Domoria bridge to Jalandhar-Amritsar highway, but the passage has been encroached upon by an industrial unit. Drains have not been laid. There is no provision of water and electricity supply. Allottees have been running after the JIT and met top officials of the Local Bodies Department and Chairman of the JIT, but to no avail.”Members said the JIT had launched the scheme on a disputed land, which led to harassment of allottees. “High-tension wires are hanging on the proposed plots. The 45-ft road connecting C block with railway station has been encroached upon. The JIT should develop the area on a war footing. Else, refund our money with interest,” they said.Daljit Singh Ahluwalia, Chairman, JIT, said, “We are not getting adequate police force to remove encroachments. We will act as soon as we get the required police personnel. Road work has been done in C block and will soon commence in D block. The proposal of providing power connections has been forwarded to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and it may take another month. All other development works will be executed at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-yrs-on-no-development-in-jalandhars-surya-enclave-extension-230234
25-03-2021||Ajay Joshi---||800 BSNL phones out of order after cable theft||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, March 24 Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) on Sunday suffered a loss of Rs 51 lakh after some miscreants stole its underground cables. The miscreants stole 1,000 metres of copper wires from the 10-foot-deep manhole opposite Apeejay College, Guru Nanak Mission Chowk and Nakodar Chowk. The underground cables were slashed and stolen by some unidentified persons on the intervening night of March 20 and March 21 during the curfew. While the cost of the cable — stolen from Apeejay College to Guru Nanak Mission — was estimated to be around Rs 30 lakh, the cost of other cable was put at around Rs 11 lakh. Surprisingly, considering the centrally located areas, these chowks are barricaded by the police and PCR vehicles throughout the day. BSNL consumers in the main market of the areas suffered because its services were badly affected after the theft of the copper cables. A BSNL officer said about 700-800 landline and internet connections of banks and residential areas went out of order. The cables were reportedly pulled out and cut roughly from the ducts. Sunil Kumar, Principal General Manager of BSNL, said, the theft was carried out with planning as the thieves must have hired an excavator for the task. “It takes six to seven hours to take out the heavy wires and load them on to vehicles. After inspecting the spot, it was found to be the work of those persons who had technical knowledge. As it is very difficult to pull out wires from the chamber ducts, around 10-15 persons seemed to have been involved in the theft. After the theft, we were flooded with complaints from consumers that their landline and broadband connections were not working after which they came to know that the wires were stolen by some miscreants,” said Sunil Kumar. SHO, police division number 6, Inspector Surjit Singh said they had received a complaint from the BSNL office regarding the incident following which they had registered a theft case against the miscreants. The police are also analyzing the footage of CCTV cameras to identify the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/800-bsnl-phones-out-of-order-after-cable-theft-230235
25-03-2021||---||11 deaths, 351 new infections in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, March 24The district reported the deaths of 11 persons due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the toll to 849. Besides, 351 more people tested positive for the virus. Experts stated that both fatality and infection rates have increased since the beginning of this month and the numbers are likely to double by March 31.With the emergence of UK strain, panic has gripped residents. In the last 24 days, as many as 149 people have lost their lives due to the virus.While 26,956 is the confirmed number of Covid cases here, at present the total number of active cases is 2,587 in the district.Expressing concern over the emerging situation, the doctors stressed the need for vaccination among the beneficiaries and adherence to the Covid safety protocols, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.Deputy Commisioner Ghanshyam Thori has also appealed to beneficiaries to get the jab without any delay. The Covidshield is reportedly equally effective against the UK variant.Having originated in the UK, the variant is called B.1.1.7. It is substantially more deadly than the original strain or SARS-CoV-2. It is becoming more dominant virus as it is more infectious than the original strain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-deaths-351-new-infections-in-jalandhar-district-230236
25-03-2021||---||Stone laid 14 yrs ago, work on community centre yet to begin||Jalandhar, March 24 Even as the foundation stone of community centre at Urban Estate, Phase-I, was laid over 14 years ago, work on the PUDA project has yet to see the light of day. The stone stands amidst wild growth and garbage dump near Sabzi Mandi close to Police Station Division No.7. It seemed that the authorities concerned have ignored the project. The stone was laid on November 26, 2006, during the previous Congress regime.  Residents of the area say that even as four years of the Congress government’s second term have passed, no one bothered about completing the project started around 15 years ago. The stone was laid by then Social Welfare and IT Minister Mahinder Singh Kaypee. Maj Gen Sarabjit Singh Pawar (retd), former district head of Guardians of Governance, Jalandhar, said, “This is sheer negligence on the part of the PWD. The civic authorities must honour the commitments about development that they make to the allottees. Community centres are of much aid to residents for organising small functions, welfare programmes, meetings and get-togethers at low charges.” Himmat Singh, a resident of Urban Estate, said, “We have taken up the matter with the area councillor, PUDA officials and other authorities a number of times but no one has bothered about completing the work allocated long ago.” Mintu Juneja, Congress councillor of the area, said, “The work of setting up community centre was started by the Congress at the fag-end of its previous tenure. Even the SAD-BJP government failed to take it ahead. When the Congress government came to power in the state, we began moving the files again. As we were about to get the clearance, the pandemic started and the work got stuck up again. We are going to start the construction work soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stone-laid-14-yrs-ago-work-on-community-centre-yet-to-begin-230237
25-03-2021||---||Probe ‘shoddy work’: Kalia to CM||Jalandhar, March 24Former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia has written Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to probe ‘shoddy work’ done by the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation with regard to the statue of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, which was installed recently at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk in the city.Emailing the pictures of the new statue and an inaugural plaque to Capt Amarinder, Kalia sought an inquiry into the matter. Kalia wrote, “The bust of the statue of Shaheed Bhagat Singh has been replaced by a 5-ft statue. The newly-installed statue does not resemble with photographs of Bhagat Singh available in public domain. The pedestal upon which the said statue stands is only 11 inch in height, which amounts to disrespect when one pays tribute to the martyr.”Kalia alleged, “Name of Shaheed Bhagat Singh is not mentioned on the pedestal, but its inscribed on the inaugural plaque as ‘Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk’ and in smaller fonts as compared to the names of persons who inaugurated the statue.”He said, “Bhagat Singh is our national hero. His martyrdom, writings and statues are source of inspiration for every generation. Statue should be built depicting the highest esteem and must resemble with photographs of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. This shows the negligence and callousness of civic body.”Former minister said, “Conduct a probe to fix responsibility of the MC officials. Public money spent on the statue should be recovered made from guilty officials. This should be replaced with a bronze statue of Shaheed Bhagat Singh built by a known sculptor.” On Tuesday, Jalandhar Mayor Jagdish Raja said he would look into the objections raised by Kalia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/probe-shoddy-work-kalia-to-cm-230238
25-03-2021||---||Sixty playgrounds, ponds to come up in rural areas under Central scheme||Jalandhar, March 24 Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday asked officials to ensure that the ongoing projects of developing 60 model playgrounds, and 60 model ponds were completed within timelines, so that the people of the district could benefit from these pro-people projects. Chairing a meeting at the District Administrative Complex along with Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal, the DC reviewed the ongoing works started under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and convergence. He said in Jalandhar, 60 model playgrounds have also been approved at the cost of Rs4.63 crore, and work on all sites have been started. He said the 22 model playgrounds were completed at the cost of Rs 2.67 crore, adding these would act as a catalyst to promote sports culture at the grassroots level besides connecting youths with sports. Similarly, the project of 60 model ponds amounting to Rs4.32 crore is also underway and construction on 22 sites at the cost of Rs2.64 crore was already complete. He said these ponds would ensure recharge of depleting groundwater tables and using treated water for the irrigation purposes through the eco-friendly method.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sixty-playgrounds-ponds-to-come-up-in-rural-areas-under-central-scheme-230239
25-03-2021||To reduce reporting time of positive cases||RDDL to conduct RT-PCR tests||71K residents inoculated: DCDeputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday asked officials of various departments to adopt a multi-pronged strategy to keep the case fatality rate (CFR) under check. Thori laid stress on early detection and treatment formula to prevent casualties. He also directed officials to continue with maximum vaccination to boost immunity level in vulnerable groups. He said as many as 71,751 eligible beneficiaries have been inoculated in the district, which includes 24,703 senior citizens and 6,525 those above 45 with comorbidities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rddl-to-conduct-rt-pcr-tests-230240
25-03-2021||---||Govt school holds ‘live’ sessions for Class X||Nawanshahr, March 24Though the recent surge in Covid-19 cases has forced closure of schools for students, it has failed to dampen the spirit of the government schoolteachers. The teachers have again started to adopt a digital route to ensure that students have access to the education facility at their doorstep.To combat apprehension of complacency among students due to closure of schools and postponement of the board examination due to surge in cases, the Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Nawanshahr, has come out with an idea of organising ‘live classes’ to virtually reach the house of each student of Class X.The live classes would be organised for the students of Class X just like normal functioning of the school. Divulging details, the principal of the GSSS Nawanshahr, Sarbjit Singh and district mentor, computer faculty, Younes Khokhar said a system had been set up in the school library for running ‘live classes’ through Zoom app. Daily schedule for the classes from 9.15 am to 3 pm has been set up. Interestingly, just like school routine, lunch break from 11.30 am to 12 pm, will also be given to students.Students have already been informed about the daily schedule. Schoolteachers have also been imparted training to organise live classes. The white board, markers and other requisite facilities have been made available in the library room for holding classes. The subject teacher concerned would take his or her class as per the scheduled timetable and students would attend the class via Zoom while sitting at their respective homes, the principal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-school-holds-live-sessions-for-class-x-230241
25-03-2021||Strap||Murder bid foiled, four arrested||Tribune News ServiceHoshiarpur, March 24The police have claimed to foil a murder bid and arrested four persons, besides recovering a .32 bore pistol, six live cartridges, a car and a motorycle.The accused have been identified as Sajan Kumar of Chibbranwali in Muktsar, Baljeet Singh and Sukhdeep Singh of Kahri village and Manpreet of Diyantpur village. The kingpins behind taking ransom for murder were Paramjeet Singh, alias Pamma, of Sahri village, and Sher Singh of Rajeana village, Moga.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said Sub-Inspectors Nirmal Singh and Pardeep Kumar received a tip-off on March 22 that some unidentified persons were hired to eliminate a man and they had also conducted recce at different places. The SSP said Paramjeet had taken ransom for murder and further gave a contract to Sher, who hired Sajan (a shooter).He said Sher delivered the weapon to Sajan, who visited Hoshiarpur in February from Muktsar and since then, he lived in rented accommodations. All the accused were using a signal mobile app for communicating with each other.The SSP said police teams led by SP (D) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu, SP Mandeep Singh, SHO Model Town Karnail Singh and CIA Staff in charge Shiv Kumar nabbed the accused.A case under Sections 115/120-B of the IPC and 25/54/59 of the Arms Act has been registered at Mehtiana police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/murder-bid-foiled-four-arrested-230242
25-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||When will pvt schools learn?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 24Yet again, the Education Department has released a circular in which it has targeted private schools for forcing students and parents to buy uniform and books recommended by them.Around two years ago, parents in Jalandhar had raised the issue and held dharnas outside the premises of private schools. The parents had also gheraoed some school principals on the context of taking high fee and forcing them to buy books and uniforms from particular shops.Such was the condition that one of the private schools had also deployed police outside the premises. But even after all this, the department circular shows that hardly anything has changed.Earlier this year, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla had asked private schools not to compel parents to buy uniform and books from shops referred by them.The department has issued guidelines to this effect to all private schools affiliated to CBSE/ICSE or the PSEB to not force the students to read books from publisher other than the NCERT/ICSE or PSEB books.The department says non-compliance of guidelines by any school will invite cancellation of the no-objection certificate (NOC) and they will also lose their affiliation.According to the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational institutions (Amendment) Act, 2019, in case the unaided educational institutions specify purchasing of specific uniforms or books, they have to notify and display the specifications of such uniforms and books at conspicuous place and the parents shall be at liberty to purchase same from any place of their choice. However, the colour and design and any other specification of the uniforms so notified, shall not be changed at least for next two years.The department has strictly asked the schools to comply with the orders.What the rule book says?According to the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational institutions (Amendment) Act, 2019, in case the unaided educational institutions specify purchasing of specific uniforms or books, they have to notify and display the specifications of such uniforms and books at conspicuous place and the parents shall be at liberty to purchase same from any place of their choice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/when-will-pvt-schools-learn-230243
25-03-2021||Jalandhar||‘Soon, Olympian as hockey coach’||Webinar on New Education PolicyJalandhar: The NITI Aayog along with the Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal (BSM) organised a webinar on 'Teacher's role in National Education Policy (NEP) Implementation', where Lovely Professional University (LPU) collaborated for its massive impact and projection. Vice Chancellor of Central University of Punjab (Bathinda) Prof R P Tiwari was a chief guest. Mukul Kanitkar was a keynote speaker. Executive Dean at LPU's Faculty of Business and Arts Dr Sanjay Modi presided over the event. The programme was coordinated by Prof Davinder Singh Thakur. TNSWorld Forest Day observedJalandhar: The DD Pant Botanical Society of post graduate department of botany at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised a plantation drive on the occasion of World Forest Day 2021. Saplings of mango, arjun, neem and amla were planted. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen stressed upon the need of conservation and saving floral diversity. Dr Nitika Kapoor, in charge of the society, highlighted the mission ‘Go Green’. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/soon-olympian-as-hockey-coach-230244
25-03-2021||---||Strawberry cultivator from Sultanpur Lodhi catches eyes of agri officials||Sultanpur Lodhi, March 24Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department officials on Wednesday visited the farm of Sukhjinder Singh, a successful farmer of Swal village here, who has cultivated strawberries instead of the traditional crop cycle.The search for a viable alternative to wheat-paddy in agriculture and the desire to do something unique led Sukhjinder to cultivate strawberries in 2012, in which he achieved success despite initially facing many difficulties in marketing. He is proud to be the first strawberry farmer in Kapurthala district.He has cultivated strawberry in five kanals, which he is now selling at a good price of Rs 130 per kg. He has also planted a guava orchard on half acre land, where cabbage and carrots were also grown. He said his father Balkar Singh, who received the State Award for Agriculture in 2016, has made a great contribution in the cultivation of strawberries.Agriculture Officer Jasbir Singh said Sukhjinder has set an example for small farmers. Agriculture Development Officer Dr Jaspal Singh said that strawberry is a crop of hilly areas but it is now being cultivated in Punjab also.Sukhjinder father said he has been associated with the Department of Agriculture for a long time and on the advice of the department, he had branded the products of his farm under the name 'Green Gold' so that all his goods could be related to the farm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/strawberry-cultivator-from-sultanpur-lodhi-catches-eyes-of-agri-officials-230245
25-03-2021||Jalandhar||Lecture on entrepreneurship||Plastic-free environmentAn awareness programme on ‘Plastic Free Environment’ was organised by Unnat Bharat Abhiyan Team of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Gill village. The team urged villagers to make the environment plastic free. Anjana Bhatia, head, PG department of botany, apprised the people of village about the harmful effects of using plastic. She said besides polluting the environment, it is dangerous for animals as well. When the plastic moves through the food chain, the toxins which are attached with it also move along. Villagers were explained that the change has to be brought by them only and each one of them should pledge for not using plastic as a part of their social responsibility. They were explained about the other alternatives instead of using plastic such as using cloth bags. Students actively participated in the programme. They took a pledge that they would not use plastic and would even ask their family members to use other alternatives instead of plastic. Anjana Bhatia also talked about organic farming and the health benefits associated with it.Online QuizKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a national-level online quiz to celebrate the 142nd birth anniversary of Albert Einstein. The quiz was organised by the PG department of physics. The quiz was conducted online, in which more than 650 students as well as faculty members participated from all over India. The main objective behind organising this activity was to remember Albert Einstein and stimulate the interest of all participants towards his contribution in modern science. In addition to the theory of relativity, Einstein is also known for his contributions to the development of the quantum theory. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students and said science was the basis of life. She said it was very important that the young generation understands the importance of scientists as due to their research and inventions, mankind has been able to live a more comfortable and advanced life. She lauded the efforts of the physics department for organising such events, which create interest of students towards sciences.Organic homegrown veg consumptionThe NSS unit of School of Engineering Lyallpur Khalsa Technical Campus in collaboration with Punjab Horticulture Department organised an event for the promotion of organic homegrown vegetable consumption. Students and faculty members were made aware about the importance of vegetables and kitchen containing seeds of vegetables brought from the department were also provided at ‘no profit no loss’ to promote the practice. Director Academic Affairs Sukhbir Singh Chatha and Deputy Director RS Deol appreciated the synergy and enthusiasm of students as well as the effort of the NSS unit for organising such events. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lecture-on-entrepreneurship-230246
25-03-2021||To mark the martyrdom of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh||Dedicated to martyrs||Pressing for vaccinationThe fear of Covid vaccination is still shadowing. But the Nawanshahr Health Department is ensuring to release all information regarding those who have received the jab just to motivate others who are still afraid of getting themselves injected. Every day, nearly four to five press releases are circulated by the department officials wherein the details of those who got injected are given. The idea is to inculcate positivity among the people of the district so that they don’t avoid inoculation. In the press release, a special line is always mentioned ie ‘Covid-19 vaccine poori tarah surakshit hai, koi side effect nahi hai’.Testing timesEven when the Covid cases are rising sharply, residents don’t really seem to care. They still roam around in public places without masks. On Wednesday, in Nawanshahr, the district health teams made as many as 882 persons go through Covid test who were not wearing any mask. The police have been making announcements from the loudspeakers to encourage people to not do any mistake by avoiding masks. At Jadla, the police also distributed free masks to the violators. The police officials have been motivating people to keep themselves and others safe. “Apart from imposing challans, tests are also being done, and this will continue till the situation gets better,” a police official said.— Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dedicated-to-martyrs-230247
