26-03-2021||---||Krishna Nagar residents getting sewage-mixed drinking water||Jalandhar, March 25 Residents of Krishna Nagar are a harried lot as civic body has not paid any heed to their complaints regarding contaminated water supply. Irked over non-seriousness of the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation, residents forwarded their complaint to Local Bodies Principal Secretary AK Sinha.  Former chief engineer of the Water Supplies and Sewage Department, RK Talwar, said, “Our colony, which has about 1,000 residents, is being supplied drinking water mixed with sewage. Every morning, dirty water starts flowing from our taps. We need to keep taps running for at least 30 minutes before filling water. Water supply pipelines were laid more than 50 years ago and have outlived their shelf life. The supply line should be changed at the earliest.” He said, “Sewerage was laid much later and often remains blocked. There is leakage either in joints or from manholes. During non-water supply hours, sewage enters into water supply lines as negative pressure is created inside pipelines when supply is shut. When water pumping is restored after interval, sewage that has already entered inside water supply lines certainly gets mixed with drinking water.” Another resident, Rajat Mahendru, said, “Water supply provided to our locality by the MC is not only toxic, but unfit for human consumption. As a result, chances of outbreak of water-borne diseases are very high.” Nirmal Singh, a local, said, “Though we are residents of the Smart City, but in reality we are living in a very miserable condition. We are being forced to consume sewage mixed drinking water.” Irate residents said they contacted their councillor and MLA as well, but nothing happened on the ground. “Water purifiers installed at our places need to be repaired every month due to heavy volume of impurities. We cannot use filtered water for bathing or washing clothes. The MC must install new pipeline,” said Naresh Bahri. Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri said, “Residents were to meet me over the issue, but they did not turn up. In any case, I will surely look into the problem and get it sorted out.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/krishna-nagar-residents-getting-sewage-mixed-drinking-water-230704
26-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Most schools averse to diktat on NCERT books||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 25A recent circular of the Director Education, Punjab, to all schools in the state, including private institutes, recommending only NCERT books for students has not gone down well with managements of most schools.While a few schools said they were already using only NCERT books, which has best content and were easy on pocket, management of other institutes said the orders came too late and they had already tied up with private publishers and recommended their books to students.The CBSE-affiliated Schools’ Association has reverted back to the Director Education and said, “We are shocked after receiving the circular, just before the beginning of new academic session. In the circular, it has been mentioned that books of private publishers are expensive and parents are against these. This seems to be an afterthought.”The association further said, “We had sent orders to private publishers before mid-January and we received our orders on March 18. We were about to publish a list of books on our websites, a month before the commencement of session. The prescribed list includes books published by the NCERT / PSEB / CBSE as well as of private publishers and we cannot go back on our decision at this stage.”Owner of five CBSE-affiliated schools not willing to go on record said, “The order of recommending only NCERT books is not justified because NCERT does not print all subjects and books for every grade. Every year, there is a shortage of NCERT books. Sometimes, NCERT books are not available throughout the academic session. Some books printed by private publishers are also very informative in content and are economical as per their number of pages/ paper quality. Private publishers also provide audio-visual aid along with e-content, which is very useful for students, especially during the lockdown.”He said, “Most NCERT books got printed in 2006 and ever since these are only being reprinted without any revision. How can we in 2021 ask our students to go by the old content? They certainly need updated study material.”Principal of Police DAV Public School Rashmi Vij said, “Our schools have been recommending books published by the DAV Society and we are doing this for years. Our books are more cost-effective than NCERT. Also, since NCERT is not publishing all books, we have to depend on private publishers as well. The orders of the Director Education have come too late. All this involves a lot of planning.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/most-schools-averse-to-diktat-on-ncert-books-230705
26-03-2021||---||Don’t announce bogus schemes in Bhagat Singh’s name, says YAD||Bhogpur, March 25  The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) today said both the Congress in Punjab as well as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Delhi had defrauded the youth by promising them lakhs of jobs but failing to deliver them. Addressing a huge rally here which witnessed an immense outpouring of youth from the Doaba region, YAD President Parambans Singh Romana said the Congress government had officially admitted that it had given only 35,000 jobs during the last more than four years which included filling up of vacancies as well as adjustments on the compassionate grounds.  He said similarly, AAP Convener Arvind Kejriwal claimed to have provided 8 lakh jobs to youth in Delhi while an RTI report from the Delhi Employment Exchange showed that only 214 jobs had been given to the youth by Delhi government in the last three years. Parambans Romana also condemned CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Finance Minister Manpreet Badal for misusing the name of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh in their election manifesto. He said the Congress party had under the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Rozgar Sirjan Yojna promised to implement three schemes – Apni Gaddi Apna Rozgar entailing easy finance for four wheelers, Hara Tractor entailing provision of 25,000 tractors to the youth on easy installments and Yaari Enterprises to encourage youth to set up their own businesses.  “None of these have been even taken up for implementation, proving that the party had only coined these schemes to befool the youth,” he said. He also disclosed how the Congress government had reneged on its promise to give Rs 2,500 per month unemployment allowance to youth. Romana said during the earlier SAD-led government as many as 3.3 lakh SC students availed the benefits of the SC scholarship scheme but the Congress government denied the benefits of this scheme to the SC students. He said due to the Congress government’s failure to implement the scheme and the embezzlement of SC scholarship funds by SC Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, as many as 2.5 lakh SC students had exited the colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dont-announce-bogus-schemes-in-bhagat-singhs-name-says-yad-230706
26-03-2021||---||38 wellness centres inaugurated in dist||Jalandhar, March 25 In an attempt to give fillip to the existing healthcare infrastructure in the district, as many as 38 health and wellness centres were inaugurated on Thursday. Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said these health and wellness centres would transform the entire scenario of healthcare services in the district.  Senior Superintendent of Police Dr Sandeep Garg said the government has upgraded existing sub-health centres and wellness centres into modern health and wellness centres. These centres were equipped with latest techniques such as robust medicine supply line system and tele-consultancy facilities, said the Deputy Commissioner. New centres were located at Jajjan Khurd, Kot Grewal, Turan, Bharsingpur, Begampur, Khaira Majha, Ramewal, Sagarpur, Jeitewali, Manakrai, Jaijian Kalan, Rurki, Suner Kalan, Gohawar, Boparai, Sang Dhesian, Mahal, Athola, Barha Pind, Kala Bahian, Khusropur, Fatehjalal, Bulnda, Meshampur, Bath, Bjuha Khurd, Kang Sabhu, Mehuwal, Fatehpur Bhahwan, Kangna, Ktoligajran, Talwandi Sangera, Poonian, Bhamnian, Bagga, and Sanaura villages. The DC said the centres would be extending facilities during pregnancy and childbirth, neonatal and infant healthcare services, family planning, contraceptive services, management of communicable diseases, OPD services, screening, prevention, control and management of non-communicable diseases, basic oral healthcare, emergency medical healthcare services, screening, and basic management of mental health ailments. Kashmir Kaur, a beneficiary, said apart from routine healthcare services, the centre provides a lot of wellness activities, including yoga.  Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said the centres would also offer Covid-19 vaccination facilities from April 1. Meanwhile, a newly-constructed Bilga police station was also inaugurated during the event. The Senior Superintendent of Police said the new police station was constructed at a cost of Rs 1.6 crore and would cover around 15 km of area falling within its jurisdiction. The new three-storey building houses a waiting lounge, IO cabins, staff barracks, washroom, wireless room, a mess and barrack for GO-rank officers, which would provide new experience to visitors.  11 centres attached with e-Sanjivani telemedicine  Kapurthala: Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the newly inaugurated 11 wellness centres have been attached with e-Sanjivani telemedicine to provide the health related advice to people. The Deputy Commissioner said in Kapurthala, 11 wellness centres were inaugurated at Ibban, Ahmadpur, Kesarpur, Jallowal, Dawoodpur, Murar, Dham, Hambowal, Bagrian, Maheru and Chaheru. These centres would have a community health officer, multi-purpose health workers, nursing staff and five ASHA workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/38-wellness-centres-inaugurated-in-dist-230707
26-03-2021||---||Sham Chaurasi is sub-tehsil now, gets a new building||Hoshiarpur, March 25 Dedicating a new sub-tehsil complex to the residents of Sham Chaurasi on Thursday, MLA Pawan Kumar Adia said this endeavour of the Punjab Government would provide different kinds of revenue services to the residents of more than 75 villages of the region. While getting the sub-tehsil started, the MLA thanked Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for fulfilling the long pending demand of the people of Sham Chaurasi constituency and said this project would prove a boon for the people as they need not to visit Hoshiarpur for property registration, mutation, fard, different certificates, affidavits as well as revenue cases etc. Interacting with the mediapersons, Adia said the requisite staff and infrastructure would be ensured within minimum time so that people could get the needful services at the earliest. Answering a query, the MLA said the state government had given Rs 22 crore for the construction of a government college, which is being constructed over an area of 10 acres and is on the verge of completion. Similarly, sewerage project worth Rs 23 crore has been awarded for Hariana town in the constituency, which was another long pending demand of the area. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said naib tehsildar Bhunga had been deputed at the sub-tehsil for a temporary arrangement, who will sit a few days in week here for ensuring the requisite services. She said from the next week the sub-tehsil would become fully operational with the needful staff and other infrastructure. Prominent amongst those present on the occasion included Hoshiarpur SDM Amit Mahajan, Market Committee Chairman Rajesh Gupta, District Revenue Officer Aman Pal Singh, tehsildar Harminder Singh, naib tehsildar Gurpreet Singh, councillors Harbhajan Kaur, Nirmal Kumar, Kuljit Singh, Balwinder Kaur, Nitu Rani and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sham-chaurasi-is-sub-tehsil-now-gets-a-new-building-230708
26-03-2021||---||Guru Teg Bahadur was an epitome of sacrifice, says expert||Jalandhar, March 25 An online event was organised by Guru Nanak Dev University Regional Campus at Ladhewali here to commemorate the 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur.  A lecture on the life and teachings of Guru Teg Bahadur and online competitions were held in which various colleges of the region participated with great fervour. The lecture was delivered by Dr Gopal Singh Bhuttar, an eminent scholar from Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar. He recounted various episodes in the life of guru which were a reflection of his humane personality. He propagated the values of sacrifice, truth, brotherhood and was an epitome of sacrifice.  The faculty and students from all departments and institutions participated in the function. The lecture was followed by a presentation of entries of various competitions received by the campus – collage making, shabad gyan and poetry recitation. The results were as follows: Collage making 1st: Tavleen Kaur from Hans Raj Maha Vidyalaya 2nd: Sahil Kumar from Lyallpur Khalsa College 3rd: Arshdeep Kaur from KMV College, Poetry recitation 1st: Ramneet from MGN college of Education 2nd: Pawanpreet Kaur from KMV College 3rd: Jasleen Kaur from PCM SD College for Women Shabad gyan 1st: Nikhil from Guru Nanak National College, Nakodar 2nd: Ramandeep Kaur, Harsh Pandit, Srishti Soni,Nandini, Sonam Saini, Karan Sharma, Sheetal Sharma, Pushpinder Kaur, Manjot Kaur from MGN college of Education 3rd: Jasleen Kaur from PCM SD College for Women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guru-teg-bahadur-was-an-epitome-of-sacrifice-says-expert-230709
26-03-2021||---||High-tech police station opened at Basti Bawa Khel||Jalandhar, March 25 MLA Sushil Kumar Rinku and Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Thursday inaugurated newly constructed Basti Bawa Khel police station at 120 feet road developed at a cost of Rs 1.50 crore. After the inauguration, the MLA and the CP stated that the newly built police station was equipped with modern facilities like barrack for staff, separate IO cabins, record room with lockers, wireless room, dining room, larger waiting lounge, lockup, armory and malkhana, besides washrooms for males and females. They said these facilities would change the overall scenario of policing in the region as people would have new experiences while visiting this ultra-modern police station. Notably, during a state-level virtual inauguration event, a total of nine such police stations were dedicated today of which two police stations at Basti Bawa Khel and Bilga were inaugurated in Jalandhar district. MLA Sushil Kumar Rinku said that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government had left no stone unturned to bring transformation at every threshold of society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/high-tech-police-station-opened-at-basti-bawa-khel-230710
26-03-2021||---||Old-age home gets a facelift||Jalandhar, March 25  Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday visited the Red Cross Old Age Home after the completion of its facelift project, which started a few months ago.   The DC said a total of Rs12.50 lakh has been spent on this project and now with renewed facilities the old age home once again was ready to serve the senior citizens. He mentioned that the amount was spent to revamp work of 20 rooms and other parts of the building in Maqsudan.   He also interacted with the people living in the old age home and assured that the district administration is committed to protecting their rights. Earlier, he also talked with the officials in the Red Cross Society and asked them to mitigate the woes of needy people visiting them.  Secretary Red Cross Society Inderdev Singh said the society was providing home care services to senior citizens at a very reasonable price ie Rs4,000 per month for single room and Rs6,000 for double-room set, including meals and daily expenses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/old-age-home-gets-a-facelift-230711
26-03-2021||---||Vaccination drive starts at Kapurthala Jail||Kapurthala, March 25The district authorities have started to inoculate inmates at the Kapurthala Central Jail. With this, it has become the first jail in Punjab to do so.Additional District and Sessions Judge Rajwinder Kaur and CJM-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority Ajitpal Singh formally launched the vaccination drive at the jail.Justice Rajwinder Kaur directed jail officials to ensure that the health guidelines were being followed to tackle the spread of pandemic among prisoners.The duo listened to grievances of inmates and took necessary steps for their immediate solution. They also asked the the jail administration and the District Legal Services Authority, Kapurthala, to provide free legal services to the needy detainees and prisoners.Justice Rajwinder Kaur said orders have been issued to settle cases in the district courts on priority basis.Later, the judges visited women’s barrack and listened to problems of women prisoners. Food provided to prisoners was also inspected.Superintendent Central Jail Baljit Singh Ghuman, Superintendent district courts Sham Sundar and Narpinder Singh, Deputy Jail Superintendent, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-drive-starts-at-kapurthala-jail-230712
26-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj ||Nukkad nataks & skits inspire parents to enrol kids in govt schools||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, March 25 Flexes installed at public places, door-to-door campaigns, announcements at bus stands and now nukkad nataks, mono acting and skits…no, it is not an election campaign, but these steps are being taken to increase enrolment at the government schools. In a first, nukkad nataks are being held in the districts so that the people are encouraged to send their wards to the government schools. The play begins with women who are chit-chatting to each other. One of them asks the other if his son studies in a private school as he speaks such fluent English. She replies, ‘no, he studies in a government school’. Then, two students from the school converse in English during the natak so that everyone in the village understands that the students in the government schools have the capabilities that a private school possesses, and that too at minimal fee. ‘Aajaao hun chaliye, school sarkari’, a song has also been released by the Education Department, in which the lyrics boast about the good infrastructure, well-qualified teachers, smart classrooms, and projectors. In Nawanshahr, a team comprising of teachers Balwinder of Government Primary School (GPS) Langroya, Baljinder Kaur from Government Primary School Mehatpur, Ashu Kalia from GPS, Pannu Majara, Gurjot Kaur from GPS Kariam, Jasveer Kaur from GPS Mahalo perform nukkad nataks at various villages at Nawanshahr. Today, the natak was held at Gunachaur village. The nataks have been performed in Sona, Mubarakpur, Durgapur, Barnala Kalan, Bhagora, Barwa, Langroya, and Mehandipur to date. Parmod Bharti, state media coordinator of the enrolment booster team, said the Education Secretary is taking feedback and has really appreciated the initiatives being taken by the team members and teachers on their own level. “Almost every schoolteacher has been coming with a unique idea and the motive is the same: to increase enrolment at the schools. Nukkad nataks are being performed, songs are being sung, there are mono acting and skits. The drive doesn’t stop here only, we are continuing with the process and will definitely succeed,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nukkad-nataks-skits-inspire-parents-to-enrol-kids-in-govt-schools-230718
26-03-2021||Jalandhar||JEE Main (March) result||Moot court contestA two-day IXth RC Chopra Memorial Moot Court Competition hosted by St Soldier Law College was inaugurated on Thursday by Justice Mahavir Singh Chauhan, former Judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Chairman Police Complaints Authority, Chandigarh. In the presence of 32 teams from 13 states of the country, chairman of the group Anil Chopra, vice-chairperson Sangeeta Chopra, MD Manhar Arora, campus director Dr Veena Dada and others, the College Director Prof Subhash C Sharma welcomed the chief guest and teams. He also gave an outline of the competition St Soldier Group and the host law College. Student coordinator Manvi read the rules of the competition and teacher coordinator Prof Sandeep Rani detailed the rounds. Dean academics in the college Prof Simi Thind presented the vote of thanks.Webinar on overall nutritionLyallpur Khalsa College organised a webinar on ‘Poshan (overall nutrition)’ as a part of ‘Poshan Pakhwada (Sahi Poshan-Desh Roshan), programme launched by Department of Social Welfare, Women and Child Development. The three progressive units of the college Grievances Redressal Cell, National Service Scheme and Department of Zoology and Botany collaborated to conduct the webinar with the objective to create awareness regarding nutrition in our day to day life. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra felicitated Dr Gagandeep Kaur, coordinator of the event. He encouraged all to modify their food habits and life style. the resource person Dr Reema Dhingra focused on ‘Eat Smart, Be Smart’. Prof Jaswinder Kaur (HoD Zoology & Botany) proposed the vote of thanks. The webinar was attended by Prof Jasreen Kaur (Dean Academic Affairs), Dr Tarsem Singh (Coordinator National Service Scheme), Dr Manohar Singh, Prof Arunjit Kaur, Dr Balwinder Singh, Prof Navdeep Kaur, faculty members and more than fifty students of the college.Water ConservationHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya has taken steady strides for conservation, reuse and recycling of water. Significant steps have been taken over the years for water management. A number of innovative strategies for groundwater augmentation have been devised including establishment of 10 rain harvesting units at different locates in the college premises for recharging the water table. The rain water harvesting units are modelled after Seechewal model of rain water harvesting. “HMV being conscious of its environmental responsibility has adopted a multipronged strategy to conserve water. Grey water from wash rooms is stored and reused for gardening, cleaning, washing, laundry etc. Special tank placements, plumbing mechanisms have been done to recycle and reuse water which led to saving a tremendous amount of water. Waste water from AC is also reused for mopping. Innovative plantations are done to save water,” said Principal Prof Ajay Sareen.Skating to VictoryIvy World School had an achievement as its student Arnav Yadav of Grade -3 got two medals in the ‘32nd Punjab Roller Skating Championship 2021’. He has proven his talent through hard work and regular practice by bagging two silver medals and has been selected for nationals that will be held at Chandigarh between April 1 to 6. Principal S Chauhan applauded the efforts put in by the student. President of Vasal Education Society K K Vasal applauded the efforts put forth by the school to create such platforms to explore a child’s strength and build confidence amongst them.Students selected as internsIt is a proud moment for CT Group of Institutions as its four students namely Navneet Virdi, Anchal Pathania, Kanchan Bala and Ankita Agnihotri of MBA got selected as interns at the district administrative complex. These students will have different roles and responsibilities as stakeholder management, development of IEC strategy for UDID cards, Assisting District Development Fellow in implementing flagship scheme, checking evidences, promoting good governance (Ghar Ghar Rozgar Scheme) and daily report to ADC office. The students will have to maintain good relationships with the people as well. They will be learning about the drafting skills along with some exposure to data analysis using MS Excel and MS PowerPoint. Navneet Virdi said, “We will also be working practically on case studies to have the practical exposure at great extent. Moreover, we have started getting knowledge about operating and strategic consultations, various documentation and many more. It is a wonderful opportunity for all of us to work under the Deputy Commissioner.”Refresher programme concludesThe Department of Mechanical Engineering, DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology, organised a week-long All India Council for Technical Education and Indian Society for Technical Education sponsored refresher programme for faculty members of technical education which concluded on Tuesday. Titled as ‘Advance Materials and Processes for Sustainable Intelligent Manufacturing’, the programme was conceived to provide the knowhow on current R&D in the field of materials and manufacturing processes. Col B Venkat, Director, Faculty Development Cell, AICTE, New Delhi, and Dr Pratapsinh Kakaso Desai, president, ISTE, New Delhi, were the guests at the valedictory ceremony held in online mode only. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jee-main-march-result-230720
26-03-2021||---||Daily toll continues to remain in double digits in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 25The district health authorities reported 413 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday. This is the second highest daily spike of this month after 510 people tested positive on March 18.The authorities also reported 11 Covid-19 related deaths in the district today. The daily death toll continues to remain in two digits. With this, the Covid infections reached 27,369 and the death toll increased to 860.Test reports of 4,412 persons were awaited and a total of 23,650 patients have recovered, so far. At present, the district has 2, 859 active cases.Due to the presence of new strain, symptoms have also slightly advanced, said doctors. Apart from severe fever and diarrhoea, difficulty in breathing and lung congestion has become a cause for concern. Hence, with addition of new patients, experts have been stressing upon taking preventive measures.With situation becoming grave, District Covid-19 in-charge Dr Paramjit Singh said: “The infection rate has surpassed previous records. Due to the mutation, virus is spreading in a rapid manner. Compared to the first week of March, infection rate seems to have doubled. What is more frightening is the added ‘hypoxia’, due to which there is an absence of enough oxygen in tissues to sustain bodily functions and eventually a patient faces difficulty in breathing. Such symptoms were not even recorded in the Covid patients during the last year’s peak in September.”As a result, demand for oxygen cylinders has also surged. Dr Paramjit said over 300 cylinders were being consumed on daily basis and considering the graph of cases, demand for oxygen cylinders would rise further. “Around 10 anaesthesia experts and eight medical specialists are treating 90 Covid patients at the Civil Hospital. Forty-one beds out of 56 in the ICU are occupied,” he said. 3,000 doses being administered dailyHelpline numbers for Covid patients||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/daily-toll-continues-to-remain-in-double-digits-in-jalandhar-230721
