27-03-2021||---||When a ‘forest’ takes root amid concrete jungle||Jalandhar, March 26She is an avid plant lover and does not let lack of space take a toll on her green hobby. Living in Defence Colony here, she might not have a sprawling area to grow plants but she believes in making the most of what she has. Dr Mandeep Kaur, an IVF specialist, chose not to give up her passion because of space constraint, and instead overcame the problem of planning accordingly.She started up with 300 pots. She adorned them in various corners of the house. The sides of the outer walls, steps of the staircase and her terrace are dotted with several pots.Dr Mandeep discussed, “We earlier used to live in a rented accommodation and could not afford to keep more than 10 pots plus there was always a fear of losing the ceramic pots. When I finally came here at the Defence Colony, I took it upon myself to create an ecosystem around us.”“As many as 100 of my pots are made up of used plastic containers in which we eat curd or cooked food. They are of the appropriate size and give a uniform look to the garden and either side of the staircase. Since the curd containers also came with a handle, they can even be used to hang the creepers.”She also showed her rooftop where she has grown trees of lemon, mango, pomegranate etc, most of which are flowering and ready to bear fruits in the coming season. On the rooftop, she has also maintained a kitchen garden wherein she has grown spinach, cauliflower, mint, coriander and lettuce and some medicinal plants such as giloy and aloe vera in grow-bags available in the market.Dr Mandeep has a good collection of flowering perennials such as bougainvillea and kalanchoe. “One of the most rewarding things in the entire process is welcoming feathered visitors such as butterflies and bees coming to the house.”Asked if anyone else in the house was also helping her out, she said, “My husband and kids watch me spend some time with my green babies. They take all their friends around the house and show them how I have been maintaining the plants without having any proper space. This in itself is a big contribution from their side as it encourages me a lot to do more and spare more time for my passion.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/when-a-forest-takes-root-amid-concrete-jungle-230890
27-03-2021||The Multimedia Club of PG Department of Multimedia of HMV organised a visit to Machinex – 2021 for the students of B Vocational and M Vocational (Web Tech & Multimedia). The students had an opportunity to know about the step by step procedure of the working of the machines to be used during printing and cutting etc. Arminder Singh and Gurdeep Singh from Canon and Corel Corporation guided the students about their work procedures and the machines input output process such as collecting the JPG format||Visit to Machinex-2021||Virtual TourJalandhar: Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a virtual tour of National Institute of Plant Genome Research (NIPGR), New Delhi, through Science Setu Programme. More than 100 students along with the faculty members participated in the tour.Dr Subhra Chakraborty, Director, NIPGR, showed all the labs to the participants of NIPGR through a virtual tour. She commenced her lecture by acquainting the participants about the basics of science and research. She explained how plant evolved with the changes in climatic and environmental conditions. She stressed upon landmarks and milestones in plant science and biotechnology and told how the genome of plants can be edited to maintain both the quality and yield of the crop. She concluded her lecture discussing the future of plant research mitigating agricultural and clinical needs towards food and nutritional security. She mentioned the need to breed nutritive value added crops for better human nutrition and feed; breed varieties as source of medicinally important bio-molecule for plant and human health. Dr Amarjeet Singh, scientist, NIPGR, attended to the questions of the participants and also gave vote of thanks.Aditya Gupta nails JEE-MainMayor World School student Aditya Gupta (XII) has brought laurels by scoring 99.81 percentile in JEE-Main (March-2021). Giving credit to his parents and the school, Aditya said, “My parents have always encouraged me to dream high and work hard to make them come true.” He recounted his experiences and journey as a Mayorite, saying that school has played a vital role in his life. He says,” The opportunities that I got in school, instilled confidence in me and helped me overcome my shortcomings”. The teachers opined that the he has always been a dedicated and diligent worker who never shirked work. Mathematics and science being his favourite, his allegiance was exceptional towards these subjects. His sincerity and integrity got him a place in school’s prefectorial board as well and he discharged his duties earnestly. The school management congratulated Aditya and his parents and wished him success in all his future endeavours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/visit-to-machinex-2021-230900
27-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||‘Will write the importance of Lok Sabhyacharak Manch for future generations: Amolak Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 26Amolak Singh, the President of the Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch has already planned this year. He said that cultural activities have played an important role in the past year and is still doing in making the youth understand more about the issues that are prevailing in the society.“I am going to write a book on Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch that was set up in 1982. I Will highlight the organizational set up, its efforts to keeping alive the culture in Punjab,” Amolak Singh said.“Mahaul is tarah da hai ki asi nazuk daur ch haige aa, navi hawa di lor hai. I have been associated with the poetry and theatre, and want that the upcoming generations know about the manch. Asi Punjab vich cultural movement di foundation rakhi si. Is saal Punjabi rangmanch te sangeet da loka naal Rishta saamne aaya. (We had laid the foundation of cultural movement in the state and this year we could see the relation between music, theatre and the people of Punjab). The farmer movement was highlighted at such level with the poetry and plays too.,” he said.“Agar Bhagat Singh kol apni hasth likita nahee hundiya, te loka ne ohna nu vi apne hisab naal dekhna si (Had Bhagat Singh not written the notes, and had we had not read them, people would have built the image of the great martyr according to them), which is why it is very important to write for the people to understand the purity and reality of a particular topic,” he further added.Singh who had gone to participate in the farmer movement, wrote for widows of farmers who had committed suicide, ‘Photoa lai ke ture kaafile, dilli wall vaggiya, darda da dariya’, kise da Jeevan sathi tur gya, kise de jigar da tota, raakh siwe di seene pukhdi, jiyundi lash ve loka’.‘Chall ve putta, dilli chaliye, maa photo chumdi kendi, dilli tera babal baitha, main piche kinj rehndi’, he had written.Through this poem, he had also tried to highlight the current scenario of the nation under the lockdown due to novel coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-write-the-importance-of-lok-sabhyacharak-manch-for-future-generations-amolak-singh-230894
27-03-2021||---||Covid-19: Kapurthala reports 327 cases in one day||Kapurthala, March 26The district reported the highest single-day spike of 327 Covid-19 cases since its onset on Friday. A 63-year-old woman of Sidhwan Dona and another 60-year-old woman of Talwandi Chaudharian village succumbed to the virus while taking treatment at a private hospital.The death toll in the district has touched 239, while the number of infections has reached 8,526. Many patients of the district have started preferring to move to private hospitals in Jalandhar for treatment. Dr Seema, Civil Surgeon, Kapurthala, said that the daily sampling of cases was being increased. District epidemologist Dr Rajeev Bhagat said, “As many as 959 people were tested for coronavirus on Friday. We are expecting their report by tomorrow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-kapurthala-reports-327-cases-in-one-day-230895
27-03-2021||---||Jalandhar district ranks first in addressing complaints||Jalandhar, March 26Jalandhar district ranked first in the state for redressing public grievances received online at www.connect.punjab.gov.in  within a stipulated period.The Public Grievance Redressal System (PGRS) was launched to provide quick solution to public grievances. As many as 536 complaints had been filed on this portal by residents of which 500 were addressed by the authorities concerned.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori told that no complaint was pending on the portal beyond the given timeline. He said the portal reflected zero pendency in district.The Deputy Commissioner said the portal aimed at providing one-stop digital platform to all kinds of grievances with special focus on in-time remedy to filed complaints. He said every issue is addressed within seven days from the date of filling.To facilitate citizens with assistance in logging complaints on the portal, the district administration had already started complaint filing services at the Sewa Kendras. People either can file a complaint directly or visit nearby Sewa Kendra to submit their grievance with required documents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-ranks-first-in-addressing-complaints-230892
27-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur reports 14 deaths, highest single-day toll since outbreak||Hoshiarpur, March 26In its highest single day surge in deaths, the district recorded 14 Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, taking the death toll to 496, while 202 new cases pushed the infection count to 12,598. Giving information about Covid in the district, Dr Ranjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the number of active cases was 1,937, while 11,042 patients had recovered. The Hoshiarpur city reported 16 new cases, while 167 were related to other health blocks in the district and remaining 19 were reported from other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-reports-14-deaths-highest-single-day-toll-since-outbreak-230897
27-03-2021||---||In Nawanshahr, residents support farmers, hit roads||Jalandhar, March 26Sab samajh chuke ne ki je desh da anndata barbaad hunda hai, taan desh barbaad ho jaayega, were the lines screamed by farmer leaders from protest sites during Bharat Bandh in Nawanshahr on Friday. Almost entire district remained closed and residents supported the bandh.The farmers sat at the Langroa bypass and made speeches against the BJP government throughout the day. It was a huge rally as people from all walks of life participated and came to listen to the speeches of farmer leaders.Eh ladai hun sirf kisaana di nai, balki Modi sarkar virudh poore desh di ladai bann gayi hai (Now, this fight has not limited to farmers only, but it has become a fight of the nation against the Modi government),” said Kirti Kisan Union leader Surinder Singh Bains.Other unions that participated in the bandh were Istri Jagriti Manch, Auto Workers’ Union and Arhtiya Association. Members of the aforesaid unions supported the bandh and union leaders took turns to encourage people to raise their voices against the present government. On March 23, a mahasabha was held in Nawanshahr to mark the martyrdom of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru.Balbir Singh Rajewal, leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, had announced from the stage and garnered support for the March 26 Bharat Bandh.He had said: “The Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) is a cunning government that has surpassed every other government in hatching conspiracies.”“More than 3,000 agents have been appointed by the BJP in their IT cell, and the purpose is to malign the image of farmers and their leadership. Their work is to mislead gullible people, but we should not let this happen at any cost,” he said.Another farmer leader Dr Darshan Pal also made a scathing attack on the government: “A total of 300 farmers have already lost their lives in four months.” “This morcha has failed the conspiracy of the Modi government to divide Hindu-Muslim and divide the states. We are not here to form any party, but we are here to abolish the three farm laws,” he added.One of the farmer leaders from Haryana asked the Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi to remove the spectacles of owners of the corporate houses, like that Adani and Ambani, and then watch Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev in the youngsters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-nawanshahr-residents-support-farmers-hit-roads-230898
27-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Bharat Bandh: Hoshiarpur markets, roads wear a deserted look||Hoshiarpur, March 26The Bharat Bandh evoked huge response in Hoshiarpur and surrounding areas on Friday. In Hoshiarpur city and other towns of the district, shopkeepers voluntarily closed their shops and fully supported farmers’ movement against the three farm laws.Roads, markets, mandis and bus stands, among others remained deserted. Various farm unions organised protests on Hoshiarpur-Phagwara road, Naloiyan Chowk, Lachowal toll plaza, Adda Bagpur-Satour on Dasuya road, Nangal Shaheedan toll plaza on Chandigarh road, Nasrala, Bullowal and Garhdiwala Mangarh toll plaza.Along with this, main dana mandi and sabzi mandi of Hoshiarpur were completely affected. Meanwhile, some banks opened in the morning, but were closed by farmers. Public and private buses remained off the roads, thus causing heavy inconvenience to passengers.The police had made complete arrangements to maintain law and order. Several check points were set up by the district police, which were monitored by SSP Navjot Singh Mahal.Farm leader Gurdeep Singh Khunkhun said the call for the Bharat Bandh has received massive response from all sections of society. He said shopkeepers of Hoshiarpur city and towns were standing shoulder to shoulder with farmers.In Garhshankar, chemists, grocery and taverns remained closed in the city. Those going for ‘Hola Mohalla’ and ambulances were allowed to reach their respective destinations by agitating farmers.The roads wore a deserted look and a small number of vehicles could be seen plying. Mahilpur, Chabbewal, Jhungian, Pandori Beet and Samundra remained completely closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bharat-bandh-hoshiarpur-markets-roads-wear-a-deserted-look-230899
27-03-2021||---||Life disrupted as bandh evokes huge response in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, March 26The Bharat Bandh call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha today coincided with completion of four months of their ongoing protest at borders of Delhi saw a massive support from all sections of society.Shopkeepers, industrialists, transporters, educational institutes, lawyers, dairy operators and street vendors extended full support to farmers who have been agitating against the Centre to repeal three controversial agri laws.As the markets remained closed, highways were completely blocked using tractor-trailers. Only ambulances and emergency vehicles were allowed to reach their destinations. Buses remained completely off the road and rail traffic, too, remained paralysed. Even internal lanes of the city saw very little traffic.Farmers, farm labourers, arhtiyas and activists, took out a rally in the city on tractors, cars and two-wheelers. They carried banners and raised slogans against the Centre. Women participated in Bharat Bandh in large numbers and sat on roads, railway tracks and important intersections of the city.Some supporters also got public sector banks, including Punjab National Bank and SBI, forcefully shut. Bankers agreed to close down the business for civilians, while they continued to work inside due to the closing of financial year.Some youngsters also got shops and telecom company’s offices forcibly shut. Tehsil Complex, which was functioning as usual and had around 50 applicants waiting to deposit cash for registries was closed. Tehsidar was forced to ask the applicants to come some other day. The applicants got a bit panicky initially.The main protest site was PAP Chowk where farmers started to assemble in huge numbers since early morning. Members of all main organisations, including the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Kisan Mazdoor Union and Kirti Kisan Union.Shopkeepers and youth gathered at Model Town and held a silent protest in favour of farmers. They stood at various intersections holding placards ‘No farmers, No food’ and assured farming community that they would continue to extend them support.Lawyers held a protest outside the judicial complex where members of the District Bar Association gave speech in favour of farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/life-disrupted-as-bandh-evokes-huge-response-in-jalandhar-230889
27-03-2021||Jalandhar||No change in curfew timings in Jalandhar||‘Make best use of ECI’s apps’Kapurthala: DC-cum-District Election Officer Deepti Uppal has asked residents of the district to avail maximum of three mobile applications launched by the Election Commission for convenience of voters. She said through the Voter Helpline App, any person who is turning 18 years of age on January 1, 2022 and is a resident of Kapurthala district, can apply for vote. The e-epic can also be downloaded through this app, but it’s only for registered voters between 18 years and 19 years during 2021. Through Garuda app, BLOs can register, delete votes and make corrections. In addition, anyone with a disability can apply to cast their vote through the PWD app. She said more information can be through toll-free number 1950. TNSTV show to focus on govt schoolsJalandhar: A special programme will be aired on DD Punjabi from March 27 to inform about achievements and changes in the infrastructure of government schools. The programme will shown every Saturday and Sunday from 3.30 pm to 4 pm under the title ‘Navian Pairhaan’. It will provide district-wise information about the infrastructure of government schools, modern-teaching techniques, achievements of students and facilities being provided to students. The programme will update people about the government schools, besides playing an important role to motive parents to enrol their kids in the government schools. TNSDC inspects oxygen plantJalandhar: DC Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday inspected newly developed oxygen generation plant at the Civil Hospital. He said the administration has appointed permanent staff to operate and supervise the functioning of the plant to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen to patients at the Covid Care Centre. Four technical operators and supervisors will oversee the plant, he added. Thori said plant having 700-LPM capacity started in December last year at a cost of Rs 88.20 lakh, has been given to a Jalandhar-based private firm adding the plant would produce 225-230 oxygen cylinders daily. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-change-in-curfew-timings-in-jalandhar-230893
27-03-2021||---||Covid-19: Second wave wreaking havoc, 118 deaths reported in fortnight in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, March 26The coronavirus situation in Jalandhar has been getting scarier each day. As many as 494 new cases were detected on Friday with 13 deaths reported due to infection.The death toll has touched an alarming number of 118 in Jalandhar in just a fortnight. The total toll stood at 755 as on March 12 which went up to 873 in just two weeks. While the number of active cases stood at 1,356 a fortnight back, today it stands at all-time high of 3,116. As many as 4,507 cases have come up in just two weeks time.There has been practically no control over the spread of the disease despite the fact that the schools and colleges across the state were ordered to be shut by the state government since the past one week. The ongoing vaccination drive, too, is being sped up but still there little impact of the same on the rising numbers.Doctors treating patients have said that while more cases were being reported from urban areas in the first wave, now the number was more from rural areas. They also said that younger lot was reporting moderate to severe forms of symptoms. A Civil Hospital doctor shared that a 22-year-old boy, without comorbidity, reached hospital in a serious condition and had to be directly taken under ventilator.There are also reports that the patients and their families are not following the quarantine norms and are going to bazaars and attending public functions, which is a bigger cause of concern. IMA National vice-president Dr Navjot Dahiya said, “Stricter actions need to be taken against all those violating norms. More awareness ought to be spread on the need for early detection and timely medication.”ADC (D) Vishesh Sarangal opined, “Clearly, the second wave has been bigger and dangerous. More deaths are being reported as the patients are ignoring initial symptoms and reaching hospital only when their condition gets serious. The footfall at the vaccination sites is also somehow less and we are urging more people to come forward for the jab.”Admn calls for increasing bed capacity by 30%Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar Ghanshyam Thori on Friday exhorted all 19 private Covid care hospitals to increase their bed capacity by 30 per cent with immediate effect. He said with consistent efforts of administration as many as 50 additional beds have been arranged in 10 key Covid care hospitals which would take the number to 141 from the existing 91. Sarvodya Hospital and New Ruby Hospital have added five beds each while Patel Hospital has added nine. Besides, eight beds have increased at Sacred Heart Hospital, six at Johal Hospital, two each at Cardionova and Ghai Hospital, 12 at SGL Hospital, 10 at Caremax Hospital, and 17 at Shriman Super Specialty Hospital.Acceding to the demands of all private Covid care centres, district administration has assured availability of ventilators and HNFC for free of cost. Thori said that the administration has already requested health department to provide 30 ventilators and 31 HNFCs according to the demand flagged by the private hospitals.Mobile vaccination drive to start todayAs a part of various measures being taken by the district administration to check the rise of cases, it has been decided to start a special vaccination drive with its launch from bus stand and Industrial Area on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday directed health officials to launch mobile vaccination campaign in different areas of the city for the facilitation of general public. The DC said the mobile van would go into different localities for on-the-spot vaccination camps to provide inoculation facilities at doorsteps.Under this initiative, the beneficiaries need not book slots in advance. He said now health teams will visit particular area/factory/village/residential society or private establishments, where the eligible beneficiaries would be inoculated.Urging people to shun hesitance to get vaccinated, the DC said inoculation was necessitated amid current Covid situation so all the eligible beneficiaries should come forward for it. He said that it would not only boost the immunity in beneficiaries but also infuse a sense of confidence among them.Website for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-second-wave-wreaking-havoc-118-deaths-reported-in-fortnight-in-jalandhar-district-230896
