29-03-2021||Owing to inferior quality of water||If water saves precious life, it can also snuff out one||MC has failed to fulfil aspirationsAs water is one of the most essential substances on earth to maintain human health and sustenance, it is imperative that the water which people drink and use for other purposes should be clean and free from germs, chemicals and other pollutants. History bears witness that a large number of people from different communities around the world have fallen prey to contaminated water. The overwhelmingly poor Water Quality Index (WQI) in Punjab has raised serious concerns among residents. Ruefully, this elixir of life delivered by the municipal authorities in towns and cities across the state is neither sufficient nor potable, courtesy continuous population pressure, growth of unplanned and unapproved colonies, faulty water supply and sewerage layouts, use of sub-standard material, rampant corruption, apathetic official attitude, etc. People are becoming increasingly aware and make sure that drinking water is safe. But despite regular complaints and protests against insufficient and contaminated water supply, the MCs have failed to fulfil their aspirations. They do little or nothing concrete to routinely check water supplies for germs, parasites and toxic elements; to stop choking of sewerage pipes during rainy season and mixing of dirty and drinking water; to provide for proper water treatment such as chlorination and other methods of disinfection; to repair the old, rusted, broken and leaking pipes in time; and contain the gross wastage of water to tide over its shortage. Unlike the well-off, the poor people are unable to either install ROs in their houses or buy water bottles from the market. Isn’t it the duty of civic bodies to provide low-cost, reliable access to safe drinking water and reduce the onslaught of several preventable water-borne diseases and maintain public health? It is a considered opinion that these authorities are too slow to wake up and solve the multiple problems confronting the residents.DS KangCivic bodies must come up with new mechanismThe issue of supply of contaminated water is a very serious issue as it is a big threat for expanding water-borne diseases among the residents. As the officials of the Municipal Corporation leave no stone unturned to take adequate action against the complaint in regard to the contaminated water but they are helpless sometimes due to the non availability of galvanised pipes, etc. The reason is the underground water pipelines in some areas of the city are more than 50 to 60 years old, due to rust the pipes are punctured and leakage of joints follows. It needs replacement or laying of a new parallel line for safe drinking water. Secondly, the mixing of sewerage water with the drinking water pipeline is serious because when the tubewell is shut down, due to the reverse pressure the sewerage water enters the pipe line from leaking points. When water supply is resumed the dirty water in pipeline gushes through the taps of the residents. Similarly, the MC should be very strict during release of new connection while joining the water supply to a house. The pipeline has to be of superior quality and joints sealed to prevent leakage. Jalandhar is now in the category of Smart City, the MC should make a new mechanism wherein the water line is more than 50 to 60 years old another one in the opposite direction of the sewerage line be laid so that the problem of mixing of murky with the drinking water is zero per cent. Positive steps should be taken by the MC and this sensitive issue will certainly yield positive results in future.Rajat Kumar Mohindru QUESTIONThere is an increase in death rate in the district. People without masks are already on radar of the health and police departments. But, do you think the administration is taking enough steps towards maintaining social distancing at public places?Improvement in sanitation requiredSanitation is necessary to stay healthy and disease free. Improve sanitation facilities by providing toilets and latrines that flush into a sewer or safe enclosure. Promote good hygiene habits through education. Proper hand-washing with soap and water can reduce diarrhoea cases by up to 35 per cent. Unsafe drinking water, high density living, open defection are the some causes of poor sanitation. When planning for a long-term waste management solution, sanitation solutions are required to minimise the spread of diseases which also include sanitation facilities, hand-washing facilities with soap and water, operation and maintenance regimes and community education. It is necessary to invest in the sanitation issues for the present as well as future as sanitation can save the lives. It is important for all, helping to maintain health and increase life-spans. However, it is especially important for children.Akshar Kumar SinglaGovernment needs to pull up MCsIt’s very topical and appropriate that The Tribune has raised the issue of water on the World Water Day. Water is essential to life. The pollution of air and water endangers the life of the people. Many people died of contaminated water as happened because of cholera outbreak which occurred in Phagwara and Nawanshahar a few years back. Even Napoleon died of water poisoning because the island where he was incarcerated, after his defeat in the Waterloo, had arsenic below the water resources. So, the water he was given to drink was laced with arsenic. In our cities also the MCs hardly clean the water tanks regularly. The water that comes from the taps in our homes has many impurities in it. Sometime back I wrote to the MC Kapurthala about contaminated water supply but there was no response, such is the apathetic attitude of the MCs all over Punjab no wonder that many people suffer from diarrhea and dysentery and have to spend a lot of money on treatments. In the Americas and Europe the water supplied is so pure and clean one can drink it from any tap on the airport and shopping malls. While here, people have to install purifiers of different companies to get safe drinking water and also for cooking food. The government needs to pull up and warn the MCs to supply safe and pure drinking water to the people.Dr JS WadhwaWater scarcity has hit alarming stageAmong other basic needs, air and water are two vital essentials for survival. Our scriptures highlight the significance of these natural resources nicely as ‘pawan guru, pani pita’. Although the nature has gifted these resources abundantly for the sustenance of living organisms, yet it is the core responsibility of each one of us to preserve them free from pollution, exploitation. While clean environment and pure water help us most to keep diseases at bay, it is worrisome that underground water table is continuously depleting in many areas due to reckless wastage and excessive usages. Keeping in view the vitality of water, without which life is not possible, World Water Day is observed on March 22 every year, where prime agenda remains to raise awareness and its preservation for the sustenance of mankind. In our country, water scarcity in some states has reached alarming dimensions, which ought to be given foremost attention under a strategic planning like constructing recharge borewells, diversification of water-guzzling crops, sewerage treatment plants, rain harvesting and minor irrigation projects, etc. In urban areas, it is the prime duty of civic bodies/municipal authorities to provide regular supply of pure water and maintain environment in localities, which very often they lack to do. As such, the issue of cleanliness, pollution and particularly of limited supply of water free from contamination has been troubling the residents in almost all cities. The public complaints regarding leakage of water pipes, timely maintenance of water pump-sets, sewerage disposal, etc are rarely attended to promptly. At many places, water is polluted and supply so erratic that households have to install filters/ ROs for making it drinkable and dug own submersibles at heavy expenses. Thereby, the residents have to suffer despite being charged by the municipal corporations for supply of such amenities. It is, therefore, paramount for the civic bodies to manage water and sanitation efficiently and provide the same adequately to all the citizens.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathSincerity on part of MC integralEvery citizen’s access to water and sanitation are recognised by the United Nations as human rights, reflecting the fundamental nature of these basic requirements. Lack of access to safe, sufficient and affordable water has a devastating effect on the health, dignity and prosperity of every human being. Most human civilizations have entrusted these vital tasks to local governing bodies which are genuinely expected to perform them to the entire satisfaction of their residents. However, it is generally observed that majority of their constant complaints pertain to inadequate, insufficient and contaminated water supply in most of the areas. Providing pure and clean water at affordable cost without any supply restrictions, supported by effective and speedy complaints redressal system should be at the top of the priorities of any local administration. Any complaint pending for more than stipulated period should attract immediate attention of a nodal officer entrusted to ensure compliance with zero tolerance and to take suitable action against the erring staff.JAGDISH CHANDERWater gives life, water takes lifeThere is contaminated water and limited supply has troubled residents in various parts, in some areas the supply is only for one hour or two and that too not worthy of drinking water, because of industrial waste, garbage, untreated sewage and chemicals. Food made from this water can cause food poisoning and can trigger transmission of diseases such as cholera, diarrhoea, dysentery, typhoid and polio. Water gives life, water takes life. It is the duty of the government to ensure clean and filtered water supply free from contamination. Rural population is more at risk from water-borne diseases. Everybody can’t afford to have an RO or water filters. Try to install a big water filter for the community to have clean drinking water. Some big NGOs can also help in this cause. Sad but true, on one side so much bottled and clean water is wasted in hotels and marriage parties and other functions, and on the other side a section of people are dying in need of clean water. Value water, there is no life without it.SHASHI KIRANWater safety plans are seldom implementedWater is called the elixir of life but contaminated water has the potential to play havoc with the lives of the residents and the limited and erratic supply can put normal life out of gear. Thousands have lived without love, not one without water. We all know well that water is crucial for life even then we trash it anyway. Whether the MC is acting on the complaints and taking swift action or not, what is important is that water gets contaminated by untreated sewage, practice of bathing and washing near water bodies, throwing chemical waste and dumping agricultural waste into water. This is the area which remains neglected and breeds contamination. Hence, the purification systems should be improved drastically. For that, effective sanitation practices are necessary to produce safe drinking water. It should be ensured that clean drinking water has a balanced PH level, should be contaminant-free and rich with healthy, naturally occurring minerals. WHO produces international norms on water quality that are used as the basis for regulation standard setting worldwide. But water safety plans are seldom implemented and rarely meet even the national standards. No wonder, the unsafe water kills more people than war and all other forms of violence combined. So, it is the primary duty of the authorities to provide safe drinking water to the residents by abandoning its lackadaisical attitude. Water supply has a propensity to be affected by pressures on both the supply and demand sides which exposes vulnerabilities. Large-scale impact on supply would occur from altered ground water levels. Therefore, optimal management of water resources should be heeded if the scarce supply is to be overcome. City’s water supply structure includes surface water diversions, wells, pumps, transmission pipes, treatment and storage facilities and distribution network elements. Obviously protecting source water to reduce the presence of contaminants assumes greater importance. Of course drinking water sources are finite but the MC should make the most of them to tide over the limited supply trouble. Above all the complaints should be redressed promptly and swift action should be taken to ameliorate the lot of harried complainants. The residents at large are not satisfied with the way complaints are addressed. So, the MC ought to be complaisant to take prompt action in this regard.Tarsem S BumrahPoints ought to be noted! Ankur Gupta||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/if-water-saves-precious-life-it-can-also-snuff-out-one-232053
29-03-2021||Jalandhar||Farmers burn agri law copies||Goods worth Rs4 lakh stolenPhagwara: Loot and theft incidents have been going on unabated in Phagwara. The latest incident came to light on Sunday after thieves targeted a flat at GI Flats on Dosanjh Kala Road here and fled with goods worth Rs4 lakh. Flat owner Ajay Jain said he lives in his GI flats at Block 401, Block B. He was in Chandigarh with his family for the past 15 days and when he returned this evening, he found the locks of his flat broken. Things were scattered and all valuables were missing. He said the miscreants fled with jewelery and other belongings. He suffered a loss of Rs4 lakh. Surprisingly, the watchman and the security staff were on their duty when the incident took place. TNSStudent wins int’l music e-contestJalandhar: Arvinder Singh of Lyallpur Khalsa College ranked first in classical non percussion (Sarangi) event in international music e-competition held at Guru Angad Dev College, Khadur Sahib, Taran Taran. College Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra said the e-competition was dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur. He said artists from countries ranging from Canada to Sri Lanka participated in the event. TNSGood Samaritans to be honouredJalandhar: The Education Department has asked school principals to write names of people or the NGOs who have contributed towards the development of their institutes on display boards. The decision was taken after holding review meeting. Notably, several NRIs, Good Samaritans and NGOs come forward to improve infrastructure of the government schools. TNSRs30 lakh property tax collectedJalandhar: Property tax wing of the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation remained open till 2.30 pm on Sunday. On Saturday, the department officials recovered Rs 30 lakh in taxes. Officials decided to meet the target of the property tax till March 31. As a result, they worked on weekend. Properties of defaulters were sealed on Saturday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-burn-agri-law-copies-231955
29-03-2021||---||3 sewer jetting, 16 grab bucket de-silting machines put to use in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, March 28Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary today launched three sewer jetting and 16 grab bucket desilting machines at a special function held here in the industrial estate area. He was accompanied by MLA Jalandhar North Bawa Henry, MLA Jalandhar West Sushil Kumar Rinku and MLA Jalandhar Central Rajinder Beri along with Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja.The machines have been procured at a cost of Rs 3 crore under the Smart City Mission.MP Santokh Chaudhary said in a bid to end the practice of manual scavenging, the Jalandhar MC has collaborated with Smart City Mission and adopted technological solutions. “These machines will make the process of cleaning the clogged sewage lines easier and help us achieve the goal of a swachh Jalandhar faster,” he said.The MP said these de-silting machines were smaller and could be used in narrow lanes also. The Smart City Mission will operate and maintain sewer jetting machines for four years, while the grab bucket desilting machines will be maintained by the Municipal Corporation. Senior Deputy Mayor Surinder Kaur and XEN Surinder Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-sewer-jetting-16-grab-bucket-de-silting-machines-put-to-use-in-jalandhar-231956
29-03-2021||---||8 deaths, 497 positive cases reported in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, March 28As the district is witnessing surge in the Covid-19 cases, data obtained from RT-PCR tests conducted recently revealed that more than 70 per cent samples collected in Doaba have UK variant B.1.1.7. In addition, doctors of the Civil Hospital said most of these RT-PCR samples were from Jalandhar district.The health authorities reported 497 new cases and eight Covid-19 related deaths on Sunday. At present, 56 patients (level two) and 34 persons (level three) were admitted to the hospital. A total of 12 critical patients were on ventilator support.Indicating on the spike, officials said even during the first peak, not more than 10 patients were on ventilators.District Covid in-charge Paramjit Singh said the new variant was more lethal, thus raising the need of non-invasive ventilation for oxygen support.Examining the current trend of the caseload, Paramjit said the second peak can be expected after April 7. Expressing concern over the emerging situation, doctors stressed upon the need to vaccinate beneficiaries and adherence to the Covid safety protocols, including wearing masks and practising social distancing.At present, there were around 100 vaccination centres and 200 more may come up after April 1. Deputy Commisioner Ghanshyam Thori appealed beneficiaries to get inoculated without any delay. The Covid vaccines are reportedly equally effective against the UK variant.Vaccination drive for arhtiyas, labourersKapurthala: The district administration has launched a massive campaign to ensure vaccination for arhtiyas, hoteliers, labourers in grain markets and shopkeepers from Tuesday onwards. The shots will be at administered more than 100 spots. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal and SSP Kanwardeep Kaur held meetings with the Shopkeepers' Association, Arhtiya Association and hotel owners, to discuss the vaccination process, besides seeking cooperation from them. Due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the administration has expedited the vaccination process.ADC ensures vaccination of his staffJalandhar: Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal on Sunday took the lead by ensuring vaccination to all his staff at the Civil Hospital. Sarangal said the move aimed at encouraging other departments to come forward in line with the government guidelines. He said the vaccination was the only key to combat this pandemic as it would not only develop antibodies in people, but also infuse a sense of confidence among them. He exhorted beneficiaries to get vaccinated as soon as possible to ensure their safety from ill-effects of virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-deaths-497-positive-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-231962
29-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Experts rush to Hoshiarpur, review Covid preparedness at Civil Hospital||Hoshiarpur, March 28Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Sunday said the administration and the Health Department was taking essential steps to tackle the pandemic in the district. “Along with increasing the Covid-19 testing in the district, vaccination process has also been expedited,” said the Deputy Commissioner.She met a team of specialist doctors sent by the Punjab Government at the District Administrative Complex. The experts comprised Dr Vishwa Mohan, Dr RPS Sibia, Dr Amar and Dr Parminder Kumar. Additional Deputy Commissioner Amit Kumar Panchal was also present.The Deputy Commissioner apprised the experts of the latest situation in the district. She said a team of the Health Department was working round-the-clock to check the spread of the Covid-19.Later, the team of doctors visited the Covid Care Centre at the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital and took stock of the health facilities being provided to patients.Expressing satisfaction, the experts said all necessary arrangements have been made by the district administration and the Health Department to treat patients.Dr Mohan said the purpose of their visit was to improve the treatment process by discussing it with the local health teams. He said facilities and medicines for treatment were available in Hoshiarpur and staff was diligently fulfilling their responsibilities as per the protocol. Dr Sibia appealed people to get tested whenever they develop symptoms and contact the nearest health centre in case of any problem. He said in case a patient reaches late at the hospital, sometimes it’s not possible to recover. He asked residents to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the Health Department from time to time to contain the pandemic. He urged people to make the mask a part of their daily life and always wear it whenever stepping out of their house. “If we all follow these rules properly, we can largely tackle the pandemic,” he said.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said the process to vaccinate beneficiaries was going on smoothly and more than 71,000 people have been inoculated.“ I appeal the eligible beneficiaries to ensure that they get inoculated. From April 1, anyone above the age of 45 years can get the vaccine administered,” he said.Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Pawan Kumar, SMO Dr Jaswinder Singh and District Epidemiologist Dr Shailesh, were also present.Vaccination drive starts for kin of copsVaccination drive for family members of the police personnel started on Sunday at the Police Lines Hospital. As many as 333 beneficiaries, including 156 family members of the frontline workers were inoculated.Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal said the drive would continue to ensure their family members could be vaccinated.Mahal said the vaccine was being administered to eligible beneficiaries at the Police Lines Hospital from the very beginning with daily count of more than 300 doses.The District Health Officer and Senior Medical Officer, Police Lines Hospital, Dr Lakhveer Singh, said a total of 333 eligible beneficiaries received shots at the Police Lines and around 5,900 beneficiaries have been vaccinated, so far. 8 fall prey, 289 new cases in Hoshiarpur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/experts-rush-to-hoshiarpur-review-covid-preparedness-at-civil-hospital-231950
29-03-2021||---||Jalandhar  admn gets a step closer to improving quality of life of citizens||Jalandhar, March 28 The district administration, Jalandhar, has established a Public Policy and Good Governance Lab, in partnership with the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), to promote government and academia linkages that can facilitate and address the pressing social, economic, and governance challenges of the district. It is the first such initiative in the state where a platform is being created to facilitate and support government-academia linkages to address district-level public policy and public administration challenges. The lab would support the work of the existing policy cell established within the office of the Deputy Commissioner; Jalandhar, that facilitates evidence driven public administration by integrating technology into governance practices. “The Public Policy and Good Governance Lab would provide a unique platform for the youth across Punjab to gain guidance from renowned experts in the field of public policy and governance in India and contribute effectively to the socio-economic development of the district,” said Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy Commissioner.  He further added, “Covid-19 pandemic has shown that there is also a need to undertake research to support policy design feedback mechanisms from the grassroots to counter niche or regional challenges in governance.” Dr Aseem Prakash, Professor at School of Public Policy and Governance, who has conceptualised this initiative, added, “The new discourse of the public policy in India is district-oriented. Since the restructuring of the Planning Commission into the NITI Aayog, we have seen more freedom being given to federal states and districts to undertake innovative policy measures to increase efficiency in the public service delivery and to improve the quality of life of the citizens.” All projects and activities developed under the Public Policy and Good Governance Lab will be anchored at the School of Public Policy and Governance, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Hyderabad, off-campus. External expertise, technology collaborations, and human resources will be drawn from across schools and centres of TISS and other external organisations as and when required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-admn-gets-a-step-closer-to-improving-quality-of-life-of-citizens-231951
29-03-2021||---||Flower show is spreading fragrance at Virsa Vihar||Jalandhar, March 28Deputy Commissioner (Income Tax) Gagan Kundra Thori on Sunday inaugurated a maiden flower show at the local Virsa Vihar. The DC, accompanied by Major General Balwinder (retd) and Capt Inderjeet Singh Dhami (retd), said this was a path breaking initiative aimed at sprucing up activities at this socio-cultural hub of the district. She said the flower show would bring the city residents closer to the nature.Lauding the organisers for holding this mega event, the Deputy Commissioner said it was need of the hour to sensitise people on the grave issue of environment and making them equal partners in the process of enhancing the green cover. She said though the state and the Centre were already making strenuous efforts in this regard, public participation was must for this noble cause. The official asked the organisers to hold more such events so that it becomes a mass movement.Meanwhile, Major General (Retd) Balwinder Singh and Captain (Retd) Inderjeet Singh Dhami said this endeavour of Virsa Vihar was aimed at spreading positivity in the present environment and bring happiness. They said flower show was organised with the motive to ensure that people were sensitised on the issue of global warming and enhancing green cover. They said that Virsa Vihar would organise more such events in coming days for larger public participation. They said keeping in view the prevailing situation due to Covid-19, the gathering has been kept below 20.City residents at the flower show at Virsa Vihar in Jalandhar on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flower-show-is-spreading-fragrance-at-virsa-vihar-231952
29-03-2021||---||Maiden flight to Jaipur takes off from Adampur||Jalandhar, March 28After a hiatus of over two months, the Adampur-Mumbai flight services from the Adampur airport resumed on Sunday. Taking a step further, the airport authorities also launched their maiden air service to Jaipur.On the first day of the flight to Jaipur, a total of 21 passengers availed the service. While 15 passengers boarded the flight to Jaipur, seven passengers returned on the same flight. For the last two years, several announcements have been made to start the flight from Adampur to Jaipur. MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary, had also assured last year that from November 20, flights for three major cities, including Mumbai, Jaipur and New Delhi, would be operational but they could take off after a delay of 4 months. Similarly, the Spicejet service to Mumbai also resumed today. It was suspended on January 12, this year.Know the scheduleThe flight taking off from Mumbai to Adampur has been given a connecting route for Jaipur-Adampur route. The flight will first leave for Adampur from Mumbai Airport at 5.55 am and land here at 9.20 am. The same flight will leave from Adampur at 9.40 am and will land at Jaipur Airport at 10.55 am. After a halt of 30 minutes, the flight will leave Jaipur at 11.25 am and will reach here 12.50 am. After taking a break of 20 minutes, it will take off for Mumbai at 1.10 pm and reach Mumbai Airport at 4.35 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/maiden-flight-to-jaipur-takes-off-from-adampur-231953
