31-03-2021||---||256 positive in Kapurthala, 8 die||Kapurthala: As many as 256 persons were found to be coronavirus positive and eight persons died because of the infection in the district today. Among those who lost their lives were people above the age of 45 from rural areas including Littan, Panchhta, Chak Pandori, Rampur Jagir, Narangpur Shah and Saroopwal villages. The total death toll of the district is now 253 and the total cases have touched 8803.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/256-positive-in-kapurthala-8-die-232602
31-03-2021||---||A dash of colour & splash of joy||Jalandhar, March 30Holi was celebrated through virtual mode by most schools and colleges in the city. The authorities urged the students to celebrate the festival exercising all safety measures by using eco-friendly colours at home and not freaking out with friends in view of the Covid spread.Innocent Hearts College of EducationInnocent Hearts College of Education, Jalandhar, celebrated the festival of colours by organising online creative activities for students at home due to the surge in the Covid-19 cases. These competitions were conducted with the objective to increase awareness about playing safe Holi with precautionary measures. Spectacular vibrant pigments were displayed by students in the ‘Online poster making competition’.Amanpreet Kaur achieved first prize with her lively poster of Holi wishes and tips for playing it safely. All student-teachers felt very happy portraying hues with canvas which depicted that this festival dissolves the unseen barriers created by race, caste, creed, religion with its vivid colours. Kritika Maggo also bagged first prize by preparing a three-dimensional poster which conveyed the message of ‘Celebrating Safe Holi’ at home only, amidst Corona’.Natural eco-friendly colour-making competition was organised in which the students prepared beautiful shades in a very surprising manner with flowers and vegetables. Doras Malhotra achieved first prize by preparing organic colours in an artistic way.Ivy World SchoolIVY World School, under the aegis of the Vasal Education Society, celebrated Holi in the kindergarten wing. It turned out to be a day full of colours, excitement and wishes. A special virtual assembly was conducted wherein a beautiful skit was shown deciphering the importance of Holi and the safety measures required while playing Holi. Dressed in traditional attire, tiny tots were made aware to play Holi with organic colours, not to colour pets and play with flowers, among others. Students were also told about ‘Brijki Holi’ in Mathura and about Prahlad who loved God and whose aunt was Holika. The day was more memorable as all children of kindergarten enjoyed colourful activities such as blow painting, decorating pichkaris, balloon painting etc. S Chauhan, principal, Ivy World School, praised the efforts of the students by saying that Holi is the day to express love with colours and also implored them to play safe Holi by avoiding artificial colours. Director Ena Vasal encouraged kids to use natural products to celebrate Holi, including beetroot, henna and turmeric, among others.Kanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Mahavidyalaya celebrated an eco-friendly Holi in the college premises. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi along with the faculty members of the college celebrated Holi with the flowers to mark the festival of joy and happiness. During the celebration, sweets were distributed among all the staff members of the college. The students also made beautiful videos reciting songs dedicated to the festival of colours. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated one and all on this auspicious occasion. She averred that such festivities give a break from the monotonous routine and are therefore always welcomed. She further maintained that one gets acquainted with the rich culture and heritage of our Indian tradition by celebrating the festivals with each other in harmony. Prof Dwivedi appealed to everyone to celebrate Holi with all precautionary measures of Covid-19 so that everyone should remain healthy and happy.Hans Raj Maha VidyalayaThe Environment Club of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya celebrated organic Holi on the theme ‘Giving Back to Nature’ in an eco-friendly way. Skin safe colours obtained from herbs, shrubs and trees were used to play Holi with trees of the campus. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen said the goal of education was to promote sustainable development and it was their priority at HMV to give it back to the ecosystem. The motto behind colouring trees with eco-friendly colours is to feel closer to plants.Dean Academics Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur lauded the efforts and stressed that Holi was a festival to celebrate nature in all its hues, so the colours to be used in Holi should be natural. Dean Innovation and Research Dr Anjana Bhatia said in the times of the pandemic, the festivals should be celebrated in a safe manner. Faculty and the staff of HMV were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-dash-of-colour-splash-of-joy-232483
31-03-2021||---||Give unemployment allowance to youth retrospectively: YAD to CM||Kapurthala, March 30  The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to give unemployment allowance to all unemployed youth retrospectively from the day he assumed the office as Chief Minister. Addressing a huge rally under the ‘Youth Mangda Jawab’ campaign, YAD President Parambans Singh Romana said Capt Amarinder Singh had betrayed the youth by not providing Rs2,500 monthly unemployment allowance as promised by the Congress Party in its manifesto released for the 2017 Assembly elections. He said the Congress government should now provide this allowance to all unemployed youth retrospectively from the day Congress Government assumed the office. He said this is not the only promise which the Congress party and CM Capt Amarinder Singh failed to fulfill.  “The youth were promised jobs in each household. They were even asked to fill application forms which promised them jobs,” he said, adding that after the Congress party won the elections, no one in the government bothered about these forms or fulfilling the promise. Romana said just like the youth, even the farmers of the state were also the worst sufferers as CM failed to provide Rs90,000 crore loan waiver to them. He said promises made to the elderly on increasing old age pension had also met the same fate as Congress refused to increase pension during the last four years. He said the young girls who were promised Rs51,000 under the Shagun Scheme also met the same fate, as it was never implemented in the last four years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/give-unemployment-allowance-to-youth-retrospectively-yad-to-cm-232484
31-03-2021||---||Parents protest ‘overcharging’ by pvt schools||Jalandhar, March 30Three days after gheraoing a private school here, parents in large numbers intensified their protest against the private schools on Tuesday and took out a protest march in the city. Up in arms against the district administration’s failure to initiate action against the alleged high-handedness of the private schools, the agitators raised slogans against the private schools at the DC office. They also took out a bike rally from the Company Bagh Chowk to the District Administration Complex.Parents alleged that the schools were putting pressure on them to pay the fee in addition to the tuition fee. Upset over the practice of overcharging of fee, the parents claimed that they were being harassed by the school managements and the administration has failed to initiate any action against them.Angered over the monopoly of the school authorities, the parents said while the schools have already refused to release the results of the children who haven’t cleared their dues, the parents feared that their children’s access to online education might be suspended.Holding placards, Kamaljit Singh, whose son studies in Class VIII at a private school said, apart from the tuition fee, the school has also been asking for all fee components except transportation. Even the building fee was demanded from them. Everything is being adjusted in the tuition fee without any concession, he added.Similarly, Parghat Singh, whose son studies in Class XI said, “Contrary to the directions of the Supreme Court, the school management is not only demanding the building fee but also the practical fee for the whole year, whereas practicals were conducted for just two weeks.”Parents reported that the schools were blackmailing them on the pretext that if the fee wouldn’t be submitted, they would neither release the results of their wards nor promote them.“This is against the right to education and the Juvenile Justice Act. The schools can not harass children and affect their studies,” stated the protesters under the banner of the Parents Association, Jalandhar, which has over a thousand members on the social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-protest-overcharging-by-pvt-schools-232485
31-03-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Pandemic makes students turn to second-hand books||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 30Parents of Jaanvi, who has been recently promoted to Class V in a CBSE-affiliated school in Jalandhar, have not bought her new books for the forthcoming session. Jaanvi is contended on getting books donated by her seniors. The books are quite clean, without much scribbling.Content not revisedThe books were not put to proper use in the last session as children hardly went to school. Very few publishers have revised the content this time and most kids are happy to use old books.— Jasmine, a parent and activistSonia, a mother of a child studying in an ICSE school, too, is looking for second-hand books for her daughter, a Class VIII student. She has been using a WhatsApp group of parents for a possible donor. The financial condition of the family is not good, due to losses incurred during the lockdown.The pandemic has made people aware of the practice of recycle and reuse. As most families are reusing every discarded material, including old tyres, plasticware, cane sticks and wraps, same is the case with books. It is common to see parents arranging for books for the new session via social media platforms. Many have also announced they want to donate their schoolbooks of their children of the last year and undersize uniforms, and are seeking responses from takers.Some schools and teachers have also begun assisting the needy parents in arranging books for their wards. As schools are holding parents’ meet, they have been sending messages to parents asking for voluntary donation of books of the previous session.Jasmine, a parent and an activist, said: “It is indeed a good trend to donate books. The books were not put to proper use in the last session as children hardly went to school and we really don’t know what is in store for the next session. Very few publishers have revised the content this time and most kids are happy to use old books as all their friends are doing it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-makes-students-turn-to-second-hand-books-232486
31-03-2021||---||3 held for killing truck driver, cleaner||Phagwara, March 30Solving a blind murder case that took place on March 22 at the Phagwara highway, the Kapurthala police on Tuesday held three accused and recovered an illegal weapon from their possession.IG Jalandhar Range Ranbir Singh Khatra and SSP Kapurthala Kanwardeep said an unidentified man was shot dead by some unknown persons on March 22 and his body was recovered from Satnampura police station. Following this, a case was registered at the Satnampura Phagwara police station. Keeping in view the seriousness of the matter, various police teams were formed to trace the case.After investigation, the culprits were identified as Harjot Singh, a resident of Jandiala Guru, Amandeep, alias Aman Dana, a resident of Ghanupur Kale village Police Station, Chheharta, Amritsar and Fateh Singh alias Fata, a resident of Ghariala village, Tarn Taran district.The investigation revealed that the accused killed two persons on the highway. On March 14, the deceased (a truck driver and cleaner) had left for Radha Swami Dera Beas from Ludhiana on their truck loaded with iron pipes.The accused were on a different truck and were chasing both of them. After reaching the spot, they shot the driver and the cleaner dead and dumped their bodies at different places.The deceased has been identified as driver Roop Chand and Kalender Vinay Kumar, both the residents of Gaya, Bihar.Two trucks, a .32 bore pistol, live cartridges, and 13.50 tons of iron pipes were recovered from the possession of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-held-for-killing-truck-driver-cleaner-232487
31-03-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Residents take leap of faith as vax fears dissipate||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, March 30In Nawanshahr, the health officials said the apprehensions and fear regarding the Covid vaccines have now started to disappear. The vaccination centres have gone up to 53 in the district, 47 of which are government-run and remaining are private centres.Residents in the district have now started developing confidence to get vaccinated.The health officials had to adopt various measures, approach the eligible residents and so on. Now, people have started coming on their own for the jab.Gurdeep Singh Kapur, the Civil Surgeon, said, “We are seeing that people are trusting vaccination. This is what we wanted, the cases are on rise and deaths are increasing. People should get themselves inoculated to avoid contracting the virus.”On Tuesday, a total of 78 cases were reported in the district, of which 17 were reported from block Muzaffarpur, 15 from Urban Nawanshahr, and Sujjon each. At present, the total number of active cases is 716.Seven deaths were also reported in the district. A 70-year-old woman from Balachaur, an 80-year-old man from Urban Nawanshahr, another 65-year-old from Sujjon, Nawanshahr, and Muzzafarpur each died. With 194 deaths to date, the death rate in the district is 2.68 per cent.In the district, the officials had been ensuring to release all information regarding those who have received the jab just to motivate others who are still afraid of inoculation. Every day, nearly four to five press releases are circulated by the department officials wherein the details of those who were injected are given. The idea is to inculcate positivity among the people of the district so that they don’t avoid inoculation. In the press release, a special line is always mentioned ie ‘Covid-19 vaccine poori tarah surakshit hai, koi side effect nahi hai’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-take-leap-of-faith-as-vax-fears-dissipate-232488
31-03-2021||---||Holi revelers subjected to  undergo Covid tests in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, March 30Masti and fun planned by Holi revellers turned unsavoury as more than 100 youngsters who were moving about in the city on their bikes sans masks during Holi celebrations were taken to task by the city police.The cops and the health teams deployed at various intersections stopped such youth and made them undertake Covid tests. Drenched with colours and water, the boys were made to sit for sometime till they all got their turn to take the tests. The boys pleaded that they be allowed to go and enjoy the festival but the cops did not spare them and told everyone to ensure that their masks were on.A local ADCP said that the idea behind the action was basically a deterrant on youth from indulging in too much of frolicking during the festival which could led to a further spread of the disease.Vaccination starts at Market Committee OfficeKapurthala: In Kapurthala district, 42 more Health and Wellness Centers witnessed start of vaccination today to cover the 'Super Spreader' category to intensify the vaccination campaign for the prevention of covid. Thus, vaccination is now being carried out at a total of 73 places in the district. Vaccination under Super Spreader category also started today at Market Committee Office in Dana Mandi. SDM Varinderpal Singh Bajwa and District Mandi Officer Arvinder Singh said that vaccination camp has been started at the Market Committee Office in view of large number of artiyas , farmers and laborers during the coming wheat season. Apart from this these camps would also be started in other market committees and mandis. Meanwhile, District Immunization Officer Dr. Randeep Singh said that today vaccination facility has also been started in 42 Health Wellness Centers of the district where eligible persons can get vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/holi-revelers-subjected-to-undergo-covid-tests-in-jalandhar-232489
31-03-2021||---||Mobile vaccination camps at Maqsudan mandi, Focal Point||Jalandhar, March 30 Strengthening the vaccination drive in the district, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today inaugurated two new mobile vaccination camps in the city at Maqsudan Sabji Mandi and Focal Point.While kickstarting these camps, the DC stated that the camp at Sabji Mandi would provide on-the-spot vaccination facilities to masses visiting this place while the second camp held at Victor Forging industry would ensure participation of the industrial workforce in this mega vaccination drive.The DC mentioned that more mobile vaccination camps would be planned in the coming days to provide inoculation facilities at the doorstep of eligible beneficiaries. He ordered health officials to start new mobile camps for Industry besides integrating nearby session sites with it.Meanwhile, the DC held a virtual meeting with the local industry, in whuch as many as 50 prominent industrialists participated. Thori solicited industries' support for the vaccination drive and urged them to encourage their eligible workforce to come forward for the inoculation. He said that from April 1, persons aged 45 and above would be able to receive a vaccine jab as the government has removed the condition of co-morbidity for people of this age group.The DC further asked the General Manager Industries Deep Singh Gill to prepare a database of eligible beneficiaries from the industry so that a viable mechanism could be evolved to ensure vaccination to all of them. He mentioned that the maximum inoculation in the industries would help stem the virus spread.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mobile-vaccination-camps-at-maqsudan-mandi-focal-point-232492
31-03-2021||---||20 lose life in 2 days in Jalandhar dist as toll crosses 900-mark||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 30Showing an escalating trend, the fatality rate in the district continued to rise. While 20 persons succumbed to the virus in two days, the death toll crossed 900-mark. In the last 30 days as many as 201 people lost their lives. In addition, the caseload of active cases has also crossed 3,000-mark taking the count to 3,079.Whereas 360 people tested positive on the occasion of Holi, 302 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. With this the total number of confirmed cases reported in the district has reached to 29,364. Also, seven patients couldn’t respond to the treatment and died on Tuesday. Even as the testing process reported to have intensified in the month of March, maximum number of cases has been reported this month only. The count reached to 3,079 from 527.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-lose-life-in-2-days-in-jalandhar-dist-as-toll-crosses-900-mark-232528
31-03-2021||---||10 deaths in Hoshiarpur due to Covid-19||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, March 30The district on Tuesday reported 10 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 535. Meanwhile, the district witnessed 188 fresh cases of infections, taking the tally to 13,449.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said, on Sunday, the reports of 1,547 samples were received and out of them, 166 new cases were reported while 22 more patients were reported from other districts. The number of active cases stood at 1,665 while 12,206 patients recovered. Hoshiarpur reported 16 new cases while the remaining ones were reported from various health blocks of the district.Of the 10 deaths reported due to the virus on Tuesday, six patients died at private hospitals in Jalandhar, while one each died at different hospitals in Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Mohali and Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-deaths-in-hoshiarpur-due-to-covid-19-232529
31-03-2021||Jalandhar||Student shines in e-competition||Moot court contest heldThe 9th RC Chopra Memorial National Court Competition hosted by St Soldier Law College came to a close with the team from Symbiosis Law School Hyderabad winning the competition by bagging Winner Trophy and cash prize of Rs. 11,000. Saumya Tripathi from the team also won the title of Best Student Advocate thereby claiming a trophy and cash prize of Rs 2,100. The team from University Institute of Legal Studies Panjab University Chandigarh was adjudged the first runner up winning trophy and a cash prize of Rs 5,100. Gauri Chander Kaushal of this team was given the consolation prize of Best Student Advocate. The team from Department of Legal Studies, Kurukshetra University, won the prize of Best Researcher getting a trophy and cash prize of Rs. 2,100.There were five knock out rounds of the competition in which 32 teams from 13 states, representing all regions of the country, participated. The finals were held before the Bench of Justice Kuldip Singh and BK Mehta. The college director Dr Subhash Sharma informed that the teams are given a moot problem on which there is no final decision of the Supreme Court. St Soldier Group Chairman Anil Chopra and Sangeeta Chopra congratulated the winning teams, appreciated the effort of college and hoped that next competition shall be physical. They thanked the judges for sparing their valuable timeWorld Theatre Day celebratedKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated World Theatre Day with full zeal and enthusiasm. The celebration was organised by the department of student welfare. A competition on acting skills was organised in which students from all the streams participated. The students - Khushi, Nirbhi, Aarzoo, Gurdev, Jasmine, Harleen and Vajinder made their videos enacting various roles such as teacher, mime artist, mental patient, old lady, arrogant rich woman and preacher to showcase their acting and drama skills. The winners of the competition were also honoured for their brilliant performances. The students also remembered different world renowned theatre artistes namely William Shakespeare, Konstantin Stanislavsky, Lee Strasberg and Laurence Olivier. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that KMV from time to time keeps on organising such meaningful activities and also keeps on developing the culture of performing arts in the form of music, dance and theatre in the college campus by organising various competitions and activities. The Principal congratulated the students and lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, Head, PG Department of English, and Dean, Department of Student Welfare, for organising the celebrations and encouraging the students to pursue the fascinating art of theatre.Hans raj students bring laurelsThe students of SSC-I from Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya made their institute proud by their outstanding performance in final exams. In humanities, Vanshita Mahindru won the first position by securing 96.8% marks, Jasneet Dhanjal got the second position by securing 96.2% marks and Arzoo Dhawan got the third position by securing 94.6% marks. In commerce stream, Shamli Sharma won the first position by securing 97.8% marks, Tania Verma got the second position by securing 92% marks and Damini Sharma got the third position by securing 90.8% marks. In medical stream, Diya Ahuja won the first position by securing 88% marks. In non-medical stream, Tamanna won the first position by securing 91.8% marks, Smriti won the second position by securing 91.2% and Ira Bhatia got third position by securing 90.2% marks. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen appreciated the efforts of achievers. School coordinator Meenakshi Sayal also congratulated the students.Poshan PakhwadaThe NSS wing in collaboration with Home Science of Apeejay College of Fine Arts went to Unique Home to create awareness amongst the kids regarding healthy diet under the scheme ‘Poshan Pakhwada’ – an initiative by Government of India. The NSS volunteers interacted with the kids about the necessity of healthy diet rich in carbohydrates, proteins, vitamins, minerals, iron as it strengthens the immunity, which is an armour against Covid 19. Through various charts, posters, riddles and fun games, Monika Anand from the department of home science told the kids about eight golden rules for healthy life i.e. eat breakfast, drink 8-10 glasses of water, chew your food properly, eat balanced diet, focus on food and eat in silence, have early dinner, do not skip meals and do exercise daily. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra putting forth her views said that to share knowledge and create awareness with everyone especially the growing kids is our social responsibility which NSS wing of the college has successfully fulfilled. She appreciated the efforts of Simkee, Dean NSS, and her team members for successfully organising this activity. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/student-shines-in-e-competition-232530
31-03-2021||Jalandhar||Meeting on surface water project||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meeting-on-surface-water-project-232531
31-03-2021||---||Centre lauded for OCI card extension date||Jalandhar, March 30Within four days of demand raised by US-based North American Punjabi Association (NAPA), the Government of India (GoI) announced that OCI card reissuance date has been extended from June 30 to December 31. While welcoming the move, NAPA executive director Satnam Singh Chahal said now no OCI card holder would be required to carry old passports to travel to India, but carrying a new passport is mandatory.He said this announcement has brought a sigh of relief for thousands of Indians residing abroad. He further added the Indian government has relaxed the provisions since last year also due to the pandemic. This is for the first time that the guidelines have been relaxed for carrying old passports along with the OCI cards for overseas Indians, he pointed out. Chahal expressed thanks to the External Affairs Minister Dr Jai Shankar, Home Minister Amit Shah and Indian Ambassador in USA Taranjit Singh Sandhu for helping the overseas Indian community. He expressed thanks to Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla for issuing the new guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/centre-lauded-for-oci-card-extension-date-232533
