18-01-2021||Last Sunday||A little courtesy melts hearts||The place was crowded. My poor hearing is even more awful in noisy places. I have to rely on sign language. I put my finger at the required item on the cardboard menu and pushed a Rs 500 note across the counter. The girl said something. I pointed at my ear to indicate my hearing problem. She lowered her mask and repeated. In the surrounding din it, too, went unheard. She then wrote, ‘Do you have change for Rs 200?’ and showed it to me. ‘Sorry, Nandini, I don’t have change,’ I said, noticing her name tab. She lowered her mask and spoke loudly for me to hear. ‘Thank you, sir, you are the first person to address me by name.’ Some 10 minutes later when I went to collect the pizza, there were three customers ahead in the queue. The moment she saw me, instead of waiting for the delivery boy to bring the order, she herself walked to the service counter and picked it up.The younger granddaughter wanted something from a bath care shop. Due to Covid, a girl at the entrance was only allowing limited number. When we reached the head of the queue, a person came out and signalled for one to enter. Complying with instructions, I gave money to the 10-year-old girl and sent her in. The gate girl must have realised it and told me I could enter. ‘Thank you, Carol, that is indeed kind of you.’ I could see her face light up with a smile. Later, as the four of us were passing in front of that shop, she saw me and waved at us.Some months ago, I travelled from Chandigarh to Delhi by a taxi. On reaching Delhi, I thanked the driver and took their company card. Next morning, I called up the owner. ‘Is that Mr Babli Sharma, owner of the taxi company?’ After a pause, I heard a feeble ‘yes’ spoken with apprehensive hesitation. ‘I have actually called up to compliment you. I travelled in one of your taxis to Delhi yesterday. The vehicle was in excellent condition and Paramjit is a very skilled driver.’ Mr Sharma warmed up instantly. ‘Thank you, sir!’ he responded in a strong voice, ‘while I get many complaints, no one gives me such a call. It will be our pleasure to serve you again.’We live in a materialistic age. With its focus on consumerism, society is becoming more and more impersonal. We tend to treat service providers as automatons; simply as breathing robots. How many of us talk to a lift operator, a taxi driver and others, and exchange pleasantries? It may make someone’s day. Try it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/a-little-courtesy-melts-hearts-200021
