19-01-2021||It dates back to the early 1990s||Waste of a good lesson||Each Sunday, they used to gather at a particular place, to hear the sermons. Many a time, they invited us to join. They would tell us about the mission’s headquarters and its ‘heavenly atmosphere’. Won over by their continued persuasion, we decided to visit the holy place for three-four days. As per schedule, we boarded the bus and reached our destination. Its atmosphere was serene, indeed, with greenery all around, well-maintained lawns, and neat and clean roads. Devotees greeted one another warmly, and were very cordial in their behaviour. In spite of a huge rush of followers, the cleanliness was beyond our imagination and even if, by chance, a bit of litter was spotted, someone passing by would pick it up and deposit it in one of the many dustbins around.The devotees sat attentively in rows, engrossed in discourses about helping the deprived and needy, respecting the elderly, serving humanity etc. After a calm and comfortable four days of learning many good things during our sojourn there, we reached the spot from where we had to catch a bus home. In the heat of May, amid a huge rush of passengers, most of whom were from the sect and like us, returning from the headquarters, it was a Herculean task to catch the bus, and after a lot of jostling, we managed to board it. Young people, including the couple accompanying us, hurriedly grabbed the vacant seats, without bothering about the senior citizens, and a handicapped person standing — a conduct opposite to what they had been preached. This sea-change in the behaviour of the same people, who were so courteous and disciplined inside the ashram, pricked my conscience and set me thinking about a quote prominently displayed at the entrance of that shrine, ‘Extending one hand to help somebody has more value than joining two hands for prayer.’It was a sect going against its own tenets. I felt disgusted and decided to sit home calmly for prayers, and help someone in need, rather than visiting such places and behaving contrary to what is taught there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/waste-of-a-good-lesson-200332
