20-01-2021||Kudi hoyi hai||The birth of a daughter||The next second, it comes to my mind that had it been a boy, what would have been different? No perfect answer comes to mind even after long sessions of thoughts.However, it takes me back to the day to regret why I could not stop her from saying those words. The question sometimes haunts me: what was the reason behind the elderly woman saying so rather than congratulating me or my family? Was she ignored by her own family during childhood or was it just an old mindset?On this matter, when I talk to the elderly in my family, most of them say ‘daughters are a blessing’. Some of them even say that my daughter’s name Arika means ‘Goddess of wealth and prosperity’, though we had simply borrowed it from my name and that of my wife.As a firm believer in God, I start the day by touching the feet of my daughter and consider her a ‘kanjak’. Whenever she goes to her maternal grandparents’ house, I start missing her within hours. Further, whenever I am in trouble, I softly hold her tiny hand, which infuses some positive energy in me.My question here is to all those who don’t want a girl child — when women can run a country, why do you crave for a son? What is the harm in having a daughter? Isn’t she a gift of God?Nowadays, when people prefer a single child, just imagine if there are no girls, how will the circle of life move forward?Further, if all men need a wife, sister and mother, why should the birth of a daughter not be celebrated? What I don’t understand is the partiality towards the son and indifference to the daughter!I feel pity for those who think girls are a burden, and kill them in the womb. These people will never know what they are missing in their life. If dowry is the reason behind their attitude towards daughters, then dowry is the curse and not the daughter! The tradition of dowry should be killed, and not the daughter.The first word my daughter uttered was ‘papa’, not ‘mumma’! This is the bonding between a daughter and a father.Happy birthday, Arika! God bless you. You are not just my daughter, but worth more than two sons. Just fly high with all your courage and the sky is yours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/the-birth-of-a-daughter-200924
