28-01-2021||I am an octogenarian volunteering as a teacher in a government school in Chandigarh||Hope & resilience in trying times||It was a pleasant morning when I drove down to the school after more than six months of house arrest. I entered the school wearing a mask, now a part of my attire. I climbed the floors and proceeded to my class, pausing at the door for a few seconds. I was meeting the new batch of class XII for the first time after they had been promoted from class XI during the pandemic.‘Good morning, sir,’ they greeted in unison as I entered the class. I curiously looked at the truncated strength of students, clad in masks. Moving in between the rows, I asked them to share their experience about the lockdown. In the relaxed ambience, a girl picked up the courage to narrate her story.‘Sir, I had a shocking experience of Covid-19. My working mother developed severe neck pain during the pandemic. It took 24 hours to obtain a medical pass for visiting a doctor. The treatment for cervical pain did not give her any relief. We shifted her to a hospital where she was declared to be suffering from bone cancer. I was shaken. Why it had to be my mom?’ The pandemic had nothing to do with her mother’s illness but the intervening period had seen her mother lose her life.As the girl struggled to hold back her tears, I remained silent, weighed down by her pain on the very first day of the class that I had volunteered to take after the break. As adults, we have had to make adjustments to face the changed circumstances created by the virus, but even young children have been hit hard, constrained into virtual classrooms, mixing with friends and other outdoor activities taking a backseat. It will take adjustment of a different kind to cope with the changed reality in which the grownups can only play a facilitator, intervening when needed, while watching the transformation forced by the circumstances. The personal tragedy has given the girl the fortitude and determination to take on the world, but the open space that the school provides may also help her connect, alleviating the pain to some extent. For adults in the autumn of their lives, nothing could be more joyful than watching the spring blossoms, especially after the rigour of a harsh winter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/hope-resilience-in-trying-times-204224
