01-08-2020||---||Mohali police foil loot bid of three UP gangsters; arms recovered from possession||Mohali, August 1Mohali police foiled a looting bid of three gangsters from Uttar Pradesh on Saturday and recovered arms and ammunition from their possession.The arrested accused have been identified as Rohit Sharma, resident of Amroha; Rahul Kumar, resident of Mohran; and Abhishek Sharma, resident of UP. All three accused are in the wanted list of the police.Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Singh Chahal said two accomplices of the arrested gangsters, however, managed to give the police a slip and escaped taking advantage of darkness.Two pistols with two live cartridges, four magazines, two country-made .315 bore pistols and 10 number .315 bore cartridges had been recovered from their possession, he added.Kuldeep Singh Chahal said that they were planning to commit a major robbery at gunpoint. He said they would seek their remand to know as to what they were planning.The Deputy Superintendents of Police, Harvinder Singh Virk and Gursher Singh, said the police had received a tip-off about the movement of some armed gangsters in Nabha village, Nayagaon, late on Friday night.DSP Virk said that teams were constituted to track the gangsters and they were intercepted on a road leading to Nabha village. After a brief chase, the gangsters were apprehended. However, two of the gang members managed to flee taking the advantage of darkness, DSP Virk added.The three accused have been booked under Section 399 (Making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (Assembling for purpose of committing dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code at Nayagaon police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-foil-loot-bid-of-three-up-gangsters-arms-recovered-from-possession-120816
01-08-2020||---||Mohali records highest spike of 44 new COVID-19 cases; tally climbs to 894||Mohali, August 1Mohali recorded the highest spike of 44 COVID-19 cases, taking the total count in the district to 894.Meanwhile, one more COVID-19 fatality was reported on Saturday. The death toll in the district has climbed to 15.The previous highest spike of 36 cases was recorded on July 13.As of now, there are 351 active cases while 528 patients have been cured and discharged from hospital.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said a 65-year-old man, resident of Kansal, had been suffering from hypertension and diabetes and had submitted samples at the Government Multispecialty Hospital, Sector-16, Chandigarh, on July 31.“After he had tested positive for the virus, he was taken to the COVID facility for treatment. However, the patient died on the way to the hospital and the family members had reported the same to the health authorities,” the Civil Surgeon added.Dr Manjit Singh said all districts across the state were fighting the deadly coronavirus crisis.“Challenges faced by Mohali as a district are far more than other districts. Being an integral part of the Tricity, there is a continuous movement of people to and fro from Panchkula (Haryana), Chandigarh and even Himachal Pradesh. A large number of people from other states either live or work here. So, controlling COVID-19 in Mohali does not mean taking care of the native population of the district but requires hashing and rehashing strategy in sync with the COVID status of the neighbouring states as well,” Dr Manjit added.Dr Singh added that the presence of an international airport causes a continuous influx of domestic and international passengers so Mohali’s fight against COVID-19.“It is not just a fight but a war, in fact, a constant battle. Mohali has been efficaciously fighting multiple challenges with a mix of intensive testing, tracing and monitoring, lightning-fast response time, tight borders and constant reminders to the citizens of the danger of frequent human contact,” the Civil Surgeon added.The Civil Surgeon also said they had health teams working round the clock with 450 to 500 samples being taken daily and as many as 24,000 samples having been tested.He said nine flu clinics were operational and supported by 18 sampling teams.“Health workers are also screening every entrant to the city, be it via road, rail or by air. The Health Department is being fully supported by civil and police administration and Municipal corporation/committees are rendering full support. The battle is tough, 44 cases have surfaced on Saturday but we will carry out unabated with our efforts,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-records-highest-spike-of-44-new-covid-19-cases-tally-climbs-to-894-120815
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Three more fatalities take Chandigarh’s coronavirus death toll to 18||Chandigarh reported three deaths from COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the union territory’s death tally to 18.The UT also reported 28 new coronavirus cases, its evening medical bulletin said.A 55-year-old woman from Kishangarh died at COVID Hospital in Sector 48.  She was diabetic and showed signs of acute respiratory distress five days ago.Two other people who died were both over 70---one was a 75-year-old woman from Sector 37 who died at Mohali’s Ivy hospital. She tested positive on July 30. She was diabetic and had hypertension and airway disease. The bulletin said she has two family contacts and a domestic help. Reports of all three are still awaited.The second case was 96-year-old man who died at GMCH-32. He had a paralytic attack a year and a half ago, and has been bedridden since. He tested positive on Friday evening and has four family contacts.This takes Chandigarh’s tally to 1079. The UT has 378 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-more-fatalities-take-chandigarhs-coronavirus-death-toll-to-18-120810
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Speeding car hits motorcycle, then  rams into boundary wall of house in Sector 19||A speeding car that lost control hit a man on a motorcycle and crashed into the boundary wall of a house in Sector 19, police said.The victim, a 33-year-old man who is in the Indian Air Force who was riding the motorcycle, sustained a head injury and has been moved to the commandant hospital of the air force.The 31-year-old driver of the vehicle was also wounded and, along with his co-passengers---a 36-year-old woman and a 25-year-old man---is being treated at Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16.The driver of the car has been booked for rash driving (Section 279) and causing hurt (Section 337) under the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/speeding-car-hits-motorcycle-then-%C2%A0rams-into-boundary-wall-of-house-in-sector-19-120803
01-08-2020|| ||Punjab Police constable ‘shoots himself’ in his car in Chandigarh’s Sector 4||Chandigarh, August 1A 23-year-old Punjab Police constable allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service weapon in his car parked in the parking of Punjab MLAs’ hostel, Sector 4, here in the wee hours of Saturday. Police said no suicide note was found. The reason behind the extreme step is yet to be established, said an official.Police got the information at around 2.35 am. Cops reached the spot and a PCR rushed Simranjit Singh to the PGI, where he succumbed to his injuries.Police said the victim was posted at the Punjab and Haryana High Court as security and lived in the barracks at the Punjab MLAs’ hostel.The Sector 3 police station has initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-police-constable-shoots-himself-in-his-car-in-chandigarhs-sector-4-120759
01-08-2020||---||2 minors held for assaulting boy||Chandigarh, July 31Two juveniles have been apprehended by the Chandigarh Police for attacking a minor. The police said the juveniles, both aged 14, attacked a 16-year-old boy with a sharp weapon at a park in Dadu Majra Colony on July 27.The victim was admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh. His statement was recorded after which the police registered a case under relevant sections against both the suspects at the Maloya police station. They were sent to a juvenile home in Sector 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-minors-held-for-assaulting-boy-120469
01-08-2020||---||Mohali administration to reduce footfall in government offices||Mohali, July 31In a bid to curtail the footfall in government offices to check the spread of Covid-19, the district administration would adopt online public grievance redressal system in Mohali district.Deputy Commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan stated this while chairing the core group meeting of officials concerned. He asserted that it was mandatory to restrain all avoidable influx of the public to government offices.“Directorate of Governance Reforms (DGR) Punjab has developed a public grievance redressal system (PGRS). As far as possible, complaints will be entertained online through the PGRS,” the DC added.Sharing details of the PGRS, Assistant Commissioner (Grievances) Harkirat Channe informed, “The PGRS is accessible to citizens via web, mobile, Sewa Kendra and a call centre. Using online portal of the PGRS, an aggrieved citizen can conveniently file a grievance and receive an assured response to his/her complaint.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-administration-to-reduce-footfall-in-government-offices-120473
01-08-2020||---||Kharar Civil Hospital told to set up two-bed antenatal room||Mohali, July 31A day after a pregnant woman allegedly delivered a child in a toilet at the Kurali Civil Hospital yesterday night, the Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh today instructed Senior Medical Officer Bhupinder Singh to set up a special two-bedded antenatal room near the labour room at the hospital.The Civil Surgeon said proper counselling of pregnant women holds significant importance. In case pregnant women want to go to the toilet etc., the hospital staff should be informed first and an attendant should be taken along, he added.He said the woman was admitted to the hospital and went to the toilet without informing the hospital staff. The staff of the hospital rushed to the spot and the woman delivered the baby in a safe and orderly manner at the labour room in the hospital, he said. Both the mother and the baby are fine, he added.Dr Singh added the list of vacancies of doctors and other staff in the hospital has already been sent to the higher authorities for necessary action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-civil-hospital-told-to-set-up-two-bed-antenatal-room-120474
01-08-2020||Mohali||Youth booked for kidnapping girl||The police have booked a youth for allegedly kidnapping a 15-year-old girl by luring her on the pretext of marriage. The suspect has been identified as Gobinda, a resident of Sohana village here. The victim’s mother, in her complaint to the police, said on July 27, her daughter left the house without informing anyone and did not return. She said the suspect took the girl with him. Investigating officer Bhartram said, “Both the suspect and the victim are migrants from UP.” A case under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC has been registered at the Sohana police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-booked-for-kidnapping-girl-120478
01-08-2020||---||Man killed in hit-&-run case||Zirakpur, July 31One person was killed in a road mishap after a vehicle hit him on the Ambala-Zirakpur road here on Friday. The deceased, Rakesh Kumar, a resident of House No. 549, Sukhchain Road, Torana, Sirsa, was coming to Zirakpur from VIP Road on his motorcycle (HR24Q2587) when a vehicle hit him and he fell on the road. The accused fled the spot. Rakesh was working as a delivery boy in a food delivery company. The victim was rushed to the PGI, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to the injuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-killed-in-hit-run-case-120479
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Man ends his life in Sector 52, Chandigarh||A 58-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Sector 52. No suicide note was found.The victim has been identified as Ashwani Sood, who worked with a private company in Ambala. The police said the victim slept in a separate room last night. In the morning, the victim’s wife went to his room to give him tea and found him hanging. The victim was depressed and was suffering from a liver problem. His samples have been sent for the Covid test. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-ends-his-life-in-sector-52-chandigarh-120480
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Car set on fire, two booked||Holiday todayChandigarh: The UT Administration has declared August 1 a public holiday on account of Eid-ul-Adha. All institutions, including industrial establishments, under the UT will observe a holiday under Section 25 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. TNSBribery accused granted bailChandigarh: Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, has granted bail to Bhagwan Singh, an accused in the bribery case. The CBI arrested him after registering an FIR under various sections of the PC Act, 1988, against him and suspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, then SHO, Mani Majra, Chandigarh, on the basis of written complaint of Gurdeep Singh. Bhagwan was caught red handed by the CBI while allegedly demanding and accepting bribe. He was in custody since June 29, 2019. TNS12 more +ve in Fatehgarh SahibFatehgarh Sahib: Twelve more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Friday, including an employee of a fard kendra at Mandi Gobindgarh, which has been closed by the SDM, Amloh. The Civil Surgeon, Dr NK Aggarwal, said those tested positive today included four persons from Sirhind town, two from Nand Pur Kalour, two from Chanarthal village, one from Khera village, one from Amloh town and one from Mandi Gobindgarh. OCCar catches fire near Dadu MajraChandigarh: A Sector 38 (West) resident had a narrow escape after his car caught fire near Dadu Majra on Friday. Owner Dalbir Singh noticed smoke coming out of the car engine following which he parked the vehicle on roadside and informed the Fire Department. By the time fire tenders arrived at the spot, the car was completely burnt. tnsGirls’ college to come up in MorniPanchkula: The state government has decided to set up a government girls’ college in Morni. “The announcement for the same will be made by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar through video conferencing on August 3,” an official letter stated. Deputy Director (Coordination) has written to Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja to make all necessary arrangements to host the video conference at the site or village where college will be constructed. Government girls’ colleges will also be set up in Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Sonipat, Kaithal, Jind, Nuh, Hisar and Bhiwani,” he said. TNSYouth commits suicide in Sec 38Chandigarh: A 22-year-old youth reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Sector 38 on Friday. He was pursuing BA through correspondence from Panjab University (PU). The deceased has been identified as Karan. After having lunch, he went to his room and took the extreme step. His mother saw him hanging and brought the body down. She informed her daughter, who was at work. The deceased was taken to the GMSH-16 where doctors declared him brought dead. No suicide note was recovered from the spot, sources said. The deceased is survived by his mother, elder sister and brother, who is visually impaired. Officials of the Sector 39 police station have initiated an investigation into the matter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-set-on-fire-two-booked-120481
01-08-2020||---||Weekend bar on Sukhna, night curfew to stay in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 31Given the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases in the city, the UT Administration has decided not to lift the night curfew till August 31. However, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has removed the restrictions on the movement of individuals during night (night curfew) in Unlock 3.0, which will come into effect from August 1.The odd-even system will be introduced only in those markets where social distancing norms are flagrantly violated. A committee will make a surprise inspection and decide. Market associations can join hands to avoid this hardship by strictly following norms. — Manoj Parida, UT AdviserAfter detailed discussions with medical experts, senior officers and public representatives, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has decided to order various restrictions in the city to contain the virus.The UT Administration, which issued its Unlock 3.0 guidelines today, said the night curfew would remain in force from 10 pm to 5 am.To prevent overcrowding, Sukhna Lake will remain closed on weekends and the entry of visitors will be completely banned on Saturdays and Sundays.The Administration has also decided to re-introduce the odd-even system in congested markets after a fresh examination by the authorised committee, headed by the Finance Secretary, UT.All market places will close by 8 pm. Earlier, shops were allowed to open from 10 am to 9 pm. However, eateries can remain open up to 9 pm. Exemption to essential shops, such as chemists, will continue.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said keeping in view the increase in number of Covid cases, three new micro-containment zones were under consideration.He said yoga centres and gymnasium could open only from August 5 with standard operating procedures issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for ensuring social distancing.The authorities concerned said the drive against non-wearing of masks had been intensified. Over 8,000 challans had been issued and nearly Rs45 lakh had been recovered from the violators.Violations to invite penaltyAny violation of the orders will be punishable under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, apart from action under Section 188 of the IPC and other legal provisions, as applicable.Odd-even for marketsWhat remains shut||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weekend-bar-on-sukhna-night-curfew-to-stay-in-chandigarh-120450
01-08-2020||Panchkula||Covid-19: 29 more contract infection in Panchkula||Twenty-nine more persons tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the district tally to 561.Six persons were found infected from Sector 8. Five cases were reported from Sector 21 and six from Shahpur. One person each from Sector 12-A, Marranwala village, Dharmpur, Kalka, Vishwakarma Colony in Pinjore, Sector 19, Sector 20, Sector 4, and Housing Board Colony in Sector 19 also tested positive.Two cases were reported from Sector 2, while a man from the CRPF was also found infected.Tweleve patients were discharged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-29-more-contract-infection-in-panchkula-120451
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bikers thrash, rob two fruit vendors||Two motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly thrashed and robbed two fruit vendors while they were going to purchase fruits from the vegetable market, Sector 17, during the wee hours of today.One of the victims, Pushaki Lal, a resident of Shastri Nagar, Mani Majra, was going to the ISBT, Sector 17, to purchase fruits when the miscreants, riding a black motorcycle, stopped and thrashed him. The incident took place around 3.30 am. His nephew Titu, also a fruit vendor, said he was to leave with his uncle, but his uncle left home early. “My uncle took a different route and I took another route from Mani Majra to reach the ISBT 17. On reaching there, I got a call that my uncle was lying unconscious on the road separating Sector 18 and 8,” he said.Titu rushed to the spot and found that his uncle had been robbed of around Rs20,000. He was taken to the GMSH-16. He suffered a fracture on his left arm.Similarly, another vegetable vendor, Parmod, a resident of Sector 26, who was on his way to the vegetable market in Sector 17, was thrashed and robbed of Rs12,000 by motorcycle-borne miscreants on Madhya Marg. He was injured and taken to a hospital for treatment. The police have initiated an investigation into both incidents.Sources said the miscreants were riding a Bullet motorcycle. The police are scrutinising the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bikers-thrash-rob-two-fruit-vendors-120452
01-08-2020||---||Covid-19: Woman is Chandigarh’s 15th fatality||Chandigarh, July 31The city recorded its fifteenth Covid death today.A 46-year-old woman from Kajheri tested positive two days after she was brought dead at the GMSH in Sector 16. She had no pre-existing health conditions and was asymptomatic when she died. However, she had complained of severe abdominal pain. Besides, 35 more persons tested positive today, taking the tally to 1,051.The fresh cases were reported from Sector 23, 26, 29, 32, 34, 35, 38, 39, 40, 43, 47, 48, 49, Mani Majra, Mauli Jagran, Bapu Dham Colony, Dhanas and Kajheri. Of the infected persons, 20 are contacts of previously diagnosed cases.A 52-year-old man, a traveller from Saudi Arabia, is among those found infected. Eight of a family from Sector 32 were found suffering from the contagion.A 24-year-old staffer at a private bank in Sector 37 was found infected. Twenty patients were discharged after being treated.The PGI quarantined 44 health workers, including eight doctors. In the past couple of days, eight PGI employees have contracted the infection.Mohali sees 28 fresh cases, 19 recoveriesMohali: Twenty-eight more persons contracted the infection on Friday, taking the district tally to 850. One person each from Ecogreen in Dera Bassi; Mukandpur; Royal Farms, Motia Heights; Jawaharpur; Kumbra; Rajumajra; Skynet Enclave, Zirakpur; Amardeep Nagar, Dera Bassi; Lalru; New Chandigarh; Manakpur; and Omega City, Kharar; was diagnosed with Covid. Two persons each from ATS, Dera Bassi, and Dhakoli were found positive. Four fresh cases each were also reported from Dera Bassi; Kharar; and Zirakpur. Meanwhile, 19 patients were discharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-woman-is-chandigarhs-15th-fatality-120455
01-08-2020||---||Wife’s body bitten by rats in mortuary: Retired Colonel||Dera Bassi, July 31A retired Colonel has alleged that the body of his wife was bitten by rats in the mortuary of Indus International Hospital, Dera Bassi.He also alleged medical negligence on the part of the private hospital in the treatment of his wife which led to her death.Jasjot Kaur (52) died of cardiac problems at Indus International Hospital in Dera Bassi around 7:40 am yesterday. She was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday.Her cremation was slated for Friday at 2 pm. Since, her brothers and kin had to come from far off places, the family decided to keep the body in the mortuary before shifting it to a crematorium in Panchkula. But today afternoon, there was an unexpected delay in releasing the body by the hospital authorities.Col Amarjit Chandhok (retd), deceased’s husband and resident of Sector 26, Panchkula, said, “There was medical negligence on the part of doctors which led to the death of my wife. A day earlier, I had complained that the hospital staff was incompetent in taking blood reports.”“At the time of taking the body from the mortuary, blood was oozing out of the right ear and mouth of the body. When I refused to accept the body, a team of doctors visited the mortuary and informed me that it seemed rats have bitten it. Foul smell was also emanating from the body. I suspect that proper temperature was not maintained on the room which led to the smell and consequent mutilation of the body by the rats. I want the people responsible for it punished,” he said, while addressing the mediapersons.Surinderpal S Bedi, Indus International Hospital, Director (Clinical Services), said, “The mortuary of the hospital is outside the main premises. We are looking into the matter.”Dera Bassi Tehsildar Navpreet GIll took the body into his custody and kept it in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi. The post-mortem would be conducted by a panel of doctors tomorrow.Was to be cremated at 2pm on friday||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wifes-body-bitten-by-rats-in-mortuary-retired-colonel-120456
01-08-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Realty firm given time till August 3 to submit compliance report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31The non-compliance of the order of the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (SCDRC), Chandigarh, has landed Emmar MGF Land Pvt Ltd, a real estate company, in soup.The Commission has directed the Deputy Commissioner, Mohali, to attach the front office of Emmar MGF as per provisions of Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1972 and appoint a receiver who will prepare an inventory of all the articles lying in the said office and take them in possession and submit the appropriate value of the articles, if the company fails to submit in the court the compliance report of entire payment to the complainant by August 3.The Commission also directed the Chief Administrator, GMADA to depute a responsible officer to visit the project in Augusta Park, Sector 109, SAS Nagar, and furnish a report whether any license was granted to them before floating the project along with the status of the project.The complainant, Kamal Kad, had booked a plot in 2006 with Emmar MGF and paid an amount of Rs 34.46 lakh as the consideration amount. The company neither delivered the plot nor returned the said amount to the complainant.The complainant approached the Commission seeking refund and compensation. The Commission pronounced an order on December 12, 2019 directing the firm to refund the entire amount of Rs 34.46 lakh to the complainant with @ 12% pa interest from respective dates of deposit within 30 days. The company failed to comply with the order within the given time frame.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/realty-firm-given-time-till-august-3-to-submit-compliance-report-120462
01-08-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Contagion dampens Rakhi celebrations in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31The fear of Covid-19 has eclipsed the festive fervour of Rakshabandhan celebrations in the city this year. For seasonal vendors selling rakhis at stalls in the common marketplace, lesser footfall means lesser sales.In Sector 32, Munni Devi, the sole breadwinner for a family of four, rues, “I have been setting up a rakhi stall here every year for 25 years, but the business has never been so slow. Earlier, I earned Rs25,000 from this stall. I have barely made Rs200 today.” Devi purchases rakhis at wholesale rates from Ambala. However, she fears that the investment may not yield any profit this year. At almost all stalls, a rakhi is priced between Rs10 and Rs100.Jatin, who has been putting up a stall for 10 years with Devi, adds, “I haven’t sold more than 10 rakhis today.Earlier, the business would reach a breakeven point five days before the festival. The MC, too, troubles us for encroachments if we don’t remove our stalls.”In Sector 34, Noor Alam says, “I’ve been selling rakhis here for 20 years. Last year, I made a profit of about Rs50,000. Now, I got this stuff for Rs15,000 and I haven’t sold a single rakhi.” Sheru, a vendor in Sector 44, says, “Now, no one visits or touches the rakhis even though we have kept sanitisers. This is my third year into the business and I am already in loss,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contagion-dampens-rakhi-celebrations-in-chandigarh-120463
