04-08-2020||---||30 fresh COVID-19 cases surface in Mohali||Mohali, August 4A total of 30 fresh cases of coronavirus surfaced in Mohali on Tuesday, taking the total count 989 in the district.Meanwhile, 26 patients were also discharged from the hospital today.The persons infected with the virus include a 45-year-old woman and five men aged 28, 26, 22, 33, 40 of Derabassi; 24-year-old man of Lalru; two males aged 49, 34 and 88-year-old woman of Dhakoli; 41-year-old man of Phase 10; 81-year-old man of Nagla Derabassi.Three men aged 40, 42, 43 of Kharar, a 56-year-old man of Kurali; 49-year-old man of Sector 71; 32-year-old man of Zirakpur; 53-year-old woman of Peermuchalla; 65-year-old man and 23-year-old woman of Jujhar Nagar, a 34-year-old man of Phase 7; 48-year-old woman of Phase 6; 31-year-old man of Sector 80 were also tested positive.The remaining cases include a 50-year-old woman and 54-year-old man of Baltana; 33-year-old man of Nayagaon; 11-year-old boy of Sector 97; and 41-year-old man of Sector 66.The discharged patients include a 32-year-old woman of Mote Majra; three men aged 28, 27, 24, and four women aged 42, 59, 42, 42 of Derabassi; three men aged 46, 49, 39 of Dhakoli; a 59-year-old man of Balongi, a 24-year-old man of Sector 127; a 28-year-old man of Sunny Enclave; two women aged 23, 47 of Zirakpur.Two man aged 55, 20 and a 63-year-old woman of Kharar; a 56-year-old woman of Sohana; 29-year-old man of Phase 5; 19-year-old man of Jawaharpur; 20-year-old woman of Sector-66, a 26-year-old woman of Phase 9, 20-year-old woman of Kurali and a 23-year-old man of Mundi Kharar were also discharged.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the new patients had been admitted to the COVID Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He added that samples of the family members of the new patients would be taken besides tracing their contacts so that their samples could also be taken.As of now, there were 989 positive cases, of which 579 have been discharged, leaving 393 active cases with 17 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-fresh-covid-19-cases-surface-in-mohali-122087
04-08-2020||---||Burail woman dies of Covid as Chandigarh reports biggest single-day spike of 46 cases||Chandigarh, August 4The city recorded 20th death due to Covid as a 50-year-old female resident of Burail, who was a known case of severe rheumatic heart disease, expired in trauma unit of PGI on Monday.The city also witnessed biggest single-day spike of 46 Covid cases.The patient was sampled on August 2 and diagnosed as COVID 19 positive on Monday. She had a history of fall after giddiness and went to PGI trauma centre where was found to be having subdural hemorrhage on MRI.Her condition deteriorated further and she suffered a sudden cardiac arrest and could not be revived.The highest single-day spike of 46 cases took the union territory's infection tally to 1,206, according to a medical bulletin.As of now, there are 470 active cases here, it said.The death toll in the union territory now stands at 20.The fresh cases reported, include a two-year-old boy, a four-year-old girl and a five-year-old boy, it said.New coronavirus cases surfaced in many areas including Ram Darbar, Sector 15, Sector 36, Sector 34, Sector 39, sector 48, Dhanas, Sector 44, Sector 45 and Daria, the bulletin said.Nine more coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of recoveries in Chandigarh to 715, it said.A total of 15,116 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 13,833 tested negative while reports in 74 cases are awaited, according to the bulletin. With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/burail-woman-dies-of-covid-as-chandigarh-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-46-cases-122086
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Civil Services exam: Mohali doctor bags 80th, Baddi's 22-year-old secures 87th rank||Mohali girl on Tuesday has bagged the 80th rank in Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), according to an official statement.Dr Darpan Ahluwalia, an MBBS student from Rajindra Medical College, Patiala, stood within the top 100 candidates.Also read: Hisar boy gets 174th rank in Civil ServicesSolan’s Muskan clears UPSC exam in first attemptSonepat’s Pradeep Singh tops UPSC examThe list has been released on the basis of written examination and personality test of Civil services examination 2019.A total of 829 candidates have been recommended for appointment to Indian Administrative Service, Indian Foreign Service, Indian Police Service; and Central Services, Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’.UPSC has also maintained a consolidated Reserve List of 182 candidates.The result of 11 candidates has been kept withheld.Meanwhile, Baddi girl, Muskhan Jindal, gets 87th ranks in UPSC exams—this was her first attempt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civil-services-exam-mohali-doctor-bags-80th-baddis-22-year-old-secures-87th-rank-122030
04-08-2020||---||BJP workers tie rakhis on Tricolour||Chandigarh, August 3Members of the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) tied rakhis on Tricolour in honour of soldiers of the country and prayed for their safety on Raksha Bandhan.While staying at their home, party workers celebrated the festival by tying rakhis on the National Flag.Arun Sood, state BJP president, said soldiers guard the borders and risk their lives for the safety of our nation.Earlier, Mahila Morcha members used to tie rakhi on the wrists of soldiers on this occasion. Due to the pandemic, party workers were asked to tie rakhi in this unique manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-workers-tie-rakhis-on-tricolour-121710
04-08-2020||---||Elderly man found dead||Chandigarh, August 3An unidentified man, aged around 75, was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Mani Majra here this evening.The police received information about a body lying in the bushes near the railway crossing at Mani Majra.The police reached the spot and found that the victim had an injury mark on his forehead and blood was oozing out of it. There were no other injury marks on the body.The police have ruled out any foul play in preliminary investigations. “It is suspected that the victim fell down, which led to an injury on his forehead,” the police claimed.Meanwhile, the body has been shifted to a mortuary and an investigation has been initiated at the IT Park police station. The autopsy will be conducted after the Covid test.Efforts were being made to identify the victim, said a cop.Victim had injury marks on foreheadThe police reached the spot and found that the victim had an injury mark on his forehead and blood was oozing out of it. There were no other injury marks on the body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-man-found-dead-121701
04-08-2020||---||Fire breaks out at private office in Mani Majra||Chandigarh, August 3A fire broke out on the second floor of a private office in NAC, Mani Majra, here today.According to Fire Department officials, the incident took place at Ind-Swift Laboratories Limited around 11 am. Central AC, wooden ceiling, record files and furniture were destroyed in the fire.After getting information, a team led by station fire officer Jagtar Singh rushed to the spot. Sub-fire officer Gulshan, along with other fire-fighters, tried to douse the flames. Five fire vehicles were pressed into service.“Though the fire was controlled, smoke continued to billow. We had a tough time dealing with it,” said an official.There was no one in the office at the time of the incident due to a holiday on Raksha Bandhan. Fire officials said the cause of the fire was not known yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-at-private-office-in-mani-majra-121689
04-08-2020||---||Four poclain machines seized in Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, August 3The Dera Bassi Mining Department has seized four poclain machines involved in illegal mining near Mukandpur village. The department handed over the machines to the police on Sunday.A case has been registered against unknown persons. Mining Inspector Gurjeet Singh said: “We received information that illegal mining was being carried out near the link road from Mukandpur village to Bijanpur. When we inspected the place, we found illegal mining being done on a private land near Peer Baba. The owner of the land had no permission from the department.”Dera Bassi police in-charge Satinder Singh said: “Investigations are on to identify the culprits. We have also sought information from the Mining Department.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-poclain-machines-seized-in-dera-bassi-121690
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Big Bazaar penalised||The Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has directed Big Bazaar to refund the cost of carry bags to a consumer, Preeti Kalia. The forum directed it to pay Rs100 as compensation for harassment and mental agony, Rs1,100 as litigation expenses to the complainant and deposit Rs5,000 in the Consumer Legal Aid Account.The forum also directed the firm to pay the amount within one month from the date of receipt of its certified copy, failing which it will be liable to pay the amount along with 9 per cent interest per annum from the date of the order till its realisation.The forum also passed similar orders in two more cases. In the complaint, Preeti said Big Bazaar charged Rs24 for two carry bags. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/big-bazaar-penalised-121695
04-08-2020||---||Lawyers’ body seeks Rs 10 lakh compensation for victims’ kin||Chandigarh, August 3Lawyers for Humanity, an organisation of city advocates, sought directions to the Government of Punjab for providing a compensation of Rs10 lakh each to the families of those died in the hooch tragedy in Punjab in a complaint filed before the Punjab State Human Rights Commission today.In the complaint, advocate Ravinder Singh Bassi, president of the organisation, said over 100 persons died after consuming spurious liquor. The compensation amount may be deducted from the salary of the police and Excise officials who failed to perform their duties.Bassi said members of the Lawyers for Humanity condemned the tragedy that took place in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts of Punjab. It was the duty of the state to protect the life and liberty of its citizen. In Punjab, the business of illegal and spurious liquor was thriving under the nose of the police and the excise authorities for years.He said most of the persons, who died in this tragedy, were poor villagers, labourers and the only breadwinners of their families. At this stage, it was the duty of the state to provide compensation to the families of the deceased and those admitted to hospitals. The state should provide a compensation of up to Rs10 lakh each to the families of the deceased and Rs5 lakh each to persons undergoing treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lawyers-body-seeks-rs-10-lakh-compensation-for-victims-kin-121704
04-08-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Commission asks developer to refund Rs 37 lakh for delaying possession of flat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has penalised a developer for delay in delivering the possession of a flat to a resident within the stipulated time period of two years.The commission directed Primary Estates and Developers Private Limited to refund an amount of Rs37,51,000 to a resident, along with 12 per cent interest per annum, within a period of 30 days to the complainant. It also asked the developer to pay a consolidated amount of Rs50,000 to the complainant as compensation for mental agony and physical harassment and cost of litigation.Gurmeet Singh Jogar, a resident of Sector 49-A, Chandigarh, filed a complaint against Primary Estates and Developers Private Limited seeking the refund of Rs37,51,100 paid by him between September 8, 2011, and December 2, 2014, towards the purchase of an independent floor in a project, “Arcadia Dream Homes”, launched by the developer in Sector 116, SAS Nagar, Mohali, Punjab. The total sale price of the flat was fixed at Rs33.95 lakh.Despite the fact that substantial amount had been paid, the developer failed to deliver the possession of the said unit by December 28, 2016, i.e. within a period of two years as per Clause 17 (a) of the agreement dated December 29, 2014, due to lack of construction and development works at the project site.It has been stated that neither the possession of the unit was delivered within the stipulated time period nor compensation by way of monthly assured return, as promised by the opposite parties, was paid to the complainant.The order says that the complainant had booked the unit in year 2011 and its possession was to be delivered by December 2016. Now it is 2020 and the complainant is still empty-handed despite the fact that the substantial amount had been stood paid to the opposite parties. The complainant cannot be made to wait for an indefinite period on the bald assurances given by the opposite parties.Relief for mental agony, harassmentThe commission directed Primary Estates and Developers Private Limited to refund an amount of Rs37,51,000 to a resident, along with 12 per cent interest per annum, within a period of 30 days to the complainant. It also asked the developer to pay a consolidated amount of Rs50,000 to the complainant as compensation for mental agony and physical harassment and cost of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commission-asks-developer-to-refund-rs-37-lakh-for-delaying-possession-of-flat-121703
04-08-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Chandigarh Postal Division works on Sunday, delivers rakhi mails||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3The Chandigarh Postal Division went full steam ahead, clocking an additional shift on Sunday, to deliver Rakhi greetings to your loved ones just in time.The staff at 64 post offices of the division, including two of its head offices in Chandigarh and Ropar, and 167 delivery branch post offices worked on their weekly off to deliver rakhi mails in two shifts.On Sunday, the division delivered 15,000 articles, including speed posts, registered posts and even gifts marked with Rakhi greetings.Because of strict protocols for interstate travel during the pandemic, the India Post decided to launch a special drive for the festival.“Saturday was a national holiday due to Eid. So, the office was shut and letters received on that day cannot be delivered. We worked on Sunday to clear that backlog, but we also received several fresh mails,” said Manoj Kumar, Senior Superintendent of Post Office, Chandigarh Postal Division.The division employed four of its mail motor vehicles to deliver rakhi epistles at all its post offices by 10:30 am. “Rakhis were then sent to people and we delivered a total of 15,000 articles. About 400 or 500 employees shouldered this task,” Kumar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-postal-division-works-on-sunday-delivers-rakhi-mails-121696
04-08-2020||---||Gymnasiums gear up to reopen||Zirakpur, August 3With the opening of gyms from August 5, the fitness industry is looking to bounce back after a hiatus of almost four months. All preparations have been done to reopen fitness centres.Niharika, a fitness trainer at Gold Gym in Mohali, said: “People will be back after four and a half months. Most of the people will be excited about new workouts. Diet plan too needs to be sorted out as people tend to put on weight after such a long gap.”Suraj Bhan, owner of FZ Gym and Spa in Dera Bassi, said: “We have been preparing since it was announced to open gyms. The entire gym has been sanitised. We have kept our stock of sanitiser ready for the next two months. We have pasted stickers at each station to remind people to sanitise the equipment after every use. Every instructor and helper will be wearing gloves and masks”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gymnasiums-gear-up-to-reopen-121698
04-08-2020||Naina Mishra||Of 19 Covid deaths in Chandigarh, 10 tested positive posthumously||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3In almost 10 out of 19 Covid-19 deaths reported from the city, samples of the patients were taken posthumously. This implies that patients are not reporting at hospitals on time.Medical experts have pointed out the concern for early detection of the disease so as to save patients’life.No doubt, comorbid condition is one aspect of mortality, but late medical intervention is also one of the factors, which is quite disturbing. This happens when people ignore their routine Covid-19 symptoms at an early stage. If the symptoms are ignored for three to seven days, cytokine storm sets in and the patient loses time and nothing much can be done. — Dr KK Talwar, former director of the PGIDr KK Talwar, former director of the PGI, said: “No doubt, comorbid condition is one aspect of mortality, but late medical intervention is also one of the factors, which is quite disturbing. This happens when people ignore their routine Covid-19 symptoms at an early stage. If the symptoms are ignored for three to seven days, cytokine storm sets in and the patient loses time and nothing much can be done.”“Emphasis should be on making people aware of testing opportunities. There should be confidence among patients that their tests, reports and treatments will be taken care of. Testing should be ramped up. It should be conducted quickly so that there are no delays. Use of pulse oximeters should be advocated so that every individual can monitor their oxygen saturation levels at home. If the percentage drops below 95, they should alert their doctor,” said Dr Talwar.About 57 per cent of the Covid deaths in the city are above 60 years of age. The youngest one to lose battle was a three-day-old girl, who died right after the birth after developing severe pneumonia, and the oldest was a 96-year-old man, who was bedridden due to a paralytic attack.Eight patients, who died of Covid-19, had comorbidities related to heart and six had diabetes.A doctor from the PGI said: “The patients who succumbed to the virus were having comorbidities such as heart disease, diabetes and liver disease. Patients with such comorbidities, either single or in combination, are particularly at high-risk of Covid-related complications and poor outcome, including death. This crude analysis gives an important message that patients with comorbidities should be extremely careful and avoid going outside. They should not ignore early symptoms and contact doctors immediately if they develop any of the symptoms such as fever, cough or cold.”Dr Sonu Goel, a public health expert at the PGI, said: “When Covid-19 superimposes on hypertensive patients, their condition deteriorates. These are already comprised patients in terms of functioning capacity of organs. The same is with diabetes patients. Hence, emphasis should be on continuous monitoring of sugar levels and blood pressure.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/of-19-covid-deaths-in-chandigarh-10-tested-positive-posthumously-121699
04-08-2020||---||Kidnapping call sends Chandigarh police into a tizzy||Chandigarh, August 3The UT police went into a tizzy after they received a call that a five-year-old boy has been kidnapped from Sector 25 here last night. However, the investigation later revealed that the child’s mother, who is staying separately, had taken him along.The police received a call that two motorcycle-borne miscreants had kidnapped a child. On getting information, the police rushed to the spot where Jai Kumar revealed that his son had been missing. In the meantime, Kumar’s wife Usha called his mother to inform that she had taken the child along.Police officials said Usha was staying at Jagatpura for the past one month following a dispute with her husband.“She came to Sector 25 for some work. While leaving, she took the boy along without informing her husband,” said a police official.Usha was told to hand over the child to his grandmother. She returned the child and admitted that she should have informed the family before taking him along.A DDR in this regard was lodged at the Sector 24 police post.Couple sent to one-day police remandA couple, who was nabbed by a local resident in Daria on Sunday while allegedly kidnapping a five-year-old child, was produced before a court, which sent them to one-day police remand. The couple, identified as Sajan and Kiran, residents of Mani Majra, had claimed that they were promised Rs1 lakh for a child by a man whom they met at the PGI. “Our team went to locate that person at the PGI. However, we cannot find him as we don’t have any identification or phone number of that person,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kidnapping-call-sends-chandigarh-police-into-a-tizzy-121692
04-08-2020||---||Submit objections to ward delimitation by tomorrow||Zirakpur, August 3The Zirakpur Municipal Council (MC) has invited suggestions/objections in the ward delimitation process for the upcoming elections to the civic body after making public the changes in the existing map. The last date of submission is August 5. So far, one person has registered his objection.The MC has 31 wards, including 14 reserved for women. The elections are expected to be held in the first week of October.Non-existent sewerage system, supply of clean drinking water, illegal encroachments, widening and repair of roads, non-functional street lights, regularisation of illegal colonies and ever-proliferating slums remain the burning issues of this area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/submit-objections-to-ward-delimitation-by-tomorrow-121686
04-08-2020||---||Chandigarh hoteliers want bars designated as nightclubs||Chandigarh, August 3Local hoteliers have demanded that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) should remove the word ‘bars’ and instead use ‘nightclubs’ or ‘banquet gatherings’, under the prohibited list of the Unlock 3.The association concurs with the view that in the current times, it may not be a good idea to serve alcohol in nightclubs and large gathering banquets. However, the government should change the nomenclature of the word ‘bars’ to ‘nightclubs’ or ‘large gatherings’. There is a complete misunderstanding on this thing, which is clearly dampening our business — Ankit Gupta, Joint Secretary, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern IndiaAs per the guidelines, released on July 29, ‘bars’ are not allowed to open.However, local hoteliers claimed, “The usage of word ‘bars’ is creating confusion as it has several meaning in their profession for example pub bar, club bar and others.”The demand has been raised as local hoteliers are not allowed to serve liquor by the UT Administration under the restrictions on ‘bars’.“Restaurants have serving bars, which should be allowed to open to cater to the demand of their guests,” hoteliers added.“Serving alcohol due to guest demand is an integral part of the hospitality services. The said alcohol services are provided in a outlet in four areas which include room service, A’la’ Carte restaurants/ lounges/ pubs/bars, larger gathering banqueting and nightclubs, where there is loud music/dancing and close contact of guests,” said Ankit Gupta, Joint Secretary, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern India (HRANI), and president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association (CHA).“The association concurs with the view that in the current times, it may not be a good idea to serve alcohol in nightclubs and large gathering banquets. However, the government should change the nomenclature of the word ‘bars’ to ‘nightclubs’ or ‘large gatherings’,” he added. “There is a complete misunderstanding on this thing, which is clearly dampening our business,” he said.“The HRANI will also submitted a memorandum to the MHA to bring clarity on the issue as the word ‘bars’ has done injustice to our business,” he added.While hotels in Punjab are allowed to serve liquor to their guests, local hoteliers are still waiting for the UT Administration’s approval for the same.“Since the night curfew has been lifted, the UT Administration should allow us to operate till 11pm and also change the word ‘bars’. Customers coming for dinners usually like to enjoy liquor, but due to unnecessary restrictions, we are unable to fulfil their demand. There are many meaning of ‘bars’. The government and the local authorities should come up with a solution,” said another hotelier seeking anonymity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-hoteliers-want-bars-designated-as-nightclubs-121687
04-08-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Rs 71L fine collected from violators in Fatehgarh Sahib district||It is a matter of great concern that the people are not heeding requests of the police and the civil administration and continue to violate the Covid guidelines.The police had no other option except to penalise violators, which is evident from the fact that Rs71 lakh fine was collected from them, a majority whom were not wearing masks. “Now, the police have launched an awareness drive along with imposing penalty. Violators will be educated. Masks will provided to them free of cost,” said Amneet Kondal, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Fatehgarh Sahib, while launching the drive.“The police have challaned 15,927 persons for not wearing masks and collected Rs 69,69,700 fine. Ninety nine were challaned for spitting at public places and Rs 11,200 was collected as fine. For violating social distance, 41 were challaned and Rs 86,000 was collected as fine,’ the SSP added.As many as 499 FIRs were registered for violating Section 188, IPC, and 750 accused were arrested and 180 vehicles impounded, the SSP said. Besides 3,437 litres of illicit liquor, 1,275 kg lahan was seized and 92 FIRs were registered under the Excise Act, the SSP added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-71l-fine-collected-from-violators-in-fatehgarh-sahib-district-121700
04-08-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Seats for BA reduced in Chandigarh govt colleges, students concerned||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3Reducing the number of seats for Bachelor of Arts (BA) course in the four local government colleges will surely raise concern for the Directorate of Higher Education, UT, and interested students.As many as 10,765 students applied for admission to BA in four government colleges — Post Graduate Government College (PGGC), Sector 11 and Sector 46, and Post Graduate Government College for Girls (PGGCG) Sector 11 and Sector 42 — till 5 pm today.In 2019, there were 2,600 seats for BA in the four government colleges. Over 13,051 students applied for admission to BA last year.Notably, the number of students will increase as the department has extended the last date for submission of applications to August 5. An announcement in this regard was made today.Considering popularity of the course, the authorities decided to reduce seats for the BA course. A minimum of 100 seats each were reduced in the four government colleges this year.“Seats have been rationalised by respective principals of colleges keeping in view available infrastructure and faculty,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director Higher Education. All government higher education institutions are funded by the MHRD under Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) scheme, which gives a boost to infrastructure and resolves faculty problems.On the contrary, local private colleges have 5,650 seats for the same course. Interestingly, certain colleges have the option of ‘subject to increase the number of seats’.“Instead of reducing the number of seats for BA course, the administration should have asked colleges to remove their shortcomings. To make sure availability of faculty and upgrade infrastructure is in the hands of the administration. If college authorities do not reveal their actual status, they should be punished. The information about shortcomings should be passed on to the MHA,” said an applicant requesting anonymity.Last date for admissions extended till tomorrowChandigarh: The Directorate of Higher Education, UT, has extended the last date to apply online for admissions in local colleges for centralised and non-centralised courses till Wednesday (August 5). Earlier, the last date for submission of forms was August 3. “However the two-day extension has been given keeping in mind delay in result of the National Institute of Open School,” said an official. “The new admission schedule will be released tomorrow,” he added.35,521 applications receivedMeanwhile, the department has received 35,521 applications under joint admissions for local colleges. For non-centralised courses, 19,392 applications were received while for centralised as many as 16,129 applications were received till date. In all, 6,179 students applied for BCom, 3,162 for BBA, 1,994 for BCA, 1,487 for BSc (Non-medical) and 935 for BSc (Medical). For BA, 10,745 applications were received for the four government colleges till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seats-for-ba-reduced-in-chandigarh-govt-colleges-students-concerned-121678
04-08-2020||---||BSc (Honours), BPharma admission schedule released||Chandigarh, August 3“After deciding on scrapping Panjab University-CET (UG) entrance test, a new admission schedule has been formalised wherein admissions to BSc (Hons) and BPharma will be based on merit in X+II exam results,” informed a spokesperson.As per the schedule, the last date for submission of information on the website (https://cetug.puchd.ac.in/) to generate the login and password is August 9 while the last date for depositing fee in any branch of the State Bank of India using website generated challan or through online mode is August 10.The last date for uploading of photograph and signature with rest of the information on the website is August 12, while date of availability of online admission form at http://cetug.puchd.ac.in is August 14. The last date of filling of online admission form is August 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bsc-honours-bpharma-admission-schedule-released-121680
04-08-2020||---||14,723 register for Class XI admission in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 3On the last day of Class XI admissions in senior secondary government schools, around 14,723 forms were submitted with all formalities against 12,815 seats today.The last date for filling in the complete registration form is August 4 up to 2 pm. The common merit list will be displayed on August 7 at 11 am.Candidates will be able to submit objections, if any, by email between August 7 and August 8 (upto 1 pm). Allotment of schools and streams will be displayed on August 13 at 11 am. Details regarding depositing fee and document verification will be notified later on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-723-register-for-class-xi-admission-in-chandigarh-121681
04-08-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Advocates, stamp paper vendors shut shop for a week in Zirakpur||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, August 3After Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Rajpura tehsil, advocates, stamp paper vendors, notaries, typists and deed writers decided to shut their offices and shops at the Zirakpur sub-tehsil office for one week. The development will hamper the functioning of the Revenue Department here. Naib tehsildar Varinderpal Dhoot said, “They decided to shut offices on their own. The department’s office work will continue as usual.”Since Zirakpur office is a sub-tehsil, most work here is related to Rajpura and other adjoining tehsils of Patiala. Public and employees visit these tehsils simultaneously to get the work done.On July 13, as many as 14 Excise Department employees and a naib tehsildar with the Revenue Department tested positive for the virus.Residents have to rely on the services of advocates, stamp paper vendors, notaries, typists and deed writers to prepare affidavits, rent agreements, certificates and property registrations papers.“We have voluntarily decided to close shops and offices from August 3 to August 9 to prevent the spread of the virus. Most people working here come from Rajpura or are related in one way or the other. So, we chose to halt all services for a week,” said Parminder Singh, a notary at the sub-tehsil office. Besides causing great inconvenience to the public, the move is likely to stall property registration and reduce earnings of the Revenue Department.The Revenue Department registers properties from Monday to Friday, but residents choose Monday, Wednesday and Friday as these days are considered auspicious.Already, the Zirakpur sub-tehsil office had capped the number of property registrations to 45 in a day. Earlier, the limit was 75. The step was taken to regulate the influx of applicants at the office to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The sub-tehsil office resumed property registration among blood relations after it was halted during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/advocates-stamp-paper-vendors-shut-shop-for-a-week-in-zirakpur-121682
04-08-2020||---||‘Unwarranted interference by Judges can upset advocates’||Chandigarh, August 3A webinar on court craft, values and ethics has turned out to a lesson not only for young advocates, but also for judicial officers. Addressing the audience, Justice Daya Chaudhary of the Punjab and Haryana High Court minced no words to say that unwarranted interferences and adverse comments by Judges had the capacity to upset advocates. “As a result, a lawyer may not be in a position to present his case properly,” Justice Chaudhary added.Judges were required to give a patient hearing and decide cases without any prejudice or bias to strengthen the Bench-Bar relations, Justice Chaudhary said. A sufficient opportunity was required to be given to an advocate to present his case, Justice Chaudhary added. “Judges have a primary responsibility to protect and preserve the independence of judiciary, for which the cooperation of the Bar is also required,” Justice Chaudhary said.Offering advice particularly relevant in Covid times when the judiciary is functioning in restricted mode, Justice Chaudhary told advocates that their most important duty was towards themselves.“A lawyer should avoid `easy come-easy go’ method with his finances. He should also make systematic study of law a regular habit and should maintain accounts, which was also essential,” Justice Chaudhary added.The webinar, ‘Professional Journeys: Court craft, values and ethics’, was organised by the High Court Legal Services Committee, Indian Law Institute (state unit), the Punjab and Haryana High Court and Beyond Law. Justice Chaudhary made it clear that the training programme would go a long way in educating stakeholders about effective implementation of legal aid for ensuring speedy and quality justice.Haryana Legal Services Committee member secretary Parmod Goyal played an instrumental role in organising the webinar and advocate Vikas Chatrath was the moderator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unwarranted-interference-by-judges-can-upset-advocates-121683
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Migration, Covid-19 fear challenges for NSO surveys||In pandemic, “mass migration” and “new social norms” have emerged as unforeseen challenges for the statisticians of the National Statistical Office (NSO) here in Chandigarh. Under the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, NSO conducts large scale sample surveys in diverse fields that provide crucial data to the government for framing policies.However, with two months of labour lost to the lockdown, statisticians are now struggling to meet data-collection deadlines for many major surveys, including Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) for 2019-20 and socio-economic survey. Fearing the deadly virus, most respondents refuse to communicate with statisticians on door-to-door surveys.“Few weeks ago, since we resumed field work only in June, we had to visit three societies in Sector 49, which were part of our sample size, but we were not allowed inside. Guards stopped us and only after seeing our ID cards, they allowed us to enter two societies,” said senior statistical officer Usha Verma. “Even as we spoke to people, they were aloof. Most of them didn’t open the door for us,” she added.Besides surveys, NSO also collects data on rural and urban prices and plays a significant role in the improvement of crop statistics through supervision of the area enumeration and crop estimation surveys of state agencies. However, with mass migration of labour and outstation residents staying as paying guests, statisticians are grappling to ensure authenticity. Junior statistical officer Purnima Malik said, “On revisits, we find that houses, which were part of our sample size, are now vacated by respondents, who lived there as paying guests. In rural and urban areas, people have migrated because of the pandemic.”For now, officers are rolling with the punches. Baljeet Singh Chhabra, Deputy Director General, NSO, says, “Despite huge challenges and uncertainties created by Covid-19, our field officers are trying their best to reach people for gathering data. My appeal to public is to co-operate with our officers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/migration-covid-19-fear-challenges-for-nso-surveys-121708
04-08-2020||---||Curbs at Mani Majra houses, Dhanas block||Chandigarh, August 3For effective management of the Covid-19 pandemic, the UT Administration has declared a few houses at Pipliwala Town in Mani Majra and a residential block of EWS Colony at Dhanas micro-containment zones.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said six houses — 320, 321, 321-B, 325, 327/1 and 327/3 — at Pipliwala Town in Mani Majra and the top floor of 106-C Block of EWS Colony at Dhanas had been declared micro-containment zones for intensive screening, sanitisation and treatment.During a review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar to find additional facilities where Covid-19 patients could be accommodated whenever the need arose. He said community halls located away from residential areas could be utilised for the purpose in view of the continuous increase in the number of coronavirus cases.As a contingency plan, the Administration has made arrangements for nearly 3,000 beds for a population of nearly 12 lakh. Among the dedicated hospitals, the PGI has 200 beds and the Sector 48 hospital 100.The Administrator directed Principal Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Gupta to start a dedicated dialysis facility for Covid patients, who require regular dialysis. It would reduce the burden on the PGI. All such Covid patients, who require regular dialysis, may contact the Director-Principal, GMCH.Dr GD Puri of the PGI said many patients from Punjab and Haryana and neighbouring states were coming to the emergency and when found positive, they had to be accommodated at Nehru Hospital Extension. He requested the Administrator to take up with the neighbouring states the issue of overcrowding of the PGI by patients who could be treated locally instead of being brought to the PGI. The Administrator advised the PGI Director to hold regular meetings with the health directors of the neighbouring states and stick to proper protocol in receiving patients from other states.Parida said the decision to close Sukhna Lake on weekends was widely accepted in the city. “This has also led to out-of-town tourists avoiding unnecessary visits to Sukhna Lake,” he said. In view of the hooch tragedy in Punjab, the Administrator directed the DGP to ensure that there was no supply of spurious liquor in any area of the UT.UT gets 5,500 kits for antigen testThe UT Health Department has received 5,500 kits for the antigen test for coronavirus. Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, said these kits would be utilised for extensive testing of samples, particularly among health officials, police personnel, municipal officials and vendors in the mandi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-at-mani-majra-houses-dhanas-block-121709
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Foul play suspected in death of elderly man at Sector 10, Chandigarh||The probe into the mysterious death of an elderly man in Sector 10, which the UT police had claimed to be a case of suicide yesterday, has taken a new turn as it is now being suspected to be a case of murder.The police have started investigating the matter and facts are being verified.Sources said a servant, identified as Luv Kush, who was a suspect, had gone missing after the incident. However, he was later rounded up and was being questioned by the police. The victim, Amrit Singh Thapar, a resident of Delhi, had arrived with his wife to stay with his son around 15 days ago. He was found dead in the washroom of the house yesterday morning. The police had earlier claimed that the victim had hanged himself with the help of his turban in the washroom.The sources said the victim’s family also visited the Sector 3 police station today and demanded a thorough investigation into the matter.The police today again visited the victim’s house to investigate the crime scene.DSP (Central) Krishan Kumar said the matter was under investigation as it was suspected the victim might have been murdered.The victim’s autopsy is yet to be conducted as his Covid test report is yet to be received. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foul-play-suspected-in-death-of-elderly-man-at-sector-10-chandigarh-121705
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||5 child trafficking suspects nailed, newborn recovered||The UT police nabbed five persons, including two women, suspected to be members of a child trafficking gang this evening and recovered a newborn boy from them.Sources said the police had got a tip-off that some persons had stolen a newborn from a hospital in Punjab and would sell him in the city. A team of the Sector 31 police station laid a naka and nabbed the suspects riding an Alto car.The police said the baby had been recovered from them. He was shifted to a shelter home after a medical examination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-child-trafficking-suspects-nailed-newborn-recovered-121702
04-08-2020||---||Shopkeeper outrages cop’s modesty, held||Chandigarh, August 3A shopkeeper has been arrested by the local police for allegedly outraging the modesty of a woman constable and deterring her from discharging her duties at Behlana when she had gone to get shops closed on the District Magistrate’s orders last night.According to the police, the constable, who is posted at the Sector 31 police station and was deputed at the beat box in Behlana, was patrolling the market on foot to get the shops closed after 8 pm.She found a shop dealing in cosmetics open and asked the shopkeeper, Gurpreet Singh, to close it.She alleged that Gurpreet started arguing with her and manhandled her.She informed senior police officials about the incident and the suspect was nabbed.The police registered a case under Sections 332, 353, 354, 186 and 188 of the Indian Penal Code against the shopkeeper at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shopkeeper-outrages-cops-modesty-held-121671
04-08-2020||Naina Mishra||Oxford vaccine trials may start at PGI by month-end||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) is expected to start the clinical trials of the Oxford University-Astra Zeneca Covid-19 vaccine (Covishield) by August-end after recruiting volunteers.— Prof Jagat Ram, PGI DirectorIt’s an honour: PGI DirectorIt’s an honour to be entrusted with this vital responsibility of being one of the sites for the phase 2 and 3 trials of Covishield. The results of the phase 1 trials in the UK have been optimistic. The phase 2 and 3 trials will be done on a larger human population to see its efficacy.The Drugs Controller General of India granted approval to the Serum Institute of India, Pune, for conducting the vaccine trials in the country yesterday.The PGI is among the trial sites listed in the study, which will involve administration of the vaccine to 1,600 healthy adults across 17 trial sites.The principal investigator of the trials, Dr Madhu Gupta, Professor, Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGI, said, “The protocol has been finalised and will be sent to the ethics committee for clearance before starting the trials as patients’ safety is of utmost importance. We will assess the benefit and harm and get it approved from the institute.”Protocol finalisedThe protocol has been finalised and will be sent to the ethics committee for clearance before starting the trials as patients’ safety is of utmost importance. We will assess the benefit and harm and get it approved from the institute. — Dr Madhu Gupta, PGI Professor“We will assess the safety of the trials and see whether antibodies are formed after the vaccine is administered in the body. The vaccine stimulates the virus for protection but does not cause the disease,” said Dr Gupta.The participants will be recruited after a thorough medical screening. The inclusion criterion is that the participant must be a healthy adult above 18 years of age. Moreover, the adult must not have contracted Covid-19 in the past or no family member should have a history of coronavirus.Dr Gupta said, “We have committed about 250 participants from the PGI. The recruitment will be done in the first month and the duration of the trials will be six months. For recruitment, we will advertise for Chandigarh-based residents to participate in the vaccine trials.”Currently, the phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Oxford vaccine candidate are going on in the UK, the phase 3 clinical trials in Brazil and the phase 1 and 2 clinical trials are under way in South Africa.As per the study design, each subject will be administered two doses four weeks apart (the first dose on day one and the second on day 29) following which the safety and immunogenicity will be assessed at predefined intervals.Medical screening for participantsThe participants will be recruited through medical screening. The inclusion criterion is that the participant must be a healthy adult. Moreover, the adult must not have contracted Covid-19 in the past and no family member should have a history of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/oxford-vaccine-trials-may-start-at-pgi-by-month-end-121672
04-08-2020||Panchkula||COVID-19: Panchkula sees biggest single-day spike of 60||The district Covid tally today went past the 700 mark with 60 more persons testing positive for the virus. The number of cases reported from the district is 710.Civil Surgeon Jasjit Kaur said several cases were reported from Raipur Rani and Sector 21 today.On Sunday, the district had witnessed 58 cases, the highest single-day spike till then, and 23 of these had surfaced in Raipur Rani. Today, 19 cases surfaced in the area. They are five men, aged 30, 69, 56, 55 and 31, seven youths, aged 29, 21, 19, 26, 26, 23 and 27, a six-year-old girl and six women, aged 56, 24, 40, 38, 42 and 25.Others to have contracted virus are two women of Sector 15, aged 43 and 62; a 13-year-old girl, a 30-year-old woman, a 10-year-old boy and a 30-year-old man of Hangola village; a 14-year-old boy, a 27-year-old youth and four men, aged 30, 30, 35 and 53, an 11-year-old girl and three women, aged 37, 40 and 26 of Kalka; two 26-year-old youths and a 32-year-old man of Pinjore; a 38-year-old man and a 26-year-old youth of Chandimandir; a 42-year-old woman of Sector 9; two men, aged 43 and 35, of Sector 10; a 30-year-old man of Maheshpur; two nine-year-old girls, a 35-year-old woman, a five-year-old boy and five men, aged 36, 36, 60, 44 and 35, of Sector 21; four women, aged 43, 60, 43 and 66, and a 57-year-old man of Sector 20; and two women, aged 58 and 23, of MDC, Sector 4.The Civil Surgeon said all infected persons had been admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital. She added that teams of the Health Department were putting the family members of the Covid patients under home quarantine.She said the teams had been deputed to trace the contacts of the infected persons and prepare a list so that they could also be home-quarantined. Besides, their samples would be taken for the Covid test, the official added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-panchkula-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-of-60-121673
04-08-2020||Our Correspondent||3rd Covid death in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 3The district reported its third death due to Covid-19 today with a leading vegetable and fruit commission agent of Sirhind losing the battle to the disease. He was admitted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, but was shifted to a private hospital in Jalandhar, where he breathed his last.His body was brought to Sirhind town and cremated as per the Covid guidelines. The victim’s immediate neighbours also tested positive for the virus and one of them has been admitted to the PGI. The tally of positive cases in the district has reached 382.Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, said 18,250 samples had been collected so far of which 382 had tested positive. He said there were 120 active cases, while the district had witnessed three deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3rd-covid-death-in-fatehgarh-sahib-121674
04-08-2020||---||Chandigarh Housing Board to decide fate of Sector 53 scheme on August 6||Chandigarh, August 3The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will take the final decision on the fate of its general housing scheme in Sector 53 on August 6.An official said the final decision to either scrap the scheme or bring out a revised plan would be taken in a meeting of the Board of Directors on August 6.Due to a poor public response to the scheme, the board had in March this year decided to refund the processing fee of all applicants and planned the scheme afresh in order to make it more attractive.Even after slashing the prices twice, the CHB had failed to get good response to the scheme, as it had received only 178 applications for 492 flats to be built under various categories.The scheme offered a 3BHK flat for a price as high as Rs1.5 crore, a 2 BHK flat for Rs 1.28 crore, a 1BHK flat for Rs86 lakh and an EWS flat for Rs50 lakh. Two proposals on increasing the floor area ratio (FAR), which the board had sent to the Department of Architecture, were rejected. An increase in the FAR would have helped the CHB in constructing more flats.To make the scheme lucrative by reducing the cost of flats or increasing the number of units, the approval of the board was needed, said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-to-decide-fate-of-sector-53-scheme-on-august-6-121676
04-08-2020||Mohali||20 Covid-19 cases in Mohali||With the surfacing of 20 fresh cases of Covid, the district tally rose to 959 today. The district also saw 20 patients beating the virus and getting discharged from hospital.Those found infected today are a 38-year-old man of Baltana, a 35-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman of Ecocity, two men, aged 30 and 65, of Omaxe, New Chandigarh, a 34-year-old man of Sector 91, two women, aged 23 and 35, and four men, aged 53,47, 31 and 57, of Kurali, a 48-year-old man of Sunny Enclave, Kharar, a 29-year-old woman of Sector 66, a 25-year-old woman of Nayagaon, a 26-year-old man of Shahimajra, a 19-year-old girl of Balongi, a 57-year-old woman of Dera Bassi, a 27-year-old woman of Sector 69 and a 33-year-old woman of SBP Homes, Kharar.As of now, there are 959 positive cases in the district. As many as 553 of the total patients have recovered and 389 cases are active. The district also witnessed 17 Covid deaths. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-covid-19-cases-in-mohali-121677
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||43 more test +ve for Corona in Chandigarh||The number of active Covid-19 cases breached the 400 mark to reach 434 with 43 fresh infections being reported from the city today. The total count of infections has reached 1,160.To ramp up Covid testing, the UT has also started antigen testing. On the first day, 37 antigen tests were conducted. The reports of a city resident and a Punjab native were positive.The new cases have been reported from Sectors 22, 56, 35, 51, 25, 23, 38, 34, 20, 8, 45, 10, 41 and 7, Bapu Dham Colony, Burail, Maloya, Kajheri, Mani Majra, Khuda Lahora, Raipur Khurd, Ram Darbar, Dhanas and Butrela.As many as 27 cases reported today are contacts of Covid patients. Two persons, who are contacts of employees of the PGI, also tested positive.Meanwhile, eight patients were discharged today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/43-more-test-ve-for-corona-in-chandigarh-121711
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||Woman held with 78.42-gm heroin||Youth ends life on railway trackZirakpur: A 24-year-old youth allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a locomotive coming from Ambala near Nagla village on the Ambala-Kalka railway line. The deceased has been identified as Subhash, a resident of Harmilap Nagar. The Railway Police reached the spot and took the body into their possession. The postmortem will be conducted at the Dera Bassi hospital on Tuesday. The victim used to work as a computer operator in a company. TNSWoman’s purse snatched in Sec 32Chandigarh: A motorcycle-borne miscreant snatched a purse from a woman in Sector 32 here on Monday. Sources said the purse containing Rs 8,000, an iPhone and valuables was snatched from the woman near her house. The cash also included ‘shagun’ given by her brother on Rakhi. The police have initiated an investigation into the matter at the Sector 34 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-held-with-78-42-gm-heroin-121712
