05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Highest single day spike of 64 cases in Chandigarh take tally to 1,270||Chandigarh again recorded a single day biggest spike of 64 coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the tally of cases to 1,270 in the city.With the new cases, the active number of infections has crossed the 500 mark.Around 42 per cent of the total cases are currently active.The new cases also include 21 positive cases by Rapid-Antigen tests. The city has conducted 15,611 tests till date. The positivity rate is presently 8.1 per cent in the city.Sectors 52, 40, 24, 42, 43, 47, 41, 46, 34, 39, 28, 45, 40, 30, 41, GMCH-32, Dhanas, Burail, Hallomajra, Khuda Lahora, PGI, Raipur Khurd, Kajheri, Bapudham colony, Dadu Majra recorded the new cases.Among the new contacts, four are PGIMER employees, while a 28 year old man is working at Haryana Civil Secretariat.As many as 16 cases have contracted infection from family members and nine cases from their workplace.A total of 715 patients have recovered from corona virus while 20 have succumbed to the illness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/highest-single-day-spike-of-64-cases-in-chandigarh-take-tally-to-1-270-122560
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula reports 19 fresh COVID-19 cases; district total at 742||Panchkula reports 19 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 742. Earlier, the district witnessed its third COVID-19 death on Tuesday.A 43-year-old man from Baloti village. Civil Surgeon, Jasjit Kaur, said the Baloti resident was admitted to the Civil Hospital two days ago as he was facing difficulty in breathing. She said his samples were taken, which tested positive for COVID. The patient had died before the report was received.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-19-fresh-covid-19-cases-district-total-at-742-122517
05-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 62 COVID-19 cases; district crosses 1000-mark||Mohali reported 62 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the district total to 1,051.The death toll stands at 17.This is the highest ever spike Mohali has witnessed.However, 10 infections have recovered from deadly disease and discharged from the hospital.Most of the cases were recorded from Kharar, Derabassi, Zirakpur, Nyaagoan and Mohali city.Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said that all the patients have been admitted to the COVID care centre in Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He added that all the patients were responding well to the treatment.Out of 1,051 infections, 589 positive patients have been cured and discharged.At present, the district reports 445 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-62-covid-19-cases-district-crosses-1000-mark-122505
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Expect rain for four days: Met||Light rainfall (0.5 mm) was recorded in the city today. According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, light to moderate rain is expected to continue for the next four days in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-rain-for-four-days-met-122333
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Man held with 10 kg of ganja||13 fresh cases in Fatehgarh SahibFatehgarh Sahib: Thirteen more persons tested positive for Covid on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 402. Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, Fatehgarh Sahib, said 20 persons were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital. He said 18,637 samples had been collected. Out of this, 17,760 tested negative and 402 positive. He said there were 112 active cases in the district. Two areas in the district had been declared micro-containment zones. TNSHospital gets 3 ambulancesFatehgarh Sahib: Dr Amar Singh, MP from Fatehgarh Sahib, on Tuesday handed over two ambulances to the Civil Hospital purchased from MPLAD funds to meet the medical requirement of the hospital. Another ambulance, equipped with latest technique of advanced life support system, was sanctioned by the Chief Minister. The three ambulances were flagged off by Dr Amar Singh and MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra. TNSOver 38K apply for college admissionChandigarh: A total of 38,012 applications have been received by the Directorate of Higher Education, UT, for online admission to local colleges. A total of 20,634 applications have been received for non-centralised courses and 17,378 for centralized courses. A total of 6,512 applications have been received for BCom, followed by 3,377 for BBA, 2,131 for BCA, 1,639 for BSc (non-medical) and 1,042 for BSc (medical). As many as 11,552 applications have been received for BA in four government colleges. TNSP’kula man held for vehicle theftChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a Panchkula resident for vehicle theft. Two Maruti Zen cars were recovered from his possession. A team of the Sector 36 police station arrested the suspect, identified as Ankush Chawaria of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula. He was nabbed from near the Sector 41/42 small chowk. TNSMinor girl hurt in road accidentChandigarh: A four-year-old girl suffered serious injuries after being hit by an e-rickshaw in Maloya. The police said the victim was playing near her house when the e-rickshaw, being driven by Nitin of Maloya Colony, hit the victim on August 2. The victim was admitted to the GMSH in Sector 16. Later, she was referred to the PGI. A case has been registered against the driver at the Maloya police station. He was arrested and later released on bail. TNSMC SIs can now collect fineChandigarh: Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar has authorised sub-inspectors of the Enforcement Wing of the Municipal Corporation to impose fine on people not wearing a face mask. A person has to pay a fine of Rs500 for not wearing a mask in public places. The fine was imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-10-kg-of-ganja-122334
05-08-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Safety assumes priority, not all gyms to open today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4Shut down for over four months in the wake of Covid-induced lockdown, city gyms are now treading with caution as they prepare to resume operations.While many small-scale gyms will be opening tomorrow, bigger ones will start hosting fitness enthusiasts in a few more days. One thing is certain: gyms will not be the same.From sifting out time slots for different batches and installing sanitiser dispensers to strict disinfecting routine and social distancing guidelines, city gyms are taking innovative routes to keep Covid-19 at bay.Pankaj Kasrija, owner of Burn Gym, Sector 8, is planning to get his gym equipment layered with a new technology that can keep viruses and bacteria off surfaces for as long as 90 days. “It’s a new technology called Nanova Coat, which can shield against viruses for three months and we are considering it. We will resume services in a day or two.” Burn Gym is one of the bigger gyms in the city and has no dearth of space. So, it, like all other gyms, is charting out time slots for people to exercise in batches. “To assure social distancing, we may accommodate about 30-40 people in one batch. The problem here is that most people like to enrol in the peak-time batches — 6 am to 9 am and 6 pm to 9 pm,” he says.“Air conditioners will operate at the permissible limit. We will also check people’s oxygen saturation level (which should be 95) and their temperature before they step inside,” said MP Singh of Mikey’s Prime Bodies, Sector 32.The gym owners, however, have no concrete solution to settle the four-month inactivity for customers with quarterly, half-yearly and yearly memberships. “We are looking to give back 50 per cent of the amount paid in membership to make up for the loss of time with a rider that the customer takes a new membership. Even though the gyms were shut, we paid the rent and operational bills,” says Aman from Bolt Gym, Sector 22.To ensure social distancing, most gyms are planning to operate only 30 per cent of their equipment. The gym-goers may have to carry a spare pair of shoes, their own water bottle, towels and exercise mats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/safety-assumes-priority-not-all-gyms-to-open-today-122310
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||24K apply for PU courses||A total of 24,643 applications have been received for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses at Panjab University.  As per the data, 11,604 applicants registered for undergraduate courses and 13,039 registered for postgraduate courses. As many as 2,946 have completed filing their forms and submitted fee for undergraduate courses, while for postgraduate courses, 2,953 have completed their forms.  For undergraduate courses, 822 candidates have completed their forms, but did not deposit the fee so far, whereas for postgraduate courses, the number of students of this category is 628. The total number of candidates who only submitted their forms stands at 3,768 for undergraduate courses and 3,580 for postgraduate courses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24k-apply-for-pu-courses-122311
05-08-2020||---||200 attend interview for gradation certificates||Chandigarh, August 4 Over 200 sportspersons attended the second interview session for issuing gradation certificates at the Sector 42 Sports Complex here today.  The interview was conducted at the indoor basketball courts and all participants adhered to the social distancing norms.  Over 300 had applied in the second phase, while nearly 200 attended the interview session.  The third interview session for gradtion of certificates will be held on August 10, followed by August 17, August 24, August 31 and September 7, subject to the date of filing for the certificate — August 3 to August 5, August 10 to 12, August 17 to August 19, August 24 to 6 and August 31 to September 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/200-attend-interview-for-gradation-certificates-122312
05-08-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Avoid excessive workout while wearing mask, suggest experts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4For fitness enthusiasts, wearing a mask while working out is a concern these days.The Ministry of Home Affairs has allowed opening of gyms, but did not mention the kind of masks appropriate while working out to avoid respiratory troubles.As per the guidelines, face cover/masks is mandatory at all times on the premises. However, while exercising, a visor mask may be used. Use of a mask, particularly N95, during exercise may cause difficulty in breathing.If a mask is used while exercising, it may put stress on lungs and affect breathing. Masks may become wet due to sweat if worn for a longer period of time. “There are three types of masks — surgical masks, N95 and N99 mask, and the handmade ones. The purpose of a mask is to ensure safety. However, while exercising, one has to be extra cautious,” said Dr Ravi Gupta, Medical Superintendent, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.“In my view, one should wear a face shield and a mask both while exercising. Excessive exercise should be avoided while wearing any kind of mask,” said Gupta.Pulmonary expert Dr VL Maini said there was no need for a mask if a person is performing exercise in open or alone in a room. “In congested places, one should be very careful. A simple cloth mask will serve the purpose, but people should avaoid excessive workouts,” said Maini.Surinder Kumar, another expert from Paras Hospital, said instead of focusing on the type of masks, one should maintain social hygiene. “One has to be particular about washings hands, coughing etiquettes and other things,” said Kumar.Mask for athletesAthletes do wear a mask, but only PM 2.5 category, which is designed to protect them from fine particles. The mask forces heart and lungs to work harder. So, during the tournaments, body uses oxygen more efficiently. It’s not recommended for all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/avoid-excessive-workout-while-wearing-mask-suggest-experts-122314
05-08-2020||---||Trees chopped, swings damaged at Lohgarh Park in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, August 4 Morning walkers at Lohgarh Park here were taken aback when they saw trees chopped and swings broken by vandals here today.  Elderly and other passers-by gathered at the spot and called the local MLA to take stock of the situation. Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma visited the park and condemned the incident. He said: “I strongly condemn the destruction of Lohgarh Park by anti-social elements. Joggers, who are attached with each and every plant of this park, are very disappointed with the incident. Another disappointing part is that no officer visited the spot even after being informed about the incident.’’ Mukesh Sardana, a resident, said: ‘’Already the infrastructure is in shambles in Zirakpur. Whatever little has been developed is being ruined like this. The police should act tough against such anti-social elements here.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trees-chopped-swings-damaged-at-lohgarh-park-in-zirakpur-122315
05-08-2020||Mohali||Working women’s hostel to come up in Mohali: Minister||A hostel for working women will be constructed in Sector 79 here for which land will be provided free of cost by the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA).This was stated by Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health and Family Welfare and Labour Welfare Minister Punjab and the local MLA, while presiding over a meeting with district officials at the District Administrative Complex here today.In the meeting, officials said they were also exploring the possibility to shift marble shops from near Landra Chowk to some other suitable place. Floating a special need-based policy in the city to resolve the issues pertaining to MIG/LIG flats was also being looked into.Sidhu suggested that officials concerned should look into the possibility of widening specific roads to at least 18-feet so as to increase the possibility of establishing small industrial units at the village level. He also proposed to make use of the forest land lying at Girdderpura village in Kharar tehsil for establishing dairies by allotting specific area to the milkman. GMADA was also asked to take over big parks of the city and construct sprinting tracks in all major parks.The minister also directed GMADA to look into the sewage problem in TDI City, Akal Ashram and Green Enclave and solve issues related to waterlogging in villages, including Bakarpur, Mauli, Chilla and Lakhnour. He also directed the Municipal Corporation to construct sunshades in shops at the Palika Bazaar market, Phase XI, Mohali. The Administration was asked to install community toilet sets near the cremation ground in Mohali to solve the problem of open defecation.Taking up development issues of the district with the Administration, Balbir Sidhu asserted that no stone would be left unturned for holistic development of Mohali. He categorically stated that no laxity in work would be tolerated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/working-womens-hostel-to-come-up-in-mohali-minister-122316
05-08-2020||Mohali||Youth Cong protests ‘anti-farmer’ ordinance||The Punjab Youth Congress here today staged a dharna in front of the Punjab Mandi Board office to protest against the anti-farmer ordinance of the Narendra Modi-led BJP government. Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon, along with his party office-bearers, staged the dharna. Brinder said: “The Narendra Modi-led government is hell bent on ruining the farming sector of the country”. He said representatives of the Punjab Youth Congress staged dharnas at more than 500 places throughout the state today. He said only five persons were present at each place across the 117 Assembly Constituencies of the state. Dhillon said the existing structure of the Mandi Board would be defunct and development work or revenue generation by it would stop, hindering the progress of Punjab. He said procurement by government agencies would be limited to only PDS distribution limiting Punjab quota to 8.5 lakh metric tonnes from 1 crore 27 lakh metric tonnes being procured presently by the Central Government. Attacking the Shiromani Akali Dal, Dhillon quipped that while Harsimrat Badal gave the nod by signing the ordinance, her husband, Sukhbir Badal, was trying to gain the sympathy of farmers by saying the SAD would not step back from sacrificing anything to stop it. He asked Sukhbir Badal to clarify what sacrifice would he make to oppose the ordinance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-cong-protests-anti-farmer-ordinance-122317
05-08-2020||---||Hit-&-run victim dies||Mohali, August 4A 45-year-old hit-and-run victim succumbed to his injuries at the Civil Hospital in Phase VI here today.The victim, Jasveer Singh of Rurki Pukhta village near Kharar, was hit by an identified motorcyclist on Saturday. He suffered serious injuries in the mishap. Biker to be nabbed soon, say copsThe police said bystanders noted down the registration number of the motorcycle. The suspect would be arrested soon.The police said Jasveer was walking on the road near a petrol pump at Daun village on the Chandigarh-Kharar highway. In the meantime, he was hit by a rashly driven motorcycle from the rear. The biker fled from the spot after the mishap.The victim was shifted to the Civil Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries today. The Balongi police have registered a case against the biker.The police said bystanders noted down the registration number of the motorcycle. The suspect would be arrested soon.The body was handed over to his family members after conducting a post-mortem examination at the Civil Hospital here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-run-victim-dies-122318
05-08-2020||---||MC Chandigarh puts booth owners on notice||Chandigarh, August 4The Estate Branch of the Municipal Corporation has issued building violation notices to booth owners at the Mani Majra motor market.They have been asked to demolish illegal structures in two months. They will also be liable for a penalty. “In case of your failure to remove building violations from the sites in two months, proceedings of resumption/ cancellation/ sealing/ removal will be initiated against you,” stated a notice issued by the corporation.The civic body has also told them that in case they want to be heard in person, they could visit the MC office on a specified date. Several booths here have covered the backside courtyard, which was not permitted.After getting notices, a few booth owners have started demolishing the structures built here. Some of them are not ready to accept the order.The Mani Majra Motor Market Union has demanded to allow small alterations, which are needed.Sandeep Palta, president of the Motor Market Association, said: “Courtyard was covered for two main reasons. First, rainwater enters our shops and second to prevent theft incidents. There is also no public toilet or drinking water facility for 48 booths.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-chandigarh-puts-booth-owners-on-notice-122319
05-08-2020||---||Elderly man’s autopsy conducted||Chandigarh, August 4The autopsy of an elderly man, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Sector 10 on August 2, was conducted at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 here today. The police said they were waiting for the autopsy report to establish the cause of the death.Statements recordedPolice officials said statements of the victim’s kin had been recorded and various facts were being verified.The victim, Amrit Singh Thapar, a resident of Delhi, had arrived with his wife to stay with his son at his house in Sector 10 around 15 days ago. He was found dead in the washroom of the house on Sunday morning.The police had earlier claimed that the victim had hanged himself with the help of his turban in the washroom.However, there is a suspicion that there was some foul play behind his death, following which further investigation was initiated.Police officials said statements of the victim’s kin had been recorded and various facts were being verified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-mans-autopsy-conducted-122320
05-08-2020||---||Auto driver thrashed, robbed of cash, mobile||Chandigarh, August 4 Two unidentified miscreants allegedly thrashed and robbed an auto driver in Sector 38 (West) here. According to the police, the victim, Sanjay Kumar a resident of Milk Colony, Dhanas, reported that two unknown persons boarded his auto from the Sector 25/38 light point on the night of August 2. On reaching near a gaushala in Sector 38 (West), the suspects caught hold of the victim’s neck and hit him on his head with a brick. The suspects robbed him of Rs500, a mobile phone and documents. The suspects then again asked the victim to drop them at the Sector 25/38 light point from where they escaped. The victim, who suffered seriously injuries, was admitted to the GMSH in Sector 16. The police have registered a case in this regard at the Maloya police station and initiated investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-driver-thrashed-robbed-of-cash-mobile-122321
05-08-2020||---||Youth found dead at park in Mani Majra||Chandigarh, August 4A youth, aged around 20, was found dead at a park in Mani Majra today. The police said the victim was suffering from tuberculosis (TB).The police said they received information that a youth was lying unconscious on a bench at a park near the Sheetla Mata temple. The police visited the spot and initiated an investigation. The victim was identified as Ajay, a resident of Mani Majra.The police said there were no injury marks on the victim's body. He was unemployed. "His kin have been informed," said a police official.Meanwhile, the body has been shifted to a mortuary and inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Mani Majra police station. The police have ruled out any foul play in the incident.The autopsy will be conducted after the Covid test report is received.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-found-dead-at-park-in-mani-majra-122322
05-08-2020||---||Police decline sanction to prosecute suspended cop||Chandigarh, August 4The police have declined to give prosecution sanction against suspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur in a bribery case. The DIG placed the order before the CBI court today. In the order, the DIG said no substantive evidence had been placed on record by the investigating agency to prove her involvement in the case. Thus, prosecution sanction under Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act had been declined. Prem Singh Bisht, complainant in the bribery case, had filed an application before the CBI court that deemed prosecution sanction may be taken against Jaswinder Kaur and she may be summoned as an accused in the case after the police failed to take a decision on the application for months. What the DIG said The case pertains to October 2017 when Bisht had alleged that SI Mohan Singh, investigating officer in an attempt-to-murder case, was demanding Rs9 lakh to drop the names of three of his employees from the FIR. Later, the CBI held Mohan Singh while taking a bribe of Rs2 lakh from Bisht at the Sector 31 market after Bisht made a complaint to the CBI.Bisht alleged that Inspector Jaswinder Kaur had directed him to fulfil Mohan Singh’s demand failing which the complainant and his employees would be harassed and chargesheeted in the case. In the order, the DIG said a perusal of the chargesheet revealed that after laying the trap, accused Mohan Singh did not disclose that the bribe money was obtained by him on behalf of Inspector Jaswinder Kaur and even refused to make a phone call to her.The order further stated that as per the chargesheet filed by the CBI, there was no independent, oral or documentary evidence on record regarding a direct demand of the bribe amount by Inspector Jaswinder Kaur.The DIG said even in the application moved by Bisht before the court, no new fact had been brought into light. In view of this, prosecution sanction under the Prevention of Corruption Act against her was declined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-decline-sanction-to-prosecute-suspended-cop-122301
05-08-2020||Mohali||30 fresh cases in Mohali district||With the surfacing of 30 fresh cases of Covid, the district tally today rose to 989.Those infected include a 45-year-old woman, three youths and two men, aged 33 and 40, of Dera Bassi, a 53-year-old man of Sector 125, a youth of Lalru, two men, aged 49 and 34, and an 88-year-old woman of Dhakoli, a 50-year-old woman and a 54-year-old man of Baltana, an 81-year-old man of Nagla in Dera Bassi, three men, aged 40, 42 and 43 of Kharar and a 56-year-old man of Kurali.A 32-year-old man of Zirakpur, a 53-year-old woman of Peer Muchalla, a 65-year-old man and a 23-year-old woman of Jujhar Nagar, a 41-year-old woman man of Phase 10, a 49-year-old man of Sector 71, a 34-year-old man of Phase 7, a 48-year-old woman of Phase 6, a 31-year-old man of Sector 80, a 33-year-old man of Nayagaon, an 11-year-old boy of Sector 97 and a 41-year-old man of Sector 66 also contracted the virus.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the new patients were admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He said samples of family members of the new patients would be taken. Besides, their contacts would be traced and they would be sampled too, he added.As many as 26 patients were cured of the disease and discharged from the hospital.So far, the district has reported 989 cases and 579 of these have been discharged while there are 393 active cases. The district also reported 17 deaths due to the infection. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-fresh-cases-in-mohali-district-122302
05-08-2020||---||Sunny Enclave MD Jarnail Singh Bajwa, a PO, arrested||Mohali, August 4The Kharar police arrested proclaimed offender (PO) Jarnail Singh Bajwa, MD of Sunny Enclave, here this evening.He was arrested seven months after being declared a PO by a local court in six cases of cheque bounce amounting to Rs1.94 crore.Kharar DSP Pal Singh said, “The police arrested Bajwa from Sunny Enclave. The court had issued non-bailable warrants against him. He will be produced in the consumer court concerned tomorrow.”The court also directed complainant Naseeb Kaur, a resident of Kharar, to place on record a list of properties of the suspect, along with an affidavit, to initiate further proceedings. She had alleged that Bajwa, a co-founder of Bajwa Developers Group, the promoter of Sunny Enclave, was dealing in sale, purchase and development of residential as well as commercial properties. She said she sold around 12 kanals to Bajwa’s firm on March 17, 2018. In return, he gave her 15 post-dated cheques for Rs4.95 lakh each. However, these cheques were “returned unpaid” citing “exceeds arrangement”.The complainant took up the issue with officials of the firm, who requested her to present the cheques for clearance once again. However, the cheques were once again returned unpaid citing “exceeds arrangement” and the “account blocked”. She then filed a complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act in the court, seeking the payment along with compensation.Nearly 45 cases of cheque bounce, involving an amount of Rs20 crore, have reportedly been registered against Bajwa in the tricity. Bajwa’s counsel Dinesh Kumar Sharma said, “We were refunding the money to the parties, but in view of the lockdown, we could not sell our properties and faced financial issues. We will sort out the issue soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sunny-enclave-md-jarnail-singh-bajwa-a-po-arrested-122303
05-08-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||CHB frames draft policy for PG accommodations in houses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4The CHB has framed a draft policy for PG accommodations in independent residential houses allotted by the board.The move was initiated after a fire broke out inside a congested PG accommodation in Sector 32-D in which three girl students lost their lives on February 22 this year. The decision was taken to allow licensed PGs in more houses to discourage unauthorised PG accommodations.An official said the draft policy would be taken up for approval at a meeting of the board on August 6. After getting sanction from the board, the approval of the UT Administration would also be sought in the matter.At present, PG accommodation is not allowed in dwelling units of the CHB. Now, it has been proposed to allow PG accommodation in seven and a half marla or above independent houses allotted by the CHB.Accordingly, the draft policy of PG accommodation in independent houses of the CHB has been attempted on the lines of policy of the UT Estate Office.Key features of the policy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-frames-draft-policy-for-pg-accommodations-in-houses-122304
05-08-2020||Amit Sharma||Gang used to sell girl for Rs 80K, boy Rs 4 lakh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4Members of the inter-state child trafficking gang arrested by the local police have reportedly revealed that they used to sell a girl child between Rs 80,000 and Rs1 lakh and a boy for around Rs4 lakh. Among five persons held, one suspect is a Punjab Police constable, while two women are ASHA workers.Baby girl recoveredThe UT police have recovered another child, an 11-day-old girl, from Chandigarh on the basis of information provided by the suspects. The girl was reportedly sold in Chandigarh.The suspects, identified as Amarjit Singh (29), a constable and resident of Sector 14, Kharar, Mandeep Singh (35), a resident of Jalaldiwal village in Ludhiana district, and three women, including two ASHA workers — Kuldeep Kaur (32), a resident of Patiala, and Sarabjit Kaur (40) of Sangrur — and Bhawna (32), a resident of Burail, were arrested from near the Airport light point on August 3.A two-day-old boy was also recovered from them. The child was to be sold for Rs4 lakh.Inspector Paramjit Kaur, SHO, Sector 31 police station, said the suspects claimed that they had got the newborn from Malerkotla in Sangrur district. “The suspects claimed that they told the child’s parents that their baby had died at the time of birth. However, we are verifying their statement,” the SHO said.Police sources said it was also suspected that the parents of newborn sold him to the suspects for money.A team will visit Malerkotla to verify the information. The SHO said a girl child was sold for around Rs80,000 to Rs1 lakh, while a boy was sold for Rs4 lakh. The gang was active in neighbouring states, including Punjab and Delhi.A case under Sections 370 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered. All suspects were produced in a court and sent to seven-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gang-used-to-sell-girl-for-rs-80k-boy-rs-4-lakh-122305
05-08-2020||---||PEC graduate, doctor shine in Civil Services exam||Chandigarh, August 4Riddhima Shrivastava (24) has cleared the Civil Services examination conducted by the UPSC by securing the 74th rank. The results were declared today.Riddhima, a resident of Sector 24, graduated from Punjab Engineering College, Sector 12, in 2017 and cracked the Civil Services exam in her second attempt.She said, “I rate myself as an average student and if I can crack the UPSC exam, I believe anyone can. Discipline and consistency are important while preparing for the exam.”Riddhima said she studied for six to 10 hours a day, depending upon the phase of the examination. After every phase, she would give herself a break.Her mother Raji Shrivastava is an IAS officer posted as the Principal Secretary, Women and Child Development, Punjab, while her father Pramod Shrivastava retired from the IRS.A Mohali girl, Dr Darpan Ahluwalia (26), got the 80th rank in the examination.Darpan did her MBBS from Government Medical College, Patiala, two years ago. She said it was her second attempt. She said she had been preparing for the UPSC exam ever since she did her MBBS. She said initially, she used to study for five to six hours till the prelims and gradually increased the time.Her father Gurinder Singh Walia is a Joint Director in the Animal Husbandry Department, Punjab, and her mother Navneet Walia is a homemaker. She said her mother had done MPhil in economics, which helped her a lot in clearing the exam.Darpan had taken medical science as a subject in the exam. On changing the profession from medical to bureaucracy, she said she did not change the line and, in fact, got a bigger platform to serve people.She said her parents inspired her to work hard to achieve her goal.Ekam J Singh (502), Jasroop Kaur Baath (144) and Srishti (734) from the tricity also cleared the exam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-graduate-doctor-shine-in-civil-services-exam-122306
05-08-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Punjab and Haryana High Court  acquits minor in rape case, raps trial court for perversity||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 4 Just about a year after a juvenile from the city was convicted in a rape case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court  (HC) honourably acquitted the convict after holding that the trial court committed material irregularity and perversity while convicting him. The Bench asserted that the prosecution miserably failed to establish its case before the court. A copy of the judgment was also directed to be forwarded by the Registrar-General of the HC to the presiding Judge concerned for information. The judgment by Justice Anil Kshetarpal of the High Court is out of the ordinary as “honourable” acquittal is rare as accused in almost all the cases are acquitted after being given the benefit of doubt.  The juvenile had moved the HC against the UT, Chandigarh, challenging the judgment of conviction passed by an Additional Sessions Judge-cum-Judge, Special Court, Chandigarh, in August last year. The Judge, vide the order, had convicted the appellant, along with another juvenile, for committing rape and another offence under Section 376 of the IPC, and Section 4 of the POCSO Act. Allowing the appeal, Justice Kshetarpal asserted: “On careful critical analysis of the record with the judgment passed by the trial court, this court has come to a conclusion that the trial court has committed a material irregularity and perversity while convicting the appellant. In this case, the prosecution has miserably failed to establish its case before the court. Justice Kshetarpal, in his verdict running into nine pages, demolished the trial court judgment on at least nine counts before asserting that the prosecutrix’s statement remained uncorroborated and her evidence was also not reliable. “This court is of the opinion that the judgment under appeal cannot be sustained. Hence, it is set aside. The appellant is honourably acquitted of the charges,” Justice Kshetarpal added. The prosecution had claimed that the alleged incident took place on the intervening night of September 25 and 26, 2017, at 2 am, when the “victim” was returning all alone from a friend’s birthday party. Justice Kshetarpal asserted that the prosecution did not make the friend a part of its investigation. It was the “victim’s” case that the appellant was also present in the birthday party. As such, it was imperative for the prosecution to prove there was a party. “However, the prosecution did not lead any evidence except bald statement of the prosecutrix that there was a party...” Justice Kshetarpal added that the prosecutrix’s case was that her mother informed the police by dialling 100 after she narrated the incident to her. But she did not make a statement when the police came. “However, no record of the call made by the mother to the police and cops’ visit to their residence has been produced,” Justice Kshetarpal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-acquits-minor-in-rape-case-raps-trial-court-for-perversity-122307
05-08-2020||---||Chandigarh toll 20 as Burail woman succumbs||Chandigarh, August 4A 50-year-old woman of Burail, who was suffering from a severe rheumatic heart disease, died of Covid at the PGI yesterday, taking the UT toll to 20.The woman was sampled on August 2 and diagnosed Covid positive yesterday. She had a history of fall after giddiness and was taken to the PGI Trauma Centre where she was reported to be having a subdural haemorrhage. Her condition deteriorated and she suffered a cardiac arrest and could not be revived.The city also witnessed the biggest single-day spike of 46 cases today. So far, the UT has seen 1,206 cases and 470 of these are active. The new cases have been reported from Sector 15, 36, 34, 39, 44, 45, 32, 42, 50, 46, 48, 19 and 49, Ram Darbar, Khuda Jassu, Dhanas, Raipur Khurd, Mauli Jagran, Daria, Mani Majra, Burail, Bapu Dham Colony, PGI campus and Khuda Lahora.Among the new cases are an employee each of the Civil Hospital, Sector 22, and the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and two employees of the PGI. Four members of a family in Dhanas, including a three-year-old girl, have been infected. Five of a family in Bapu Dham Colony also contracted the virus.Nine recoverMeanwhile, nine more patients recovered from the infection, raising the number of recoveries in the city to 715.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-toll-20-as-burail-woman-succumbs-122308
05-08-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula sees its third fatality||The district saw its third Covid fatality in a 43-year-old man of Baloti village last night. Civil Surgeon Jasjit Kaur said the Baloti resident was admitted to the Civil Hospital two days ago as he was facing difficulty in breathing. She said his samples were taken, which tested positive for Covid. The patient had died before the report was received. Meanwhile, a day after 60 cases were reported from the district, the heath authorities here today heaved a sigh of relief as only 10 new cases surfaced today.Those infected with the virus are a 28-year-old youth of Pinjore, a 34-year-old man of Sector 25, two boys, aged 7 and 9, of Sector 12-A, a 17-year-old girl of Sector 24, a 52-year-old man of Sector 6, a 28-year-old youth of Natwal village, a 24-year-old youth and a 33-year-old woman of Marranwala and a 49-year-old man of Baloti village.The Civil Surgeon said the new patients were admitted to the isolation ward and health teams were deputed to take samples of their family members besides tracing their other contacts.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said so far, 723 persons tested positive for Covid in the district. Besides, 134 patients from other districts were diagnosed with the disease at health facilities in Panchkula. He said a total of 343 natives of this district had been cured of the disease and discharged from the hospital while 377 patients were fighting the virus. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-its-third-fatality-122309
