12-08-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Chandigarh reports 81 new cases; tally rises to 1,751||Chandigarh on Wednesday recorded 81 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the tally to 1,751.Of the 1,751 cases, 700 are active while 1,023 patients have been discharged after recovery.The UT has reported 26 deaths so far. Eight patients were discharged after recovery today.A 34-year-old man, resident of Sector 21, had allegedly committed suicide at home by hanging himself on August 10. He was sampled after his demise for COVID-19 at GMSH-16. He has been reported positive.A total of 19,141 people have been tested so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-reports-81-new-cases-tally-rises-to-1-751-125622
12-08-2020||---||Three Chandigarh schoolgirls launch venture to assist Covid-impacted underprivileged||Chandigarh, August 12To mitigate the severe impact that COVID-19 pandemic has had on the underprivileged, three Class-XII girls from Bhavan Vidyalaya, Chandigarh, have launched a venture to provide assistance to them.Under their initiative, called Project Chhaya, Ganya Sandhu, Tanmya Deswal and Vanshika Gautam procured and distributed about 400 kg of dry rations along with 1,000 face masks, 2,500 sanitary pads and 200 bottles of sanitisers to over 50 families living in slums and shelter homes.The students covered 11 different locations across the tricity and reached out to over 900 people to provide humanitarian assistance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-chandigarh-schoolgirls-launch-venture-to-assist-covid-impacted-underprivileged-125606
12-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 84 new coronavirus cases, two fatalities||Mohali reported 84 new coronavirus cases and two deaths, officials said on Wednesday---developments that take the district’s tally past 1,500 with 25 deaths.Both of Wednesday's fatalities had pre-existing health problems. The deceased were both men---a 45-year-old from Sector 74 and a 62-year-old from Phase 6. The former had uncontrolled diabetes and died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Chandigarh’s Sector 32, District Epidemiologist and Nodal Officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur said.The second patient tested positive after he underwent a major surgery at Command Hospital in Panchkula and his health declined soon after.Meanwhile, 35 patients were released from hospitals after recovery.  Over half of the district’s 1,536 cases are still active, officials said.Mohali has been seeing significant rise in both coronavirus cases as well as deaths this month---the district has reported 686 new coronavirus cases since the beginning of the month. A significant proportion of these cases---over 500---have been reported since Wednesday.Death toll has risen from 14 at the end of July to 25 now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-84-new-coronavirus-cases-two-fatalities-125604
12-08-2020||Aman Sood||Lone Punjab cop to get home minister’s medal has led many high-profile cases||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 12The lone decorated cop from Punjab, whose father was assassinated during militancy, Bikramjit Singh Brar has been awarded the prestigious ‘Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation’ for 2020.He is among the 121 police personnel across the country chosen for the award. The Ministry of Home Affairs shortlisted Brar’s name from a panel of many officers sent by Punjab.The award comes following Brar’s role in investigations leading to the arrest of gangster Sukhpreet Budha, busting of illegal nexus of gun house owners and gangsters in which more than 150 weapons were recovered. Further investigation led to the arrest of Harman Bhullar and six other accused from Rajasthan, who were involved in sensational crimes in Punjab, and recovery of sophisticated automatic arms from terrorist Billa.Early this year, DSP Bikramjit Singh Brar was awarded President’s Police Medal for gallantry on Republic Day for encounter against gangster Vicky Gounder.He had joined the force as ASI but was promoted for his role in solving many heinous crimes, including terrorism-related cases.An alumnus of Yadavindra Public School, Patiala, Brar has been in the limelight ever since he joined the police force following his tirade against gangsters and his ability to solve many heinous crimes, including a kidnapping bid wherein he led the team to recover the child within 24 hours.The recent award includes 15 officials from the Central Bureau of Investigation, 10 each from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra Police, eight from Uttar Pradesh Police, seven each from Kerala and West Bengal Police, and the remaining from other states and Union Territories. Punjab has just one name in the list.Bikramjit Brar is posted Mohali DSP, and has been instrumental in the past in arresting or eliminating several dreaded criminals, including drug lord Jagdish Bhola facing cases related to Rs 6,000 crore synthetic drugs trade.A daredevil police officer, Brar can be called the real hero of the Vicky Gounder operation as he was the first to enter the gangster hideout. Gounder was shot dead by a Punjab Police team two years back after three-month chase following the Nabha jailbreak.Due to operational skills and integrity, Brar is counted among the blue-eyed ‘boys’ of senior Punjab Police officials. Brar’s father Baldev Singh Brar was posted as SP (Detective), Patiala, when he was shot dead during a morning walk in 1988.A national-level boxer, Brar is credited with arresting most of the gangsters who planned the sensational Nabha jailbreak.“I am honoured to get this award and I do not have words to thank my seniors and colleagues in my team who have always been my strength,” says Brar who is also one of the highly protected cops owing threat perception. “The price you pay for doing your job is sometimes high, but then being a cop is no easy task. Country and state come first,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lone-punjab-cop-to-get-home-ministers-medal-has-led-many-high-profile-cases-125601
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration eases curfew restrictions for Janmashtami||The Chandigarh Administration has eased curfew restrictions until 1 am for Janmashtami, officials said on Wednesday.This easing of restrictions would be limited to one day, that is on Wednesday until the early hours of Thursday.Curfew restrictions in Chandigarh, imposed in an attempt to slow the spread of coronavirus and which have been eased over the last few months, are from 10 pm to 5 am.  The administration asked people to follow COVID protocols such as avoiding congestion, strictly adhering to social distancing and wearing masks as they head to temples to offer their prayers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-eases-curfew-restrictions-for-janmashtami-125585
12-08-2020||Panchkula||Major fire breaks out at Panchkula chemical factory||A massive fire broke out at a chemical factory in Industrial Area Phase 2, Panchkula, in the early hours of Wednesday. However, no loss of life or injury was reported in the incident.At least 10 firefighting vehicles were rushed to the spot to bring the blaze under control.It took them more than 4 hours to douse the flames. However, the firefighting operations continued until morning.Meanwhile, police officials, including ACP Noopur Bishnoi, Sector 14 police station SHO, Sector 19 chowki in-charge also reached the spot.The fire department is still trying to determine the cause of the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/major-fire-breaks-out-at-panchkula-chemical-factory-125510
12-08-2020||---||75 fresh cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 11Chandigarh reported 75 fresh Covid cases and one fatality today, taking the UT tally to 1,670 cases and 26 deaths.Micro-containment zones declaredA block of 24 houses from house number 2778 to 2801 in Sector 40 and another block of 23 flats and one garage from house number 1185 To 1190 in Sector 46, Chandigarh, have been declared as micro-containment zones.An 81-year-old woman from Sector 43 died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research yesterday, hours after she tested positive. She had a history of heart ailments. Fortyseven of the 75 fresh Covid infections were detected through RT-PCR tests. Chandigarh has 628 active cases. The new cases have been reported from Sector-11, 48, 41, 42, 35, 40, 32, 56, 46, 18, 20, 29, 19, 20, 35, 38, 30, 27, 38 west, 51, 33, 1, 49, Dhanas, Mani Majra, and Burail.An employee of Government School in Sector 38 (West) has also been infected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/75-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh-125379
12-08-2020||---||2 more fatalities, Mohali cases past 1,400 mark||Mohali, August 11Two more fatalities were witnessed taking the Covid-19 death toll up to 23 in Mohali district today. Besides, 67 fresh infections have pushed the tally up to 1,452.The deceased have been identified as a 28-year-old woman of Sunny Enclave in Kharar, who died at the PGI, and a 62-year-old man of Manakpur village.Dr Harmandeep Kaur, District Epidemiologist and Nodal Officer, said the 28-year-old patient had damaged heart, kidneys and lungs and was under treatment at the PGI. The 62-year-old man was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension and was under treatment at Ivy Hospital.Fresh infections were reported from Baltana (five), Padiala village (eight), Bhabat (three), Kharar (nine), Mohali city (17), Sohana (two), Dhakoli (three) and Aerocity (two). The others are from Jangpur, Balongi, Jujhar Nagar, Zirakpur, Nada village, Derabassi, Nayagaon, Bairmajra, Lohgarh and Kurali.Meanwhile, 25 patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals. There are 689 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-fatalities-mohali-cases-past-1-400-mark-125380
12-08-2020||---||Elderly man succumbs in Panchkula, 26 more infections||Panchkula, August 11Panchkula district witnessed one more fatality, taking the Covid death toll up to 4. The deceased was a resident of Sector 4.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said two days ago, samples of three members of the Sector 4 resident’s family were collected for Covid tests and their reports came positive. However, they did not bring a 72-year-old member of the family for test. When his condition deteriorated, the family brought him to the hospital in Sector 6. A rapid test confirmed he was infected. However, he died before the report came in.Meanwhile, seven employees of the Axis Bank branch in Sector 10 were among 26 fresh cases that surfaced today.The fresh infections were reported from Abhaypur, Paploha village, Sector 4, Surajpur village, Bir Ghaggar village, Sector 15, Railly village, Sector 14, Sector 8, Sector 9, Sector 20 and Kalka.While 615 patients have been discharged, there are 405 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-man-succumbs-in-panchkula-26-more-infections-125381
12-08-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh hospitals may run short of critical care beds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11With 75 per cent occupancy of the dedicated Covid-19 block of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), the institute is brimming with critical patients in need of intensive care. Eighteen patients are already on ventilator support. However, the institute has only 20 ventilators for Covid-19 patients.There are enough facilities for asymptomatic and mild patients. The problem is of critical care beds, as a majority of these beds at our dedicated hospital are occupied by patients from other states. - Arun Gupta, UT Health SecretaryThe institute is now trying to spare a few ventilators from other departments.The PGI Director, Dr Jagat Ram, said: “This is a matter of serious concern as there are already 150 patients with us. We have sought 25 more ventilators from the Centre, but have not received any so far. We have spared 2-3 ventilators from other departments. We are managing it somehow by shuttling between patients who need ventilator support and those who are stabilising.”The existing capacity of critical care beds at the PGI is also being occupied by patients from other states. It is posing a threat to critical patients from the city. Around 70 patients are testing positive for coronavirus from the city daily. Some of them already have conditions.Out of 200 beds identified for Covid-19 patients, 155 have already been occupied. A majority of the patients are from Punjab (60), followed by Chandigarh (53), Haryana (13) and Himachal Pradesh (12).Forty-seven critically ill Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital, Sector 48. This is already closer to 50 per cent occupancy as there are only 100 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients. The institute has 15 ventilators. Of this, three are occupied.UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said: “There are enough facilities for asymptomatic and mild patients. The problem is of critical care beds as a majority of these beds at our dedicated hospital are occupied by patients from other states.”“We have asked the GMCH and the PGI to spare a few more critical care beds for Covid patients. In the coming week, the capacity of both existing health facilities may be exhausted. These institutes will play a major role in providing treatment to severely ill patients,” he said.Only 20 ventilators for Covid patients at PGIThere are a total of 32 ventilators at the GMCH. The institute has provided 15 ventilators to the Civil Hospital, Sector 48, for Covid patients. The PGI has one ventilator per ICU ward. There are a total of 191 ICU wards at the PGI. However, only 20 ventilators have been kept for Covid patients at the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-hospitals-may-run-short-of-critical-care-beds-125382
12-08-2020||Sandeep Rana||Entry fee at major gardens proposed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11If a proposal of the Horticulture Department, Municipal Corporation, is approved, people will have to pay entry fee at major gardens or green belts in the city.“An entry fee between Rs 10 and Rs 20 at these places will increase our revenue. Entry fee can be charged at Fragrance Garden, Sector 36; Rose Garden, Sector 16; Shivalik Garden, Mani Majra; Japenese Garden, Sector 31; and Valley of Animals, Sector 49, and others,” said a report of the department presented to an MC panel.Loss due to CovidThe departments have also listed loss of revenue due to Covid this year. The Medical Officer of Health (MOH) office had Rs2,100-lakh budget estimates approved for 2020-2021. But the revised projection due to Covid is now only Rs700 lakh. Likewise, the booking branch had an estimated Rs10-crore budget from bookings of community centres, the revised projection of which is only Rs6.43 cr.Passes for morning walkersIt has also suggested issuing paid passes to morning and evening walkers. A licence fee for erecting hedges on municipal land adjoining to residential areas has also been proposed.However, these recommendations have not gone down well with residents. “In some areas where neighbourhood parks are not maintained, residents go to these gardens for a walk. If entry fee is imposed, then people will shy away from going for a walk there,” said Hitesh Puri, Chairman, Federation of Sectors Welfare Associations of Chandigarh.“These are not tourism places such as Rock Garden or Sukhna Lake. These are basic facilities given to common people. And this move will not give much revenue to the corporation,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/entry-fee-at-major-gardens-proposed-125383
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Jewellery worth lakhs stolen in two thefts||In two house thefts reported in the city, thieves have decamped with jewellery worth several lakhs and other valuables.Thieves broke into a lawyer’s house in Sector 44 on the night of August 8. Mukesh Kumar said he, along with his family, had gone to a relative’s place around 10 pm on August 8. When they returned around 7 am next day, they found the entire house ransacked.One gold set, one gold kitty set, five gold rings, two diamond rings, one men’s gold ring and one diamond ring, two gold chains, one gold mangal sutra, four pairs of anklets, five silver coins, two pairs of gold topas, 10 pairs of gold earrings, four pairs of ladies foot rings, two pairs of silver bracelets, two pairs of gold and one pair of diamond nose pins, two pairs of gold bangles, two pairs of gold bracelets, one men’s gold bracelet and one gold “kada”, about 1,000 Australian dollars, Rs 90,000 in cash besides other household goods were stolen from the house.The thieves consumed sweets kept in the house. They took away the jewellery in school bags.In the other incident, a resident of Sector 8 reported that unknown persons stole two gold rings, two pairs of gold topas, one pair of gold earrings, three necklaces, five lockets, two gold bangles, one gold watch and various gold and diamond jewellery items on July 28. The police have registered cases in both incidents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jewellery-worth-lakhs-stolen-in-two-thefts-125384
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||3 make attempt to break ATM||Three youths made an attempt to break open an ATM of Axis Bank at Subhash Nagar, Mani Majra, on Monday night. This is the third such incident reported at an unmanned ATM in less than two months.The footage of the CCTV camera installed at the booth reveals that the suspects arrived there around midnight. They broke the ATM screen with a stone. They also smashed the CCTV camera. They, however, failed to open the machine, said the police.Earlier, a similar attempt was made at an ATM of the SBI in Sector 44 on June 24. A thief had stolen Rs 7.65 lakh from an ATM of the Union Bank of India at Kishangarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-make-attempt-to-break-atm-125385
12-08-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Janmashtami celebrations with caution||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11As Covid cases continue to surge, city temples are treading with caution to ensure public safety on Janmashtami. While the Iskcon temple will remain closed, others may allow people to pay obeisance till 9 pm. Many temples, including Iskcon, will live-stream customary celebrations of Lord Krishna’s birth anniversary and prayers on social media.Speaking with The Tribune, co-president of Iskcon temple, Chandigarh, Nand Maharaj Das said: “We will be live-streaming ‘kalash abhishek’ and kirtans online, through Zoom, YouTube and Facebook, as the city police have not allowed us to open the temple because of the pandemic.” He added: “Krishna sees our emotions, so we can worship him under such circumstances while being at our homes.”The entire programme will be live-streamed on YouTube.com/ISKCONChandigarh and Facebook.com/iskconchd and at frequent intervals on Instagram and Twitter.Earlier, Iskcon temple hosted thousands of Lord Krishna's devotees on Janmashtami. This time the prayers will be performed by the temple residents now. "Last year, between 80,000 and 1 lakh people visited Iskcon," shared Das.In Sector 20, Arvind Shastri of Shree Gugga Madi Sankat Mochan Hanuman Mandir said: “This year, no prasad will be given to the devotees.Earlier, people queued up to push Sri Krishna’s idol in the swing, but this year one of the temple priests will do it. To keep the virus from spreading, we will also keep a check on social distancing and visitors will have to wash their hands before entering the temple.”At Shri Chaitanya Gaudiya Math Temple, Sector 20 B, Tarun Krishnadas said: “We are making a ‘phoolon ka bangla’ to celebrate Janmashtami, though we aren’t expecting many people here. Nevertheless, we will be live-streaming Thakur ji’s abhishek at 12 midnight on our Facebook pages.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/janmashtami-celebrations-with-caution-125386
12-08-2020||---||Law admissions on basis of Class XII result||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Panjab University (PU) today announced the schedule for online admission to BA/BCom LLB (Hons) 5-years integrated course.Considering the Covid-19 pandemic, it has been decided to scrap the undergraduate law (UGLAW) entrance test. To start the teaching sessions timely, the new admission schedule has been formulised, wherein admissions will be based on Class 10+2 examination result. The candidates seeking admission to BA LLB (Hons) and BCom LLB (Hons) (other than those who have already applied for the UGLAW entrance test) have to register themselves at uglaw.puchd.ac.in before August 17.Dates to rememberThe applicants should deposit the registration fee by August 19 and upload photographs, signatures and rest of the information by August 22 as per the revised schedule.All registered candidates (including those who have applied earlier for the UGLAW entrance test) will be allowed to fill the form. The forms will be available on the website from August 25. The candidates who have applied earlier and completed their form for the entrance test will be considered as registered candidates and will be eligible for filling of the admission form.Meanwhile, the dates of counselling for the UILS (all categories), PURC-Ludhiana (all categories) and PUSSGRC-Hoshiarpur (all categories), including the schedule and mode of counselling, will be notified later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/law-admissions-on-basis-of-class-xii-result-125387
12-08-2020||---||DUI approves panel suggestions||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11The office of the Dean University Instructions (DUI), Panjab University (PU), today announced to implement the suggestions by a coordination committee that was formed by the PU Syndicate.Teachers have been given the flexibility to take classes from home till further orders and faculty members of the PU Regional Centre, which has been designated as a quantratine centre, will also be allowed to take classes from home.Teachers taking online classes from their home will have to record their lectures and keep it safe as an evidence of having conducted the classes. Details of faculty members appointed as nodal officers will be collected from all departments by the DUI Office. The nodal officer will ensure that attendance of the students of all classes is uploaded on the department’s notice board by eighth day of every month.The new academic session for online classes and first-year undergraduate (campus) courses will start from September 1. From August 10 to August 31, teachers will help the students to clear their doubts for the ongoing classes or previous semester.Admission to BA/BCom, LLB and PUPHAT will be conducted on the basis of merit and admission criteria will be decided by a committee constituted by the Vice-Chancellor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dui-approves-panel-suggestions-125388
12-08-2020||---||I-Day function to be a low-key affair||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11This year, the Independence Day celebrations are likely to be a low-key affair.The Administration has prepared a roadmap for the programme that will be different than previous years. Around 60 to 70 people will attend the function at the Parade Ground in Sector 17 on August 15 and a march past will not take place.As per directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs, no children or senior citizen will be allowed to attend the function and no cultural programmes would be held. Freedom fighters would not be invited to the function, instead, officials will go to their houses to honour them.A senior official said only unfurling of the National Flag, national anthem and an address by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore would be held.The Administration had asked the heads of various departments to send names of Covid warriers to be honoured on the day, but only six to seven of them will be honoured during the function. Meanwhile, in view of Covid, the UT Administrator has also cancelled the function at the Governor’s house this time.Checking preparednessMock drills were conducted in different parts of the city in the view of the forthcoming Independence Day.As part of the drill, the first call of bomb being planted at Judicial Academy, Sector 43, was received at the Police Control Room, while another bomb call was received at a office in the Industrial Area, Phase I.Police teams were alerted following which a bomb disposal squad, a team of the Operation Cell and cops from the Sector 36 police station and the Sector 43 police post rushed to the spot.A disaster management team, fire tenders and medical team also reached the spot.As part of the drill, the cops cordoned off the area and evacuated everyone from the building. The bomb was disposed of and moved out of the building.The second call was of a bomb being planted at the Bhakra Beas Management Board office in the Industrial Area, Phase I. All teams, including area police, reached the spot and diffused the bomb.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/i-day-function-to-be-a-low-key-affair-125389
12-08-2020||---||Suspended cop to attend son’s wedding in police custody||Chandigarh, August 11While rejecting the three-day interim bail application by suspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, allowed her to attend her son’s wedding in the police custody for seven hours on August 14.Jawinder Kaur had moved an application for releasing her on interim bail for three days from August 13 to 15 on account of her son Gurpreet Singh's wedding, which was rejected by the CBI Court.Jawinder Kaur had moved an application for releasing her on an interim bail for three days from August 13 to August 15 on account of her son Gurpreet Singh’s wedding. After hearing the arguments, the court stated: “Keeping in view the nature of the offences and subsequent conduct of accused Jaswinder Kaur, she does not deserve the concession of an interim bail.”The Court further said however, in the interest of justice, Superintendent, Model Jail, Burail, is directed to make necessary arrangements to take the accused in police custody to Hotel Turquoise to attend the wedding ceremony of her son from 9 am to 4 pm on August 14 at her expenses and thereafter, bring her back to the jail.”The order further said that the police authorities will be at the liberty to handcuff the accused, if deemed necessary.The court also directed the Burail Jail Superintendent to take all precautionary measures against Covid-19.Terminder Singh, counsel of the petitioner, pleaded that the presence of Jaswinder Kaur in marriage functions was necessary. KP Singh, public prosecutor for the CBI, stated that once on bail, the accused might misuse it and flee to another country.Jaswinder Kaur was booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding Rs5 lakh bribe from a Manimajra resident Gurdeep Singh in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspended-cop-to-attend-sons-wedding-in-police-custody-125390
12-08-2020||---||Sector 17 traders take part in cleanliness drive in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Members of the Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, took part in a cleanliness drive here today.The drive was organised under the presidentship of Kamaljit Singh Panchhi with the help of sanitation staff of the Municipal Corporation.Panchhi said: “We took the initiative after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked us to observe a week-long ‘Uncleanliness, Out from India’ campaign till the Independence Day in commemoration of the attainment of ‘Swaraj’ following the Quit India campaign.”Panchhi said this gesture of cleanliness was their small contribution towards the campaign and their duty to serve the country by keeping it clean, which would help fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Panchhi appealed to all members of the Market Welfare Associations and the Resident Welfare Associations of the city to guide people not to throw any garbage or waste material on roads and streets.Panchhi thanked all members of the association for their support and participation in this campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-17-traders-take-part-in-cleanliness-drive-in-chandigarh-125392
12-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Ambulance for Civil Hospital||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 11Amloh MLA Kaka Randeep Singh today handed over an ambulance, equipped with Advanced Life Support System and purchased from MPLAD funds, to the Mandi Gobindgarh Civil Hospital authorities.The ambulance was flagged off by the MLA from the Civil Hospital. He said he had been in constant touch with health officials and would seek from government whatever they required to save people from Covid or other diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambulance-for-civil-hospital-125394
12-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Keep final notification on Zirakpur MC delimitation in abeyance: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11A month after a notification was issued by the Department of Local Government for the constitution of a delimitation board to readjust of wards of Zirakpur municipal council, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed that final notification in the matter of delimitation be kept in abeyance. ‘Process started to seek political advantage’The direction by the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma came on a petition filed against the Union of India and other respondents by former chief of Zirakpur municipal council Kulwinder Singh through senior counsel Deepinder Singh Patwalia and advocate Gaurav Rana. The Bench also fixed August 27 as the next date of hearing in the matter after hearing preliminary arguments through video-conferencing. The copy of the order was not yet available.Challenging the entire delimitation process undertaken by the respondent-state, senior counsel Patwalia contended that the same was being done without following democratic principles to seek “some political advantage”.Going into the background of the matter, Patwalia contended that the Census Commissioner on September 6, 2019, issued an order/letter to the respondent-state government in accordance with the provisions of the Census Rules. It stated that all proposals by various departments of the state for changing the boundaries of existing districts, municipalities etc should be finalised and given effect before December 31, 2019. After that the administrative boundaries would stand frozen.The respondent-department also issued a notification dated November 21, 2019, stating that the administrative boundaries of all the districts, tehsils, towns, villages, wards etc in Punjab stood frozen from January 1 to March 31, 2021.Patwalia added that Punjab in complete violation of the order/letter dated September 6, 2019, as well as notification dated November 21, 2019, issued another notification for constitution of delimitation board and preparation of fresh delimitation of Zirakpur Municipal Council, ZirakpurPatwalia contended: “The administrative boundaries of all wards in all municipalities of Punjab stand frozen vide notification dated November 21, 2019. Therefore, the notification dated July 14 is completely illegal as it violates the embargo put by the notification dated November 21, 2019, as per the provisions of a Central Legislation.”He said the constitution of the delimitation board itself was in violation of the relevant rules, as the state government had power to nominate only one member through notification. But it nominated two members to be part of the delimitation board.Patwalia further added a municipality’s population was to be determined on the basis of previous census, which was conducted in 2011. As such, fresh delimitation was not even warranted till the next census in 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/keep-final-notification-on-zirakpur-mc-delimitation-in-abeyance-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-125396
12-08-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Budget constraint: Covid-19 hits Chandigarh Sports Department hard||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Amid zero tournaments, shutting of state-run academies and no summer camps in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, Rs 21 crore (including capital head) allotted to the UT’s Sports Department may remain unused.Sources said from the last four months, the department has been getting only “time-to-time” funds. Recently, the department received around Rs 6 lakh, but only for purchasing sanitisation kits/articles. “From the last three months, we are getting need-based budget. Since there is no activity, the expenditure has come down. Expenses related to petrol, salary, telephone and others bills are covered under contingency. The Finance Department asks for our requirements and amount gets dispersed,” said an official on condition of anonymity.The Finance Department is only approving amount for buying mandatory and need-based things. There is no budget to purchase equipment. Even if we plan to organise tournaments, we will need approval of the Finance Department. Revenue of the government has been badly hit and this is impacting us as well. - Official of Sports DepartmentThe department runs various academies, including football, hockey (boys and girls) and bears expenses (stay, food, kit, schooling, medical expenses and others) of each player. Besides the department conducts various championships, inter-school cash prize tourneys, over Rs 3 lakh prize money All-India Administrator’s Football Cup, other invitational tournaments, 15-day summers camps (wherein free diet is given to players) and other events to exhaust their budget. This year no expenditure has been made on the above mentioned planning. Also, the 15-day high-altitude camps were not organised this time.“The Finance Department is only approving amount for buying mandatory and need-based things. There is no budget to purchase equipments. Even if we plan to organise tourneys, we will be needing approval of the Finance Department. Revenue of the government is hit badly and this is impacting us as well,” said another official.Moreover, revenue of the department has fallen from its sports complexes. Even after the complexes were thrown open, there’s a tepid response to membership in comparison to the last year. The department has been planning to open its two gyms—Sector 16 cricket stadium and Lake Sports Complex—which may help them earn some revenue.“Membership response is good only at badminton facilities. Revenue generation is important for upkeep of complexes,” said another official.“There’s no plan to conduct tournaments as the Central Government and the UT Administration have clear instructions on this. Calendar can be made only after getting green signal from the authorities,” said Tejdeep Saini, Director Sports, UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/budget-constraint-covid-19-hits-chandigarh-sports-department-hard-125397
12-08-2020||---||Vendor tests +ve in Fatehgarh Sahib, -ve in Karnal||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, August 11No new positive case was reported in Fathegarh Sahib today while 385 patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital.The administration and cops were ensuring that residents follow health guidelines.Test report of a vegetable vendor in Bassi Pathana has created confusion. After his arrival from Bihar, the vendor underwent test at the Bassi Pathana Civil Hospital.Authorities informed the vendor that he tested positive and an ambulance was on the way to admit him, however, he left for Karnal in a car of his brother-in-law. The vendor again got himself tested at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, Karnal, Haryana.His reports turned out to be negative.Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Singh said the vendor had violated guidelines by fleeing from the town. He said if he had any doubt regarding veracity of the test, he can get himself tested again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vendor-tests-ve-in-fatehgarh-sahib-ve-in-karnal-125399
12-08-2020||---||Daylight carjackings keep cops on toes||Mohali, August 11Teams of three police stations are yet to arrest two unidentified miscreants who took away three vehicles at gunpoint from the Mohali and Ropar areas on Monday.The two masked men took away a bike, a sedan and an SUV, one after the other, within 50 minutes in broad daylight.The miscreants first stopped Nadeem Ahmed, a resident of Lakhnaur village near Kurali, riding a Splendor Pro motorcycle (PB 65-P-6908) near his village around 2 pm. They pushed him and fled the spot with his bike.After a few minutes, they abandoned the bike and took away a Dzire car (HR 99-ABY-8303) at gunpoint from Pardeep Kumar, a resident of Phase VII, near a liquor vend at Charheri village on the Kurali-Ropar bypass.The miscreants headed towards Ropar in the car. On reaching near a bridge at Bheora village, they also abandoned the car and stole a Toyota Fortuner from Ramandeep Singh, a resident of Ghandoli village, around 2.50 pm. They drove towards village roads to avoid the toll plaza.They again abandoned the SUV on the Bindrakh road near a river and fled from the spot.The Sadar Kurali, City Kurali and Sadar Rupnagar police have recovered all stolen vehicles.Three cases under Sections 392, 411, 382 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act have been registered against the suspects.Inspector Baljeet Singh, Station House Officer of the Sadar Kurali police station, said: “One of the miscreants was wearing mask while another had covered his face with cloth.”Amroj Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Mullanpur, said: “We have got reliable clues and we will arrest them soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/daylight-carjackings-keep-cops-on-toes-125400
12-08-2020||---||Fire breaks out at utensils shop in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 11Fire broke out at a utensils shop in Mohali village today morning. No loss of life was reported in the incident, but goods worth several lakhs were gutted in the fire.Fire engines were rushed to the spot to douse fire that had engulfed the second floor. Firemen were able to control fire within half an hour.Surinder Kumar, owner of the shop, said they were yet to calculate the actual loss, but utensils worth several lakhs kept on the first and second floor were destroyed.Fire Officer Mohan Lal Verma said fire broke out at 10 am on the second and first floor at Sunder Bartan Store.He said six fire engines were pressed into the service and they controlled fire in 30 minutes.He said exact reason for fire was yet to be ascertained, but short circuit appeared to be the likely cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-at-utensils-shop-in-mohali-125401
12-08-2020||---||Potable water shortage hits Dera Bassi||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, August 11Residents of Mirpur and Mubarikpur villages are up in arms against the Dera Bassi Municipal Council (MC) regarding acute shortage of drinking water for more than two weeks.Irate residents protested in front of the MC office on Sunday and Monday. There was a heated exchange of words between the agitators and the MC officials after which protesters threatened to block the highway.Later, the MC officials assured that water supply would be restored within three days.Harvinder Singh Pinka, former councillor of Ward No. 18, said, “Five MC tubewells are non-operational. From where will people get potable water?”Civic body officials said there were 37 tubewells in 19 wards and four more would be set up soon. “‘Thirty eight lakh has been sanctioned for repairing tubewells,” said an official.In Lalru, residents of Ward No. 13 protested with empty buckets. They alleged that they were facing this issue from the last 20 days.Kuldeep Sharma, a resident, said, “The MC officials are least concerned about the problem. They do not address our complaints and attend phone calls.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/potable-water-shortage-hits-dera-bassi-125402
12-08-2020||Mohali||Punjabi singer  R Nait assaulted||Punjabi singer Naitram, popularly known as R Nait, alleged that he, along with two of his accomplices, was assaulted by video producers over monetary issue.R Nait, a resident of Dharampura village in Mansa district, in his complaint to the police alleged that he, along with his accomplices, was at a park at Homeland Towers in Sector 70 on Sunday evening.Meanwhile, around 10 persons attacked them. The suspects have been identified as Sharan, Armaan, Mahi, Joban, Mangal and Sehajpal and other unidentified persons. The singer stated that he had paid Rs 3.5 lakh extra to producers for a video of his song. When he asked them to return the extra amount, the suspects attacked him. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-singer-r-nait-assaulted-125403
12-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali: Night curfew relaxed||In view of Janmashtami celebrations in the district, the administration today decided to relax curfew timings for two more hours to enable people pay obeisance in temples.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan said as per the guidelines of the state government night curfew was being observed from 11 pm to 5 am in the district. He said in partial relaxation of these directions, it has been decided that night curfew during the night of August 12 and August 13 would be from 1 am to 5 am on account of Janmashtami. However, this relaxation is only for one night. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-night-curfew-relaxed-125404
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Man hangs self at Indra Colony||Forms for NRIs, foreignersChandigarh: The admission to PU-CET (UG) courses for NRIs and foreign nationals at Panjab University will start from August 14. The admission forms will be available from August 14 at cetug.puchd.ac.in. After filling the admission form, the candidates are required to send a printout of it, along with relevant documents, to nricetug@pu.ac.in. TNSBabla writes to BadnoreChandigarh: Devinder Singh Babla, leader of the Opposition in the Municipal Corporation, has written to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore for letting the area councillors participate in war room meetings. “The Administration seems to be clueless on actions required to control the spread of Covid. The decisions made in the war room meetings will be more effective with the participation of people’s representatives,” he wrote to Badnore. “The Administration should take a lesson from countries/cities that have controlled the pandemic. The city needs to be divided into many smaller areas with specific monitoring of each area by community members and government support,” he added. “Each councilor should be given charge of his area and he should take all steps and advise the Administration with regard to controlling the Covid spread in his area,” he suggested. He alleged the local MP Kirron Kher and the rulling BJP party have done nothing concrete to deal with the pandemic. TNSWebinar by alumni assnChandigarh: The Panjab University Alumni Association organised a webinar on ‘Where there is a will there’s a way: experience sharing of Covid-19 battle’ by Dr GD Puri, Prof and Head, Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care, Chairman, Advanced Cardiac Centre, Dean (Academic), PGI. TNSProtest at Punjabi varsityPatiala: Ad hoc employees of Punjabi University today held a protest outside the house of the Vice-Chancellor demanding disbursal of their salaries. They threatened to stop all work and close the university gates on Thursday if the administration failed to disburse their salaries. Manoj Bhambri, general secretary of the Non-Teaching B and C Class Employees’ Union, said the university should disburse salaries of all employees on time. “The university has disbursed the salaries of regular employees today, but the payment of those working on ad hoc and work charge basis were not released. This is affecting the employees in the lowest income grade on the campus,” he said. The employees also met University Registrar Dr Devinder Pal Singh Sidhu in this regard. TNSTwo held in assault casePanchkula: The police have arrested two on the charge of assaulting a man after entering his house and attacking him with a sharp weapon. The accused have been identified as Vikas and Vikram, residents of Khateek Mohalla, Pinjore. TNS+ve case surfaces in PU, dept sealedChandigarh: Panjab University has sealed the building of Dr SS Bhatnagar University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology for 72 hours after one of its staff members tested Covid-19 positive. The patient resides at the Panjab University campus (B-block). “The staff member developed symptoms last week. He visited the department on August 7. The university was closed for the next two days. From Monday, he didn’t come to office. After his report came positive, he reported the authorities. The Health Department will trace his contacts,” said a PU spokesperson. TNS2 mobile phone snatchers heldMohali: The police have arrested two persons for their involvement in mobile phone snatchings on Tuesday. The suspects have been identified as Bunty (19), and Deepak (19), both residents of Amb Sahib colony in Phase 11. The police have recovered a mobile phone from their possession, which they had snatched on August 8. “The duo was produced before a local court today, which sent them to two-day police remand,” said Investigation Officer Jeet Chand. A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC. TNSWipro donates RT-PCR machineMohali: Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan on Tuesday thanked Wipro Enterprises Pvt Ltd for providing essential medical equipment to combat Covid-19 outbreak. Dayalan said the firm has provided safety gear for corona warriors and a RT-PCR machine for testing. He said the Indian Council of Medical Research approved RT-PCR machine and protective gear has been provided to new Covid lab set up at Punjab Biotechnology Incubator. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-hangs-self-at-indra-colony-125406
12-08-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Chemical units, distilleries shut in Dera Bassi||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, August 11With the Excise and Taxation Department acting tough after the Majha spurious liquor tragedy, most of the smalltime chemical units, distilleries and breweries in Dera Bassi belt went into a self-imposed lockdown mode. Unit owners who used to buy pharma waste and distill it to make products for the paint and thinner industry have either fled the scene or have shutdown their units, fearing more such raids and seizures.“The officials are playing this ethanol and methanol game to save their skin. The chemicals they have seized from the three units is almost available with every unit in one form or the other. In this way, they can virtually arrest anyone and put them in jail,” said an owner of a chemical unit in the Focal Point area. The Patiala and Dera Bassi belt is the hub of distilleries in the state with close to five big distilleries and 12 breweries, bottling plants located here. Among them are international names and big players in the country. Besides this, there are scores of chemical and allied units which provide raw material to the paint and thinner industry. The units provide employment to a large number of local population in manual and semi-skilled categories.“Instead of nabbing the real culprits, the officials are making survival difficult for us and the labour class,” said another trader.4 accused in judicial custodyThe four accused in the 27,600 litres of chemical seizure from Dera Bassi units have been remanded to14-day judicial custody after their two-day police remand ended here today.The joint teams of excise department and police have been investigating the channels through which the chemical was being produced and supplied to the bootleggers. The Excise and Taxation Department had, on Sunday, raided three chemical units and seized 27, 600 litres of illicit chemical containing alcohol.The department claimed it to be the biggest haul ever. Those named in the FIR are KP Singh and AK Chaudhary, Allychem Chemicals directors, Gaurav Chaudhary, the proprietor of Om Solvi Trading Co, and Jagmohan Arora, the proprietor of Pure Chemicals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chemical-units-distilleries-shut-in-dera-bassi-125323
