13-08-2020||---||Jammu crime branch arrests accused in Rs 28-cr fraud, murder case from Chandigarh after 8 years||Jammu, August 13The Jammu Crime Branch has arrested a notorious criminal, who was involved in the Rs 28-crore fraud and murder, from Chandigarh after a gap of eight years.According to the Crime Branch spokesperson, the accused was identified as Gurdeep Singh of Channi Himmat, Jammu, and was wanted in a finance company fraud and murder since 2012.“The accused had been absconding for the past eight years and was finally arrested by the Crime Branch on Wednesday. He was declared an absconder under Section 512 of the CrPC by the then First Additional Sessions Court in 2012. He was arrested from Chandigarh after a successful raid conducted by the Crime Beach after developing inputs about his whereabouts,” the spokesperson said.The absconder, Gurdeep Singh, was also involved in a high-profile case of Channi police station, in which a conspiracy was hatched to assassinate a prominent citizen of Jammu. The accused was also involved in a murder case in Batote area of Ramban district.Giving a brief background of the case, the spokesperson said a written complaint was lodged by Sardar Joginder Singh with Gandhi Nagar police station alleging that around 100 depositors of Jammu, Kathua, Samba Poonch, Baramulla and Srinagar had deposited their money with a finance company which was opened under the name and style ‘Dutta Financers’ at Nanak Nagar, Jammu, in April 2011.“When some depositors approached the finance company for the payment of their deposited money and interest thereupon, the directors and other officials of the company refused to pay them. On the receipt of the complaint, a case was registered at the Gandhi Nagar police station, Jammu,” the spokesperson said.“Keeping in view the sensitiveness and the high-profile nature of the case, and on the insistence of the investors, the investigation of the case was transferred to the Jammu Crime Branch in 2013. During the investigation, it was revealed that the accused persons had duped the general public worth crores and had diverted their deposits to their own use and to procure various assets,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jammu-crime-branch-arrests-accused-in-rs-28-cr-fraud-murder-case-from-chandigarh-after-8-years-126061
13-08-2020||---||COVID-19 cases cross 1,600-mark in Mohali with 67 fresh cases||Mohali, August 1367 fresh COVID-19 cases surfaced in Mohali on Thursday, taking the total count to 1,603.Meanwhile, five more fatalities were also reported, rising the death tally to 30 in the district. All patients with co-morbidities had tested positive after their death.The persons infected with the virus include four females and seven males from Derabassi, three males and a female from Aerocity, 22 from various sectors and phases of Mohali.The other 30 patients are from Desumajra, Zirakpur, Khizarabad, Lakbnaur, Kurali, Singhpura (Banur), Kharar, Kumbara, Khanpur, Balumajra, Lalru, Lohgarh, Dhakauli, Nayagaon, Landran, TDI City, Balongi and Mullanpur.The deaths reported on Thursday include a 71-year-old woman of Golden Avenue, 70-year-old man of Sector 71, 61-year-old man of Gulmohar City in Derabassi, 68-year-old man of Jawaharpur in Derabassi and a 59-year-old woman of Shashtri Nagar in Derabassi.Dr Harmandeep Kaur, District Epidemiologist and Nodal Officer, said the 70-year-old man of Sector-71 was admitted to Government Rajendra Hospital in Patiala while the 61-year-old man was undergoing treatment at Ivy Hospital in Mohali.She added that the rest of the three deceased were going treatment at GMCH-32, Chandigarh, where they died of COVID-19. She said all patients were suffering from co-morbidities.Meanwhile, 84 positive patients were also cured and discharged from hospitals today.As of now, there are 1,603 positive cases, of which 857 have been cured.There are 716 active cases in the district with 30 deaths reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-cases-cross-1-600-mark-in-mohali-with-67-fresh-cases-126060
13-08-2020||---||Chandigarh records biggest single-day spike of 91 Covid cases||Chandigarh, August 13Chandigarh recorded highest single-day spike of 91 Covid-19 cases on Thursday.With this the UT tally has gone up to 1,842. There are 737 active cases in the city.The city also reported a death. A 50-year-old female resident of Maloya colony, who was COVID positive, died, taking the death toll in the city to 27.The fresh coronavirus cases include a four-week-old child and a six-year-old girl, it said.A 50-year-old woman died due to COVID-19 at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Wednesday, the bulletin said.At present, there are 737 active cases in the common capital of Punjab and Haryana.A total 53 patients were discharged on Thursday after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of cured persons to 1,076.So far, a total of 19,593 samples have been taken for testing and of them, 17,662 tested negative while reports in 86 cases are awaited, as per bulletin.Meanwhile, Chandigarh Administrator V P Singh Badnore directed that additional facilities for 100 beds each exclusively for coronavirus patients in the UT should be created both in PGIMER and a government hospital in sector 32.PGIMER Director Jagat Ram said they have 149 patients in a COVID care centre, out of which 57 belong to Chandigarh, 54 to Punjab, 16 to Haryana, 11 to Himachal Pradesh and remaining to other states, as per an official release here.Adviser Manoj Parida said 600 beds are available in the hostels of Panjab University for mild and asymptomatic cases.The administrator said a meeting would be held with municipal councillors over a video conference to seek their views regarding COVID management in the city on Tuesday.Local MP Kirron Kher will also be invited to participate in the video conference, the release said.Kher, in her tweet on Wednesday had said, “PGI & other hospitals are under immense pressure. If medical facilities are not allowed in various parts of the city there will be fatalities due to #nobeds. I urge administration to take necessary action.” The Chandigarh administration has set-up a help desk for the COVID-19 active patients who are in home Isolation.The prime objective of the help desk is to have regular interaction with those patients who have been advised home isolation and assist them for required medical assistance in case of any emergency.The desk will contact each patient on a daily basis, another release said.A total of 233 COVID-19 patients were in home isolation as on Wednesday evening. With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-biggest-single-day-spike-of-91-covid-cases-126053
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Lt Gen Dimri takes over as Chief of Staff, Western Command||Lieutenant General Yogendra Dimri has been appointed as the Chief of Staff, Western Command.On taking over charge, he laid a wreath at the Veer Smriti war memorial in Chandimandir on Thursday to pay homage to martyrs.He will be responsible for handling all administrative matters of the Western Command.Commissioned into the Corps of Engineers (Bombay Sappers) in December 1983, he is a recipient of the President’s Gold Medal for having passed out first in order of merit from the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun. During his career spanning over 36 years, Lt Gen Dimri has tenanted important command, staff and instructional appointments in varied sensitive and operational sectors and difficult terrain.He has commanded an Infantry Brigade on the Line of Control, a Counter Insurgency Force in Jammu and Kashmir and the prestigious Sudarshan Chakra Strike Corps prior to assumption of his present appointment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lt-gen-dimri-takes-over-as-chief-of-staff-western-command-126032
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC Joint Commissioner tests coronavirus positive; part of office sealed||Chandigarh reported another COVID-19 positive case on Thursday.Chandigarh Municipal Corporation's Joint Commissioner tested positive for the deadly disease.Sorabh Arora showed no symptoms of the disease. The first floor of the corporation building has been sealed.MC Commissioner KK Yadav and Chief Engineer Shailender Singh used to sit on the same floor. Several officials have been asked to work from home.Arora, along with other officers was tested after Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore's Principal Secretary, JM Balamurugan, and four others were tested COVID-19 positive recently. Though Arora was not present at the meeting with the Govenor, he was tested too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-joint-commissioner-tests-coronavirus-positive-part-of-office-sealed-125970
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||18-yr-old girl commits suicide||Tree Plantation drive held at PUChandigarh: On the occasion of Janmashtami and the International Youth Day, Dr Parveen Kumar, warden of boys hostel no. 5 at Panjab University, organised a plantation drive in the presence of Prof SK Tomar, Dean Student Welfare (Men) and Prof Sukhbir Kaur, Dean Student Welfare (Women). TNSThree held with intoxicantsMohali: The Kurali police have arrested three with 25-gm intoxicant powder and vials. The suspects have been identified as Manjeet Singh alias Doctor, Amandeep Sharma alias Kaala, and Vishal Kumar alias Vishu, all residents of Kurali. The trio was produced before a local court, which sent them to two-day police custody. The suspects were nabbed near old toll plaza. Cops seized six injections of buprenorphine, six avil injections, six syringes, 25 gm of intoxicant powder. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/18-yr-old-girl-commits-suicide-125852
13-08-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Two nabbed  with 35 cases of illicit liquor||SSP Amneet Kondal said the police have initiated a drive to nab bootleggers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-nabbed-with-35-cases-of-illicit-liquor-125851
13-08-2020||Mohali||Minister gives smartphones to 15 students||Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today handed over smartphones to 15 Class XII students of the government schools at the District Administrative Complex under the “Punjab Smart Connect Scheme”.In the first phase, 5,686 students would get smartphones in Mohali. The number may increase further as admissions were still under process, he said. The minister said distribution of smart phones to youth would be completed by November 2020.It is pertinent to mention that the state government had received first consignment of 50,000 smartphones.August 12 being the International Youth Day was chosen to commence the drive. At present, 15 students in each town/district were being provided smartphones. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-gives-smartphones-to-15-students-125850
13-08-2020||---||Incessant rain leads to waterlogging in Mohali||Mohali, August 12Incessant rain on Wednesday led to waterlogging and road cave-in various areas in Mohali.Water got accumulated in from of the Community Health Centre in Phase 3B-1.Pedestrians had to wade through knee-deep water to enter the health centre.Sukhdeep Kaur, a local resident, said, “It was quite difficult to enter the Community Health Centre. Senior citizens and kids faced harrowing time.”At Phase-7, a traffic signal malfunctioned as road caved-in due to rain. For couple of hours, the traffic signal leaned dangerously on the road.Numerous low-lying areas and parking lots got submerged in rainwater.Pedestrians and two-wheeler drivers were the worst affected as they had to wade through knee-deep water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/incessant-rain-leads-to-waterlogging-in-mohali-125846
13-08-2020||---||Reliance store fined Rs1K for charging for carry bag||Chandigarh, August 12The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, UT, has directed Reliance Retail Ltd, Elante Mall, to pay a fine of Rs1,000 to a city resident for charging for a carry bag.In his complaint, Mohit Gupta, a resident of Sector 30-A, said he had purchased items from Reliance Retail Ltd, Elante Mall, and was charged Rs5 for the carry bag, which was an unfair trade practice. The store management justified that the amount was charged only after the consent of the complainant. Moreover, the requisite information was also displayed at the store.It was pleaded by the shop management that the store charged for the carry bag only if the customer consented for the same. After hearing the arguments, the forum ordered that the store had miserably failed to produce on record any cogent, convincing and reliable piece of evidence in the shape of any rules/instructions authorising it to levy charge additionally for the carry bag from the gullible consumers.Moreover, if the store is an environmental activist, it should have given the same to the complainant free of cost. The court further said that the argument of the counsel for the retail store that there was no law as such that directed any shopkeeper to provide carry bags for free was rejected.The store was directed to pay Rs1,000 and refund Rs5 wrongly charged for the carry bag to the complainant. It was also directed to pay Rs500 as litigation expenses towards compensation for harassment and mental agony.The court also said the cashier informed the complainant about the purchase of the carry bag before billing, the same amounts to unfair trade practice and deficiency in service, as it would have been very odd and inconvenient for the complainant to carry the new articles in hand throughout without a carry bag. In this backdrop, charges of such things (carry bags) cannot be separately foisted upon the consumers and would amount to overcharging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reliance-store-fined-rs1k-for-charging-for-carry-bag-125844
13-08-2020||---||MP Kher tweets on shortage of beds||Chandigarh, August 12A day after Chandigarh Tribune reported ‘Hospitals may run short of critical care beds’, local MP Kirron Kher in a post on Twitter urged the UT Administrator and the Centre to make arrangements for more medical facilities in various parts of the city.“The PGI and other hospitals are under immense pressure. If medical facilities are not allowed in various parts of the city, there will be fatalities due to #nobeds. I urge Administration to take necessary action,” she posted.While some netizens welcomed her statement, others slammed her.“Ma’am are you in the Opposition? By your Tweet, it seems so. As an MP you should be responsible for arranging health facilities as Chandigarh is a UT and doesn’t have a state government,” reacted Sumit, a Twitter user.Aditya Singla said, “ Chandigarh feels sorry for electing you as our representative! You ‘URGE’ Administration? Ma’am, you are the Administration and if you cannot do anything, I will recommend you to step down.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mp-kher-tweets-on-shortage-of-beds-125840
13-08-2020||Deepankar Sharda||No pay cut for now: PU DUI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 12Panjab University (PU) has denied having any plan to cut salaries of its staff/faculty amid the ongoing crisis.Though the university is facing financial crisis due to the delay in getting examination/admission fee, Dean University Instructions (DUI) RK Singla denied of holding any meeting regarding cut in salaries.“This institution is perhaps the only one to give timely salaries to its staff and faculty members even in this pandemic. The decision to cut salaries has to come through Senate/Syndicate, it’s not an individual decision,” said Singla.When asked about submission of any report on financial crunch by the PU’s finance department, Singla said, “Neither any meeting in this regard was held nor any report was sought from any department. There have been some problems, but no decision on cut in salaries has been taken so far.”“There have been many factors. But cut in salaries is not the only solution. The university definitely needs government support and some kind of boost to overcome this pandemic. There has been no cut in salaries as of now, but we don’t know about the future,” said one of faculty members.Reports suggested that the PU was planning a 20-25 per cent salary cut and had also slashed other expenses. The university gets 50 per cent grant from the Punjab Government and the Centre, while the other share gets covered under the revenue earned through examination/admission fees. Last time, the university received Rs19 crore from the Central Government from which it was paying salaries, the reports suggested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-pay-cut-for-now-pu-dui-125834
13-08-2020||---||Major fire breaks out at Panchkula chemical unit||Panchkula, August 12A massive fire broke out at a chemical unit after an explosion in Industrial Area, Phase 2, Panchkula, on Tuesday evening. No loss of life was reported in the incident.The owner claimed that fire started due to a short-circuit. The factory (Colour Udyog) manufactured coatings for wood, steel, tiles, thinners and chemicals.Around eight fire engines were rushed to the spot to douse the flames. It took more than four to five hours to douse the flames in which most of the goods were burnt. The firefighting operations continued till the wee hours of Wednesday.Fire was so severe that even three pick-up trucks parked at the premises were also gutted.Panchkula Assistant Commissioner of Police Noopur Bishnoi along with other police personnel reached the spot to take stock of the situation.Panchkula Fire Officer Shamsher Malik said, “Fire broke out around 10 pm. Eight fire engines were rushed to the spot. Firemen doused the flames by 2:30 pm. Short- circuit is believed to be a reason behind the incident.”He said total loss could not be ascertained, but goods worth lakhs inside the factory were burnt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/major-fire-breaks-out-at-panchkula-chemical-unit-125833
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Traffic advisory for today||Rehearsal for the Independence Day function will be held on August 13 from 8.30 am onwards at the Parade Ground, Sector 17. Traffic will be disrupted during this interval.Public should avoid the roads from the Punjab Raj Bhawan towards Sector 5-6/7-8 Chowk (Hira Singh Chowk), straight to the Sector 4/5-8/9 chowk, to Sector 3/4-9/10 chowk (New Barricade Chowk), right turn straight to Sector 1/3/4 chowk (Old Barricade Chowk), left turn towards War Memorial, Bouganvilla Garden, Sector 3. From War Memorial, Bouganvilla Garden, Sector 3, towards Old Barricade Chowk, right turn towards Matka Chowk, straight to Sector 16/17 light point on Jan Marg, left turn towards Lyons Light Point, right turn towards the Parade Ground, Sector 17, Chandigarh. Road users are advised to make use of alternative routes between 8.30 am and 9.15 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-advisory-for-today-125832
13-08-2020||Sandeep Rana||Rs200-cr Chandigarh Municipal Coporation properties lie unused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 12Properties worth over Rs200 crore of the cash-starved Municipal Coporation have been lying unused for the past several years, revealed a report by the estate wing.According to the report presented to the revenue generation committee, Rs9.26 crore arrears from various shops, booths, SCOs and commercial sites are pending and the MC has failed to recover it.The amount has been roughly calculated on the base price of each property. The MC had tried to lease them out several times, but there were no buyers. A 24.76-acre land meant to be leased out for a hospital did not find any takers twice. Likewise, 105 booths in Mauli Jagran, 40 booths in the Sector 17 new overbridge market, 33 booths in AC Fish and Meat Market, eight booths in Sector 39 and various others have found no takers despite tenders being floated a number of times.The corporation has written to the UT Administration to allow them to auction these properties on a freehold basis, but have not received an approval so far. Some of the properties are being let out on a monthly basis through open auction.“I assume MC’s property worth Rs500 crore must have be lying unused. They are only misusing the funds of taxpayers. The MC should be closed and the Administration should take over the functioning of the. A huge chunk of the MC revenue is only being diverted into paying salaries,” said FOSWAC Chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu.Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said: “If the properties are offered on a freehold basis then people will be interested.”Additional Commissioner Satish Jain, who heads the estate wing, said: “Some of the properties identified are also subjected to court cases. We are going to make a concrete plan and dispose them of.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs200-cr-chandigarh-municipal-coporation-properties-lie-unused-125831
13-08-2020||Panchkula||6 ITBP personnel infected in Panchkula||Panchkula today reported 36 fresh Covid cases, taking the district count to 1,060. According to the Covid bulletin, one patient was still being traced. The fresh cases include six ITBP personnel, aged between 27 and 58.At least six persons from Sector 27, a 27-year-old woman, two women aged 48, an 18-year-old woman, a 15-year-old boy and a 21-year-old man, tested positive.Four persons from Abheypur, three each from Sector 18 and Morni and two from Sector 9 also contracted the virus.Other areas to have reported cases one case each are Mansa Devi Complex Sector 5, Kanguwala vilalge, Ashiana Sector 20, Bhudanpur village, Sector 23, Sector 26, Amravati Enclave, Rajiv Colony, Sector 20, Sector 17, Moginand and Barwala village.While as many as 372 cases are still active, 684 patients have been discharged so far.Panchkula has conducted 24,174 Covid tests to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-itbp-personnel-infected-in-panchkula-125829
13-08-2020||---||Tales of courage and survival||Chandigarh, August 12Several patients hospitalised with severe Covid infection, including those who spent weeks breathing with the help of oxygen therapies, have been able to resume their lives with a strong resolve to survive.But for some survivors, beating the virus is just the beginning as they encounter uneasiness even post-recovery.A 65-year-old Covid survivor, who was a heart patient and a diabetic, stayed at the PGI for 25 days during the illness. He spent eight days on oxygen therapy. “What I have understood of Covid-19 is that it breaks you mentally and then affects you physically. I didn’t see a human in four days and was disturbed because of it. Even medicines and food was kept outside my room. Patients develop cynicism in isolation wards and try to run away,” said the Mohali resident.“I had blood clots in the lungs during the illness due to which I could not breathe properly. I was unable to eat for some days. But I survived because I wanted to live. Even today, I feel breathless and there is a lot of weakness.”A 37-year-old resident of Sector 15, who was on oxygen for three days, still feels uneasy and fatigued. “Initially, I thought I was going to die with Covid. The breathlessness increased on the third day and I felt miserable,” he said.Another survivor (41) from Sector 37 stayed at the ICU for six days. It was only during his stay that he was diagnosed with diabetes. “I faced difficulty in breathing even while going to the washroom. I remember asking my doctors if I would survive. The doctors said my willpower would help me recover and it did. I wanted to live for my kids that gave me the courage to survive,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tales-of-courage-and-survival-125826
13-08-2020||Amit Bathla||69 discharged in a day, Panchkula recovery rate reaches 64%||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 12According to the Covid-19 bulletin released by the Panchkula Health Department, the district today recorded the highest number of recoveries in a single day with 69 patients discharged in the past 24 hours.With a consistent increase in recoveries since the beginning of the month, Panchkula’s recovery rate soared past 64 per cent — 684 patients have recovered from the disease so far in the district.The situation was different on August 1 when Panchkula’s Covid recovery rate stood at 49 per cent, which was the lowest in Haryana. On the day, only 296 patients had recovered from the disease out of 599 reported till then.According to an analysis, the district’s recovery rate improved by 1.25 per cent each day since August 1 and it touched 64.53 per cent today.Now, at least four districts in Haryana — Sirsa, Yamunanagar, Panipat and Kurukshetra — are trailing behind Panchkula in terms of the Covid recovery rate.CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “The district’s recovery rate had fallen drastically with sudden rise in Covid cases. As soon as people get cured, the recovery rate will further improve.”While Chandigarh’s recovery rate stands at 58.42 per cent, Mohali’s recovery rate is 50.45 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/69-discharged-in-a-day-panchkula-recovery-rate-reaches-64-125825
13-08-2020||---||Two more fatalities, 84 positive cases in Mohali||Mohali, August 12The town today witnessed two more fatalities taking the death toll to 25. Both Covid patients had co-morbidities.The deceased have been identified as a 45-year-old man from Sector 74 and a 62-year-old man from Phase VI.Dr Harmandeep Kaur, District Epidemiologist and Nodal Officer, said the 45-year-old patient was suffering from uncontrolled diabetes and he died at the GMCH-32, Chandigarh. The 62-year-old patient had undergone a major surgery at Command Hospital in Panchkula and his condition deteriorated after testing positive for Covid.Meanwhile, 86 fresh infections were reported in the district. A maximum number of patient were from Dera Bassi (13), Sunny Enclave in Kharar (three), Zirakpur (six), Baltana (four), Nayagaon (six) and Kharar (five). The other 49 patients were from Mohali city and the villages of Khanpur, Badhmajra, Balongi, Tangori, Sohana, Baidwan, Kurali, Aerocity, Batta, Haripur Hindua, Adarsh Nagar, Sukhgarh and Dhakoli.Meanwhile, 35 patients have been cured and discharged from various hospitals. Of 1,536 positive patients, 775 have been cured. There are 736 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-fatalities-84-positive-cases-in-mohali-125820
13-08-2020||---||Chandigarh logs 81 fresh infections||Chandigarh, August 12The UT today recorded 81 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 1,751. Of these, 700 are active cases. As many as 1,023 patients have been discharged after recovery.The UT has reported 26 deaths so far. Eight patients were discharged after recovery today. A total of 19,141 people have been tested so far.A 34-year-old man from Sector 21 allegedly committed suicide at his home by hanging himself on Monday. He tested positive for Covid posthumously. The case has not been counted in the UT tally.New cases were reported from Sector 32, 29, 43, 20, 47, 15, 45, 44, 49, 5, 35, 30, 21, 20,19, 16, 28, 15, 37, 7, 27, 43, 12, 10, Burail, Daddu Majra, Hallo Majra, Ramdarbar, PGI, Mani Majra, Mauli Jagran and Dhanas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-81-fresh-infections-125819
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records highest 24-hr August rain in 10 years||The city has recorded the highest 24-hour rainfall in August from Tuesday to Wednesday, breaking the record of more than 10 years. It is also this season’s maximum rainfall in 24 hours.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, the city recorded 133.5-mm rainfall from Tuesday 8.30 am to Wednesday 8.30 am. As per the available data, this is the highest 24-hour rainfall in August since 2010.Last year, the highest rain recorded in August was 98.4 mm. In 2018, it was 87.0 mm and in 2017, 93.6 mm. But in 2004, 241.6 mm of rainfall was reported in 24 hours.Meanwhile, due to the rain, several city areas were waterlogged. Water accumulated at several parking lots and roads. Road gullies were also choked at several places.The weathermen said light rain was expected for the next three days. Maximum temperature is likely to remain between 31°C to 33°C. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-highest-24-hr-august-rain-in-10-years-125818
13-08-2020||Naina Mishra||7,000 apply for 17K seats in elementary classes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 12Two days before the last date for applying for admission to elementary classes, only 7,000 applications have been received by 114 government schools against a total of 17,000 vacant seats.The number of registrations is less despite efforts by government schoolteachers to improve the image of government schools among the masses. Often, teachers are found pasting posters outside school gates and nearby areas.The last date for filling the registration form for government schools is August 14. Rubinderjit Brar, Director School Education, said at least 10,000 forms would be received till the last date. He said the cause of fewer registrations would be analysed on the last day.Though this is the first time the Education Department decided to carry out online admissions due to the pandemic, it’s setback is evident from the poor response by parents.A union leader of a government school said: “The form has to be filled online and not many parents are equipped with technology. We may consider the offline mode of registration as well and see the response. We must also extend the deadline by a week or so.”“Many migrants have left the city due to the pandemic. They are the ones who admit their children to government schools. There is a possibility that the younger siblings of students who left schools due to migration may have otherwise enrolled in a government school,” said a government schoolteacher.District Education Officer Harbir Anand said: “Some parents don’t want to send their kids to schools. The day schools re-open, no seats will be left vacant. No student can be denied admission under the Right to Education Act, 2009, till Class VIII. Students can get themselves enrolled any day in our schools.”Late advertisementThe Administration released an advertisement citing the achievements of the UT in the field of education only two days ago. A city resident said: “Government schools never undertake any promotional activities. Private schools indulge in marketing tactics and thus, attract parents.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-000-apply-for-17k-seats-in-elementary-classes-125817
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||CCTV footage shared with Panchkula, Mohali police||The UT police have shared the CCTV footage of suspects involved in an attempt to break an ATM, with their Panchkula and Mohali counterparts. The police said the miscreants were suspected to be from nearby areas.Three miscreants attempted to break an ATM of the Axis bank at Subhash Nagar, Mani Majra. Sources said inputs from the local residents were also being gathered to establish the identities of the suspects.“The suspects are young and seem to be from nearby areas. Keeping in mind these clues, the CCTV footage has been shared with the police of Panchkula and Mohali,” said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cctv-footage-shared-with-panchkula-mohali-police-125816
13-08-2020||---||Overtaking issue turns ugly||Mohali, August 12Two gunshots were fired today at Jhampur village, near Balongi, over the issue of overtaking between a motorcyclist and an SUV driver. However, no one was injured in the broad-daylight incident.According to the Balongi police, the incident took place around 2 pm when Ranbir Singh (21) and his brother Dilbar Singh (23), both residents of Sahora village, near Kurali, were going towards Jhampur village. Three persons, identified as Bikram, a resident of Toga village; Sheetal and Happy, both residents of Behlolpur village, were driving ahead of Ranbir and Dilbar in their Mahindra XUV. While trying to overtake the SUV, Ranbir kept on honking which angered Bikram. He stopped the SUV near Gobind Nagar, Jhampur, and intercepted the bikers. The SUV occupants hurled abuses at Ranbir and Dilbar, and also thrashed them. Another friend of the suspects, Shanky, also a resident of Behlolpur village, along with two unidentified men, reached the spot and joined them.Bikram pulled out his gun and fired a shot at Ranbir but the bullet missed the target. He fired another shot into the air. On hearing the sound of gunshots, villagers gathered at the spot. Meanwhile, the suspects sped away in their vehicles.On getting information, Kharar DSP Pal Singh, Balongi SHO Amardeep Singh and SI Harpreet Singh rushed to the spot.“After recording the statements of Ranbir and Dilbar, we have registered a case under Sections 307, 323, 336, 148 and 149 of the IPC and 25, 27-54-59 of the Arms Act against six suspects, including two unidentified persons. We will arrest them soon,” said Harpreet Singh, who is investigating the case.The DSP said: “The police have recovered a cartridge from the crime scene. The investigation is on.”Cops nab snatcher trying to rob woman Chandigarh: A snatcher was nabbed by the PCR staff of the UT police while he was trying to snatch a mobile phone from a woman near Sector 38 West.The suspect has been identified as Monu (34), a resident of Shahpur Colony, Sector 38 West. Assistant Sub-inspector Satinder and Constable Sandeep were patrolling the area on Monday night when they noticed a man dragging a woman near the Shahpur light point.The police rushed to the spot following which the suspect tried to flee. However, both policemen nabbed him after a brief chase.The police said the woman, identified as Shakuntala Devi, was returning from Mohali on a cycle when the suspect tried to snatch her mobile phone.The snatcher was handed over to the Maloya police. A case has been registered against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/overtaking-issue-turns-ugly-125815
