14-08-2020|| ||211 to get commendation certificate in Chandigarh on Independence Day||Chandigarh, August 14 In recognition of their services during Covid-19 pandemic, the UT Administration has decided honour 168 officers and officials from different departments, 33 associations, NGOs and societies, and 10 private persons, with commendation certificate on Independence Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/211-to-get-commendation-certificate-in-chandigarh-on-independence-day-126512
14-08-2020||---||Maha Vir Chakra awardee Air Marshal PP Singh passes away at 92||Chandigarh, August 14Air Marshal PP Singh, who was decorated with the second-highest gallantry award Maha Vir Chakra during the 1965 Indo-Pak War, passed away at Command Hospital, Chandimandir, after a brief illness. He was 92.Commissioned as a Pilot Officer in the Indian Air Force on April 15, 1950, the veteran officer had an illustrious carrier spanning nearly 38 years. He had the privilege of serving as ADC to the first president of India, Dr Rajender Prasad.Subsequently, he shifted to Canberra aircraft and embarked on a career as a bomber pilot. The start of hostilities with Pakistan in 1965 saw the then Wing Commander as the Commanding Officer of No.5 Squadron (The Tuskers) based out of Agra.He led the Tuskers on numerous successful night airstrikes into Pakistani territory, which inflicted huge damage to the Pakistan Military and Air Force assets based deep inside enemy territory as far away as Sargodha, Mianwal and Peshawar.Military history records these strikes as the point at which the confidence of the Pakistani Forces was shattered as they realised that nowhere was safe from the rampaging Tuskers. The Tuskers acquitted themselves with glory in 1965 against Pakistan and later he became the squadron’s ‘Commodore Commandant’.For his exemplary leadership and valour displayed beyond the call of duty, Wing Commander PP Singh was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra on September 6, 1965.In 1971, he coordinated air warfare operations as Group Captain at Central Air Command, where he was awarded the Ati Vishist Sewa Medal for distinguished services.In 1973, then Air Commodore PP Singh was posted as Air Advisor with the Indian Embassy in Paris, France. On his return to India in 1976, he assumed various senior and sensitive positions, including Director of Air Force Intelligence, Air Officer Commanding No.4 Wing (Agra) and Assistant Chief of Air Staff at Air Headquarters.On promotion to the rank of Air Marshal, he was posted as Senior Air Staff Officer, in charge of operations at Eastern Air Command in Shillong. Thereafter, he served at Air Headquarters as Vice Chief of Air Staff (VCAS) and was awarded the Param Vishist Sewa Medal in March 1985 for distinguished services, making him one of highest decorated officers of the Indian Air Force.Air Marshal PP Singh was appointed as the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the South Western Air Command in 1986 and held that position till his retirement in February 1987.A keen and passionate sportsman, Air Marshal PP Singh was the Chairman of the Services Sports Control Board and member of the Asian Games Special Organising Committee. As Chief Administrator of Nehru Stadium in Delhi, he was tasked with ensuring the readiness of the stadium in accordance with the Asian Games Planning for the opening and the closing ceremonies, for which he was awarded the Asiad Vishist Jyoti.He is survived by his daughter and son.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maha-vir-chakra-awardee-air-marshal-pp-singh-passes-away-at-92-126483
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 86 new COVID-19 cases; tally rises to 1,928||Chandigarh on Friday recorded 86 fresh cases of COVID-19 as the total tally rose to 1,928.The total number of active cases stands at 807 as 1,091 patients have been cured till date and 28 have succumbed to the virus.A 20-year-old male resident of Sector 47 with a history of paraplegia had a sudden cardiac arrest on August 11. He was sampled after death and reported as positive for COVID-19 on August 12.As many as 15 patients were discharged after recovery today.A total of 20,060 people have been tested in the city so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-86-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-1-928-126482
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||UT Administration orders Palika Bazar, Shastri Market to follow odd-even policy of closing shops||The Chandigarh Administration announced that its odd even policy for closing shops will extend to some other popular markets like Palika Bazar and Shastri market ---a development that comes on the back of Chandigarh’s alarming rise in coronavirus cases. In his latest order, Manoj Parida, who’s the adviser to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, named 12 congested markets in the city that will follow the odd-even policy of opening shops---that is, even-numbered shops will function on one day and those with odd numbers the next---from August 15 to August 24.The market places that will have to follow this policy for the next 10 days are:  Krishna Market Sector 41,Market area near old PNB Bank/Bihari Garment at Bumil ChowkShastri Market, Sector 22; Patel Market Sector 15Sector 8 Internal marketAzad Market Sector 20Palace Market, Sector 20 Booth Market, Sector 21Palika Bazar, Sector 19Sadar Market, Sector 19  Janta Market, Sector 27Electronic Market, Sector 18The order said Sector 43’s Scooter Repair Market will remain closed on Sundays.Additionally, basement of the following shops of Sector 22’s Mobile Market will remain closed for 10 days.SCO 1010-11 Radha MarketSC0 1030-31-Attari MarketSCO 1004-Sweety MarketSCO 1003-04The order also said remaining buildings where chambers/cabins are located will remain closed on odd-oven basis as per the plan finalised by local SDMs in consultation with the owners of the shops.Additionally, Sukhna Lake will continue to remain close for public over weekends until further orders, the order said.Chandigarh has been reporting an alarming rise in coronavirus this month. The UT’s COVID-19 count now stands at over 1,800 with 27 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-administration-orders-palika-bazar-shastri-market-to-follow-odd-even-policy-of-closing-shops-126446
14-08-2020||---||Mohali records 78 new COVID-19 cases, one death||Chandigarh, August 14Mohali on Friday reported one death and 78 new COVID-19 cases.Meanwhile, 25 recoveries were also recorded in the district today, taking the number of cured patients to 884.The single death reported was of a 97-year-old man from Aerocity. He also suffered from multiple comorbidities such as diabetes and stroke.With the addition of 78 new cases, the caseload in the district has climbed to 1,683.Mohali has 768 active cases with 31 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-records-78-new-covid-19-cases-one-death-126441
14-08-2020||---||Panjab University not to hold Tourism & Hospitality aptitude test this year||Chandigarh, August 14Panjab University has cancelled this year's Panjab University Tourism and Hospitality Aptitude Test (PUTHAT-2020) entrance test for admission to Bachelors of Hotel Management and Catering Technology (BHMCT) and Bachelors of Tourism and Travel Management (BTTM) at the University Institute of Hotel and Tourism Management (UIHTM).For the timely start of the teaching session, the new admission schedule has been formulated, wherein admissions will be based on the 10+2 examination result.The candidates seeking admission to BHMCT and BTTM courses for the academic session 2020-21 (other than those who have already applied for the PUTHAT entrance Test 2020) have to register themselves at PUTHAT-2020 website — puthat.puchd.ac.in — by August 19 by submitting their information.The registration fee is to be deposited by August 21. The photograph, signature and rest of the information are to be uploaded by August 24 as per the revised schedule.All registered candidates, including those who have applied earlier for the PUTHAT-2020 entrance test, will be allowed for filling the admission form.The Admission form will be available on the PUTHAT website — puthat.puchd.ac.in and uihtm.puchd.ac.in — under the admission notice head.The candidates who have applied earlier and completed their form for the PUTHAT-2020 entrance test will automatically be considered as registered candidates and are eligible for filling of the admission form.All registered candidates have to fill the admission form for consideration in the admission process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-not-to-hold-tourism-hospitality-aptitude-test-this-year-126439
14-08-2020||New Delhi||MHA releases Police medals for 926; Chandigarh bags President’s police medal for distinguished services||The government on Friday has announced the list of 926 police personnel from across the country to receive the prestigious medals on the occasion of Independence Day this year.A total of 215 are to be given Police Medal of Gallantry (PMG), 80 are to be awarded the President's Police Medal (PPM) for distinguished service, and 631 to get medals meritorious service.Police personnel from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, and the Union Territory (UT) Chandigarh received a few medals, but none of them has been made for PGM.Only two personnel of Punjab Police are named for PPM, and 13 are to get medals for meritorious services.Also read: CRPF’s AC Naresh Kumar scripts history, bags his 7th Police Medal for GallantryHaryana Police got one PPM, and 11 medals for meritorious services and Himachal Pradesh gets one PPM and three for meritorious services.Chandigarh gets the lone President’s police medal for distinguished services.According to the list released by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) among the states, Union Territories (UTs) and Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) Jammu & Kashmir bagged the maximum of 81 PMG followed by Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) with 55 and Uttar Pradesh and Delhi with 23 and 16 respectively.Uttar Pradesh Police personnel have been awarded maximum 73 medals for meritorious services, as CRPF and Border Security Force (BSF) followed with 59 and 46.For President’s police medal for distinguished services eight Intelligence Bureau (IB) officials have chosen to be awarded for this year’s Independence DayLate Delhi Police Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma’s name has been mentioned in the list of recipients as 6th BAR to Police Medal for Gallantry posthumously.Sharma was a Special Cell Inspector of the Delhi Police who was killed during 2008 Batla House encounter here. The highly decorated police officer was posthumously awarded the Ashoka Chakra Award, India’s highest peacetime military decoration, on January 26, 2009.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mha-releases-police-medals-for-926-chandigarh-bags-presidents-police-medal-for-distinguished-services-126404
14-08-2020||Kaveesha Kohli||Kamala Harris’ connection with City Beautiful||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 13As India rejoices Kamala Harris’ nomination as the Democratic vice-presidential candidate, her maternal aunt recalled the California senator’s Chandigarh connection in an interview with The Tribune.Harris has visited Chandigarh several times and “liked the city”, said her aunt, the former head of PGIMER’s gynaecology department.“She spent a week in Chandigarh around Christmas, along with her mother, after she became the Attorney-General of California. She has visited Chandigarh before also,” says Dr Sarala Gopalan, who is now based out of Chennai.Harris was born to an Indian mother, a cancer researcher and civil rights activist, and a Jamaican father. However, she was primarily raised by her mother, Shyamala Gopalan, whom she has often described as a major influence in her life.“My sister brought up the children extremely well. She is the reason they are so successful today,” says Gopalan.In fact, after Harris’ nomination was announced, her sister Maya put out a tweet saying: “You can’t know who @KamalaHarris is without knowing who our mother was.”In the video attached to the tweet, Kamala spoke of how her mother was a “proud, brown woman”.“It was because of who my mother was…that, within one generation, I stand here as a serious candidate for president of the United States,” said Harris.Gopalan describes Harris as “nice, kind, good-hearted.” She says the family is brimming with pride and joy after the announcement.“I have not spoken to her yet, but I know she will call me up very soon,” she adds.The family that raised strong womenGopalan served at the PGIMER in Chandigarh for 34 years before retiring in 2006.She fondly remembers her time in Chandigarh, saying that she enjoyed working at the premier institution.“I loved my students, I am still in touch with a lot of them,” she says.In Chandigarh, Gopalan is remembered as a “no-nonsense, stickler for rules” but someone who was incredibly gentle with her patients.“She was devoted, thorough and a godmother to many children in Chandigarh,” says Rajneesh Watas, former principal of College of Architecture, Chandigarh, whose first-born was delivered by Gopalan.While Gopalan etched her career as a successful doctor, her sister and Harris’ mother had left India as a 19-year-old in the late 1950s to carve a path for herself.Harris, too, has repeatedly shattered the glass ceiling and is credited for several ‘firsts’.She was the first Indian origin and woman district attorney of San Francisco. Harris is among the only three Asian-Americans in the US senate. With Tuesday’s announcement, she is the first Black woman to be appointed as running mate by a Democratic presidential nominee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kamala-harris-connection-with-city-beautiful-126215
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Suicide victim tests positive||A 23-year-old woman, who reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself in the forest area in Sector 52 here on August 10, has been found Covid positive. Her samples were collected after death. Pooja, a resident of Kajehri, Sector 52, was found hanging in the forest area.The body was shifted to a mortuary and samples were taken for Covid test. The report came out positive, said a source. She had an argument with her husband. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suicide-victim-tests-positive-126216
14-08-2020||Mohali||Pinjore man killed as car hits median||A man was killed and a woman suffered injuries when the car in which they were travelling overturned on the Airport Road last night. The deceased, Hitesh Walia (30), a resident of Pinjore, worked in a company at Kurali.  According to the police, the accident took place around 3 am when both were going towards Sohana from Chhat village. Near the Airport Chowk, the driver lost control over the vehicle and the car hit the median. It flipped into the air and landed on the other side of the road. After getting information, the police reached the spot and rushed both injured to the Civil Hospital, Phase VI, where the doctors declared Hitesh brought dead.  Hitesh is survived by his wife and a two-year-old son. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pinjore-man-killed-as-car-hits-median-126217
14-08-2020||---||More beds for city patients||Chandigarh, August 13As the city grapples with a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, dedicated Covid-19 hospitals have been told to increase the intake capacity for local patients.During a review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore said additional facilities for 100 beds each exclusively for UT Covid-19 patients should be created both at the PGI and GMCH-32.The PGI and the GMCH have earmarked 200 and 100 beds, respectively, for patients suffering from Covid-19.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said they had 149 patients at the Covid care centre. Of them, 57 belong to Chandigarh, 54 to Punjab, 16 to Haryana, 11 to Himachal Pradesh and the remaining patients to other states.Dr G Dewan, Director Health Services, stated that they had conducted 1,736 tests so far through rapid-antigen method.UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that 600 beds were available at Hostel Nos. 8, 9 and 10 of Panjab University for taking care of mild and asymptomatic Covid-19 patients.“Facilities at James Hotel have been requisitioned where Covid-19 patients, who can afford to pay charges, can stay and avail of the Covid care centre facilities on a payment basis,” he said, adding that Eden Hospital was also available for the treatment of infected persons in the UT.The UT Administrator said an interaction meeting would be held with councillors through video-conferencing on Tuesday to seek their views regarding Covid management in the city. MP Kirron Kher would also be invited to participate in the video-conference.“In view of the rising Covid cases in Chandigarh, the city needs better attention and care by the Centre. Twenty ventilators with the PGI are just not enough. It should be given more ventilators immediately,” tweeted former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-beds-for-city-patients-126218
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh posts highest spike of 91 cases||The deceased, 50-year-old woman from Maloya, died at the PGIMER. She was also suffering from cervical cancer with acute kidney injury and other related complications.The previous highest single-day spike of 89 positive cases was reported on August 9.Meanwhile, it has been observed that a large number of Covid patients are opting for home isolation rather than treatment in hospitals. A majority of 53 patients discharged today were under home isolation.City MC Joint Commissioner contracts virusThe first floor of the Chandigarh MC building was sealed on Thursdy after Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora tested positive. MC Commissioner KK Yadav and Chief Engineer Shailender Singh also have their offices on the first floor. However, they have tested negative. Staff members of the Joint Commissioner have been home-quarantined. “The first floor of the MC building will open on Monday,” said an official. Arora was tested after UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore’s Principal Secretary JM Balamurugan and four others tested positive for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-posts-highest-spike-of-91-cases-126219
14-08-2020|| ---||IAF man found dead in Sector 46||Chandigarh, August 13 A 40-year-old Indian Air Force employee was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his house in Sector 46 here today.  Sunil, who was posted as call operator at the 3BRD station, lived alone while his wife stays with her parents in Sector 48. The police received information around 10.30 am, following which a team reached the spot. A medical team also reached there. Sources said that the victim had vomited blood and there was no external injury mark on his body. The police said the body had been shifted to the mortuary of the GMCH in Sector 32. The victim's Covid test would also be done. Meanwhile, the Sector 34 police launched investigation into Sunil's death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/iaf-man-found-dead-in-sector-46-126220
14-08-2020||Panchkula||Fire: Factory owner booked||The manager of VN Luxury House LLP, situated adjoining to Colour Udyog where a major fire broke out on Tuesday, has filed a complaint against the proprietor of the chemical plant. The complainant, Tarundeep Singh, who lives in Mohali, said he suffered losses in the fire caused due to the negligence on part of Colour Udyog owner Ashwani Jindal. He said the owner had stocked chemical in the factory.  Sub-Inspector Gulab Singh said, “The complainant has alleged that a similar FIR was registered against the suspect in 2014 too.” A case under Sections 285, 336, 427, IPC, has been registered. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-factory-owner-booked-126221
14-08-2020||---||Traffic restrictions in city tomorrow||Chandigarh, August 13In view of the Independence Day function at Parade Ground in Sector 17 here, the police have decided to impose traffic restrictions and diversions on August 15. Road users are advised to make use of alternative routes.The roads that will remain closed from 6.30 am till the time of the function are:Diversionsn Buses coming towards the ISBT, Sector 17, shall be diverted towards the ISBT chowk, Sector 17, from Kisan Bhavan chowk and Piccadilly chowk via Himalaya Marg and shall reach the ISBT, Sector 17, from small chowk (near Gurdial Singh petrol pump).n Further, in order to decongest this area at the time of dispersal, traffic shall be diverted from the ISBT chowk, Sector 17, on Udyog Path by diverting traffic coming from the Sector 17/18 light point, Aroma light point, Sector 18/19/20/21 chowk and the Cricket Stadium chowk for half an hour i.e. from 9.30 am to 10 am.Route for special inviteesSpecial invitees having authorised car parking labels are requested to reach Parade Ground, Sector 17, from the roundabout of Sector 16/17/22/23 (Cricket Stadium chowk) on Udyog Path and park their vehicles in the parking area in front of the Sector 22-A market. No general parking shall be allowed in the Sector 22-A market from 6.30 am onwards till the function gets over.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-restrictions-in-city-tomorrow-126222
14-08-2020||---||No cultural event, gathering in Mohali||Mohali, August 13 Taking stock of the arrangements for the state-level Independence Day celebrations to be held at Government College, Phase 6, Mohali DC Girish Dayalan said owing to the Covid crisis, the Independence Day celebrations would be restricted to hoisting the National Flag followed by the address by the Punjab CM.  He said no public gathering would be held on the occasion and no schoolchildren would be involved in the celebrations and no cultural programme would be organised. He said honours and awards might not be given in person and the event would be casted live through various social media platforms.  Honour for cop  Mohali police Inspector Rajiv Kumar will get the ‘Chief Minister Medal for Outstanding Devotion to Duty’ during then Independence Day celebrations in the city. Rajiv Kumar, who is posted as the Station House Officer (SHO) at the Mataur police station here, has been selected among the 10 cops of the Punjab Police for the honour. The Punjab DGP has sent the names of the cops, who will be getting their awards from CM Captain Amarinder Singh. Rajiv Kumar was also awarded with the ‘DGP Disc’ for performing his duties with devotion during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-cultural-event-gathering-in-mohali-126223
14-08-2020||---||Panchkula college professor infected||Panchkula, August 13 A 49-year-old professor of Government Post Graduate College in Sector 1 here has contracted infection. The district reported 36 more infections today, taking the tally to 1,096. He, along with nine other staffer members, was sampled for Covid-19 after they came in contact with an infected staff member from the college. While five of them have tested negative, report of four persons is still awaited. They were among 20 male staff members who were assigned duties in Morni on Raksha Bandhan when Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced the setting up of a girls’ college in Morni at a function held in Sector 1 here. Five persons from Pinjore, four from Sector 15 and three each from Sector 18 and Sector 19 were also found infected. According to the media bulletin, one patient, who was missing, was traced and added to the infection tally. Six persons, who were found suffering from the contagion, are yet to be traced. They have not been added to the total count.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-college-professor-infected-126224
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Help desk for patients in home isolation||The Chandigarh Administration has set up a help desk for the Covid-19 patients in home isolation.  The help desk is to regularly interact with those who have been advised home isolation and provide them with the required medical assistance in case of any emergency. The help desk will contact all patients in home isolation on a daily basis. Official spokesperson said till Wednesday evening, 233 Covid-19 patients were in home isolation. Today, all of them were contacted through a phone call by the help desk. The patients in home isolation have been advised to contact the staff of the help desk on the same mobile number in case of an emergency. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/help-desk-for-patients-in-home-isolation-126225
14-08-2020||---||Private schools want no action on fee issue||Chandigarh, August 13 The Independent Schools’ Association (ISA) has submitted a proposal to the UT Administration demanding no coercive action against any school for the session 2020-21 regarding the collection of fee. The proposal also calls for stricking off of a student’s name from the school in case of delay in clearing dues. “In the matter of clearance of all dues by parents, a final date should be fixed and any delay beyond that should result in the student’s name being struck off the school rolls,” reads the proposal. The ISA stated that the schools would continue to have symptomatic attitude towards parents who were unable to pay the fee, wholly or partly, on account of Covid-19 and they would be required to submit their application by August 31 along with documentary proof as specified by the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-schools-want-no-action-on-fee-issue-126226
14-08-2020|| ---||Ghee worth Rs1 lakh stolen from Baltana||Zirakpur, August 13 A ‘maakhan chor’ striking at the dead of night before Janmashtami would fill the heart of any devotee with pride and affection. However, a shopkeeper in Baltana is not amused with the incident. ‘Desi ghee’ worth Rs1 lakh has been swindled and his godown ransacked by a miscreant.  A middle-aged man with wheatish complexion involved in the act has been captured in the CCTV footage, though the police are yet to lay their hands on him.  On August 12 morning, when owner Mohit Mittal came to open the shop, Shri Atma Ram Mittal and Sons, at the Old Kalka Road, he found the shutter of the shop and locks broken.  “Cartons worth Rs1 lakh have been stolen from the shop. We have taken the CCTV footage from a nearby shop and given it to the police,” he said.  Baltana police officials inspected the burgled shop in the morning and are still investigating the matter a day after the Janmashtami celebrations. Roughly, clarified butter worth Rs1 lakh would weigh around 222.22 kgs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ghee-worth-rs1-lakh-stolen-from-baltana-126227
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Suspended cop decides not to attend son’s wedding||Citing health problems, suspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur has decided not to attend her son’s wedding scheduled to be held on August 14.Jaswinder Kaur today moved two applications — one before Sushil Kumar Garg Special Judge, CBI court, and another before Superintendent, Model Jail, Burail — regarding her decision. Three days ago, the court had allowed her to attend the wedding in the police custody for seven hours. In the application, she has mentioned that she does not want to attend the wedding due to the risk of Covid-19.She said she was taking pills for a heart disease and was depressed and didn’t want to bear the 14-day quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspended-cop-decides-not-to-attend-sons-wedding-126228
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Victim’s family gets Rs10L relief||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) has awarded a compensation of Rs10 lakh to the family of a four-year-old girl who was brutally murdered on February 25, 2018.Convict Kamlesh, a labourer, murdered the girl by slashing her throat with a knife. Kamlesh lived in Sanjay Labour Colony, Industrial Area, Phase 1, and the court had awarded life imprisonment till natural death to him.Ashok Kumar Mann, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, DLSA, awarded compensation in favour of the family as part of the Victim Assistance Scheme, 2012.The matter dates back to February 25, 2018, when the murder case was registered. As per the FIR, victim Ujala was living with her elder brother, sister-in-law and their two children. Both Kamlesh and Ujala’s families lived next to each other in adjoining shanties. The complainant said when Ujala’s father was not at home and the rest of the family members were watching television, the accused had attacked the child, who was playing outside her shanty.The neighbours raised the alarm, telling Ujala’s mother that Kamlesh was “cutting her with a knife”. The family and the neighbours found the accused holding a knife in one hand and the child in another. Kamlesh slashed her repeatedly with the knife even as they tried to save her. When she was taken to hospital, she was declared brought dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/victims-family-gets-rs10l-relief-126229
14-08-2020||---||Sunny Enclave MD remanded in five-day police custody||Mohali, August 13Jarnail Singh Bajwa, MD of Sunny Enclave, was today produced before a local court which remanded him in five-day police custody.Earlier, he was on seven-day police remand. Meanwhile, Bajwa was granted bail by the Chandigarh Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum in connection with several cheque bounce cases.Kharar DSP Pal Singh said: “The court has extended his remand today. The accused is in the custody of the Kharar police and we are investigating the case.”Bajwa’s counsel Dinesh Kumar Sharma said: “Bajwa has made a payment of Rs6 crore today in 48 cases, which were pending against him in the consumer court. Out of 48, eight cases have been disposed of while more than 50 per cent payment has been done in the rest of the 36 cases.”He said in the cheating case registered at the Sadar Kharar police station, they would try to get a bail in a few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sunny-enclave-md-remanded-in-five-day-police-custody-126230
14-08-2020||---||Rain leaves roads waterlogged in tricity||Zirakpur, August 13 Morning showers waterlogged various roads leading to traffic snarls and road cave-ins at many places here today. Patiala chowk, Babhat area, godowns and various colonies were flooded with rainwater. Some areas witnessed accumulation of knee-deep water due to which residents had to face a tough time while stepping out of their houses. Massive traffic jams were also witnessed on the main highway. Power, water supply hit Not only this, electricity and drinking water supply was also affected following rain at many places. The areas, which faced power cuts, include Babhat, Baltana, Lohgarh, VIP road and adjoining areas. Officials said all feeders of 66kv Babhat grid were closed due to the maintenance work of 66kv Banur-Babhat line. However, residents vented their ire at the PSPCL officials by saying that this was a lame excuse. “I suggest they better improve their services. If they cannot do that, they can at least find some new excuse,” said RP Manchanda, a Babhat resident. Long power cuts affected water supply in various housing societies as tubewells could not be run due to lack of electricity. Dera Bassi and nearby villages too witnessed heavy rain leading to waterlogging in the main market and underneath the flyover. Roads in Mohali flooded Heavy rain led to waterlogging in several areas in Mohali. Phase 7, Phase 11, Phase 5 and Phase 3B-2 were the worst-affected sectors. Most of the residents stayed indoors as streets and sector roads were flooded with knee-deep water. The parking lots of the Phase 5 and 3B2 markets were also flooded. Sukhminder Singh Barnala, former councillor of Phase 11, said, “Phase 11 residents are tired of excuses of MC officials as there is no improvement on the ground.”  Dip in temp Chandigarh: The city today recorded 72 mm of rainfall, bringing the maximum temperature down by three degrees. Meanwhile, several areas in the city witnessed waterlogging. Road gullies got choked at several places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-leaves-roads-waterlogged-in-tricity-126231
14-08-2020||---||RBU e-learning system in place: Chancellor||Mohali, August 13Rayat Bahra University had introduced a large number of new-age courses in collaboration with top multinational companies to increase the employment potential of the students, said university Chancellor Gurvinder Singh Bahra while interacting with the media.He said: “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the university is ready with an online learning management system, ACADEMIA.”The Chancellor said the university offered student-friendly schemes such as scholarships and freeships. Bahra said there had been an upswing in placements and over 350 companies visited different institutions of the RBU. The placements included 176 in engineering and technology, 91 in management and computers, 27 in hotel management, 43 in pharmaceutical science and health sciences and 13 in law and education. He said to make the students ready for the emerging fourth industrial age, the RBU had signed pacts with several companies and introduced programmes to equip students with skills and enhance their employment potential.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rbu-e-learning-system-in-place-chancellor-126232
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||PU panel to redress pupils’ fee concerns||The PU authorities have formed a committee to consider all demands related to the fee and the extension of the last date (August 31) for submitting the semester fee.Students are demanding a rebate in the tution fee, submission of fee in installments and waiving off annual fee and sports fee for this semester. The committee has assured them that it would find a solution. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-panel-to-redress-pupils-fee-concerns-126233
14-08-2020||67 fresh cases take infection tally past 1||5 more lose life in Mohali district||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 13Mohali district today witnessed five more fatalities due to coronavirus, taking the toll to 30. All patients had comorbidities and they tested positive after death.The deceased have been identified as a 71-year-old woman from Golden Avenue, Mohali; a 70-year-old man from Sector 71, Mohali; a 61-year-old man from Gulmohar City, Dera Bassi; a 68-year-old man from Jawaharpur, Dera Bassi; and a 59-year-old woman from Shashtri Nagar, Dera Bassi.Dr Harmandeep Kaur, District Epidemiologist and Nodal Officer, said the 70-year-old man was admitted to the Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, while the 61-year-old man was undergoing treatment at Ivy Hospital in Mohali. Other three patients were undergoing treatment at the GMCH-32, Chandigarh, where they succumbed to the virus. All patients had comorbidities.Meanwhile, 67 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the tally to 1,603.The persons infected with the virus include four women and seven men from Dera Bassi, three men and a woman from Aerocity and 22 from various sectors and phases of Mohali. Other 30 patients are from Desumajra, Zirakpur, Khizarabad, Lakbnaur, Kurali, Singhpura, Banaur, Kharar, Kumbara, Khanpur, Balumajra, Lalru, Lohgarh, Dhakoli, Nayagaon, Landran, TDI City, Balongi and Mullanpur.Meanwhile, 84 patients were discharged from hospitals today after being cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-lose-life-in-mohali-district-126237
14-08-2020||---||Clean chit to Grover in sexual harassment case||Chandigarh, August 13Panjab University’s former vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Grover has come clean out of a sexual harassment case. The Chancellor has accepted an independent committee’s recommendations to close the matter as the complainant-professor failed to appear before it even once, though she was given no less than six opportunities.“It appears that the complainant did not want to stand to her complaints/allegations, as despite due notices and receipts by her, she has failed to appear before the committee and as the procedure requires there is no justification to further proceed with the present enquiry into the complaints made by the professor in the Panjab University. Therefore, the members of the independent internal committee unanimously recommend to close down the inquiry proceedings,” the inquiry report stated.The report by the committee, headed by Haryana additional chief secretary, environment, Dheera Khandelwal, was submitted to Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu’s office as he is also the Chancellor of Panjab University.The report added the members were of view that the professor was afforded six opportunities in total to present her contentions before the independent internal committee. Three opportunities were given at the meetings held under the chairpersonship of IAS officer Navraj Sandhu. The remaining opportunities were granted by the present committee.“She did not appear even once before the independent internal committee in spite of ample opportunities given to her as required under Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, notified by the Ministry of Women and Child Development on December 9, 2013,” the committee added.The court caseJust before the date of final opportunity to present her case on September 18, 2018, she moved the Panjab and Haryana High Court. Grover told the Bench that he was available for any inquiry into the “false and malicious complaints” against him to obstruct him from continuing as VC in the second three-year term.Disposing of the matter in October last year, Justice Arun Monga upheld the constitution of the internal complaint committee for looking into the matter. The professor was also given the liberty to raise all her contentions and objections before the panel.Sandhu later retired and the present committee was constituted.The panel observed the professor in repeated representations before every date of hearing raised a question mark over its constitution. She was harping that continuance of further proceedings by the committee would be “non est” in the absence of employee-employer relationship between the Chancellor’s office and the former VC. Similar pleas were raised before the High Court and rejected.Ex-VC shoots off letterGrover has now shot off a letter to the varsity VC for initiation of action against “unethical and unacceptable acts of PU faculty member”. Grover has written that the complainant has not cooperated with the inquiry. Her “unethical conduct” was required to be investigated by an appropriate disciplinary committee of the university. He added the democratic structure of PU has been misused to inflict a heavy burden on the VC’s office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clean-chit-to-grover-in-sexual-harassment-case-126248
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Cops nab fleeing thief at Sector 34||ISBT mandi to be closed on I-dayChandigarh: The fruit and vegetable mandi at the ISBT, Sector 17, will remain closed on Independence Day. TNSMan arrested for theftChandigarh: The police arrested a man for stealing a raisin box from a shop at the Grain Market, Sector 26, here. According to the police, the complainant, Nitish, said that the suspect, identified as Mohit Kaushal, a resident of Maloya village, was caught while he was stealing a raisin box. The police were informed following which a case was registered at the Sector 26 police station and an investigation has been initiated. TNSVivek High to host MUNChandigarh: Vivek High School, Chandigarh, is hosting its sixth international Model United Nations (MUN) conference via online platforms from August 14 to 16. The theme of this year’s conference is “Nosce Te Ipsum - Revelations Through Reflections”. The conference will be attended by about 250 delegates from more than 24 schools from across the nation and from Dubai and Canada. Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari will be the chief guest for the opening ceremony. TNSYouth held with 100-gm heroinMohali: The police have arrested a youth and seized 100-gram heroin from his possession on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Gurpreet Singh (26), a resident of Butari village in Amritsar. Gurpreet was produced before a court, which sent him to four-day police remand. TNSMinor girl goes missingMohali: The police have registered a case against unknown persons after a 16-year-old girl went missing from her house. The victim’s father in his complaint said her daughter had left home three days ago without informing anyone. The Balongi police have registered a case against unknown persons under Section 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of the IPC. “The victim was illiterate and his father is a labourer. At present, there is nothing confirmed whether she was abducted or not. The investigation is on. Her mobile phone is switched off,” said the Investigating Officer, Bahadar Singh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-nab-fleeing-thief-at-sector-34-126250
