19-08-2020|| Mohali||Mohali reports 134 coronavirus cases in new high||Mohali reported 134 new COVID-19 cases and three deaths---the highest single-day spike in cases yet in the district.Three men---two in their 40s died and a 53-year-old man from Padiala---were the latest fatalities. All three had pre-existing health problems.Seventeen of Mohali’s 134 came from Kharar and 16 came from Zirakpur. Nayagaon (7), Kurali 6), and Ecocity (4) were among places that reported new cases.NK Sharma, the Member of Legislative Assembly from Dera Bassi, also tested positive. Sharma, who is the treasurer of the Shiromani Akali Sal, announced his test results on Facebook on Wednesday, and asked people who met him in the last week to get themselves tested.The development takes the district’s tally to 2,138 infections.Mohali has been reporting a spike in COVID-19 cases throughout August, especially within the last fortnight. District figures show that over 50 per cent of the district’s total cases were reported within the last two weeks.The district now has 922 active cases. Mohali’s death toll now stands at 43. Also on Wednesday, 178 people recovered and were released from hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-134-coronavirus-cases-in-new-high-128465
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Digital Health card launched in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Administration has launched National Digital Health Mission with a formal launch at Punjab Raj Bhawan on Wednesday, wherein Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore got his first digital health card. UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that he proposes to cover the entire UT population within a period of one month. He also stated that on the first day itself, 4,000 persons have registered online and got their digital health cards online.During the war room meeting, the Administrator directed PGIMER, DGP, Commissioner, MC and Deputy Commissioner to ensure that all employees working under them must register and get their digital cards within a week. Dr G Diwan, DHS, who is also the Nodal Officer under National Digital Health Mission for Chandigarh, stated that a special drive will be made in all sectors to ensure that every resident gets his medical card.Apart from the citizens, the digital data will contain details of doctors, their qualifications and medical infrastructure available for the citizens in the city.  In future, it will be linked to e-pharmacy and telemedicine too. Digital Medical card will enable the doctors to look at the medical history of each person at the click of a button. Necessary care will be taken to ensure the privacy of the data and the medical information of card holders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/digital-health-card-launched-in-chandigarh-128426
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 91 new coronavirus cases; tally now 2,396||Chandigarh reported 91 new coronavirus cases and one death---developments that take the country’s coronavirus tally to 2,396.A 74-year-old man from Sector 24 died at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, becoming Chandigarh’s 31st fatality to the virus. A medical bulletin issued by the Chandigarh administration said that he died of refractory septic shock caused as a result of acute respiratory distress syndrome---a disease that is frequently seen in severe cases of COVID-19.About 42 per cent of the union territory’s cases are still active.Meanwhile, the bulletin also showed that 108 people were released from various hospitals and home isolation after making full recovery on Wednesday||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-91-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-now-2-396-128424
19-08-2020||---||4 more succumb in Mohali||Mohali, August 18The district today reported four Covid-induced fatalities, 93 new cases and 18 recoveries.A 76-year-old man of Sector 65 died of Covid-19 today. He was suffering from high blood pressure, diabetes and tuberculosis. In Mamupur, a 56-year-old woman with a history of diabetes lost her life. A 42-year-old man of Dera Bassi, who was reported to be hypertensive, was the third casualty. In Zirakpur, an 87-year-old man suffering from a severe lung disease died.With 93 fresh cases, the district today crossed the 2,000-mark. Two men, both aged 78, belonging to Zirakpur and Phase VII, Mohali, were the oldest patients detected today while a nine-year-old girl of Mundi Kharar was the youngest. Twelve of the new cases reported were from Zirakpur, 10 from Kharar and six each from Dhakoli and Mundi Kharar.So far, the district has reported 2,004 cases and of these, 969 are active. As many as 995 patients have defeated the virus. The toll has reached 40. On Monday, the district had reported the highest single-day spike of 102 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-more-succumb-in-mohali-128203
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||89 more infected in Chandigarh, tally now 2,305||The city today recorded 89 Covid-19 cases, taking the UT caseload to 2,305.The number of active cases now stands at 1,030. As many as 1,243 patients have been cured, while 30 have succumbed to the virus.According to health officials, Sector 4, 8, Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 29, 30, 32, 35, 39, 42, 44, 47, 52, 56, 63, Mani Jagran, Maloya, PGI, Kajheri and Khuda Ali Sher reported one case each while two cases each were reported from Sector 10, 22, 37, Dadu Majra, Hallo Majra, Mauli Jagran, Raipur Kalan, Dhanas and Kishangarh.Three cases each surfaced in Sector 15, 19, Khuda Lahora. Five cases were reported from Sector 38 and 61 while Sector 45 reported six cases. Sector 40 reported the highest number of nine cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/89-more-infected-in-chandigarh-tally-now-2-305-128204
19-08-2020||Panchkula||62 fresh cases in Panchkula||The district today recorded yet another highest single-day spike of 62 cases, taking the Covid tally to 1,267. Among the new cases, six are from the Haryana Police HQ in Sector 6, Panchkula.At least 19 persons who tested positive for coronavirus went untraced by the Health Department. They will not be added to the overall count. They had provided wrong mobile numbers and addresses.The new cases include nine from Sector 15, four from Sector 8, three each from Sector 21, Pinjore, Sector 9, Sector 20, Sector 10, Sector 19 and the ITBP, and one each from Sector 25, Sector 2, Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 4, Kundi village, Sector 4, Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5, Kalka, Sector 27 and Sector 17. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/62-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-128205
19-08-2020||Sandeep Rana||Swachh Bharat records belie ground reality||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18While waste segregation at source and processing remained a non-starter in the city, the figures provided to the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) by the local Municipal Corporation (MC) show that it has achieved over 90 per cent success in these.Report a surprise, shows over 90% successIn a surprise to many, a recent report of the Centre for Science and Environment on solid waste management released by the Swachh Bharat Mission showed 92.3 per cent waste segregation at source and 95 per cent of waste being processed in the city. This is the data till January this year.In a surprise to many, a recent report of the Centre for Science and Environment on solid waste management released by the SBM showed 92.3 per cent waste segregation at source and 95 per cent of waste being processed. This is the data till January this year.According to the report, 100 per cent waste segregation at source has been implemented in 24 of the 26 wards in the city. The report states that against 479 metric tonnes (MT) of waste produced in the city in a day, 455 MT is processed daily. Interestingly, the MC stands second with the Andaman and Nicobar Islands in waste segregation. Dadra and Nagar Haveli tops the chart with 100 per cent segregation. These figures are provided by the respective urban local bodies.On the contrary, the MC in its court cases had itself mentioned that the city produces about 470 MT of waste daily, but the processing plant processes only 120 MT of it. Over this issue, the corporation had recently taken over the processing plant from Jaypee Group.Also, waste segregation has remained unsuccessful as neither waste collectors nor people are segregating dry and wet waste. Collectors had been up in arms against this move. The civic body claims it has implemented waste segregation in some UT villages."It is surprising that such data has been furnished to the SBM, the nodal agency for conducting Swachh Survekshan for ranking all urban local bodies (cities)," said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations."It is totally wrong that waste segregation has reached the level of 100 per cent in the city. In our sector, it is nil," said JP Yadav, president, Sector 37 RWA.Medical Officer of Health Dr Amritpal Singh Warring said, "These figures have been misunderstood. In the waste segregation aspect, we mean we have started it in 24 wards. In the processing category, we calculated the total waste processed at the plant and biomining at the dumping ground each day. Even other states/UTs have given figures on this pattern."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/swachh-bharat-records-belie-ground-reality-128206
19-08-2020||---||Gangster among 2 nabbed with pistol||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Two persons, including a gangster who has around 20 criminal cases registered against him in Punjab, have been nabbed by the Chandigarh Police with a country-made pistol and live cartridges. The gangster has been identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi (26), an accomplice of gangster Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, who had shot at famous Punjabi singer Parmish Verma.Was booked in firing case at Panjab varsityGopi was booked after SOI leader Manpreet Alukah was shot at in his leg at the PU in 2016. Aulakh had received a bullet injury after a spat with PUSU activists over catcalls at the law auditorium during a fashion show on Apirl 8, 2016. Eight gunshots were fired and several persons, including Gopi and gangster Rinda, were booked. Gopi and others were acquitted in the case, while Rinda, the main accused and PO, has a trial pending against him.A team of Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO of the Sector 17 police station, nabbed Gopi and a Nayagaon-based property dealer, Firoz Khan, from Sector 17 while riding a Swift car.The police said a country-made pistol and five cartridges were recovered from the car.The SHO said Gopi, a resident of Nawanshahr, had a criminal past with several cases of murder and attempt to murder registered against him in Punjab. He was released from the Nabha jail around six months ago.The police have registered a case under the Arms Act against both accused at the Sector 17 police station. They were produced in a court and remanded in three-day police custody.In 2016, Gopi had helped gangsters Dilrpeet Singh, alias Baba, in escaping from the custody of the Punjab Police while he was being taken back to the Ropar jail after a hearing. A year later, Gopi’s accomplices, including Baba, Harvinder Singh, alias Rinda, and Harinder Singh, alias Akash, had allegedly gunned down Satnam Singh in broad daylight outside a gurudwara in Sector 38.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangster-among-2-nabbed-with-pistol-128207
19-08-2020||---||Three held for bid to break open ATM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Three miscreants, including a food delivery agent working with Swiggy, have been arrested by the Chandigarh Police for an attempt to break open an ATM.The suspects had attempted to break open an ATM of Axis Bank at Subhash Nagar, Mani Majra, on August 11. The incident was caught on a CCTV camera installed at the ATM booth.A team, led by Inspector Lakhvir Singh, SHO of the IT Park police station, arrested the suspects, identified as Hari Om, alias Sonu (19), who works at the Elante mall, Abhishek (19), a food delivery agent with Swiggy, and Satwant Singh, alias Golu (19), a tea vendor. They are residents of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26. The police said the suspects were nabbed from near the regulatory end of Sukhna Lake while riding an auto on the intervening night of August 17 and 18.The police said during the course of the investigation, CCTV footage of the ATM as well as the surrounding area was obtained and on its basis, the suspects were identified.The police said the suspects had been found to be involved in two burglary cases reported in November 2019 from the area of the IT Park police station and another incident reported in June this year from the area of the Sector 34 police station.Hari Om has a criminal past. In 2015, he was booked in a case of theft at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-held-for-bid-to-break-open-atm-128208
19-08-2020||Kaveesha Kohli||Chandigarh Administration’s policy for the mentally ill — Assurances||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18The UT Administration has not set up a single group or halfway home for people suffering from mental illnesses despite the Mental Healthcare Act of 2017 mandating governments across the country to do so.In 2019, officials met several times to discuss the matter, but claim to have been stuck on account of shortage of land. “Some proposals are under consideration. Our major constraint is shortage of land,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.Navjot Kaur, Director of the Social Welfare Department, said the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment had been asked to provide a copy of the policy for group homes. “The Social Justice and Health departments of Punjab and Haryana have been requested to identify land in Mohali and Panchkula for setting up joint group homes,” she added.According to mental health advocate Aditya Rametra, more than 70 families had signed up for a group home in the city. “While the list was submitted in July 2019, a subsequent survey conducted among psychiatrists in Chandigarh revealed that as many as 400 persons with mental illness may need the facilities of group homes,” he said. A group home is an assisted-living facility for the mentally ill, much like an old-age home, but with a psycho-social worker, a clinical psychologist and counsellors or therapists.While group homes are meant for the longer-term stay of patients with chronic mental illness, halfway homes are for people who no longer require hospitalisation and need to stay in a “transient” place between a home and a hospital for a few months.‘Right’ under the ActIt was in April 2017 that the Mental Healthcare Act laid down clear guidelines for group homes. According to Rametra, the law makes it the “right” of a person with mental illness to stay in a government-owned or facilitated group home, if required.“We are not begging; the law is on our side. This is our right,” said a city-based woman whose brother suffers from memory loss and is completely dependent on their 61-year-old single mother.In 2019, after observing no “tangible progress”, Rametra and three other parents filed a PIL in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, and the UT Administration was directed to decide on the representation within three months. Subsequently, officials met at least five times, including with families of patients and Rametra.In July, officials decided that Cheshire Home in Sector 21 would be converted into a halfway home by August 31, 2019, and an MC building in Sector 50 would be converted into a group home. However, by the time another meeting was held in September, the building in Sector 50 was no longer available and work on Cheshire Home was yet to start.In February this year, responding to the PIL, the Adviser said that five meetings were held, but it was “felt that no separate policy exclusively for Chandigarh could be framed since it is a UT”.He said Cheshire Home was being renovated and the Administrator would decide whether it would be converted into a halfway or a group home. He reiterated that the UT did not have adequate land for a group home.Parents of the patients and Rametra are not convinced with the response.In an email to the Adviser, one such mother and caregiver said: “Last year, I, along with my husband and a few other caregivers, met you and made a formal request for a group home…I remember when I told you ‘Sir, I’m unable to sleep at night’, you were so moved.”Recalling SC orderIn 2017, the SC had sought responses from all states and UTs on how they had rehabilitated people cured of mental illness based on provisions of the Act. The Centre, in 2019, said that no halfway home had been set up in Chandigarh. It said the Administration was planning to set up a halfway-cum-old age home in Sector 34. Till then, patients would be housed in Cheshire Home.Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who had filed the PIL in the SC, said: “It is extremely important to set up halfway homes as without these many people who have recovered from mental illness are forced to stay under institutionalisation. This is not permitted under law.”Why group homes are importantAccording to a psychiatrist, families often exhaust their resources and patience while caring for the mentally ill, causing them to consider sending patients to group homes. “They are not 100 per cent well or 100 per cent unwell. Putting them in a hospital would be too expensive; moreover, no hospital would keep them for a lifetime. So, we need a group home where they could have a structured life,” he added.There are many functions that people take for granted — waking up on time, exercising, reading or going to the bank — which people with mental illnesses might not be able to do without active support, the psychiatrist said.Consultant psychiatrist, Fortis, Simmi Waraich, said the protocol while treating patients with mental illness had shifted to “de-institutionalisation” and “community living”. People with chronic diseases like schizophrenia, bipolar disorder could benefit from such homes, she added. “The need for group homes will only increase as the traditional Indian family structure is disintegrating, becoming nuclear and siblings are less willing to take care of their mentally ill counterparts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administrations-policy-for-the-mentally-ill-%E2%80%94-assurances-128209
19-08-2020||---||Relief of Rs 1 lakh for victim lawyers’ kin||Chandigarh, August 18The Punjab and Haryana Bar Council has decided to give a financial help of Rs1 lakh to the family of any advocate succumbing to Covid. Besides, the council has also decided to provide a monetary help of Rs20,000 to needy advocates found infected.Covid: Bar Council to provide Rs 20K to needy infected advocates Karanjit Singh, chairman of council, said so far, 12 advocates, who tested positive for the virus, had been given a financial help of Rs20,000 each.He said a financial help of Rs1 lakh each would soon be given to the families of two advocates, one from Kurukshetra in Haryana and the other from Rajpura in Punjab, who died of Covid. The financial aid is being provided from the advocate welfare fund of the council and donations.Karanjit Singh said the council also provided a financial help of over Rscrore to around 2,000 advocates of the region who faced fiscal crisis due to the restricted functioning of the courts.The Punjab and Haryana Bar Council had so far received 3,400 applications for financial help. The council has more than 1 lakh members in the two states and Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/relief-of-rs-1-lakh-for-victim-lawyers-kin-128233
19-08-2020||---||Contenders up in arms over deferment of Senate elections||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18The Goyal group and the BJP group have levelled serious allegations against each other over the postponement of the Panjab University (PU) Senate elections that were scheduled for August 24.Why UT Admn was included?According to sources, the UT Administration was included in the tussle after both parties approached the Chancellor’s office. While the BJP-led group demanded to postpone the elections, the Goyal group wanted that elections be postponed as per schedule. “The Chancellor gave the authority to the UT Administration and the UT Administrator as they are his representatives. The decision was taken under Clause 12.2, wherein it was reported not only to Syndicate, but at a public platform through the media. The term of the existing Senate is up to October 31 and if the elections are postponed for two months, it won’t affect the functioning,” a source said.The Goyal group (Navdeep Goyal and Ashok Goyal) claimed that the PU Vice-Chancellor (VC) bypassed the governing council to take an unprecedented decision to favour the BJP group ((DAV and Sangha), while the other party claimed that the Goyal group was threatening the system in an unlawful manner.Claims by Goyal groupThe Goyal group, led by Ashok Goyal and Navdeep Goyal, claimed that the VC had kept them in the dark. He should have taken the House of syndics into confidence while taking the decision. “Earlier, the VC office refused to give us any kind of supporting document,” Ashok said.He alleged, “We had met the VC on August 11 and were given a false assurance that the elections would be held as per the schedule. However, after receiving the documents, we got to know that the VC had already decided to postpone the elections.”He said, “The request made by the fellows to the Chancellor was referred to the UT Administration, but the Punjab Government was ignored. Despite having many legal counsellors, the VC relied on the Administration’s legal opinions. He provided a false report on the number of voters and polling centres to make Covid an excuse.”He further claimed, “This has happened for the first time. We demand an immediate meeting of the Syndicate. If the House of the Syndics approves the postponement, we are more than happy.”Documents tamperedwith, says fellowTwenty-one Senate members from the BJP group submitted a memorandum to the VC alleging that the Goyal group tampered with the documents while sitting at the Registrar’s office last night.“The Goyal group is a habitual offender. On July 15, the UT Administrator had banned any kind of press conference, however, they organised one at the university today without taking any prior permission. They entered into the office of Registrar, who is also the returning officer, in his absence. The secrecy of the election process is at risk now. The competent authority should file a complaint under the Conduct of Election Rules and Representation of People Act, read with the rules of PU Calendar,” said Subhash Sharma, a fellow.PU Registrar Prof Karamjeet Singh said, “Keeping in view the current situation, the decision has been taken as per the advice of UT Administration and within the framework of rules and regulations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contenders-up-in-arms-over-deferment-of-senate-elections-128234
19-08-2020||Amit Bathla||Untraced Covid patients a big worry for Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 18Even as Covid cases continue to increase in the district, many people are throwing all caution to the wind. Some people are deliberately providing fake phone numbers, addresses and even names during testing, thereby affecting surveillance and contact-tracing.For now, we are not taking any action against those who provided fake details at the time of testing. Sometimes it is difficult to hear properly while wearing PPE kits and N95 masks, whereas sometimes the speech of the person is not very clear. - Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil SurgeonAt least 19 persons, who had tested positive for Covid today, could not be traced by the Health Department due to inaccurate details provided by them.According to an analysis of daily Covid bulletins between August 1 and August 18, health officials could not trace at least 38 patients in desired time due to inaccurate details. In some cases, health officials even required police assistance.The problem of not being able to trace positive patients had also surfaced on August 1, 2, 9, 13, 15 and 16.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “At present, health officials are relying on the word of the person. They don’t ask for Aadhaar card or other ID proof while conducting sampling.”Untraced patients generally turn out to be drivers of the virus and expose others to the infection. According to the Civil Surgeon, on an average, they test 10-15 contacts of a confirmed case. While in case of untraced patients, the contact list gets longer, which eventually means more persons are contracting the virus.“The whole process comes under the purview of the Health Department. If they approach us for negligence on part of any patient, we will take action accordingly,” Panchkula DCP Mohit Handa said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/untraced-covid-patients-a-big-worry-for-panchkula-128236
19-08-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University likely to win Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18After the 12-member selection committee recommended Panjab University (PU) to be the contender for winning the prestigious Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) trophy, the university is likely to add another feather to its cap by winning the first-ever Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar in the category of nurturing budding players. 3 major trophies?The final decision will be taken after the approval from Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju. However, as per the past trends, the recommendations by the committee are said to be final.The meeting of the committee ended at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) headquarters in New Delhi today, whereas the final announcement is expected to be made before August 22. The PU, meanwhile, will lift the MAKA trophy, for the second consecutive time, after a gap of 25 years. It was during the 1994-1996 session, when the university lifted the trophy twice in a row.The PU had claimed 11,582 points for its performance at inter-university competitions, Khelo India Youth/University Games and various international competitions for the year 2019-20. However, the final points are said to be reduced after assessments by the committee. Shooting contributed to a maximum of 2,443 points, while swimming added to 1,180 points, kayaking and canoeing boosted the tally by 1,090 points, followed by fencing (1,080 points), boxing (582 points), athletics (550 points) and sepaktakraw (500 points).Rashtriya Khel Protsahan PuruskarThe PU is also the front-runner to win the Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar, introduced for the first time, in the nurturing budding players’ category. The assessment has been done on the basis of expenditure on sports, infrastructure, international players, facilities and others. The committee is said to have gone through all documents and recommended the PU’s name for the award.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-likely-to-win-rashtriya-khel-protsahan-puruskar-128238
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Atal rankings result of faculty contribution, says Panjab University Vice-Chancellor||Panjab University claimed the second position in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) in the government, aided universities category.The announcement was made by Vice-President of India M Venkaiah Naidu today. “The ranking is based on parameters of innovation, incubation, start-up and infrastructure available at the institute. We have been successful in roping in some major innovative projects funded by the Central authorities and alongside our faculty has been very proactive in their innovative output,” said Prof Raj Kumar, PU Vice-Chancellor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atal-rankings-result-of-faculty-contribution-says-panjab-university-vice-chancellor-128239
19-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Four deaths in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 18The district witnessed four more fatalities due to Covid today, taking the toll to 13.Randhir Singh, 46, a resident of Bathan Kalan village in Khamano, Kirpal Kaur, 65, from Himatgarh in Amloh, Dharmpal, 52, from Mandi Gobindgarh and Devinder Singh, Fatehgarh Sahib ASI, died due to Covid.Meanwhile, 48 new cases were reported from the district. Twenty-four fresh cases were reported from Bassi Pathana, 15 from Mandi Gobindgarh, three from Sirhind, two from Fatehgarh Sahib and four cases surfaced in the Khamano area, taking the district Covid tally to 695.The Civil Surgeon, Surinder Singh, said there were 695 positive cases in the district, of which 486 had cured and discharged from hospital. There were now 197 active cases in the district, he said.Devinder Singh, who was deputed at a Covid isolation centre set up at Fatehgarh Sahib Gurdwara, was infected, but he did not develop any symptoms. He had complained of problem in breathing yesterday after which the matter was brought to the notice of the SSP. He was rushed to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala and a ventilator was made available for him, but he could not be saved and within hours of identifying the disease, he passed away.The SSP said she would ensure that one of his sons was appointed on compassionate grounds as per the prescribed rules on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-deaths-in-fatehgarh-sahib-128242
19-08-2020||Naina Mishra||Second surge saw more infections, fatalities in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18The surge in UT Covid-19 cases witnessed in July and August also increased the number of deaths as compared to the previous surge in May and mid-June when the infection was concentrated in only one area of the city i.e. Bapu Dham Colony.Only six deaths were reported from the city till June. The figure rose to 30 in the past two months in the second surge.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the Department of Community Medicine, PGI, said: “When the cases are less in number, the efficiency of any administration is well equipped to contain the spread as compared to the situation where the infection is spiralling. Increase in the number of deaths is because several cases are not traced well in time or fail to report at health care facilities.”Of 1,000 active cases in the city, at present there are over 100 critically ill Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at the PGI and the GMCH-32.As on June 30, only 13 critically ill patients were admitted to the PGI (the only Covid hospital for critical cases at that time) out of 70 active cases.During the war-room meeting, the Punjab Governor and UT Administrator had time and again stressed that the focus of the Administration should be on early detection of cases, particularly those of comorbid patients, so that fatalities could be kept at a minimum.In its report titled “review of containment strategy at Bapu Dham Colony”, the WHO stated that: “We need to protect, detect early and provide supportive care to the aged and those with comorbid conditions.”From 29, biggest one-day virus count rose to 114The first highest single-day spike of 29 Covid cases was recorded on May 24. All patients were from Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26.There was a gradual decrease in the number of cases from the area and a plateau was achieved as only two to three cases started reporting daily from May 30 onwards.On one side, sporadic cases were being reported from Bapu Dham Colony till mid-June, the city started witnessing another surge where Covid-19 infection spread was scattered all over the city.In July, the highest single-day spike of 44 cases was recorded. The figure rose to 114 on August 18 as cases were being reported from over 43 places, including 13 peripheral areas.The reason behind rise in single-day spike is due to increased testing as rapid antigen tests have also been included. On an average, over 500 tests are being conducted in the UT now.Change in containment policyIn the previous spread, there were six containment zones in areas, including Kacchi Colony in Dhanas, part of Sector 52, Shastri Nagar in Mani Majra, parts of Sectors 38 and 30-B and Bapu Dham Colony. Restrictions in the containment zones were lifted only after 28 days when the last positive case of the zone gets cured.The Administration had converted entire Bapu Dham Colony into a containment zone and the area was further divided into 20 pockets each containing 1,500 to 2,000 population.The policy changed in August with the creation of micro-containment zones after mapping of new cases coming up from different sectors and areas. At present, some areas of Dhanas, Mani Majra and Sector 40 have been declared as containment zones for 14 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/second-surge-saw-more-infections-fatalities-in-chandigarh-128243
19-08-2020||---||Chandigarh officials, Union Home Secretary to meet today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Senior officers of the UT Administration will hold a meeting with the Union Home Secretary tomorrow to resolve the issue of rates of the UT employees housing scheme.Dharmender, general secretary of the UT Government Employees’ Housing Welfare Society, said the issue of rate of the self-finance housing scheme was hanging fire for the past over a decade. About the schemeUnder the scheme, 336 three-bedroom flats, 888 two-bedroom, 564 one-bedroom and 320 one-room flats were to be built on a land measuring 61.5 acres. Around 3,000 flats have to be constructed in Sector 52, 53 and 56. Later, the scheme was shelved. It was revived after the employees took up the matter with MP Kirron Kher.On a petition, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed the Union Home Secretary to convene a meeting with the UT Adviser and the chairman of the Chandigarh Housing Board to make efforts to resolve the issue and submit the report by the next date of hearing. The High Court had also directed that three representatives of the petitioners may also be associated in the proceedings. The next hearing in the case has been fixed for September 1.Dharmender said the meeting was earlier fixed for August 4. It could not be held as officials concerned in the Ministry of Home Affairs were home-quarantined after Home Minister Amit Shah tested positive for Covid-19.The CHB had floated the special housing scheme for employees in 2008. The draw of lots was held on November 4, 2010, and over 3,900 employees were successful.Under the scheme, 336 three-bedroom flats, 888 two-bedroom, 564 one-bedroom and 320 one-room flats were to be built on a land measuring 61.5 acres. Around 3,000 flats have to be constructed in Sector 52, 53 and 56. Later, the scheme was shelved. It was revived after the employees took up the matter with MP Kirron Kher. But the Ministry of Home Affairs allowed the Administration to transfer land to the CHB with the current collector rates.This has enhanced the cost of the flats manifold. The rates of the flats have been fixed at Rs50 lakh for Category D, Rs1 crore for Category C, Rs1.64 crore for Category B and Rs2.08 crore for Category A. When the scheme was announced, the rates were only Rs34.70 lakh for Category A, Rs24.30 lakh for Category B, Rs13.53 lakh for Category C and Rs5.76 lakh for Category D.The employees then moved the High Court alleging that the Chandigarh Housing Board was charging five times the initial price for land after the launch of the scheme for UT Administration employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-officials-union-home-secretary-to-meet-today-128246
19-08-2020||---||Chandigarh housing board to rent out 2,500 flats in Maloya to migrant labourers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has planned to rent out 2,500 vacant small flats in Maloya to migrant labourers and urban poor under the recently announced Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme by the Government of India.The CHB today gave a presentation on the scheme at a meeting chaired by UT Adviser Manoj Parida.Parida said after detailed deliberations, it was decided that a memorandum of understanding (MOU) would be signed between the UT Administration and the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. The CHB would be the state-level nodal agency and the Secretary, CHB, would be the nodal officer for the scheme.The Adviser said the scheme would be implemented by the CHB through concessionaire to be appointed through the transparent bidding process as per the guidelines of the ARHCs scheme issued by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.In light of Covid-19 pandemic, the country witnessed reverse migration of migrants and urban poor. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has launched the scheme to provide ease of living, access to dignified and planned housing at affordable rent to migrant labour and urban poor. The scheme will be implemented by utilising existing government-funded vacant houses to convert them into ARHCs through public-private partnership or by public agencies and construction, operation and maintenance of ARHCs by public or private entities on their own vacant land.The scheme will help urban migrants, who stay in slums, informal settlements, unauthorised colonies and peri-urban areas to save cost on housing.Beneficiaries for the scheme will be urban migrants and poor from the EWS or LIG categories. The complexes will be a mix of single or double-bedroom dwelling units and dormitory of 4/6 beds, including all common facilities, which will be exclusively used for rental housing for a minimum period of 25 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-to-rent-out-2-500-flats-in-maloya-to-migrant-labourers-128247
19-08-2020||---||Man attempts suicide near Punjab and Haryana High Court in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18A man reportedly tried to commit suicide after drinking petrol near the Punjab and Haryana High Court here today.The victim had come to meet a lawyer after he had a fight with his wife.Sources said the victim had been identified as Santram, a resident of Gohana in Sonipat district, Haryana.Sources said the victim was carrying a bottle filled with petrol, which he consumed and fell unconscious.The police were informed about the incident. The victim was rushed to Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH) Sector 16, where his condition is said to be stable. Meanwhile, the police have initiated investigations into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-attempts-suicide-near-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-in-chandigarh-128248
19-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali to get 30 ventilators by tomorrow||The Mohali district administration has procured 30 ventilators, which would be installed in the selected institutions by Thursday. Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said enough of respiratory care infrastructure was in stock.The administration will conduct random rapid tests through mobile vans in areas around large industries and places such as Labour Chowk to increase testing range.He directed all private hospitals to increase tertiary Covid care bed capacity to cope up with the surge in cases.The Expert Referral Committee of the district comprising the Civil Surgeon and doctors from other government and private hospitals has access to bed status in every health institution on a real-time basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-to-get-30-ventilators-by-tomorrow-128249
19-08-2020||---||Panel rejects proposal for entry charge at Chandigarh parks||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18The Revenue Generation Committee of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation today rejected a proposal of the Horticulture Department to impose entry fee at all major parks.The committee decided that the entry ticket to gardens/green belts had already been rejected by the General House and it would not take up the agenda.It was proposed to charge entry fee in parks such as Japanese Garden, Valley of Animals among others. It was also suggested to issue paid passes to morning and evening walkers. The move was condemned by Resident Welfare Associations.Other resolutionsThe recommendations will be sent to the General House for discussion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-rejects-proposal-for-entry-charge-at-chandigarh-parks-128258
19-08-2020||---||Private Covid testing labs giving wrong reports, alleges Babla||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Private Covid testing laboratories are giving wrong reports and have turned it into a money-spinning business, alleged Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla during a councillors’ meet with UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore through video-conferencing.“These labs are deliberating declaring people positive so that their family members and contacts also get themselves tested and the business blooms. If these labs declare them negative, no more people will come for tests. Why the Administration does not allow charitable labs to carry out tests?” he alleged.He sought immediate action against the malpractice and wanted such labs to be penalised.MP Kirron Kher said nursing homes in the city should be allowed to join government hospitals to fight the battle against Covid-19. She said the city would be in a better position with the availability of hospital beds/ventilators through nursing homes.On this, Babla said: “The MP is keen on starting more nursing homes in the residential areas, thus adding to the woes of sectors. Parking will be a major issue. If schools can be shifted from residential areas, then why not nursing homes? I request the MP to take the situation seriously and act immediately.”Badnore earlier said councillors get feedback from people and they know gaps in the implementation of steps to prevent the spread of coronavirus.Councillors said teams be formed at the area level, which would inform the Administration to take action according to area-based requirements.The councillors said screening should be enhanced, especially in colonies and villages, besides creating awareness among the masses through local volunteers to follow social distancing, wearing a face mask and developing the habit of washing hands frequently.The councillors also suggested that beggars should be strictly banned in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-covid-testing-labs-giving-wrong-reports-alleges-babla-128259
19-08-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Defective sofa set costs firm dear||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18A defective sofa set cost dear to M/s Godrej and Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited, Sector 17-C, here. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed the firm to repair the entire sofa set free of cost, pay Rs 10,000 compensation to the complainant for causing mental agony, harassment, along with litigation cost of Rs7,000.Dinesh Kumar Sharma, a city resident, purchased a Rhine recliner plus sofa set for Rs72,437 on June 12, 2015. It got defective within a few months. The customer lodged a complaint for replacement on May 13, 2016.Accordingly, the sofa was replaced, but it too got defective. The customer lodged another complaint on November 22, 2018.However, the shop refused to replace the sofa set stating that it was out of warranty. It alleged that the sofa set had been damaged due to mishandling.After hearing the arguments, the Commission said there was no evidence placed on record by the opposite party to reveal that the complainant had mishandled the sofa in question. No expert report had been made part of the record to establish the lasting period of the sofa i.e. durability of the leather used and the exact reason for its deteriorated condition in question for which the complainant had paid a handsome amount.The order says the opposite party failed to provide that extra peace of mind for which the complainant had paid the amount. In response, he remained under constant pressure and could not get the right benefit of the product till date.The order further says: “We give a free hand to the opposite party to either repair the sofa set with good-quality material and pay other costs or refund its invoice price”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/defective-sofa-set-costs-firm-dear-128260
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration yet to receive names for SSP posts||While the name for the UT SSP (Security and Traffic) is yet to be finalised by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the tenure of the SSP (Law and Order) is also ending this month. However, the UT Administration is yet to receive a communication on the new SSP from the MHA.DIG (Security and Traffic) Shashank Anand was relieved from his duties on July 30 and transferred back to his parent cadre. Since then, SP (Crime) Manoj Kumar Meena is officiating as the SSP (Security and Traffic). The UT had recommended the name of Manisha Choudhary, a 2011-batch IPS officer of the Haryana cadre, to the MHA. However, the final decision is yet to be taken by the MHA.Similarly, a panel of IPS officers of the Punjab cadre was also recommended by the UT to the MHA for the post of the SSP (Law and Order). However, the MHA is yet to send a communication regarding the new SSP.The UT had recommended Vivek Sheel Soni’s name for the SSP’s post to the MHA. However, the MHA has forwarded Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal’s name to the Department of Personnel and Training, for UT SSP’s post. If the UT fails to get the new name for the post of SSP (Law and Order) before Nilambari Jagdale is relieved, then SP (City) Vineet Kumar might be given the officiating charge of the SSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-yet-to-receive-names-for-ssp-posts-128262
19-08-2020||---||Further construction on Sector 5 property stayed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18The Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed further construction on a Sector 5 property and directed the Chandigarh Administration to verify the property’s ownership.The direction came after the “real owner” moved the High Court claiming that an earlier petition before the HC in the matter was filed without “his consent or without having any power of attorney from him”.The case has its genesis in a petition allegedly filed by Padamjit Singh against the UT Administration and other respondents. Appearing before the Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I. Mehta, the counsel had contended allegedly on the petitioner’s behalf that Padamjit Singh was having 50 per cent share in the property and no sale deed was ever executed at the instance of the petitioner or other co-sharer. The petitioner was residing in the USA and an email was also sent, but still no action was taken. Issuing notice of motion on the petition, the Bench ordered maintenance of “status quo as it exists” while adjourning the hearing to August 17.As the case came up for resumed hearing, an application was moved stating that certain persons wanted to grab the property. Its owner was working with the United Nations and he was residing in the USA after retirement. The application added the writ petition had been filed without his consent.“Chetan Mittal, senior counsel for the applicant, actual owner of the property in dispute, submits that an inquiry is required to be conducted in the case and the record of the case be kept in a sealed cover so as to avoid tampering with the record,” the Bench noted.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Chaudhary directed UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain to verify the ownership of the house and also about the person raising construction and “in what capacity”. The Registrar (Judicial) was also directed to keep the complete paper book in a sealed cover and the “case file be not got inspected without permission of the Court,” Justice Chaudhary added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/further-construction-on-sector-5-property-stayed-128263
19-08-2020||---||Powermen protest privatisation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18Members of the UT Powermen Union today observed Energy Security Day and held a protest against privatisation of the Electricity Department here.Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary of the union, said they demanded withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, and opposed the privatisation process of electricity distribution in the UT.Opposing the privatisation of the UT Electricity Department, the union termed it anti-public and pro-money mongers. It said the decision of privatisation had been taken in violation of the Punjab Re-organisation Act, 1966, Electricity Act, 2003, and the General Finance Rule.Joshi said it was the most profit-earning department of the UT even as it does not generate power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/powermen-protest-privatisation-128264
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||SUV ‘robbed’ at gunpoint||Tiff with wife: Man ends lifeChandigarh: A 39-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Sector 33. Sources said the victim, Ankit, had an argument with his wife after which he took the extreme step. TNSYouth held for minor's rapeChandigarh: A Palsora resident has been arrested for allegedly raping a minor girl. Sources said a zero FIR was registered at Nayagaon, which was later transferred to Chandigarh. The suspect has been identified as Amit, who was arrested by a team of the Palsora police post. The police said the suspect had developed physical relations with the victim on the pretext of marriage. The victim alleged that the suspect raped her at Nayagaon and Sector 56. Sources said the victim has also alleged that the suspect made her obscene video. TNSWeb lectureChandigarh: The Interdisciplinary Center for Swami Vivekananda Studies organised a web lecture on salient features of New Education Poilcy-2020 by Prof Chaman Lal Gupta, vice-chairman, Governing Body Institute of Advanced Study, Rashtrapati Nivas, Shimla. PU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar welcomed the speaker and highlighted the main features of the policy. TNSPlantation driveChandigarh: The Department of Life Long Learning and Extension, Panjab University, organised a plantation drive. Paramjit Singh Kang, chairperson, Department of Life Long Learning & Extension, said the plantation drive was organised with the help of the varsity’s Horticulture Wing. TNSLecture seriesChandigarh: The Department of Public Administration, in collaboration with the Centre for Human Rights & Duties, organised a webinar on the topic, ‘The Indian State and Public Policy Priorities in Post-Covid Era’ under the Public Policy — Theory and Praxis lecture series of the department. TNSMan steals LPG cylinders, heldChandigarh: A man was caught while stealing four LPG cylinders from outside the District Courts in Sector 43 here. Complainant Vikas Verma, an employee of a gas agency, came to deliver cylinders at a canteen at the District Courts. The suspect, identified as Mohandeep, a resident of Kharar, was caught stealing four cylinders from a Mahindra pick-up jeep. A case against has been registered the suspect at the Sector 36 police station. TNSMohali youth goes missingMohali: Ravinder Kumar (21), a resident of Phase 1, here, has been missing since July 17. The youth is mentally disturbed for the past some time. He was wearing a grey T-shirt, shorts and slippers when he left the house. A missing person report has been filed at the Phase 1 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suv-robbed-at-gunpoint-128266
