22-08-2020||---||Record 145 new Covid cases registered in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 21Chandigarh on Saturday recorded the steepest single-day spike of 145 cases, taking the total coronavirus count in the city to 2,776.The UT had on Friday registered 116 new cases, while two people had succumbed to the viral infection, pushing the death toll in the city to 33.The two victims were in their 60s and had died on August 19. The reports of their samples were received on Friday.With Saturday’s addition, the total number of active cases in the city has gone up to 1,270.So far, 24,693 people have been tested in the city, out of which 2,776 have been found to be positive. Also, 1,471 people have been cured of the infection so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/record-145-new-covid-cases-registered-in-chandigarh-129832
22-08-2020||---||Mohali district admn imposes weekend curfew up to August 31||Mohali, August 22The Mohali administration has imposed a weekend curfew in all the municipal towns and cities of the district up to August 31.The movement of individuals for all the non-essential activities shall remain prohibited between 7pm to 5am within municipal limits of the district throughout the week.Movement of persons and students in the connection with all kinds of examinations, admission/entrance tests conducted by Universities, Boards, Public Service Commissions and other institutions shall be permitted on the production of ID cards, admit cards. Shops/malls to open Monday to Friday till 6.30 pm but to be closed on weekends. Shops/malls (dealing in essential commodities), religious places, sports complexes to be open till 6.30 pm every day.Restaurants, including restaurants/hotels in malls, to be open till 6.30 pm but on Saturday and Sunday only Home Delivery allowed, that too, till 6.30 pm.Liquor vends will remain open every day till 6.30 pm.Not more than 50% of shops dealing in non-essential commodities shall remain open in cities on odd-even basis.However, all shops dealing in essential commodities such as food, medicines, milk and milk products, poultry, etc., shall remain open on all days as per the timings specified.Traders and Market Associations shall be responsible for ensuring proper staggering of shops in all markets within the municipal limits.Only 3 persons, including driver, to be allowed in a 4-wheeler. All buses and public transport vehicles to allow sitting for 50% capacity with no person standing.There is ban on gatherings throughout the district. However, gatherings relating to marriage and funerals shall be allowed only for 30 persons and 20 persons respectively.Government and private offices shall operate with 50% staff strength till the end of the month.Industry shall be allowed to operate including on weekends or in day/night shifts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-district-admn-imposes-weekend-curfew-up-to-august-31-129830
22-08-2020||---||Haryana IG arrested for assaulting 2 Pinjore women||Panchkula, August 22Police have arrested controversial Haryana Inspector General (IG) Hemant Kalson for allegedly assaulting two women after trespassing into their houses at Pinjore in this district on Friday evening.Earlier, he was booked as two FIRs were registered against him. He will be produced in a court. The two incidents took place at Rattpur Colony of Pinjore town.While the first FIR was registered against Kalson under Sections 323 and 452 of the IPC, the second was lodged under Sections 323, 452, 509 and 510 of the IPC.In the first FIR, the woman complainant alleged that Kalson forcibly entered her house on Friday evening and started beating up her daughter while she herself was taking a bath. Upon hearing the noises, she intervened and saved her daughter, she said. She told the police that Kalson bragged that he was (CM ML) Khattar’s man; hence, nobody could touch him.  The complainant said she also made a video of the incident. In the second case, a male complainant alleged that Kalson knocked at his door at around 9.30 pm. He alleged that when his wife answered the door, Kalson, who was in an inebriated state, pushed her away and hurled abuses at her. When he intervened, Kalson slapped and kicked him besides threatening to shoot him, he claimed.Not new to controversyThe 55-year-old police officer, currently IG, Home Guards, Panchkula, has been in controversy in the past too.Kalson on July 27 this year had allegedly abused a Pinjore woman, following which a case was registered under Section 509 of the IPC against him on August 2.In April 2019, he was placed under suspension for firing in the air while being on election duty in Tamil Nadu.In September 2018, he was assaulted by passers-by in a road-rage incident. Kalson was behind the wheel, accompanied by a friend. They were on their way from Pinjore to Panchkula when an SUV crossed their vehicle at a high speed. He allegedly chased the vehicle and forced the driver to stop it. No FIR was registered in the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-ig-arrested-for-assaulting-2-pinjore-women-129793
22-08-2020||A milkman had a narrow escape after his bike was caught in the current of an overflowing choe on the Togan road near Dadu Majra on Friday. A passerby||Close shave for milkman in current of overflowing choe||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/close-shave-for-milkman-in-current-of-overflowing-choe-129753
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Man held for stealing purse||2 held for auto driver’s murderMohali: The police have arrested two persons in connection with the murder of an autorickshaw driver, whose body was recovered on a road near Zirakpur on Thursday. The suspects have been identified as Pramod Kumar (46) and Gaurav (24), both residents of Gulabgarh in Dera Bassi. The deceased was identified as Harinder Singh, a resident of Balaji Nagar in Dera Bassi. A case of murder was registered at the Zirakpur police station. TNSTwo of Lawrence Bishnoi gang heldPanchkula: A team of the Chandimandir police station arrested two gangsters of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang. The suspects have been identified as Amandeep Joshi, alias Rajbir Joshi, and Manpreet Singh, alias Manni, both residents of Adarsh Colony in Balongi. They were declared proclaimed offenders in 2018 in an attempt-to-murder case, which was registered under Sections 148, 149, 323, 307, 326, 425 and 506 of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station in 2014, the police said. The suspects were produced in a court, which sent them to 14-day judicial custody. TNSPower cut irks Sec 12 residentsPanchkula: Residents of Sector 12 here faced a seven-hour power cut on Friday. RK Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 12, said: “Power supply was snapped around 11 am and restored for a few seconds at 6:15 pm. The supply was later snapped again. There seems to be no respite from unscheduled power cuts.” UHBVN JE Baljeet Singh said: “Power cut was imposed to carry out repair work on a transformer.” TNSMittal is PGI chief legal adviserChandigarh: Assistant Solicitor-General of India Chetan Mittal has been appointed as chief legal adviser for the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). The appointment came after approval and sanction by the Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare in his capacity as president of the institute. Mittal has been appointed for three years with immediate effect. TNSPlantation driveChandigarh: Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Chandigarh, in association with Beerh Mallan Society, Muktsar, organised a plantation drive to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary, Department of Agriculture and Climate Change, Punjab, was the chief guest and Gurharminder Singh, Principal Scientific Officer, Directorate of Environment and Climate Change and Punjab Biodiversity Board, was the guest of honour. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-stealing-purse-129704
22-08-2020||---||Ex-paramilitary welfare assns seek better facilities||Chandigarh, August 21A delegation of Confederation of Ex-Paramilitary Welfare Associations today called upon the Deputy Secretary, Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Board, Haryana, to discuss various matters relating to para-military personnel and their families.The delegation pointed out that no retired para-military official had been appointed to the board to deal with their specific issues due to which their grievances were not being redressed.The delegation sought a separate cell for para-military personnel to be established in the department. They also demanded more dispensaries at several places under the Central Government Heath Scheme so that their medical needs were taken care of.Some members of the delegation also wanted the government to set up “shaheed smaraks” in all districts to recognise the sacrifices made by para-military personnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-paramilitary-welfare-assns-seek-better-facilities-129700
22-08-2020||---||GMSSS, Sector 22, most sought after for IT vocational course||Chandigarh, August 21Information web technology is one of the courses that has gained some competition among students of government schools. Among the seven government schools that offer information technology (IT) as vocational course in UT, GMSSS, Sector 22, has emerged the most sought-after school with a highest cut-off at 67 per cent.Following the merit list of Class XI students applying for admissions in government schools, the Education Department has now uploaded the stream and school-wise merit list of the school courses on their respective websites.Shorthand (English) office procedures and practices, typography and computer applications came in second with 61.4 per cent cut-off at the GMSSS, Mani Majra Modern Complex, and medical diagnostics, healthcare with 57.4 per cent cut-off. Science and commerce stream at the GMSSS, Mani Majra Modern Complex, is most sought-after with 94.4 per cent and 88 per cent cut-offs, respectively, whereas the GMSSS-16 has the highest cut-off with 88.6 per cent for the humanities stream.Certificates and other documents submitted by candidates shall be verified by schools allotted to them. Students need not visit schools for this. After checking, list will be uploaded on August 27 at 2 pm.Candidates will deposit fee through the online mode from August 28 to 31 between 11 am and 5 pm. In case, fee is not deposited within the scheduled time, allotment of seat will be cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmsss-sector-22-most-sought-after-for-it-vocational-course-129699
22-08-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court prohibits use of saliva on fee stamps||Chandigarh, August 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court has banned the use of saliva on the court fee stamps following the Covid-19 outbreak.An order passed by the High Court Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry said the Chief Justice had directed that “all advocates/clerks to advocates and litigants should not use saliva for affixing court fee and stamps on the applications/petitions to be filed in the registry”.This was being done in order to safeguard the health of the Judges, staff, advocates, clerks and litigants and to curtail the spread of Covid, keeping in view the health advisories.The superintendents of the section concerned were directed to ensure strict compliance of the directions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-prohibits-use-of-saliva-on-fee-stamps-129697
22-08-2020||---||21 protesters held in Chandigarh's Sector 17, released||Chandigarh, August 21The UT police arrested a total of 21 persons, including BJP state party president Ashwani Sharma, under Section 188 of the IPC.The BJP members were arrested in Sector 17 while they were marching towards the Punjab Chief Minister’s house to submit a memorandum demanding a CBI inquiry into the hooch tragedy.“A CBI inquiry can only be a fair investigation into a deep-rooted trio nexus of Congress leaders, the police and the liquor mafia,” Sharma said.The arrested persons were taken to the Sector 34 police station and released later on.The police said a case was registered against 21 persons, including 10 former MLAs, at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/21-protesters-held-in-chandigarhs-sector-17-released-129677
22-08-2020||Patiala||Patiala residents throng markets to buy groceries||Residents thronged markets to buy groceries and other essential items before imposition of the night curfew in the city on Friday. All markets in the city will remain closed on every Saturday and Sunday due to the lockdown. Meanwhile, taking stock of the situation policemen prevented shopkeepers from opening their establishments after 7 pm.Markets, including those at Anardana Chowk, Adalt Bazaar, Dharampura Bazaar and others place witnessed huge rush today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-residents-throng-markets-to-buy-groceries-129676
22-08-2020||---||Punjabi University seminar dwells on religious tolerance||Patiala, August 21The Department of Psychology, Punjabi University, discussed diversity, integration and religious fundamentalism during a one-day online national seminar on “Religious tolerance and national integration: Expanding mental boundaries”.The participants during the seminar dedicated to 400th Prakash Utsav of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur also discussed his martyrdom for the cause of social harmony.Dr HS Gill, Professor Emeritus, JNU, talked about the caste system prevalent in India since ancient times. Historian Dr Ishwar Dayal Gaur from Panjab University, Chandigarh, said, “India being the land of Guru Nanak has always supported religious tolerance.” Neeraj Kumar, former Delhi Police Commissioner, stressed on the effects of undercurrents of religious strife that sometimes tear apart society.Dr Vandana Sharma, Professor of Eminence, Akal University, said, “India happens to be the best example of religious pluralism.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-university-seminar-dwells-on-religious-tolerance-129675
22-08-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Man posing as Lt Col lands in police net||The police claimed to have arrested a swindler claiming to be a Lt Colonel in the Army and recovered uniforms, stamps, fake documents, ID cards, a sword, badges, fake number plates with Army insignia, .32 bore pistol, air rifle, cartridges, a laptop and fake certificates from him.The Fatehgarh Sahib SSP, Amneet Kondal, said the CIA staff got a tip-off about Sobhraj Singh, alias Shive, a resident of Ludhiana, who had served in Indian Army as constable impersonating himself as Lt-Colonel.The CIA staff intercepted a Sonata Hyundai car (bearing registration No. HR-26BF-8023) with Army insignia at a naka near Floating Restaurant in Sirhind and arrested Shive, the SSP said. He was in Army uniform, but could not produce any ID or document to prove his identity, the SSP added.During preliminary investigation Shive revealed that he was recruited in Army in 2003 as constable and retired on medical grounds in 2014, the SSP added. Shive admitted that he along with his two accomplices had formed a gang to dupe unemployed youths on the pretext of getting them recruited in the Army and extracted huge amount from them, the SSP said.Presently, he was staying with his woman friend in Mandi Gobindgarh, the SSP added. The police raided her house and recovered 10 fake stamps, letterheads, Army uniforms, police badges, belt and fake Army documents, the SSP said.Shive had taken a loan of Rs 18 lakh from YES Bank and Rs 10 Lakh from HDFC Bank, both in Ludhiana, on fake documents impersonating as Lt-Colonel, the SSP added. Two cases under Arms Act and of looting were registered against Shive in Ludhiana district, the SSP said. Shive revealed that his two accomplices used to accompany him in Army uniforms, the SSP added.“The police have registered a case under Sections 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 472, 473, 474, 170, 171 and 120B, IPC, and 25, 54 and 59, Arms Act. His accomplices will also be arrested,” the SSP said.Sources said Shive along with his accomplices used to visit offices of DCs and SSPs in Patiala, Ludhiana and Ropar and introduce himself as Lt-Colonel to get his work done. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-posing-as-lt-col-lands-in-police-net-129673
22-08-2020||---||Cattle electrocuted in Ambala||Ambala, August 21A buffalo calf and two cows were electrocuted after they came in contact with live wires near a transformer in Defence Colony, Ambala Cantonment, during rain this morning.A local resident said: “A cow was found dead around 9:30 am. Later, two other cattle also died. We lodged an online complaint with the Electricity Department, but nobody came to the spot till 1 pm. There were more cows at the spot, but we pushed them back. It is a gross negligence on part of the department. Officials of the department came to check earthing on Thursday evening as well”.Mohan Lal, SHO of the Panjokhra police station, said: “Two cows and a buffalo calf, appear to be stray cattle, died of electrocution. We have not received any complaint so far.”Atitosh Singh, SDO of the Electricity Department, Babyal area, said: “The incident did not happen due to any fault in the transformer. There is a house in that area. An electricity wire of the house was short and it was releasing back current. It was detected that back current feed was coming from the house, which led to the incident.”Waterlogging in low-lying areasDue to incessant rain, several low-lying areas in Ambala witnessed waterlogging. Residents of Nadi Mohalla in Ambala City also raised slogans against the administration. They said the administration had failed to resolve the issue of waterlogging due to which residents faced inconvenience every year. Similar situations were witnessed in Sector 8, 9 and TB Hospital Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cattle-electrocuted-in-ambala-129672
22-08-2020||---||Nod sought to resume shooting in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 21Film producers have sought permission from the UT Administration to resume shooting in the city. The ongoing coronavirus crisis has brought the film and entertainment industry to a standstill.Laljit Gill, chairman, Panj-Aab Line Producers’ Association, Darshan Aulakh, president, Parveen Kumar, general secretary, and Manish Walia, member executive of the association, met UT Adviser Manoj Parida and handed over a memorandum seeking commencement of shooting in Chandigarh.In the missive, the association made him aware of the grim situation of the film and entertainment industry, which is reeling under an economic crisis.Laljit said: “We apprised the UT Adviser of the existing situation in the film and entertainment industry due to the lockdown and restrictions announced by the Administration. Our industry is suffering huge losses and is in bad shape. Several workers related to the industry, who mainly work on daily wages, have lost their livelihood and many have left the profession. While considering these issues, the Punjab Government has already allowed shooting in the state. So, we request the Administration to issue the permission of shooting in the city as soon as possible.”Aulakh said: “The pandemic has hit the film and entertainment industry negatively. Light men, spot boys, camera persons and others have been affected. To save their livelihood, we have requested the Adviser to resume the shooting in the city, which is a prime location for the Punjabi film industry.”Parveen Kumar said: “We are all geared up to take all preventive measures at the shoots to keep the virus at bay. We will adhere to the guidelines and norms issued by the Administration in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nod-sought-to-resume-shooting-in-chandigarh-129671
22-08-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to Chandigarh Administration||Chandigarh, August 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice of motion to the Chandigarh Administration on a petition seeking removal of illegal encroachments by shopkeepers and mechanics at the Motor Market in Sector 48-C.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice by Co-Operative House Building Society, Sector 7, Chandigarh, through counsel Baltej Singh Sidhu.Appearing through video-conferencing, the petitioners prayed for directions to the respondents to consider and decide a legal notice dated June 24 on the removal of illegal encroachments. It was contented that encroachments were outside the area allotted to shopkeepers and motor mechanics under the “Allotment of Sites on Leasehold basis to Auto Spare Part Dealers and Auto Repair Mechanics in Chandigarh Scheme, 1999”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-chandigarh-administration-129666
22-08-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Railways to operate trains on PPP basis from Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21The Ministry of Railways has included Chandigarh among 12 clusters for passenger trains to be operated by private entities.According to the cluster’s request for qualification (RFQ) document, a total of 18 passenger trains on selected routes forming part of Chandigarh will be operated through public-private partnership (PPP) on design, build, finance and operate basis. The indicative cost of the project is pegged at Rs 2,510 crore. The ministry has decided to carry out the bidding process for selection of private entities as bidders to whom the project may be awarded.DRM, Ambala Division, GM Singh, said, “The bidding process for these trains is likely to begin in the first week of September this year.”In June, the ministry identified around 100 origin destination pairs for such trains, which were grouped in 12 clusters. Each cluster is required to operate a minimum of 12 trains.Of 18 origin destination pairs on Chandigarh cluster, 14 will ply from the city station on daily basis, whereas four will be operated on tri-weekly basis.The pairs that will operate daily through and from Chandigarh include, Delhi-Amritsar, Delhi-Chandigarh, Lucknow-Katra, Varanasi-Bathinda, Nagpur-Chandigarh and Bhopal-Mumbai. Running on tri-weekly basis are trains from Amritsar to Faizabad (and back) and Bhopal to Pune (and back).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railways-to-operate-trains-on-ppp-basis-from-chandigarh-129663
22-08-2020||Mohali||51 evacuees from UAE land at Chandigarh airport||An evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 51 stranded Indian passengers from the UAE arrived at Chandigarh International Airport here on Friday.The IndiGo flight carrying 51 evacuated passengers from Dubai landed at the Chandigarh airport at 2.39 pm. All repatriated persons, mostly belonging to different parts of Punjab and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per government guidelines.Processing of passengers was smooth at the airport with joint efforts of various authorities/agencies.A Health Department spokesperson said health officials took utmost precaution during the screening and passengers also maintained social distancing. He said no passenger was found suffering from fever, cough or cold and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/51-evacuees-from-uae-land-at-chandigarh-airport-129662
22-08-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Monkey in captivity: Court finds lapse in investigation procedure||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21While allowing bail to tattoo artist Kamaljit Singh and his manager Deepak for allegedly keeping a monkey (rhesus macaque) in illegal captivity and exhibiting it by sharing its pictures, along with him, on his Instagram account, Lovejinder Kaur, Judicial Magistrate (First Class) said the investigating officer could not produce any document to prove that at the time of the arrest, as per the directions issued by the Wildlife Crime Investigation manual, photographs and fingerprints of the suspects were taken and guidelines issued by the Supreme Court were followed.On Wednesday, the UT Forest and Wildlife Department had sought 14-day remand of Kamaljeet and Deepak after they were arrested for violating the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.Kamaljeet owns a tattoo studio in Sector 35 here. Officials of the department arrested the suspects on a complaint that they kept the monkey and posted its photographs and videos on Instagram.The department sought the remand to rescue the wild animal and complete the investigation in the case.On the other hand, Harlove Singh Rajput, counsel for the suspects, submitted that they had been detained illegally.After hearing the arguments, the court said the investigating officer took divergent views in the present case.“On one hand, a complaint under Section 9 read with 2 (16) B, 39, and 51 of the Wildlife Protection Act-1972 was filed against the suspects, whereas on the other their remand was sought to rescue the wild animal,” the court said.In their statements, the suspects denied having any animal in their custody. They were already in custody since August 19, but the investigating officer could not produce any record regarding the progress of the investigation. Hence, further custody of the suspects was not justified, the court said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monkey-in-captivity-court-finds-lapse-in-investigation-procedure-129659
22-08-2020||Naina Mishra||At PGI emergency, 10-12 patients testing +ve daily||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21With the non-Covid treatment picking up pace at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), concern over Covid-19 cases emerging from these patients looms large as 10-12 patients reporting to the emergency ward and Advanced Trauma Centre are testing positive every day.The PGI Director, Prof Jagat Ram, said, “We are accepting non-Covid emergency cases and conduct Covid-19 tests after admitting them. It has been observed that many patients have tested positive in the past two to three weeks. Around 10-12 patients admitted at the medical emergency and trauma centre are testing positive daily. These patients have to be shifted to Nehru Extension Hospital (Covid hospital).”Majority of patients from PunjabThe PGI is catering to patients majorly from Punjab in Covid and non-Covid wards. The PGI has 148 patients at Nehru Hospital Extension, of whom only 46 belong to Chandigarh, whereas 60 are from Punjab,16 belong to Haryana and 12 to Himachal Pradesh.There has been an increase in the number of surgeries at the hospital. A total of 1,122 surgeries were performed in April, whereas 2,717 surgeries were conducted in July.The institute is catering to patients majorly from Punjab in Covid and non-Covid wards. The PGI has 148 patients in Nehru Hospital Extension, of whom only 46 belong to Chandigarh, whereas 60 are from Punjab, 16 belong to Haryana and 12 to Himachal Pradesh.In July, of the 5,005 indoor patients admitted in various departments of the PGI, around 40 per cent were from Punjab, followed by 20 per cent (Haryana), 17 per cent (Chandigarh), 10 per cent (Himachal Pradesh) and remaining from other states.Prof Jagat Ram said, “Being a tertiary care hospital, it is our responsibility to not only focus on the pandemic, but the regular health needs of our patients. A majority of the patients are from other states, including Punjab, and we cannot deny treatment if any patient reports here. However, we have always requested other states to follow the interstate referral protocol.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-pgi-emergency-10-12-patients-testing-ve-daily-129658
22-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to Admn on plea for refund of education expenses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the Chandigarh Administration on notice on a petition filed by Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan for reimbursement of education expenses incurred on 25 per cent students admitted under the EWS category from 2011-12 till date.The notice by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came after the Bench was told, among other things, that the reimbursement was mandated under Section 12 of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009.Appearing before Justice Kshetarpal’s Bench, senior advocate Munisha Gandhi and advocate Viraj Gandhi prayed for issuance of directions to the respondents to reimburse the amount for all 25 per cent students admitted under the EWS category from 2011-12 to 2018-19. Gandhi said it was being done just to the extent of 10 per cent of the students admitted under the EWS category.Directions were also sought to lay down, in a time-bound and transparent manner, proper guidelines/procedure for implementation of the admissions under the reserved categories, more particularly for the reimbursement of expenses incurred in giving such admissions, besides ensuring establishment of educational institutions in accordance with the provisions of the Act.Gandhi said directions were also required to be issued to the respondents to adhere to the mandate under Section 6 of the RTE Act, 2009, and first admit all desirous students to the government schools before advising the petitioner-institute to admit students under the EWS category. The petitioner should be asked to admit students only when vacancies in government schools have been exhausted.He added the respondents were also required to be restrained from compelling the petitioner to admit students under the EWS category till the pending dues were cleared/reimbursement made.The respondents, on one hand, were not reimbursing the expenses provided for under the Act. On the other hand, they were insisting on accommodation of full percentage of EWS category students. Simultaneously, the students were being prohibited from increasing fees, which was completely arbitrary and illegal.He added the petitioner was rightly entitled to reimbursement expenses incurred towards 25 per cent students admitted under the EWS category as mandated under the 2009 Act. “The respondents’ action of only providing reimbursement for 10 per cent students purportedly under the 2005 notification orthe 2009 Act is wholly erroneous, arbitrary, misconceived and illegal”.Reimbursement mandated under RTE ActThe notice by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came after the Bench was told that the reimbursement was mandated under Section 12 of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009.The Bench was also told that information received under the RTI Act clearly stated that all seats in government schools across Chandigarh had not been exhausted. Despite this, the respondents were forcing the petitioner to admit students under the EWS category, which was in violation of Section 6 and 8 of the RTE Act. It clearly stated that private schools were only required to admit students under the EWS category when all vacancies in the local neighborhood schools were exhausted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-admn-on-plea-for-refund-of-education-expenses-129655
22-08-2020||Naina Mishra||Start sero survey in Chandigarh, Administrator asks PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21Despite the UT Administrator asking the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to start sero testing in city’s hotspots, no significant progress has been made till now in this regard. Meanwhile, the UT Administration has once again asked the PGIMER to carry out sero survey in Chandigarh.About the surveyThe serological survey involves collecting blood samples to determine whether a person is infected with the novel coronavirus. It will also be used to detect whether the person was infected with the said virus in the past and identify antibodies being produced to combat Covid-19.A senior official of the UT Administration informed, “The PGIMER has been asked to conduct sero survey. The institute will be working on it and convey to us when and how they will do it.”However, the PGIMER authorities have denied responding to queries about sero survey in Chandigarh.The official press note of the UT Administration’s war room meeting dated July 29 states: “The Administrator has directed the PGIMER authorities to start sero testing of healthcare workers and also in certain hotspots as per their own assessment.”On the other side, Panchkula and Mohali have already begun sero survey in their respective districts and its results are likely to be released soon. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Punjab Government jointly started a two-day serological (or sero) survey at Jawaharpur village in Mohali district recently.The survey has already started in Panchkula in association with the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, Chandigarh.Dr KK Talwar, Punjab Government’s advisor on health and former PGIMER director said, “Sero surveillance was carried in May with the help of the ICMR. At that time, the infection spread was bare minimum. Now, we have again carried out sero survey in containment zones of Punjab, including Jawarharpur village in Mohali district.”“Now, testing and contact tracing should be enhanced as Covid cases are rising in Chandigarh. Sero surveillance is conducted only after the infection has occurred for a longer time. If results of sero survey are low, it implies that herd immunity has not developed in society and preventive strategy is needed to control the infection,” Dr Talwar added.The serological survey involves collecting blood samples to determine whether a person is infected with the novel coronavirus. It will also be used to detect whether the person was infected with the said virus in the past and identify antibodies being produced to combat Covid-19.The serological test is not prescribed to diagnose active Covid-19 infections as it takes one to three weeks for the body to develop antibodies after getting infected with virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/start-sero-survey-in-chandigarh-administrator-asks-pgi-129649
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Curbs removed from Sector 46 flats||The UT today removed the perimeter controls from a block of 23 flats and a garage in Sector 46.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the curbs were removed from the block of 23 flats and a garage from house number 1185 to 1190 (four storeyed) in Sector 46 on the basis of recommendations received from the Affected Areas Assessment Committee. He, however, said regular screening and monitoring of the areas by medical teams would continue. Frequent sanitisation of the areas by the municipal authorities would be conducted and residents would be advised to maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-removed-from-sector-46-flats-129646
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Curbs Imposed in four affected areas||For effective management of the Covid pandemic, the UT Administration today declared four affected areas as micro-containment zones in the city.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said a block of 13 houses from house number 2403 to 2413 in Mariwala Town in Mani Majra, a block of 11 houses from house number 491 to 495 and 501 to 506 in Sector 15, a block of 32 flats from house number 6445 to 6448-C and house number 6449 to 6452 in Sector 56, and a block of six houses from house number 1613 to 1618 (ground floors only) in Sector 40 had been declared as micro-containment zones with immediate effect. He said the micro-containment zones were declared on the recommendations of a committee comprising the MC Commissioner, District Magistrate, Senior Superintendent of Police and the Director, Health. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-imposed-in-four-affected-areas-129645
22-08-2020||Panchkula||43 more infected in Panchkula district||The district today reported 43 fresh Covid cases, pushing the infection tally to 1,470.The fresh cases include eight from Pinjore, seven from Old Panchkula, six from Sector 20, four each from Barwala and Kalka, three from Morni, two each from Sector 6, Sector 15, Sector 8 and Sector 17 and one each from Sector 21, Sector 12-A and Sector 10. While 495 cases are still active, 966 patients have been cured and discharged.Weekend curbs in PanchkulaIn the wake of rising Covid cases, the Haryana Government on Friday announced that all shops and offices in the state would remain closed every Saturday and Sunday. However, shops selling essential items like groceries have been exempted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/43-more-infected-in-panchkula-district-129644
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University wins MAKA trophy 2nd time in  row||Panjab University has won the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) trophy for the second consecutive time.It has lifted the trophy for the second time in a row after a gap of 25 years. It was during the 1994-1996 session when the coveted trophy came here twice in a row.City lad Sandesh wins Arjuna AwardThe Ministry of Sports has decided to confer the prestigious Arjuna Award on international footballer Sandesh Jhingan. Jhingan (27) is from Chandigarh and has played a vital role in the Indian national football team. He is also one of the most sought-after defenders of the Indian football team. He was a part of the city’s team that won the Dr BC Roy Trophy (U-19) for the first time and thereafter, went on to represent India in many championships.The Ministry of Sports announced the awards today. The award function will be held on August 29, National Sports Day, and the President of India would present the honour, along with other national sporting awards. The university will be conferred with the trophy with a cash prize of Rs20 lakh.However, this year’s ceremony will be virtual.The award winners from the region are likely to be honoured at the UT Administration Complex in Sector 9. The Sports Authority of India (SAI) has been given the responsibility of organising the ceremony. Sources said the trophies and other awards would be delivered at the venue on August 28.Last week, a 12-member selection committee recommended the PU’s name for the trophy. The university had claimed 11,582 points for its performance at inter-university competitions, Khelo India Youth/University Games and various international competitions for the year 2019-20. However, the final points are said to be reduced after assessments by the committee.“It’s a matter of pride that we have won the trophy for a second time in a row. The credit goes to our sportspersons and coaches,” said Dr Parminder Singh, Director, Sports, PU. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-wins-maka-trophy-2nd-time-in-row-129643
22-08-2020||Patiala||Amid pandemic, doctors assigned clerical work at Director, Research and Medical Education, Mohali||Amid shortage of Covid staff, 12 doctors from three government medical colleges have been assigned clerical work at the office of the Director, Research and Medical Education (DRME), Mohali.These doctors have already been relieved from their respective workplaces to scrutinise applications for the post of paramedical staff that Baba Farid University of Health Sciences had advertised for three government medical colleges in the state. Of the 12 doctors who have been posted this month, nine are from the GMC, Patiala, two from Amritsar and one from the Ambedkar Institute of Medical Science, Mohali.Ironically, 10 doctors have already been doing the same job at the DRME office. The authorities had faced flak for putting the doctors on office duties earlier also.The doctors, who were getting around Rs 1.5 lakh per month and were supposed to fight the pandemic, were doing the job other than what they had been recruited for, an expert said. It has been learnt that the doctors who have been assigned clerical work were adjusted at the DRME office just to make them avoid Covid duties. A senior faculty member at the GMC, Patiala, said, “At a time when doctors were needed the most, they have been shifted to clerical jobs.” Meanwhile, Dr Avnish Kumar, DRME, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-pandemic-doctors-assigned-clerical-work-at-director-research-and-medical-education-mohali-129547
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Cook held with 17 cycles||A cycle thief has been arrested by the local police and 17 bicycles, worth around Rs2.25 lakh, have been recovered from him.The suspect has been identified as Neemkanta (38), a resident of Kansal village in Mohali district.The police said Adesh Kumar of Khuda Ali Sher village had reported that he had come to Leisure Valley, Sector 10, for a morning walk on August 20. He parked his bicycle in the parking lot. On returning, he found the bicycle missing.The police were informed, who initiated an investigation. A few hours later, the suspect was nabbed from near the Chandigarh Club, Sector 1, while riding the stolen bicycle.During interrogation, he disclosed that he had stolen several bicycles from different parks in the city and these were hidden near a forest area near the High Court.On his disclosure, 16 more bicycles were recovered. The police said the suspect worked as a cook at a fast food shop in Khuda Ali Sher. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cook-held-with-17-cycles-129642
22-08-2020||---||Chandigarh SSP Jagdale relieved, Vineet Kumar to officiate||Chandigarh, August 21UT SSP (Law and Order) Nilambari Jagdale was today relieved of the charge. Vineet Kumar, a 2015-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer who is presently the SP (City), will officiate as the SSP (Law and Order) till the time a new SSP joins.Jagdale, a 2008-batch Punjab-cadre IPS officer, served the city for three years. She was the first woman SSP of Chandigarh.The names for the posts of SSP (Security and Traffic) and SSP (Law and Order) are yet to be received from the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Administration had sent three names of IPS officers to the ministry.Speaking about her stint in Chandigarh, Jagdale said besides bringing down crime in the city, she also laid emphasis on various initiatives, including "SAHYOG", a skill development programme under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana for school dropouts and victims of crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-ssp-jagdale-relieved-vineet-kumar-to-officiate-129641
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Now, CTU to digitally monitor each bus||In a major stride towards digitisation of the transport system, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) today launched its Independent Transport System.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore launched the system in the presence of Adviser Manoj Parida, Transport Secretary Harish Nayyar and Director (Transport) Uma Shankar Gupta.How it will work The new system will enable digital monitoring of the entire bus network in Chandigarh. There will be four cameras inside each bus to monitor the behaviour of the crew and passengers. The fleet will be monitored at the Central Control Room of the CTU.An emergency button will be available, both for the driver and the passengers, to solicit urgent help from the police and ambulance, if needed.The digital system will enable the Administration to monitor the exact location of buses, collection of revenue and the load of passengers in each route. There will be a digital display of the timings of the buses in each bus queue shelter. The Central Control Room can have the data of every bus running in the city. Even passengers can download a mobile app and know the exact location and timings of the buses they need and alternative routes available for their travel.The mobile application for consumers has been named “trycityBUS”. By downloading it, passengers can get all information about the timings, fare, routes and location of the nearby bus stop.The digital system has already been introduced in 100 buses covering 14 routes. Passengers information display screens have been installed at bus terminals in Sector 17 and 43, at the railway station and 12 other bus queue shelters. The CTU is planning to cover the entire fleet of 350 buses on 64 routes in the next few months. The digitised transport management system will be the first step towards making Chandigarh a smart city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-ctu-to-digitally-monitor-each-bus-129640
22-08-2020||Mohali||40-yr-old woman dies, Mohali toll rises to 46||The district today recorded the highest single-day spike with 147 new cases of Covid, taking the overall caseload to 2,417. The district also reported one death due to the disease. A 40-year-old woman of Mubarikpur died at the GMCH, Patiala. She was suffering from diabetes. With this, Mohali’s Covid toll stands at 46. The new cases reported today include 66 from Mohali city, 19 from Kharar, 15 from Dhakoli, 14 from Kurali, 13 from Zirakpur, nine from Dera Bassi, eight from Lalru and three from Gharuan. Meanwhile, 49 patients recovered from the disease. There are 1,116 active cases in the district while 1,255 patients have been cured and discharged from hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-yr-old-woman-dies-mohali-toll-rises-to-46-129639
22-08-2020||---||Chandigarh sees two more fatalities, 116 fresh cases of Covid-19||Chandigarh, August 21The city today reported two Covid fatalities, taking the toll to 33, and 116 fresh coronavirus cases, a new single-day high. The two victims were in their 60s and had died on August 19. The reports of their samples were received today.A 67-year-old man of Sector 45, who was a diabetic, had died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. A 66-year-old woman of Burail, who too was a diabetic and also had gallbladder carcinoma, a form of cancer, was the other fatality.The new cases of Covid have been reported from Sector 6, 7, 8, 14, 15, 19, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 38 (West), 39, 40, 41,43, 44, 45, 46, 47 and 48, Dadu Majra, Hallo Majra, Mani Majra, Mauli Jagran, Ram Darbar and Sarangpur. Meanwhile, 36 people were discharged from hospital and home isolation post-recovery.The UT has so far reported 2,631 cases. About 44 per cent of the cases are active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-two-more-fatalities-116-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-129638
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Weekend lockdown in Chandigarh||UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today ordered closure of all shops and establishments (except essential shops and services) on Saturdays and Sundays in the city until further orders. Food outlets and restaurants, religious places and clubs will, however, remain open.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said there would be no ban on the movement of people or goods on weekends and curfew in the city would continue to remain in effect from 10 pm to 5 am. During the weekend, private offices and industries will remain open but government offices, including the RLA, will remain closed. Also, there will be no restriction on the movement of private vehicles and public transport. The Adviser said all liquor shops would remain closed on weekends.The decision was taken after the UT witnessed a sharp rise in the number of coronavirus cases. The Punjab and Haryana governments have already imposed the restrictions on weekends. Earlier, the UT Administration had requested the Chief Secretaries of both states to simultaneously impose lockdown in the tricity, but they had turned down the request.Meanwhile, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has advised the Administration to start a special campaign of 3Ws (wash your hands, wear your mask and watch your distancing) to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. During the war room meeting today, the Administrator appealed to all councillors, RWAs, market welfare associations and NGOs to inform the Administration regarding any resident showing symptoms of Covid. “Effective medical treatment can be given when symptomatic cases are detected early,” he said.The Administrator also directed health officials to focus on senior citizens and small children, who are vulnerable to the infection. Badnore directed DGP Sanjay Beniwal to enforce all instructions of hygienic practices such as proper wearing of masks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weekend-lockdown-in-chandigarh-129636
