24-08-2020||Chandigarh||117 new COVID-19 cases take Chandigarh’s tally past 3,000||Chandigarh’s reported 117 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking its infection tally past 3,000, the union territory’s health bulletin showed.The UT’s tally now stands at 3,035. Chandigarh has been recording a significant spike in COVID-19 in August, recording 65 per cent (1,984 cases) of the UT’s total infections just this month. About 819 of those have been recorded since August 17.Monday’s cases came from Sectors 7, 9, 11, 14,15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 31, 32, 34, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 44, 45, 47, 48, 51, 56, 38 West, Hallo Majra, Khuda Lahora, Mani Majra, PGI campus, Raipur Kalan, Ram Darbar, Behlana, Dhanas and Khuda Alisher.The day also witnessed a record number of recoveries at 154.About 44 per cent---1,350 cases---of the UT’s total infections is still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/117-new-covid-19-cases-take-chandigarhs-tally-past-3-000-130746
24-08-2020||---||Covid-19: New testing centres at Nayagaon, Sohana||Mohali, August 24The Mohali administration is setting up two more testing centres at Nayagaon and Sohana in order to ease the pressure at the Civil Hospital and reduce the waiting time per patient. It has also been decided that no elective surgeries would be undertaken in the Level-3 hospitals in the next fortnight.“Rapid surge in Covid-19 cases mandates escalating bed strength in tertiary care (L3) hospitals, so it has been decided that surgeries that don’t require an immediate medical procedure can be scheduled to be performed later and may not be conducted at least for a period of fifteen days ,” the order read. Avoiding joint replacements, cataract extraction, ligament repairs, etc., will help to check avoidable bed occupancy, leaving room for critical patients.The bed capacity at Level 2 has also been strengthened by activating 200 additional beds in the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.“As many as eight new ambulances have been added to the existing fleet. The administration is procuring additional ventilators and high flow nasal cannulas,” informed Mohali DC Girish Dayalan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-new-testing-centres-at-nayagaon-sohana-130734
24-08-2020||---||Mohali reports fresh 117 COVID-19 cases, five deaths||Mohali, August 24Mohali on Monday recorded 117 new COVID-19 cases and five deaths, taking the caseload in the district to 2,819.Meanwhile, 106 recoveries were also reported during the past 24 hours.The deaths reported today include a 56-year-old man from Dera Bassi, a 70-year-old woman from Mauli Baidwan and a 65-year-old male from Baltana — the patients also suffered from multiple co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. A 30-year-old man from Mataur and a 34-year-old man from Sector-68 are the remaining two fatalities reported.Of the fresh cases recorded, the maximum was from Mohali city (40), followed by Kharar at 30, Gharuan (15), Zirakpur (13), Boothgarh block (7), Banur (5), Lalru (4) and Dera Bassi (3).The active cases have climbed to 1,247 while 1,515 patients have been discharged. The death toll in the district has reached 57.On Sunday, four deaths, 141 cases and 98 recoveries were reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-fresh-117-covid-19-cases-five-deaths-130732
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Shastri Market, Palika Bazar, Janta Market to follow odd-even system for 10 days||Chandigarh Administration has said that it would enforce the odd-even system in 12 congested markets in the city.The administration, which has been enforcing the new policy this month as the city continues to report an increasing number of COVID-19 infections, has given a list of 12 markets that will have to follow the system for the next 10 days. The new order, signed by UT Adviser Manoj Parida, is enforceable from August 25 to September 3 and will be reviewed next week.The following markets will have to enforce the system this week:Krishna Market, Sector 41; the market area near old PNB Bank/Bihari Garment, Burail Chowk; Shastri Market, Sector 22; Patel Market, Sector 15; Sector 8 Internal Market; Azad Market, Sector 20; Palace Market, Sector 20; Booth Market, Sector 21; Palika Bazar, Sector 19; Sadar Market, Sector 19; Janta Market, Sector 27; and Electronic Market, Sector 18.Besides, Sector 43’s Scooter Repair market will be closed on Sunday. This order is also applicable until September 3.The following shops in Sector 22’s Mobile Market will be closed for 10 days, also up to September 3.SCO 1010-11 Radha Market1030-31 Attari Market SCO 1004 Sweety MarketSCO 1003-04||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shastri-market-palika-bazar-janta-market-to-follow-odd-even-system-for-10-days-130716
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta tests positive for coronavirus||Two days before the beginning of the monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta tested positive for coronavirus on Monday.He has isolated himself at home after the report.On Sunday, Gupta’s political secretary and a nephew had tested positive for the virus.After this, the Speaker gave his samples, since he was not feeling well.Panchkula Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur confirmed that in the report that came in on Monday, Gupta was found positive for Covid-19. She said that Gupta was under home-isolation and stable. A few days back, Gupta had decided that all those attending the assembly session, including the CM, ministers, MLAs and bureaucrats will have to undergo tests for virus and only those who test negative will be allowed to attend the session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-vidhan-sabha-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-130683
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||18-year-old stabbed to death in Chandigarh's Industrial Area||An 18-year-old man was stabbed to death in Colony no 4, Industrial Area, Phase 1 in Chandigarh on Sunday night.The victim has been identified as Sandeep. He was stabbed by four persons residing in the colony. The suspects managed to escape from the spot.The victim was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead.Police have registered a murder case against the suspects and initiated an investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/18-year-old-stabbed-to-death-in-chandigarhs-industrial-area-130669
24-08-2020||Naina Mishra||Help desk flooded with complaints||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 23The help desk, which was set up for Covid-19 patients in home isolation, is flooded with calls from all quarters, including patients with mild symptoms lodged at quarantine centres.“Though the help desk was meant for home-isolated patients, we have been receiving calls from quarantine centres such as hostels and Sood Bhawan. Patients are complaining about sanitation problems, garbage not been collected and poor quality of food,” said Anil Kumar, senior assistant, Chandigarh Housing Board.“We have also been receiving queries from patients, who want their family members to be sampled, but they are clueless about the process. They often complain about helpline numbers not being picked up. We are trying to coordinate between the staff at quarantine centres and complainants, so that there is no hassle,” he said.‘Staff working round-the-clock’“Recently, we had received a call at 11:45 pm from a woman, who complained that someone had knocked at her door multiple times. We had to inform the police and coordinated with the PCR till 1 am,” said Kumar.He said, “Our staff are working round-the-clock to provide all sort of assistance. They also attend late night calls so that there is no inconvenience.”“Those who are home isolated do not have much problem and assistance from doctors is readily available to them. We attend around 270 per day,” said Kumar.Meant for interactionThe help desk has been set up to have regular interaction with Covid patients, who have been advised home isolation. It assists them in case of an emergency. The help desk operates from the premises of the Chandigarh Housing Board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/help-desk-flooded-with-complaints-130407
24-08-2020||---||Murder bid accused gets bail||Chandigarh, August 23In a jolt to the UT police, the Court of Additional Sessions Judge Rajesh Sharma has allowed bail to an accused facing an attempt-to-murder charge. The bail was granted to the accused on the basis of a medical report, which mentions that the injuries allegedly suffered by the victim are simple in nature.The police had registered a case against Aman Tripathi and others on the statement of Chandwati, a resident of Colony No. 4. She had alleged that around six persons - Ghutnu, Golu, Raja Bihari, Ranjit, Aman Tripathi and Kuldeep - attacked her son on the head with iron rods and sticks in Colony No.4 and fled from the spot. She got her son admitted to the GMCH in Sector 32.Accordingly, an FIR was registered against the suspects under Sections 307, 147, 148 and 149 of the IPC at the Industrial Area police station. The police arrested Aman on June 7 this year.The counsel for Aman claimed that he had been falsely implicated in the case and he had no relation with the offence mentioned in the FIR. He said as per the doctor’s report, injuries suffered by the victim were simple in nature.After hearing the arguments, the Judge allowed bail to the accused saying he was in judicial custody since June 7. He was no more required by the police for investigation or interrogation.“It is apparent on record that the injuries allegedly suffered by the victim were simple in nature. Therefore, it is a question of debate as to whether the offence punishable under Section 307 of the IPC is made out against the accused or not. Without commenting on the merits of the case, the bail application of Aman Tripathi is allowed on furnishing a bail bond of Rs50,000,” the Judge said in the order.Meanwhile, two other accused in the case were also granted bail on similar grounds.The orderIt is apparent on record that the injuries allegedly suffered by the victim were simple in nature. Therefore, it is a question of debate as to whether the offence punishable under Section 307 of the IPC is made out against the accused or not. Without commenting on the merits of the case, the bail application of Aman Tripathi is allowed on furnishing a bail bond of Rs50,000," the Judge said in the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/murder-bid-accused-gets-bail-130402
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Insurance firm fined for deficient service||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed PNB MetLife India Insurance Company Limited to pay Rs15,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment to a consumer after it failed to pay the premium amount despite repeated requests.The commission has also directed the company to pay Rs10,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant. Palwinder Kaur, a resident, filed a complaint against PNB MetLife India Insurance Company Limited, Sector 17-B, after she was denied the amount of a policy.Palwinder alleged that the company not only failed to refund the amount of the policy, but lingered on her application for cancellation of the policy for no valid reasons. She alleged that an official of the PNB, Sector 22, branch allured her to invest Rs2,50,000 in the FDR and Rs1,00,000 with PNB Metlife on February 1, 2018. She was assured to get 12 per cent per annum interest on the amount. Accordingly, she paid Rs3,50,000 to the bank and to the company and they obtained her signatures on blank papers. The opposite parties issued the policy and FD receipt. She was told to wait for one year for refund of the amount with interest. After one year, the complainant approached the company for refund, but instead of refunding the amount, they insisted her to deposit Rs99,999.60, failing which the amount would be forfeited.The complainant also submitted a letter to the company to cancel the policy, but to no avail. On the other hand, the company denied the charges and claimed that if complainant was not satisfied with the terms and conditions, she could have opted for cancellation as per regulation 6(2) of the IRDA immediately after receiving the policy papers.Later, the company returned the premium amount of Rs1,00,000 to the consumer during the course of the hearing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/insurance-firm-fined-for-deficient-service-130404
24-08-2020||Amarjot Kaur||New signal system likely to speed up trains||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 23Though the development project of the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) for the city railway station has run into delay, a proposal for provision of double distance signal may speed up six trains stopping at the station, including three pairs of Shatabdi Express.While talking to The Tribune, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) GM Singh said, “The proposal for double distance signal has been submitted to the Railways. If it gets the green signal, the speed of trains from Ambala to Chandigarh and all other trains passing through the city station will increase from 110 kmph to 130 kmph.”He said, “The provision of double distance signal will help save time by maybe 5-7 minutes for about six trains, including three pairs of Shatabdi, including the one coming from Delhi and Ambala to the city.”The proposal for double distance signal has been submitted to the Railways. If it gets the green signal, the speed of trains from Ambala to Chandigarh and all other trains passing through the city station will increase from 110 kmph to 130 kmph. — GM Singh, Divisional Railway ManagerTalking about the commercial development project of the IRSDC for the city railway station, IRSDC chief general manager Balbir Singh said, “We are already in the second phase of bidding. The bidders have demanded that the date of tender for the development of the railway station here be extended to August 24 because of the Covid situation.”He said, “It is likely that the date will be extended by a month or more. The project will begin between October and December this year.”More trains at Mohali stationDRM GM Singh said the division intended to run about six pairs from the Mohali railway station. “Though it’s too early to say anything, we have sent a proposal for about five or six pairs of trains, some for Jammu and others for Amritsar to stop at Mohali railway station. “Talking about the pending construction work, he said, “The construction of lifts couldn’t be done because the contractual labour left the city on the onset of the pandemic. However, the station will be developed as and when the traffic increases there. For now, we are focusing on increasing the number of trains.”Projects on holdMany projects of the division are still in the pipeline due to lack of funds. Talking about one such project, DRM GM Singh said, “No funds have been allocated for the Chandigarh-Baddi project and it is on hold for now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-signal-system-likely-to-speed-up-trains-130405
24-08-2020||---||BJP raises objections on proposed wards in Panchkula||Panchkula, August 23The local unit of the BJP has raised objections on proposed wards of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation by moving an application to Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja.The letter, signed by BJP district general secretary Varinder Rana, said, “In proposed ward number 17, Sector 4 has been attached with Sector 3, 23, 24 and 25. In ward number 12, Sector 12 has been proposed to be attached with Kharak Mangoli. We propose to reconsider the proposal so that Sector 2 is attached to some urban sector of Panchkula. We hope our suggestions/objections are accepted in the public interest.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-raises-objections-on-proposed-wards-in-panchkula-130420
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Sports Department honours coaches||The UT Sports Department honoured five local coaches, including the District Sports Officer (DSO), for playing a pivotal role during the Covid-19 lockdown period.The UT Administration took help of several coaches and officials in implementing lockdown restrictions and to help local residents.KK Yadav, Secretary Sports, and Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, congratulated the coaches. DSO Ravinder Singh, NIS qualified handball coach, Krishan Lal, NIS qualified judo coach, N Sashidharan, NIS qualified gymnastics coach, Gurmesh Singh, NIS qualified volleyball coach, and Ravinder Kumar, NIS qualified basketball coach, were honoured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sports-department-honours-coaches-130421
24-08-2020||Amit Bathla||Discrepancies in Panchkula data||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 23Confusion over the number of Covid-19 cases still persists in Panchkula. What the district health department has actually been showing in its daily reports is raising eyebrows, at least the variation in the figures suggests.On August 19, a total of 86 cases were reported, whereas the bulletin showed overall 1,313 cases. Going by simple mathematics, the count should have been 1,353 — an addition of 86 cases to 1,267 cases reported until August 18.Similarly on August 20, the Health Department reported 98 fresh cases in its daily bulletin. In the same report, the overall tally stood at 1,427. The count should have been 1,411 with the inclusion of 98 new cases in the total count of 1,313 reported until August 20.On June 20, the district administration, in its press note released through the DIPRO, had mentioned 12 fresh cases, whereas the health department reported only six.Mismatch in figuresThere has also been lack of coordination between district health officials and the state Health Department over the Covid figures.On August 20, the state bulletin reported 114 fresh cases from Panchkula, while the local health department said the district registered 98 new cases.On August 19, the state bulletin reflected 46 cases from Panchkula. On the other hand, the district report showed 86.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “We are working on this issue. Sometimes even outsiders are added to the district tally. We will rectify the numbers only after verification.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/discrepancies-in-panchkula-data-130409
24-08-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation plans multi-level parking in Mani Majra||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 23Even as the local Municipal Corporation has not been able to run the Rs 48-crore multi-level parking in Sector 17 properly, it is now planning to construct a similar 24X7 facility on two acres near “Rana Ki Haveli” in Mani Majra.At present, a temporary parking lot is being run from the area. Once the multi-level parking facility is readied, it will have space for about 1,000-1,200 vehicles. It has been a long-pending demand. It will not only provide revenue to the corporation, but will also provide parking facility to residents. — Jagtar Singh, Local CouncillorAccording to the MC, it has made a request to the Department of Urban Planning, Chandigarh, to earmark land for the multi-level parking so that the request for proposal (RFP) of the project can be prepared. A survey of the site has already been conducted and it has been examined by the UT.Officials said the parking lot would be used for commercial vehicles in the day and residents’ vehicles at night. “The 24X7 parking will provide revenue to the MC. However, due to a financial crisis, a proposal for building it on the PPP mode has been forwarded,” said an official.Expression of interest will be called for it after the project gets the go-ahead.The agenda regarding the project will be taken up at Finance and Contract Committee meeting tomorrow. If approved, it will go in the General House.Local councillor Jagtar Singh said, “At present, a temporary parking lot is being run from the area. Once the multi-level parking facility is readied, it will have space for about 1,000-1,200 vehicles. It has been a long-pending demand. It will not only provide revenue to the corporation, but will also provide parking facility to residents.”The MC had built its first and only multi-level parking in Sector 17, but it proved to be a white elephant. Most part of the parking remains unused and maintenance and engineering faults dog the civic body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-plans-multi-level-parking-in-mani-majra-130406
24-08-2020||---||Residents face tough time as water enters houses in Khuda Lahora||Chandigarh, August 23Residents of Khuda Lahora Colony faced a tough time as water entered their houses while they were asleep around 1 am.They said around 80-100 houses were affected as water from the Patiala ki Rao choe entered their kitchens and rooms.“It came from storm water pipes. The choe has not been cleaned due to which the water entered here. We could not sleep the whole night as we are trying to drain sofas and beds. Inverters of some of the households were also damaged,” said Rajinder Singh, a resident.People were seen draining out the water. The police were also called after which they made an announcement asking people to go to their terrace to protect themselves. “Most people, however, came out of their houses. There was a little help from authorities,” said another resident.Mayor and area councillor Raj Bala Malik said, “We immediately rushed MC teams after we received the information. All 22 drainage pipes were clogged with sand and other floodwater debris. We have now got them cleaned.”She said, “No prior warning of floodwater being released from upstream in the choe was provided. Also, the MC has time and again requested the Administration to clean up the Patiala ki Rao choe so that clogging of pipes doesn’t happen, but to no avail.” Several areas inundated in Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-face-tough-time-as-water-enters-houses-in-khuda-lahora-130403
24-08-2020||Open House||Don’t levy tax on RWAs, find amicable solution||TDS on receipts illogicalTDS deduction on receipts of reimbursement of expenditure incurred by welfare societies on maintenance of neighborhood parks is totally illogical and unjustified. There was no such condition in the MOU signed by various RWAs with the MC. The UT Administration must intervene in the matter and resolve the issue by withdrawing the TDS instructions issued by the MC to RWAs so that city parks be maintained in a way they are being done at present. Withdrawal by RWAs will lead to poor upkeep of parks, which will ultimately affect residents. The MC must either withdraw its instructions or make alternate arrangements to maintain parks by awarding contracts to private players. There must be a solution for this public related issue.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliNot a wise move by the civic bodyNeighbourhood parks are lifeline of citizens. Parks provide not only fresh air to citizens, but also flora and fauna to reduce their stress level. Residents already pay property tax to the MC. Levying 20% tax on maintenance cost is unjustified and to be condemned. Social and philanthropist organisations should come forward and help the MC in case of shortage of funds for proper maintenance of parks. Rather, the MC should provide more facilities like toilets, drinking water, rainwater shelters, musical foundations and LED light for improving conditions of parks.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliMC’s proposal is unrealisticInstead of increasing old rates of maintenance, the MC wants RWAs to accept monthly payments after tax deduction as applicable to personal incomes. Since monthly payout by the MC to RWAs are just reimbursements of expenditure incurred on maintenance of parks these cannot be treated as income warranting tax deduction at source. The MC should wake up to reality and withdraw its unrealistic proposal, which might impact greenery of the City Beautiful.SC Luthra, ChandigarhDon’t impose tax, collect fundsChandigarh is famous for its parks maintained by RWAs and the MC. The maintenance cost is increasing day by day. Rather than helping RWAs the MC is planning to impose TDS, which is a bad move. The MC should give full financial support, provide specialised labour and expert opinion for better maintenance of parks in the city. RWAs can collect funds at their level also for this purpose. The MC can impose new tax on all parking lots or administrative work, which will help in generating funds for city parks.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhResidents can’t be deprived of facilityRWAs maintaining parks in the city are asking for more funds, but the MC is not willing to increase the amount. If the MC wants to verify the maintenance cost of parks it can check at its own level whether extra funds should be sanctioned or not. If the issue is not solved then both the parties should sit together and try to resolve it. If no amicable decision is taken, the MC should take over the maintenance of city parks. Residents can’t be deprived of parks at any cost.MR Bhateja, NayagaonNot all contribute for the causeThe maintenance of parks is duty of the Municipal Corporation (MC). RWAs face hardships as not all residents contribute financially for the cause. The MC should not force RWAs for the maintenance of parks. The MC should realise its responsibility and start maintaining all parks in the city.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhMC cannot dictate terms to RWAsThe Municipal Corporation must maintain parks under the supervision of representatives of RWAs. Sharing the workload and putting additional restrictions on RWAs is not justified. The MC cannot dictate terms. It is duty of the MC to maintain parks with professional help, which cannot be done by respective RWAs. The condition of various parks in residential areas is deplorable. The MC must ensure regular cutting of grass, looking after plants, flowers and playing equipment of kids.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), ChandigarhReconsider imposition of 20 per cent taxWhere there is a will, there is a way. The MC authorities can easily solve this problem. RWAs have been helping and supporting the MC to maintain neighbourhood parks in the interest of the public. The MC should allocate suitable funds to RWAs according to increase in maintenance cost of parks. Otherwise, the MC should maintain parks. The MC should roll back the condition of PAN and 20% tax on maintenance cost.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliMandatory to maintain accountsIf the annual amount being paid to respective residents’ welfare associations RWAs by the MC is more than the tax free limits, then filing of the I-T return becomes mandatory. Respective RWAs should not hesitate in getting PAN and maintaining proper accounts. On the other side the MC should also be liberal in raising the maintenance amount of parks, where the actual cost seems to be more than funds sanctioned to RWAs as detailed annual expenses incurred on the maintenance of parks will reflect in I-T returns filed by associations.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliAdvertisements can generate fundsIf RWAs venture into commercial activities, even if to complement the MC’s efforts, they are bound by laws of the land. It’s moot why these should shirk in getting their PAN. The MC is already managing most neighbourhood parks in residential areas. Refusal to maintain and surrender some parks by RWAs should be no big issue as the MC is already deploying necessary wherewithal for getting similar work done. The MC must not escape from its responsibilities and try to shift the onus on RWAs. It needs to come out with comparative details of payments made to contractors and RWAs for maintaining parks. Residents, especially children and elderly, want good upkeep and facilities in parks. The MC must not be found wanting. Displaying advertisements in parks can earn some funds for the MC.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaHand over maintenance to MCMaintenance of green belts and parks is responsibility of the MC. If RWAs of different sectors are looking after neighbourhood parks, the MC should cooperate with them by paying required amount for their maintenance rather than putting burden on associations. Due to fiscal crunch amid pandemic, which has hit everyone’s pocket, the MC should take over maintenance of parks.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliThere is no harm in having PANNo doubt, RWAs are helping the MC in various projects. But, as per the new norms of making payments PAN is necessary. RWAs must be registered and have their accounts in bank. What stops them from having PAN? Other option is RWAs can supervise maintenance of parks and MC can pay directly to the agency/contractor concerned for the work done. Also, the MC can maintain parks itself. RWAs and the MC should find an amicable solution to the problem.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaUse money in treasury on parks’ maintenanceIn India the government has a lot of wealth in its treasury. All this money is wasted on organising big events or on lavish lifestyle of MLAs, MPs and senior officers. This money should be used for maintaining parks instead of imposing tax on RWAs.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhDon’t press for funds during pandemicIn the present hard times when we are fighting Covid-19 pandemic the economy has also taken a hit. RWAs should not press for more funds for the maintenance of parks. Residents can easily pay for maintenance of parks in their area. When position improves, the MC can be asked to sanction more funds for parks.Tarlok Singh, ChandigarhMaintenance cost has gone upThe Municipal Corporation (MC) should revise maintenance charges of neighbourhood parks because prices of plants, salary of gardeners and equipment have increased. Moreover, the MoU was signed between the MC and RWAs in 2013, but there has been no revision of charges since then. Quick and effective steps should be taken by the MC to solve the problem.Anita Tandon, KhararSit together to sort out matterRWAs are doing better maintenance of parks allotted to them by the MC. The present system should continue. Both RWAs the MC should sit together and discuss each other’s problems and demands to sort out matter. If required they may ask for mediation by an appropriate authority or any third party with mutual consent. If the MC wants to impose 20% tax, it should be included in rates. Present system is better than earlier as parks are greener and cleaner now.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhHire professional horticulturistRWAs have become political platforms. Moreover, they have no technical or professional competence to maintain neighbourhood parks. The MC should handle the maintenance of parks on its own and charge fee say 1% of the assessed property tax from house owners. The MC should involve FOSWAC and CRAWFED by having their representative as a member of the advisory and maintenance committee. RWAs only make noise. Moreover, parks need to be attended to by professionals and senior horticulture specialists.Rajiv Boolchan Jain, ZirakpurHand back parks to civic bodyParks are the lungs of the city and responsibility of the MC. RWAs are doing social service. It is ironical that instead of appreciating RWAs for volunteering to maintain parks the MC is trying to tax them. The MC should sanction additional amount for maintenance of parks due to steady rise in inflation. The MC is trying to uphold the saying “Social service is a thankless job”. RWAs should hand back parks to the MC for maintenance.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliGive sufficient funds to associationsParks maintained by RWAs are in good condition. RWAs are accountable to residents. They have proper check on gardeners, ensure maintenance of parks and keep them neat and clean. Therefore, neighbourhood parks should be handed over to RWAs for maintenance. Sufficient funds must be provided to RWAs.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (Retd), ChandigarhReconsider demands of RWAsA glance at the functioning of residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) makes it clear that these bodies have voluntarily been sharing the burden of the Municipal Corporation (MC). These associations are in no way doing business of profit and should be exempted from any kind of tax. The MC should also reconsider demand of RWAs to increase maintenance funds keeping in view the inflation.SP Wadhwa, ChandigarhDire need to protect city parksA big hand for residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) for their pivotal role in maintaining 760 of 1,809 parks dotting the city and offering breathing space for people. The slugfest between RWAs is unwarranted and uncalled for as it might cost the city its most precious preserve. The MC should go into a huddle and come out with a solution to resolve the issue so that parks, the proverbial jewels of the City Beautiful, remain protected at any cost. RWAs should also retract from maintaining a stern stance over the stalemate and resolve the issue amicably.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhRoll back tax proposalAs a matter of fact, the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, is facing a serious financial crunch owing to its poor planning and proposing several measures to fill up its kitty for which one of them is taxing RWAs. It is a futile exercise. In layman’s language tax is imposed where there is income. There is no earning from the maintenance of parks. Rather RWAs have to spend from their own pockets for the purpose. Under this piquant situation, the MC should withdraw its proposal to tax RWAs.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONThe city has jumped four ranks from 20 to 16 in the Swachh Survekshan this year, but the fact is Chandigarh was placed at number two in 2016. While the civic authorities are responsible for maintaining cleanliness, do you think the onus lies on UT residents too? What, according to you, should the authorities and people do to improve cleanliness standards and ranking?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-levy-tax-on-rwas-find-amicable-solution-130408
24-08-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Month after repairs, railway underpass waterlogged again||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, August 23After remaining closed for one month for the repair work, the Mirpur-Mubarakpur railway underpass continues to be waterlogged in the rainy season.It seems the inconvenience caused to residents of Trivedi Camp, Mubarakpur, Mirpur and Bhankharpur from July 22 to August 8 will continue for the entire rainy season, as time and financial resources of the railway authorities have gone waste due to faulty planning.On Sunday, the underpass was waterlogged after night shower. A generator had to be pressed into service to pump out water from the underpass. Again, the vehicular traffic was halted and people had to take a detour to reach their destination.“A double rainwater harvesting system has been installed here. Two-feet deep underground drains too have been cleared for the passage of rainwater. Still the problem of waterlogging persists,” said an engineering wing official of the Railways.“This underpass has become a major source of inconvenience for residents of nearby villages. So much money is spent every year on this underpass, but the result is zero. The Railways authorities have to answer for this failure,” said Rajkumar Saini, a Mirpur resident.“A rainshed on one side of the underbridge is damaged, which fills the area with rainwater. Secondly, the drainage system of nearby residential area is broken. As a result sewer water also accumulates at the underpass,” said experts.Although the underpass was to be constructed by 2019, yet its work was completed after more than one year of its deadline. Instead of making commuting easy, it has become a source of daily inconvenience for residents here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/month-after-repairs-railway-underpass-waterlogged-again-130400
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Students confuse Panjab University with Chandigarh University, University clarifies on portal||Panjab University (PU) has put up a notice on its official website to clarify that it’s a Central and government funded university differentiating it from Chandigarh University (CU).The alert states, “No official of Panjab University or admission cell is calling any prospective candidate for seeking admission to the PU or for submitting admission fee etc.” PU officials said they were getting queries from students, who believed that both the CU and the PU were similar. “We have been getting regular queries regarding the same. The update has been made to clarify doubt of students seeking admission to PU,” said Prof RK Singla, DUI.Reportedly, on August 17, Dr Parveen Goyal of the UIET had also written to the VC to issue an alert on PU’s official website regarding admissions. In 2018, the varsity had constituted a nine-member panel to look into the confusion among students between PU and CU.“On every platform, we have clearly mentioned that we are a private university and are located in Mohali,” said one of the CU spokespersons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-confuse-panjab-university-with-chandigarh-university-university-clarifies-on-portal-130401
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Assistant professor delivers lecture||Dr Anju Bala, Assistant Professor, Department of Fine Arts, GGSCW, Sector 26, was invited to deliver a special online lecture for Lyallpur Young Historians Club as part of ‘History lecture series.’ In her lecture she shared her views on history of arts in Punjab. The series was started by young historians of Lyallpur, Pakistan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/assistant-professor-delivers-lecture-130413
24-08-2020||---||Sukhna water released, wreaks havoc||Chandigarh, August 23Two of the three floodgates of Sukhna Lake had to be opened today after its water level reached the danger mark of 1,163 ft. They were opened at 3.10 am and remained open till 1.15 pm.UT officials remained at the spot and monitored the situation till the time the gates were closed. This month has seen 339 mm of rainfall in the city, the highest in 16 years. Due to heavy rain, the water level of the lake has reached the danger mark."We alerted villages, including Kishangarh, falling near Sukhna. The police were deployed on the road near the floodgates. They had put up barricades to ensure nobody came there. The area around the floodgates was also briefly closed for the public," said an official. Near Bapu Dham colony, water came on the road.Officials said neighbouring towns in Punjab and Haryana had been informed in advance before opening the gates. Seeing the water level, panic gripped locals in areas close to the Sukhna choe, which carried the water to the Ghaggar.Before this, it was on September 24, 2018, that incessant rain in the catchment area had forced officials to open two floodgates of the lake.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhna-water-released-wreaks-havoc-130414
24-08-2020||---||Toddler among 4 lose battle to Covid-19 virus in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 23Four persons, including a toddler, died of Covid-19 in the city today, taking the toll to 37.The deceased have been identified as a 21-month-old girl child from Sector 25; a 68-year-old man from Sector 23; a 70-year-old woman from Sector 40; and a 64-year-old woman from Mani Majra.The girl child was suffering from severe acute malnutrition, severe anaemia, infantile tremor syndrome and acute kidney injury. She tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and died at the PGI on Saturday.The 68-year-old man had comorbid conditions. He was suffering from hypertension, Type-2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney disease. He was diagnosed as a case of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and found suffering from the contagion on August 21. He died at the GMCH-32 the next day. The Sector 40 woman was suffering from hypothyroidism, Type-2 diabetes mellitus and interstitial lung disease. She tested positive for Covid-19 on August 21 and breathed her last at the GMCH-32 on August 22.The 64-year-old woman was a known case of hypertension and Type-2 diabetes mellitus. The woman, who was later diagnosed with Covid-19, succumbed to the virus at the GMCH-32 on Saturday.Meanwhile, 142 more persons contracted the infection today, taking the UT tally to 2,918. The fresh cases have been reported from Sectors 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 18, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 27, 28, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 56, 38 (West), Burail, Dadu Majra, Dhanas, Hallo Majra, Kajheri, Khuda Ali Sher, Kishangarh, Maloya, Mani Majra, Mauli Jagran, Palsora, PGI, Raipur and Ram Darbar.Meanwhile, 21 patients were discharged after being cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/toddler-among-4-lose-battle-to-covid-19-virus-in-chandigarh-130415
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Finance Secretary tests positive||UT Finance Secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha has tested positive for coronavirus. A senior official said they would decide the next course of action on Monday. “We cannot keep the whole administration shut following this case. However, we will identify his close contacts and quarantine them,” said a senior officer.Sinha is asymptomatic and has quarantined himself. He was coming to the office till Friday. Sources said he met a senior IAS officer of Punjab on Wednesday. After the latter tested positive, Sinha also got himself tested and was found positive. Other senior UT officials will also undergo tests now.Earlier, MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora and three councillors had tested positive. Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore was earlier tested and was found negative for Covid-19. His Principal Secretary JM Balamurugan and four others were found positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-finance-secretary-tests-positive-130417
24-08-2020||---||Mohali sees 4 deaths, 141 Covid-19 cases, 98 recoveries||Mohali, August 23Four deaths, 141 cases and 98 recoveries were reported from Mohali today.A 63-year-old woman from Dera Bassi died at Indus Hospital in Dera Bassi. At the GMCH, Patiala, there were two Covid fatalities from Mohali district -- that of a 50-year-old man from Sector 105, Mohali, and of a 65-year-old woman from Sunny Enclave. A 60-year-old man from Kailon died at Ivy Hospital in Mohali. All patients were having multiple comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension.As many as 47 Covid cases were detected in Mohali city alone. Kharar with 29 cases, Zirakpur (21), Boothgarh block (20), Gharuan (19), Dera Bassi (four) and Banur (one) also figured on the list.The Phase 7 and Phase 1 police stations in Mohali have been closed for public dealing as seven cops, including six from the Phase 1 station, tested positive. The district epidemologist, Dr Harmandeep Kaur, said both places were being sanitised.The district has so far reported 2,702 cases. Among them, 1,241 are active, while 1,409 patients have been discharged from various hospitals. With four deaths today, the toll has reached 52 in the district. Three deaths, 144 cases and 56 recoveries were reported from Mohali yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-4-deaths-141-covid-19-cases-98-recoveries-130418
24-08-2020||Zirakpur||Sukhna water floods Baltana areas, takes cops by surprise||The excess water released from Sukhna Lake caused havoc in Baltana and other parts of Zirakpur in the early hours of today. Around 5 am, the water came gushing into the Baltana police post, catching cops by surprise. The situation turned worse soon and the cops had to evacuate the records and important documents to a safer location, but they were partly successful as a considerable amount of files and papers were seen floating inside the premises.‘It was scary’It was scary in the morning as even roads were flooded with knee-deep water. The traffic was moving slowly and people were fearing the situation could get worse. — Kripashankar Shukla, a residentClose to a dozen vehicles, mostly case properties, including cars, auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers, were submerged in the water and suffered damage. An earth mover had to be requisitioned to clear the flow of water in the rivulet to allow passage to the standing water.The Baltana police post in-charge said, “We tried to save as much as we could, but still there is some loss.”Later, the police post was vacated completely as the water level rose to around 5 ft. Officials of the district administration and the Municipal Council said no message or alert was sent to them regarding the release of water from Sukhna Lake.Farmers and local residents feared that if the water level increased further, it could cause damage to the houses and fields near the rivulet.''It was scary in the morning as even roads were flooded with knee-deep water. The traffic was moving slowly and there was fear among people whether the situation would get worse. Houses and hutments near the rivulet were under constant threat as the level of water was very high. It was after a long time that we have seen so much water here,'' said Kripashankar Shukla, a resident. The police said they had got an alert about the release of water early in the morning. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhna-water-floods-baltana-areas-takes-cops-by-surprise-130422
24-08-2020||Panchkula||40 more infected in Panchkula||Forty more persons tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the district tally to 1,576.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta was also sampled for Covid-19 after his nephew tested positive for coronavirus. The fresh cases include six from Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 4, five each from Kalka and Pinjore, four from Sector 21, three from Sector 10, two each from Haripur, Sector 4, Sector 25, Sector 29, Abheypur, Rajiv Colony, and one each from the Police Headquarters, Sector 15, Sector 16, Sector 19, Sector 20, Sector 26 and Sector 7. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-more-infected-in-panchkula-130423
24-08-2020||Amit Sharma||Spurt in snatchings, 19 since July in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 23The city has witnessed a spurt in snatching incidents with 19 snatchings reported since July this year.It has already witnessed 53 snatching incidents this year till August of which the police have managed to solve only 24 cases. The snatchings in the past around two months after the lockdown restrictions were eased have witnessed a spurt.Snatchers have targeted morning and evening walkers, majorly in southern sectors of the city, instilling fear among residents. While several incidents were caught on CCTV cameras, the police are yet to make a headway.A total of 19 snatching incidents have been reported from July till August 22, including nine snatchings this month, while 10 snatching incidents were reported in July itself. Besides, six incidents were reported in June.The number of incidents reported between March 23 and May 12 was only six.UT police spokesperson DSP Charanjit Singh Virk said with the arrest of several snatchers, the police had worked out 24 snatching cases and investigations in other cases were on. The DSP said with the movement of people in the city, the snatchers had also got active. "However, we are laying nakas in the city to check street crime, including snatching." Police officials, meanwhile, claim there is a dip in snatching incidents this year in comparison to the past two years.Other crime incidents in ChandigarhThis year, Chandigarh has already witnessed 12 robbery incidents, while 36 incidents were reported last year. As many as 48 burglaries have been reported this year till August in comparison to 123 reported last year. Meanwhile, this year, 239 vehicles have been stolen. The number was 599 in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spurt-in-snatchings-19-since-july-in-chandigarh-130424
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||3 thrash Maloya resident, booked||Don't defame me, says Tattoo artistChandigarh: In a video posted on his Instagram account, city-based tattoo artist Kamaljit Singh has appealed to social media users and channels not to defame him. In the video, he requested them to remove all his pictures or face legal action. The tattoo artist and his manager were arrested last week for allegedly keeping a monkey in illegal captivity and exhibiting it by sharing its pictures, along with him, on his Instagram account. On Sunday, the tattoo artist wrote: “It was an illegal arrest and we were released after the order of the High Court”. TNSPlantation driveMohali: Rayat Bahra University organised a plantation drive on the campus. More than 100 saplings were planted. Saplings of medicinal plants were planted in the herbal garden of the University School of Pharmaceutical Sciences by Chancellor Gurvinder Singh Bahra. tnsPankaj is Karate Assn presidentChandigarh: The Amateur Karate Association of Chandigarh, which is affiliated to the Chandigarh Olympic Association, elected Pankaj Sharma as its new president. Ankur Gupta has elected the general secretary, while Deepak Sharma has been named as the new treasurer. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-thrash-maloya-resident-booked-130425
