25-08-2020||New Delhi||Petition in SC seeks 8-hour shift for cops; appeals Punjab and Haryana HC's order||The Supreme Court has issued notice to the governments of Punjab and Haryana and the Union Territory of Chandigarh on a petition seeking an eight-hour shift for police personnel with weekly offs.A three-judge Bench headed by Justice Fali S Nariman on August 21 asked the three administrations to respond to the petition filed by Jagjeet Singh who challenged the December 4, 2019, verdict of the Punjab and Haryana High Court that had dismissed his plea seeking implementation of the recommendations of the Bureau of Police Research and Development for introducing eight-hour shift system in all the police stations and police posts along with weekly offs.The Bench clubbed the case with another petition seeking similar relief on an all-India basis already pending in the top court.Section 22 of Indian Police Act, 1861 says: “Every police-officer shall, for all purposes in this Act contained, be considered to be always on duty, and may, at any time, be employed as a police-officer in any part of the general police- district”. The petitioner has sought rational interpretation of this provision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/petition-in-sc-seeks-8-hour-shift-for-cops-appeals-punjab-and-haryana-hcs-order-131288
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports new high, 174 new COVID-19 cases takes city tally to 3,209||Chandigarh reported 174 new COVID-19 infections on Tuesday---the highest single-day rise the union territory has seen thus far---taking its case tally to 3,209, a health bulletin said.Three more deaths took the UT’s fatality count from COVID-19 to 40.All three of Tuesday’s fatalities were people who had pre-existing health conditions. Two of them were over 70.A 51-year-old woman from Sector 44 died at Government Medical College and Hospital at Sector 32. She had pre-existing heart problems.A 70-year-old woman from Palsora, who died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, also had heart problems and was also diabetic.The third fatality was an 80-year-old man from Sector 33 who was a diabetic, had hypertension, hypothyroidism and CNS Lymphoma. He died at Mohali’s Sohana Hospital.Chandigarh has been reporting significantly higher number of cases all of August, but cases have especially spiralled since August 17, when the city began reporting infections in triple digits.Just over 67 per cent of Chandigarh’s total cases have been reported in August alone.Of that number, 1,107 infections---about 34 per cent of the city’s total cases---have been recorded since August 17.The UT has 1,454 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-new-high-174-new-covid-19-cases-takes-city-tally-to-3-209-131260
25-08-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports three deaths, 41 new cases||Forty-one people tested positive for coronavirus and three people died in Panchkula on Tuesday, officials said.Six people tested positive through RT-PCR and the rest through the antigen test. The district’s tally has gone up to 1,637, of which 588 are active cases.Panchkula Chief Medical Officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “Most of the cases are those people who have come in contact with already diagnosed patients. All infected patients are being admitted to the isolation wards and their relatives are being isolated. Their contact tracing is also being done so that they can be quarantined and tested”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-three-deaths-41-new-cases-131245
25-08-2020||---||Mohali records 132 COVID-19 cases, 7 deaths||Mohali, August 25Mohali on Tuesday reported 132 COVID-19 cases and seven deaths, takin the caseload in the district to 2,951.Meanwhile, 83 more patients recovered and were discharged today.Of the 132 cases recorded today, the maximum were from Mohali (48) followed by Gharuan (34), Kharar (22), Zirakpur (20), Boothgarh block (6) and Banur (2).The seven deaths include a 50-year-old woman from Derabassi, 60-year-old man from Mohali and a 42-year-old man from Baltana, who was also suffering from a kidney ailment.Two fatalities were reported from Zirakpur — a 72-year-old man and a 55-year-old woman — both patients had co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension.The remaining deaths include a 58-year-old man from Bhagomajra and 63-year-old man from Khlaur, Mohali, who was also suffering from cancer and diabetes.As of now, there are 1,289 active cases in the district while 1,598 patients have been cured.With seven more deaths today, the death toll has reached 64 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-records-132-covid-19-cases-7-deaths-131236
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Deputy Commissioner tests positive for COVID-19||Chandigarh Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, officials said.The development comes as Chandigarh has been reporting significantly higher number of coronavirus since it began reporting infections in triple digits last week. Chandigarh’s COVID-19 case tally now stands over 3,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-deputy-commissioner-tests-positive-for-covid-19-131202
25-08-2020||---||3 held for trying to break ATM||Chandigarh, August 18Three miscreants who had attempted to break open an Axis Bank ATM have been arrested by the Chandigarh Police.Suspects had attempted to break the ATM at Subhash Nagar, Mani Majra. All the suspects are residents of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, the police said, adding that the CCTV footage led to the their identification.They will be produced in the court on Tuesday, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-held-for-trying-to-break-atm-131186
25-08-2020||New Delhi||Phase-2 trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate set to begin today||The phase-2 human clinical trial of the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine candidate by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is set to begin from Tuesday.The observer-blind, randomised controlled study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of ''Covishield'' on healthy Indian adults will begin at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital in Pune, sources said.The Serum Institute of India has partnered with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca for manufacturing the COVID-19 vaccine candidate, developed by the University of Oxford."We have got all approvals from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). We are going to start the human clinical trial process at the Bharati Vidyapeeth (Deemed to be University) Medical College and Hospital from August 25."We are sure that in line with the philosophy of our group, we are going to make available a world class COVID-19 vaccine for people of our country and make our country 'AatmaNirbhar'," Prakash Kumar Singh, Additional Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs, Serum Institute of India (SII) said.As a rapid regulatory response, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on August 3 had given nod to the Pune Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase-2 and 3 human clinical trials of the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine candidate in the country.The trials are to be conducted across 17 selected sites, including AIIMS Delhi, BJ Medical College in Pune, Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) in Patna, Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh, AIIMS-Jodhpur, Nehru Hospital in Gorakhpur, Andhra Medical College in Visakhapatnam and JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research in Mysore, SII sources had said.Around 1,600 people aged above 18 years are likely to participate in the trials. To introduce the vaccine, SII, the world's largest vaccine maker by number of doses produced and sold, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute (Oxford University) in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca.Initial results of the first two phases of trials of the vaccine conducted in five trial sites in the UK showed it has an acceptable safety profile and homologous boosting increased antibody responses, sources had said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/phase-2-trial-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-set-to-begin-today-131141
25-08-2020||---||DGP recommends IGP’s suspension||Panchkula, August 24Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava has recommended the suspension of Inspector General of Police (IGP) Hemant Kalson, who was arrested on August 22 for allegedly assaulting and abusing two women after trespassing into their houses in Panchkula’s Pinjore.Also read: Haryana IG arrested for assaulting 2 Pinjore womenThe DGP has confirmed this. The Home Ministry has also cleared senior police officer’s suspension file. It awaits Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s approval.The 55-year-old IGP, Home Guards, posted in Panchkula, is in judicial custody.In the first case, a woman, who also happens to be Kalson’s cook, alleged that the IGP barged into her house and thrashed her daughter.In the second incident, a man complained that Kalson abused his wife when she opened the door and assaulted him, besides threatening to shoot him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dgp-recommends-igps-suspension-130818
25-08-2020||Mohali||5 more deaths, Mohali toll 57||Five deaths, 117 fresh cases and 106 recoveries were reported from Mohali district today. A 56-year-old man from Dera Bassi, a 70-year-old woman from Mauli Baidwan and a 65-year-old man from Baltana lost their life due to Covid-19 and multiple comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. A 30-year-old Mataur resident, suffering from cancer, and a 34-year-old man from Sector 68, Mohali, were the other fatalities reported from the district.Most of the cases were reported from Mohali city (40), Kharar (30), Dera Bassi (three), Zirakpur (13), Boothgarh block (seven), Banur (five), Gharuan (15) and Lalru (four).The district has so far witnessed 2,819 cases. As many as 1,247 cases are active, while 1,515 patients have been discharged. The death toll in the district has reached 57. Yesterday, four deaths, 141 cases and 98 recoveries were reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-deaths-mohali-toll-57-130912
25-08-2020||Panchkula||Two more fall prey to virus in Panchkula||SDM Richa Rathee and Assistant Commissioner of Police Noopur Bishnoi were among 61 new cases of Covid reported from Panchkula today, taking the tally to 1,637. The district also reported two deaths due to Covid. The toll now stands at 12. A 47-year-old woman from Tipra in Kalka succumbed to the virus at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. She was tested on August 18 and her reports came out positive a day after. She was suffering from diabetes and also had respiratory issues. A 72-year-old man from Amravati Enclave also died of Covid.The new patients include 14 from Abheypur, five each from Sector 8 and 19 and Pinjore, four from Sector 15, three each from Sector 4, 5 and 6 and Indira Colony, two each from Sector 20 and 9, one each from Sector 2, 11, 12, 12-A and 16, MDC, Kalka, Rajiv Colony, the Industrial Area, Old Panchkula and Chandimandir.So far, 1,037 patients have been cured of the disease and discharged from hospital, while the district has 558 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-fall-prey-to-virus-in-panchkula-130913
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||117 new cases, Chandigarh breaches 3K mark||The city has witnessed the steepest spike in the month of August with the number of Covid-19 cases rising to 3,035, a 10-fold increase as compared with July.From 1,015 cases on July 31, the city recorded 1,984 cases only in August. It accounts for 65 per cent of the total cases. On Monday, the city witnessed 117 cases of coronavirus from Sector 7, 9, 11, 14,15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 31, 32, 34, 37, 38 (West) 39, 40, 41, 42, 44, 45, 47, 48, 51, 56, Hallo Majra, Khuda Lahora, Mani Majra, PGI campus, Raipur Kalan, Ram Darbar, Behlana, Dhanas and Khuda Ali Sher.The day also witnessed record recoveries with 154 patients getting discharged from health care facilities. As many as 1,646 patients have defeated the virus in the city, while 1,350 cases are active and 37 patients have succumbed to the disease||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/117-new-cases-chandigarh-breaches-3k-mark-130914
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two more Judges at District Courts Chandigarh test positive||Two more Judges of the District Courts, Chandigarh, have tested positive for Covid-19. According to information, Ravish Kaushik and Sachin Kumar, both Judicial Magistrate First Class, have contracted the virus. Their staff who came into contact with them recently have been asked to observe self-quarantine.Earlier, Punita Bashamboo, Judicial Magistrate First Class, and an Additional District and Sessions Judge had tested positive for Covid.The Punjab and the Haryana High Court as well as the subordinate courts in the states of Punjab, Haryana and the UT are working in a restrictive manner to prevent the spread of the virus since March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-judges-at-district-courts-chandigarh-test-positive-130915
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||MC okays multi-level parking in Mani Majra||The Finance and Contract Committee of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation today gave the nod to invite expression of interest for a multi-level parking near “Rana Ki Haveli” in Mani Majra on the PPP mode.Other agenda approvedIt will be the second multi-level parking in the city to be built by the MC. The committee also approved to rent out its third floor office spaces at the overbridge in Sector 17. These spaces, which were built in 2013, have remained vacant all these years. The committee today resolved to again invite expression of interest to give both floors in one go.Clean ‘Patiala Ki Rao’The members asked the engineers concerned to coordinate with the UT Administration for proper maintenance and cleaning of “Patiala Ki Rao”. They also asked for a joint inspection with UT engineers to avoid any kind of water accumulation in Khuda Lahora Colony.A few months ago, the civic body had invited expression of interest from government offices, corporations, banks, public sector undertakings and companies for these office spaces. The spaces were being offered for five years on a monthly licence fee. However, only one space was selected. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-okays-multi-level-parking-in-mani-majra-130916
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||No coercive steps against firm, says High Court||Nearly seven years after M/s Gautam Builders was awarded the work of constructing a multi-level parking in Sector 17, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed that coercive steps would not be initiated against the firm.The direction by Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa came after the petitioner, a partnership firm, filed the petition assailing the order, dated August 11, issued by an Executive Engineer of the Chandigarh MC. The order contained a decision that “the remedial work to be undertaken relating to the construction of the multi-level parking near Gurdev Studio, Sector 17, Chandigarh, would be at the risk and cost of the petitioner's firm”.The Bench was told that the actual date of completion of the project was December 31, 2015, and a certificate regarding outstanding performance of the contract was issued in favour of the petitioner firm by the Executive Engineer concerned. The Bench was also told that a show-cause notice, dated May 22, was served upon the petitioner firm alleging that certain work had not been completed as per specifications and in the light of certain clauses of the general conditions of the contract. As such, “it was contemplated as to why the remedial measures be not undertaken at the risk and costs of the petitioner firm”.It was argued by the petitioner’s counsel that the impugned order went beyond the show-cause notice inasmuch as the firm was now being held responsible for the faults in the specifications/ drawings, which was not within the scope of the work as per the contract. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-coercive-steps-against-firm-says-high-court-130917
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||19-yr-old youth stabbed, dies||A 19-year-old youth was stabbed to death over an old rivalry at Colony No 4, Industrial Area, Phase I, on Sunday night. Two suspects have been arrested by the police, while raids are being conducted to nab another two.The victim has been identified as Sandeep, alias Patisha, a resident of Maloya.The victim's father Jugnu reported that his son was booked on April 17 this year on a complaint of Varinder, alias Bidi, who was injured in a quarrel at Colony No 4. He said on Sunday, he had gone to the colony to bring Sandeep home when his son's friend Ashish told him that his son was being assaulted by some persons.Jugnu rushed to the spot and found Akash, a suspect, stabbing his son with a knife on the chest, while Akash's brother Vikas and Aman, their accomplice, were thrashing him.Jugnu, along with his son’s friends Ashish and Nazir Mohammad, tried to save the victim. In the melee, Ashish and Nazir were also injured.The suspects then escaped from the spot. The victim was rushed to the GMCH in Sector 32 where doctors declared him brought dead.A case of murder was registered at the Industrial Area police station. The police arrested Akash and his brother Vikas, both residents of Colony No 4. The victim's father said his son used to drive an e-rickshaw. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-yr-old-youth-stabbed-dies-130918
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Resume bus service from Sector 17: Unions||Demanding the resumption of the bus service from the ISBT, Sector 17, members of various unions of the CTU today held a demonstration at the bus stand.CTU Workers’ Union, CTU Conductors’ Union, CTU Employees’ Union and CTU AC VC Welfare Association leaders Dharminder Singh Rahi, Davinder Singh, Charanjit Singh Dhindsa and Karamjit Singh demanded that the vegetable market should be shifted from the bus stand. They demanded that the Administration should allow buses of the Haryana Roadways, Punjab Roadways, Pepsu Roadways and Himachal Roadways to come to Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/resume-bus-service-from-sector-17-unions-130919
25-08-2020||Mohali||New testing centres to come up at Nayagaon, Sohana||The Mohali administration is setting up two more Covid testing centres at Nayagaon and Sohana in order to ease the pressure on the Civil Hospital and reduce the waiting time of the examinees. It has also been decided that no elective surgeries would be undertaken in the tertiary care (level 3) hospitals in the next fortnight.“A rapid surge in Covid cases mandates escalating bed strength in tertiary care hospitals. Surgeries that don’t require an immediate medical procedure may not be conducted at least for 15 days,” the order read. “As many as eight ambulances have been added to the fleet. The administration is procuring more ventilators,” said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-testing-centres-to-come-up-at-nayagaon-sohana-130920
25-08-2020||Zirakpur||Body found in choe near police post||The body of an unidentified man in his early 30s was found in the Sukhna choe near the Baltana police post here on Monday morning. “It seems the victim was swept away in the gushing waters released from Sukhna Lake. The body has been kept at the mortuary of the Civil Hospital in Dera Bassi for 72 hours for identification purpose,” said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/body-found-in-choe-near-police-post-130921
25-08-2020||Rajiv BhatiaZirakpur||Flooded Baltana belies claims of regular cleaning of Sukhna choe||The tall claims made by the Zirakpur Municipal Council and the Drainage Department that the Sukhna choe was cleaned regularly have fallen flat. On Sunday, the water released from Sukhna Lake left the Baltana police post inundated.Residents, whose houses were flooded, alleged that the choe was never cleaned. They said it was an annual affair, adding that nobody was willing to redress the issue. When asked to list the measures taken by the authorities to prevent waterlogging, an official of the Drainage Department said the choe was cleaned on a regular basis.Ready to tackle if it reoccurs: Dera Bassi SDMA day after excess water released from Sukhna Lake wreaked havoc in parts of Baltana in Zirakpur and nearby areas, Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said they were fully prepared to tackle the situation if water was released from the Sukhna again in the next few days. “We have stationed poclain machines at choke points and the drains are being cleaned.”Angry residents, however, rubbished the claim, saying the waste dumped in the choe at Chandigarh and Panchkula entered their residential areas along with the rainwater. Sukhna choe, a seasonal rivulet, confluences with Ghaggar river.Balwant Singh, a resident of Baltana, alleged that illegal construction and wild growth blocked the flow of water.Aditya, another resident of Baltana, said: “Heaps of garbage were seen floating on the surface of the rivulet. The authorities concerned are not bothered about the cleanliness of the area. Neither they cleaned the choe, nor do they work out a solution to end the problem.”Devinder Singh, SE, Patiala circle, said the way the gates of Sukhna Lake were opened wasn’t wise. The department concerned should have opened the gates in advance as they were already aware of the increasing level of the lake waters. He added that a prediction of the IMD should have been kept in mind as it synchronised with a high discharge of the Ghaggar on August 23, which adversely affected Patiala, Sangrur and Mansa districts. He also claimed that the Drainage Department had notified the affected area of Baltana under the Canal and Drainage Act, 1873, and declared it a no-construction zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flooded-baltana-belies-claims-of-regular-cleaning-of-sukhna-choe-130922
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Child trafficking: Court denies bail to accused||Additional Sessions Judge Rajesh Sharma has rejected the bail application of Mandeep Singh, a member of a gang, which was allegedly involved in the sale and purchase of newborns. He said those selling infants like potatoes and tomatoes deserved no leniency.Mandeep Singh, a resident of Raikot, Jalaldiwal, Ludhiana, who is currently lodged at the Burail Model Jail, and four others, including three women, were arrested by the UT police for running a child trafficking racket on August 3 on the charges of selling newborns in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi.Two of the three women are Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers in Punjab and one of the arrested men is a constable in the Punjab Police. According to the FIR, the police received information about the illegal sale of a child by a Punjab-based gang. The team prepared a decoy customer. A deal was struck at Rs4 lakh for a male child.They were caught near the Airport light point on Dakshin Marg in a grey colour Alto car. Three women and two men were sitting. One of the women was holding a newborn in her lap. On the basis of the facts, an FIR was registered against the accused.The counsel for the accused said he was innocent and had been falsely implicated in the case. He said he had not committed any offence and the story made by the complainant was totally false and fabricated, while the public prosecutor opposed the bail application.After hearing the arguments, the Judge said the allegations levelled against Mandeep Singh were serious in nature. “The accused was caught red-handed by the police on the basis of a trap. It is high time that such offences be dealt with sternly. Not only this, it was brought to the notice of the court that the accused also recovered one more child during interrogation and custody of both children was handed over to the UT Social Welfare Department. Therefore, Mandeep Singh deserves no leniency.’ said the court in the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/child-trafficking-court-denies-bail-to-accused-130923
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||New session at Panjab varsity from September 1||The Panjab University authorities announced today that the next session will start on September 1. However, the decision regarding various demands on fee waiver still stands pending.Pending decisionPU student political parties have been demanding a complete fee waiver, which is reportedly being denied by the authorities. Earlier, the authorities had announced that only those who pay the fee by August 10 can attend online classes. However, after students’ protest, the last date for the submission of fee was extended to August 31 and the online classes were also postponed.“The semester has to start by September 1 as it has already been delayed due to Covid-19. The standing committee formed by the coordination committee of the Senate has yet to take a call on students’ demand of fee waiver. The students are demanding nothing less than a complete fee waiver, which seems impossible at this hour,” said a member of the standing committee.The officials said so far, no decision was taken on allowing only the students who pay the fee by August 31 to attend the online classes. “Besides conducting various meetings with the authorities, we had also organised all-party meetings, but to no avail. Two issues — whether to allow only those paying the fee to attend classes and the manner in which students having financial problems can be helped — are still under consideration. We recommended that the students should pay fee in installments. In this pandemic, we are bound to take decisions or make recommendations under certain limitations,” added the official.Meeting postponedThe standing committee meeting schedule to be held today has been rescheduled for tomorrow. Meanwhile, sources said the decision on the next Senate meeting might be taken in the upcoming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-session-at-panjab-varsity-from-september-1-130925
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University NSUI members lock VC’s office gate||High drama was witnessed on the Panjab University (PU) campus when PU NSUI members locked the Vice-Chancellor (VC) office gate today.The students alleged that they had been trying to meet the VC from the past three days, but could not. So, they took the step, they said.The staff was working in the office when one of the external gates of the building was locked by the NSUI members. The members have been demanding a complete fee waiver for the next semester and also that the PU Administration should allow students living in faraway cities/villages to live in hostels.“It’s been three days that the VC has not come to his office. So, what is the use of this place? The DSW came to meet us, but claimed to have no authority in accepting our demands. We are just demanding a meeting with the VC. We have already decided to intensity our protest for the welfare of the students. Even after giving an assurance today, the VC did not meet us,” said Sachin, NSUI’s campus head.“We started the protest in April and since then, we have been demanding the authorities to take an action. The authorities are responsible for whatever happened today. We have been sitting on a hunger strike and will continue to do so,” said Nikhil, NSUI’s PU presidential candidate.Meanwhile, later in evening, the lock was removed by the authorities. “The lock was removed later in the evening,” said Prof Ashwani Kaul, PU Chief Security Officer.Sources said a case of trespassing was not logged with the local police considering the future of the students. “This is a clear case of trespassing. However, considering the students’ future, no such case or charges were filed against the protesting students,” said an official.Other student political parties have decided to intensify the protest from tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-nsui-members-lock-vcs-office-gate-130927
25-08-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib reports 36 Covid cases, 1 death||Thirty-six persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district today, taking the tally to 925 and one patient died — taking the death count to 19. The deaths and positive cases are increasing by the day in the district.Civil Surgeon Surinder Singh said six sites had been declared micro-containment zones and all activities in these areas were banned.He said that till date, 23,925 samples had been collected in the district of which 925 tested positive. As many as 613 have been cured and discharged from the hospital and there are 293 active cases in the district. The test results of 531 are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-reports-36-covid-cases-1-death-130928
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Plaint against society official||As many as seven former outsourced employees of the Infosys Red Cross Society have filed a complaint under the SC/ST Act against an official of the society.In the complaint filed with the National Commission for Scheduled Caste , they said they joined the societyas house-keeping staff two years ago. The society manager started harassing them and used coercive language, they alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plaint-against-society-official-130929
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Transport Undertaking offers 35 sites in Sector 17, 43 on rent||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) has offered nearly 35 commercial sites, including shops, for allotment on a rent basis at the ISBT-43 and ISBT-17.Apart from shops, food court, office space, exhibition rooms and guest house will be on offered for rent at the two bus stands.The CTU has floated e-tenders for allotment of shops and other commercial areas for six years with annual increase of 5 per cent in rent.Due to Covid-19, the rent of the allotted shop would be charged from the date of resumption of inter-state bus service.As many as 25 commercial spaces are available on a rent basis from Rs7,000 to Rs2.14 lakh at Sector 17 and 10 commercial areas at reserved price of Rs30,000 to Rs4.15 lakh per month at ISBT-43.The sites will be allotted from December 1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-transport-undertaking-offers-35-sites-in-sector-17-43-on-rent-130930
25-08-2020||Dera Bassi||Tree uprooted near entry to govt college Dera Bassi||A huge tree fell near the main entry gate of the Dera Bassi government college due to heavy rain.The uprooted tree fell on the roadside and blocked the entry to the college for most part of the day.Students seek reliefMeanwhile, students of the college are seeking a relief regarding the semester fee from the college authorities and the Punjabi University authorities. They appealed to the authorities that their families were not in a position to pay Rs17,000 as the semester fee for BCom and other courses. Students said no online classes were being conducted and the fee was being sought for the facilities which were not availed of by them for the past four months due to the lockdown. The college authorities said they were only following the university notification received by them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tree-uprooted-near-entry-to-govt-college-dera-bassi-130932
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bathinda man gets bail||Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI court, has allowed bail to Bathinda resident Inderjit Singh Bath, who is an accused in a bribery case.The CBI had arrested senior officers and employees of the office of the Labour and Employment Ministry, Sector 9, on May 30, 2019, along with a few employees of a construction company in Bathinda. Two officials were caught while accepting a bribe of Rs1.3 lakh from two partners of an HR firm and employees of the construction firm.The counsel for the accused said no offence had been committed by the accused and there were no direct allegations against him in the FIR. The petitioner has a minor daughter, who is totally dependent on his income, claimed the counsel. After hearing the arguments, Bath was granted bail. The CBI has made 35 prosecution witnesses in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bathinda-man-gets-bail-130939
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-servicemen seek Punjab CM’s help||The All-India Defence Brotherhood Association (AIDBA) has urged Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take up the issue of the delay in the issuance of battle casualty certificate (BCC) to the next of kin of martyrs with the Defence Minister.Brig Kuldip Sing Kahlon (retd), AIDBA president, said today that the BCC had not been received by the next of kin of soldiers from Punjab who were killed in the face-off with Chinese troops in Galwan in June.A case has also been taken up by the Department of Defence Services Welfare with the Army Headquarters for the early release of the BCCs. The Punjab Government recently enhanced the ex-gratia amount for martyrs from Rs20 lakh to Rs50 lakh and though budget has been released for the same, disbursement is awaited for want of BCCs.He said there was need for parity in benefits for operations conducted on the Line of Control with Pakistan, Line of Actual Control with China and counter insurgency, including accidents and weather related casualties. This can be done only if there is a national policy.He pointed out that the BCC, which earlier used to be issued by the commanding officer of the unit concerned, can now only be issued with the approval of the Ministry of Defence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-servicemen-seek-punjab-cms-help-130969
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Poor hygiene irks coronavirus patients at Sood Dharamshala||Even though the Chandigarh Administration claims its Covid care centres have all possible facilities, patients have complained of unhygienic conditions in many of these centres.A 39-year-old woman, who has completed 13 days at Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, said, “No one comes to clean toilets here and there is muck on the floor as these haven’t been swept since I came here. Some of the common toilets are clogged, causing inconvenience to patients. I fear of contracting urine infection from these even if I recover from Covid.”4-5 calls daily from this centre: OfficialsOfficials deputed at the help desk claimed that they had been receiving complaints about hygiene conditions at Sood Dharamshala. Around four-five calls are received from this centre daily.Officials deputed at the help desk have also claimed that they had been receiving complaints about hygiene conditions at Sood Dharamshala. Around 4-5 calls are received from this particular centre daily.A male resident of Manimajra, who along with his wife and daughter, was admitted to Sood Dharamshala on August 16, said, “Doctors have neither prescribed us any medicine, nor they have visited us for check-up. Sanitisation conditions are also very poor. On the third and fourth floor, many patients have been given rooms without attached bathrooms. I want to be home quarantined as I have three rooms and two bathrooms at home. We were sanitising our home properly and keeping it clean while we were there.”Another 30-year-old patient from Sector 19, who has been putting up at Sood Dharamshala for the past two days, said, “The quality of food is substandard, whereas Covid patients are supposed to be provided with nutritious food. We see animals rummaging through dustbins. I haven’t even received my Covid report yet.”Dr BS Chavan, Director, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32 said, “The quality of food provided to patients at our hospital is good. Similar type of food is provided to patients at Sood Dharamshala.”He said, “At present, there are 170 patients against the capacity of 180 at Sood Dharamshala. Also, there are limited toilets there due to which some problems may be there. Earlier, we had accommodated 190 patients, which is more than the capacity of a Covid care centre.”Dr Dasari Harish, nodal officer of Covid management at the GMCH-32 said, “This is a quarantine facility and not a hospital. These people have been kept here because they don’t have sufficient space at their houses. Three resident and two Ayush doctors are available round-the-clock, but they don’t visit each and every patient daily as it is unlikely to attend 170 patients every day. Doctors try to communicate through telephone and refer patients to the GMCH 32 in case of an emergency. We have to safeguard our healthcare workers as well from contracting the infection.”Sarpreet Singh Gill, Special Secretary (Health) said he would look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poor-hygiene-irks-coronavirus-patients-at-sood-dharamshala-130971
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Keep mobile teams ready for sero test, Badnore tells department||To check the evidence of antibodies, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today directed the Health Department be keep teams ready for serology test in the city. During a war-room meeting, the Administrator instructed Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, to keep mobile teams in readiness, which could be utilised for serology testing as and when a final decision was taken in consultation with the Health Ministry.The Administrator expressed happiness that during random testing of vendors, all samples of 60 vendors were found negative. He directed MC Commissioner KK Yadav to continue with such random testing.The Administrator also directed the MC Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar to ensure that waterlogging in different areas due to opening of Sukhna floodgates be tackled by draining out water on an urgent basis. The residents should not face any inconvenience due to waterlogging.Dr Dewan stated that 19,000 persons had enrolled for digital health cards under the National Digital Health Mission. Badnore directed all Heads of Departments to ensure that all employees and their families were immediately registered for their health cards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/keep-mobile-teams-ready-for-sero-test-badnore-tells-department-130973
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Odd-even system extended in 12 Chandigarh markets for 10 days||The UT Administration today extended the odd-even system of opening of shops in 12 congested markets of the city for a period of another 10 days.In an order, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the shops that were already following the odd-even system in 12 congested markets would continue to follow the same from August 25 to September 3.The affected marketsKrishna Market, Sector 41; market area near old PNB /Bihari Garment, Burail Chowk; Shastri Market, Sector 22; Patel Market, Sector 15; Sector 8 internal market; Azad Market, Sector 20; Palace Market, Sector 20; Booth Market, Sector 21; Palika Bazaar, Sector 19; Sadar Market, Sector 19; Janta Market, Sector 27, and Electronic Market, Sector 18.The scooter repair market in Sector 43 would remain closed on Sundays, he said.He said the basements of SCOs 1010-11, 1030-31, 1004 and 1003-4 of the Sector 22 mobile market would also remained closed for another 10 days.The rest of the buildings, where chambers or cabins are located, would open on odd-even basis as per the plan finalised by the local SDMs in consultation with the owners of the shops, the order stated.Shopkeepers resent decisionExpressing resentment over continuation of the odd-even system, members of various market associations demanded that the UT Administration should revoke the decision as it would not serve any purpose. In a joint statement, presidents of various market associations, including Palika Market president Naresh Jain, Krishna Market president Sunil Jain, Shatri Market president Jasminder Singh, Sadar Bazaar, Sector 19, president Narinder Singh, and Sector 15 market president Sanjeev Kumar said they were opening their shops for 2-3 days in a week as the Administration had also imposed the weekend lockdown.Violation of orderSeveral shopkeepers in Patel Market, Sector 15, opened their shops in violation of the odd-even formula. A shopkeeper said the lockdown had ruined their business and they were hardly able to meet their expenses. Market Association president Sanjeev Kumar said a few shopkeepers opened their shops as confusion prevailed over opening of shops on odd-even basis after two days of the weekend lockdown. Later, the shopkeepers downed their shutters, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/odd-even-system-extended-in-12-chandigarh-markets-for-10-days-130975
25-08-2020||Ambala||Naraingarh SDM acts tough against overloaded vehicles||Naraingarh SDM Vaishali Sharma today initiated action against overloaded vehicles and those plying without documents in Naraingarh.Jagmal Singh, sarpanch of Ujjal Majri village, had made a complaint regarding illegal mining, following which the SDM visited the area. During inspection, the SDM found an overloaded tractor-trailer and a tipper without documents, following which both vehicles were impounded. Action was also ordered against another overloaded truck and a JCB machine plying without documents in the Kala Amb area.The SDM said: “Plying of overloaded vehicles and illegal mining will not be allowed at any cost. Drivers must have all documents related to the vehicle. The mining officer and police officials have been directed to keep a check on illegal mining and overloaded vehicles, especially at night. They have also been asked to impound vehicles plying without documents.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/naraingarh-sdm-acts-tough-against-overloaded-vehicles-130976
25-08-2020||Mohali||Medicare packages for home isolation||Private hospitals in the district would extend medical care to Covid-19 patients in home isolation.Fortis Hospital and Max Healthcare have offered to extend homecare packages to coronavirus patients with mild symptoms while other hospitals are also exploring the possibility of extending this service.Homecare would involve patients under home isolation to be monitored remotely by the concerned hospital. Patients would get to talk to doctors on video chat. Nurses and paramedics would also be available for video consultation to ensure constant monitoring. They would be provided with medicine and medical care kits that will help detect if their condition deteriorates.The hospitals said different types of homecare packages like basic package entailing services such as daily monitoring of vitals by a trained nurse twice a day, tele-review with a doctor every third day as well as a medical kit with a thermometer and an oxygen saturation metre and an advanced more thorough ‘complete Covid care’ package were being worked out. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/medicare-packages-for-home-isolation-130977
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||High Court to consider larger issue of person’s safety vis-a-vis fair poll||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made clear its intent to go deep into the larger issue of a person’s safety and security with reference to the Election Commissioner’s concern for conducting free-and-fair elections.Cancellation of arms licenceThe issue was raised before the Bench after proceedings for cancellation of arms licence were initiated against two persons following their failure to deposit their weapons.The issue was raised before the Bench after proceedings for cancellation of arms licence were initiated against two persons following their failure to deposit their weapons. “Since the larger issue of safety and security of the petitioner is involved and the concern of the Election Commissioner for conducting free-and-fair elections are vital questions, which require detailed deliberations, the present petition is admitted,” Justice Jitendra Chauhan asserted.The state was also directed not to act upon a show-cause notice issued to the petitioners for cancellation of licence. The petition was also directed to be heard within six months.The matter was brought to the notice of the High Court after Tejinder Pal Singh and another petitioner filed a petition against the state of Punjab and other respondents through counsel RS Bajaj challenging the show-cause notice issued to them.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Bajaj contended that the Deputy Commissioner concerned issued blanket orders directing all arms licence holders to deposit weapons before the elections.The petitioners prayed for exemption from depositing their weapons, but police officials directed them to comply with the directions or face consequences. Rather, their request was not properly considered and they were directed to deposit their weapons, except for revolvers.Since they did not deposit their weapons, the petitioners were issued a show-cause notice as to why their licences should not be cancelled. Bajaj contended that the Deputy Commissioner lacked the power to issue blanket orders directing all arms licence holders to deposit their weapons. Referring to instructions issued by the Election Commission of India (ECI), Bajaj contended that the case of each arms licence holder was required to be considered by a scrutiny committee. Only thereafter an order could be passed for surrendering the arms licence.However, in the present case, a blanket order was passed, which was illegal and arbitrary. Bajaj further contended that ECI instructions also made it clear that proceedings under Section 188 of the IPC could be initiated in the event of non-compliance of the directions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-to-consider-larger-issue-of-persons-safety-vis-a-vis-fair-poll-130979
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hotel owner organises son’s birthday party, held||A hotel owner at Kishangarh was held for organising his son’s birthday party at the hotel in violation of the District Magistrate’s order.According to the police, Kulwinder Singh, a resident of Kishangarh village, who owns Hotel Whispering Oaks, organised a birthday party at the hotel on August 22 during the lockdown hours. The police said the party was attended by around 50 persons.“It was organised during the restricted hours and a large number of guests attended the party,” said a police official.The police said a case under Section 188 of the IPC had been registered at the IT Park police station. Kulwinder was arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hotel-owner-organises-sons-birthday-party-held-130980
25-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali traders oppose odd-even||Traders in Phase VII here today defied Municipal Corporation and police officials who came to enforce odd-even system in the market.Shopkeepers refused to pull down shutters of their shops after a prolonged phase of negotiations. Eventually, MC officials and the police left the place, promising to return tomorrow to enforce the order.The traders said they would sit on a dharna if they were forced to close shops tomorrow. Additional restrictions to close shops after 6:30 pm and odd-even system for opening shops had not gone down well with the businessmen.They said the odd-even system effectively left them with eight days of business in a month, which had made their livelihood unsustainable.“Most of the shopkeepers have left the business as it is not possible to pay rent amounting to lakhs. We do not have money to pay salaries to our employees. They too have families to feed. Some of us have shifted our businesses to basements or godowns to save the rent but the administration is hell bent on ruining us,” said Sarabjit Singh Paras, general secretary, Mohali Beopar Mandal.The traders said: “The administration is forcing us to close shops. However, it is unable to check liquor vends, which are open well past 10 pm”.The deadline was also breached at the VIP Road market in Zirakpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-traders-oppose-odd-even-130982
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Batteries of five vehicles stolen at Raipur Khurd||Batteries have been stolen from five vehicles, including three tractors, at Raipur Khurd. According to the police, complainant Amrik Singh, a resident of Raipur Khurd, reported that an unknown person stole batteries from his three tractors parked near the house.The batteries of a car and a jeep were also stolen on the intervening night of August 22 and 23. The police were informed about the incident. A case has been registered. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area was being scrutinised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/batteries-of-five-vehicles-stolen-at-raipur-khurd-130984
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Animal disease-control programme launched||The Department of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, UT, today launched the National Animal-Disease Control Programme (NADCP) for eradication of foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) and brucellosis in livestock at Dhanas village.The aim of the programme is to control the livestock disease by 2025 and eradicate these by 2030. The programme aims at vaccinating over 24,000 livestock, including cattle, buffalo, sheep, goats and pigs, against the FMD. It also aims at vaccinating all female bovine calves against brucellosis disease in the city free of cost.Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Animal Husbandry, while launching the scheme, said prevalence of animal diseases was a serious impediment to the growth of the livestock sector.“Losses due to the FMD and brucellosis are humongous and often beyond estimation. These diseases have a direct negative impact on trade of milk and other livestock products. Therefore, it is imperative to control the diseases by vaccinating the target population in continuous and systematic manner,” he saidHe said: “The effort will result in better productivity and acceptability of animal product world over. At present, the programme will be undertaken following the Covid-19 guidelines”.Dr Kanwarjit Singh Bhangoo, Joint Director, Animal Husbandry, said ear tagging of animals began from today in all areas of the UT.“This 12-digit ear tag will work as ‘Pashu Aadhaar’ for all departmental schemes and will be required for all animal movements, sale, purchase and other related activities,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/animal-disease-control-programme-launched-130985
25-08-2020||Dera Bassi||4 am checks to nail power thieves||Drug-free campus driveChandigarh: Spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, founder of the Art of Living, interacted with students and faculty of Chandigarh University, Gharuan, during a virtual session on ‘Staying positive during crisis’. More than 45,000 students and faculty from across India participated in the live session. Sr Sri Ravi Shankar talked about the importance of teachings of Guru Nanak Dev and Guru Gobind Singh. He also launched a ‘drug-free campus’ programme from the CU. TNSElante footfall increasesChandigarh: The Elante mall recently hosted a luxury shopping festival. Since its reopening, the mall has witnessed an increased footfall. Mall’s executive director Anil Malhotra said: “Since the reopening, we have seen a double-digit growth in sales as well as footfalls. We were the first mall in India to join hands with Bureau Veritas, an international organisation for certification of safety and hygiene measures. The bill values are than they used to be. We had more than 100 brands that offered flat 50 per cent discount during the Independence Day weekend.” TNSLohgarh Man electrocutedZirakpur: A man died of electrocution in a Lohgarh locality after a short circuit allegedly caused by waterlogging on Monday. TNS11-yr-old boy’s body foundDera Bassi: The body of an 11-yr-old boy, who had swept away in Ghaggar river on Sunday evening, was found at Ibrahimpur village on Monday. The victim has been identified as Happy, a resident of Bhankharpur. TNSFour UT cops transferredChandigarh: Four UT police Inspectors, including an SHO and the in-charge of the Operation Cell, were transferred on Monday. Ranjit Singh, who was the Maloya SHO, has been transferred as in-charge, Operation Cell. Jasminder Singh, who was the in-charge, Operation Cell, has been transferred as the in-charge, PO and Summon Cell. Sukhdweep Singh, who was the in-charge, PO and Summon Cell, has been transferred to the traffic wing. Chiranji Lal has been transferred from the traffic wing and posted as the SHO, Maloya police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-am-checks-to-nail-power-thieves-130989
