28-08-2020||---||Congress leader flays Haryana Govt for poor facilities at Covid-care centre||Panchkula, August 28National coordinator, All India Mahila Congress, and spokesperson, Haryana Pradesh Mahila Congress,  Ranjeeta Mehta, who is being treated for COVID-19 infection at the Sector 6 Civil Hospital here, on Friday alleged that coronavirus patients were being made to stay in “poor conditions” at the infirmary.The Congress leader said “substandard” way of treating COVID-19 patients by the Health Department forced Haryana Chief Manohar Lal Khattar and Speaker Gian Chand Gupta to get admitted into a premium private hospital in Gurugram.“Bees are welcoming CORONA patients in the Sec 6 hospital. Since morning 11 am no one has done any test rather mosquitos are giving me more pain. Is this the way you and your dept are handling patients. Now, I can understand why CM and Speaker rushed to Medanta,” she said in a tweet, tagging Health Minister Anil Vij.@anilvijminister Bees are welcoming CORONA patients in the sec 6 hospital. Since morning 11 am no one has done any test rather mosquito are giving me more pain. Is this the way you and your deptt. are handling patients. Now I can understand why CM and speaker rushed to Vedanta. pic.twitter.com/xnFAiykwfX  In another tweet, Ranjeeta asked why she was not being told about the treatment she was subjected to.“10 tablets given to me after 5 hours of torture to have it together. When asked which are these tablets, no one answered…..,” Ranjeeta tweeted and asked Vij to intervene.“X Ray tests of COVID patients were being conducted in an open space -- without gown and sleepers. One can imagine how difficult it would be for women,” she added.Ranjeeta along with her husband tested positive for the virus on August 26.This isn’t the first time when such an incident has come to light. A video shot by a Panchkula-based Covid-19 patient, highlighting the unavailability of water in a toilet of a Covid-care ward at the Civil Hospital, was widely shared on the social media in early August.Earlier, Chandigarh Tribune had also highlighted the plight of patients admitted to BRS Dental College in Barwala, a dedicated Covid-care facility. They were forced to clean wards due to inadequate housekeeping staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leader-flays-haryana-govt-for-poor-facilities-at-covid-care-centre-132721
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lifts weekend lockdown; shops, markets to remain open||The UT Administration on Friday decided to lift its weekend curfew orders Friday, allowing shops and malls to remain open on Saturdays and Sundays. The administration however continues to impose the odd-even system of opening shops in 12 congested markets of the city. This order will remain in effective until further orders, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said on Friday.  Parida said the decision to lift weekend curfew called to slow the spread of coronavirus cases was taken for “reviving economy and trade in the city”.The UT administration had imposed “weekend only curfews” across the city. Under that order, only essential shops and services could remain open on Saturdays and Sundays.The development comes a day after Chandigarh reported 188 new coronavirus cases---its largest single-day spike yet in cases---and two deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-lifts-weekend-lockdown-shops-markets-to-remain-open-132681
28-08-2020||---||Sumedh Saini’s interim bail extended till Sept 1||Mohali, August 28A Mohali court extended the interim bail of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini till September 1 in the alleged kidnapping and murder of Balwant Singh Multani case.Saini’s counsel APS Deol had moved the application in the court on Friday morning after the Mohali police and the Special Operations Group raided Saini’s Sector-20 house. Mohali DSP (Detective) Bikramjit Singh led the raid but Saini was not found at home.Also read: Punjab Police raid former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini's houseThe copy of the orders has yet come till the filing of this report. The court had reserved orders for a day on Thursday on Saini’s interim bail application.Sumedh Singh Saini and six other police officers were booked in a 29-year-old case of the alleged abduction, torture and stage-managed elimination of Balwant Singh Multani, son of former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani.Balwant, the victim, was accused of carrying out an attack on Saini when he was the Chandigarh SSP on December 11, 1991. He, along with Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar — a convict in a Delhi bomb blast case — and two others, was booked but the police later claimed that Balwant escaped from the custody of Qadian (Gurdaspur) police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sumedh-sainis-interim-bail-extended-till-sept-1-132677
28-08-2020||Mumbai||'Why call Sushant 25 times during Chandigarh trip', sister Shweta questions Rhea Chakraborty's claim||Shweta Singh Kirti, sister of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, severely criticised Rhea Chakraborty in a series of tweets in the early hours of Friday, over an interview the latter gave the day before.Shweta's contention is that her late brother's girlfriend Rhea has tarnished his image on national media with all that she said."You have guts to come on National Media and tarnish the image of my pure brother after his death!! You think God is not watching for what you have done! I believe in God and I have faith, now I really want to see what he will do to you. #Godiswithus #JusticeForSushantSinghRajput," Shweta Singh Kirti posted from her unverified Twitter account.In a separate tweet, Shweta demanded that Rhea should be arrested for allegedly drugging Sushant without his consent and manipulating his mind.Also read:Rhea Chakraborty reaches DRDO house; summoned by CBI in Sushant Singh Rajput death case'My 'aukat' is that Sushant Singh Rajput loved me', says Rhea Chakraborty to Bihar DGP PandeyAnkita Lokhande denies Rhea Chakraborty's claims; read clarificationMahesh Bhatt is 'father figure', says Rhea Chakraborty, adds 'was made into his girlfriend when he had a daughter my age'Rhea Chakraborty interview: Sushant's family lawyer says she be barred from media publicity"I wish Bhai would have never met that girl at all!! Drugging someone without his consent and then convincing him that you are not well, taking him to the psychiatrists... what level of manipulation is this!! How will you ever redeem your soul!!! You are so done!! #ArrestRheaNow," Shweta tweeted.In another tweet, Shweta took a dig at Rhea for allegedly claiming in the television interview that Sushant's sisters did not care for their brother."As Rhea mentioned in her interview, We didn't love our brother!! Yeah right, that's why I flew all the way from USA to India in Jan as soon as I got to know Bhai is visiting Chandigarh and is not keeping well. I had to stall my business and leave my kids behind! #Godiswithus," wrote Shweta attaching a copy of her flight's e-ticket along with the tweet as evidence.Shweta also alleged in another tweet that even after flying down to India, she didn't get to meet her brother Sushant because by that time he had left Chandigarh due to continuous calls from Rhea.As Rhea mentioned in her interview,We didn’t love our brother!! Yeah right, that’s why I flew all the way from USA to India in Jan as soon as I got to know Bhai is visiting Chandigarh and is not keeping well. I had to stall my business and leave my kids behind! #Godiswithus pic.twitter.com/LACoJ0iK25  "The worst part was I didn't even get to meet him coz by the time I reached, Bhai had already left Chandigarh because of the constant pestering calls of Rhea and some work commitments. Family was always there standing rock solid for him!! Dare anyone ever doubt it for a moment!! #JusticeForSushantSinghRajput #Godiswithus,”In a video that went viral on Thursday, Sushant's father KK Singh openly declared that actress Rhea Chakraborty had been administering poison to his son for long, and is his murderer. Sushant's death is being currently investigated by the CBI. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/why-call-sushant-25-times-during-chandigarh-trip-sister-shweta-questions-rhea-chakrabortys-claim-132634
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Admission in Chandigarh colleges||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/admission-in-chandigarh-colleges-132556
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||3.5 crore seats for higher education||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-5-crore-seats-for-higher-education-132554
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Honorary Col rank for Panjab University Vice-Chancellor||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/honorary-col-rank-for-panjab-university-vice-chancellor-132553
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||TVIS challan sent with wrong information||Woman dies in road mishapPanchkula: A 55-year-old woman from Ambala, who was working as an ANM, died in a road mishap near Golpura in Raipur Rani here. The victim, Amarjeet Kaur, was riding pillion on a motorcycle driven by her husband when a car (HP 24D-3581) hit the bike. TNS1 covid death in Fatehgarh SahibFatehgarh Sahib: One woman died of Covid in Mandi Gobindgarh on Thursday, taking the toll to 22 in the district. The district also witnessed 26 fresh cases. The Civil Surgeon, Surinder Singh, said four sites had been declared micro-containment zones and all activities in these places had been banned. He said till date, 25,195 samples had been collected, of which, 23,701 tested negative and 993 positive. Of these, 697 had cured and discharged from hospital. Now, the Covid infection tally in the district is 993. There are 275 active cases in the district and the report of 501 samples is awaited. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tvis-challan-sent-with-wrong-information-132552
28-08-2020||---||September 5 last date to pay fee at Panjab University||Chandigarh, August 27“Panjab University has decided to extend the last date for submission of fee for students of the ongoing courses from August 31 to September 5,” said Prof RK Singla, Dean of University Instructions.“The admission schedule for certain courses has also been rescheduled,” Singla added.The dates of admission schedule for undergraduate courses other than BA LLB/BCom LLB/CET UG and Bachelor of Travel and Tourism Management (BTTM) and Bachelor of Hotel Management and Catering Technology (BHMCT) in University Institute of Hotel and Tourism Management have also been revised. Candidates can check the change in the admission schedule at ugadmissions.puchd.ac.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/september-5-last-date-to-pay-fee-at-panjab-university-132550
28-08-2020||---||App for online training of NCC cadets launched||Chandigarh, August 27As many as 40 cadets from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh NCC Directorate participated in a video-conference held at NCC Group Headquarters here today, where Defence Minister Rajnath Singh launched the Directorate General National Cadet Corps mobile training app.The app will assist in conducting countrywide online training of NCC cadets and will be a positive step towards automation of NCC training in line with the Digital India Vision.The Defence Minister interacted with officers and cadets of all NCC directorates through video-conferencing.He said the NCC training would inculcate the qualities of leadership and patriotism in youth.The Defence Minister also praised the contribution of more than one lakh NCC cadets, who supported the frontline warriors by executing various tasks in the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/app-for-online-training-of-ncc-cadets-launched-132524
28-08-2020||---||Chemist held with banned tablets, syrup bottles||Chandigarh, August 27A chemist has been arrested by the crime branch of the UT police while possessing 100 strips of banned capsules and 50 syrup bottles.Sleuths of the crime branch were patrolling in the area around the Sector 34 police station when they noticed the suspect, who was driving a car bearing Delhi number, trying to escape after seeing the cops.The suspect, who was later identified as Amritpal Singh (47), a resident of Phase 3B2, Mohali, was intercepted and his car was checked during which cops recovered banned tablets and syrup bottles.The police said the suspect owned a chemist shop at Burail, Sector 45.A case has been registered against him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the Sector 34 police station. He was produced in the court, which sent him to two-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chemist-held-with-banned-tablets-syrup-bottles-132506
28-08-2020||Amit Bathla||Kailash Satyarthi praises Haryana cop for reuniting missing kids with families||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 27Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Rajesh Kumar, who is working with the anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) of the Haryana Police here, was on cloud nine when he received a call from Nobel Laureate Kailash Satyarthi praising his relentless efforts in reuniting missing children.Satyarthi, who spoke to the police officer for around 10 minutes, later wrote on his social media account, “India needs such compassionate and brave policemen. I just spoke to ASI Rajesh Kumar, who is leaving no stone unturned in reuniting missing children. I told him - Being the son of a police constable myself, such acts by cops make me immensely proud!”Kumar, who goes an extra mile in performing his duties, has helped around 500 Indian children in returning home.“I couldn’t express my feelings when I received a call from Satyarthi ji. He said India needed policemen like him. I can’t forget this day in my entire life,” Kumar said, who joined the state’s anti-trafficking squad in 2015.The police officer runs a WhatsApp group to overcome language barriers. The social media group, which consists of well-versed persons in regional languages and several NGOs working in the field, helps him communicate with missing children from non-Hindi speaking states.On challenges, he said many a times, some persons could not remember which village, town or state they belonged to.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kailash-satyarthi-praises-haryana-cop-for-reuniting-missing-kids-with-families-132505
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sends names for post of SSP (Traffic), again||In a communication to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the UT Administration has repeated the names earlier sent to the MHA for the post of SSP (Traffic).Surprisingly, the MHA had asked the UT Administration to seek willingness of the officers if they were keen to serve in the UT. The UT Administration had recommended the name of 2011-batch IPS officer of Haryana cadre Manisha Chaudhary to the MHA for the post of SSP (Traffic) for a period of three years.Manisha will be the first woman SSP (Traffic) if her name is approved by the MHA. She is currently serving as SP, Panipat. The Haryana Government had sent a panel of three IPS officers — Surinder Pal Singh, 2010 batch, Virender Kumar, 2011 batch, and Manisha Chaudhary. But Manisha was UT’s choice for the post. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sends-names-for-post-of-ssp-traffic-again-132504
28-08-2020||---||HC asks Mohali SSP to explain favour charge against cops||Chandigarh, August 27The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Mohali Senior Superintendent of Police to explain whether the police authorities were showing favour in a matter despite the pendency of civil litigation.The direction by Justice Sanjay Kumar came on a petition filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents by Mohammad Shadab Khan through counsel Mansur Ali. The petitioner was seeking directions for ensuring life and security in view of “potent threats” and also “in view of the fact that the local police had been helping the private respondents and not maintaining rule of law”.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, Mansur Ali on the petitioner’s behalf had added that the local police had no authority to interfere in the matter of civil dispute especially in view of the fact that the matter was sub judice.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the petitioner had taken a shop in Zirakpur on rent from one of the respondents and was running a tailor shop and carrying out fabric business. But the respondent started threatening and harassing the petitioner, following which he filed a civil suit for permanent injunction.Alleging that the local police were helping the respondent-proprietor and other respondents, Mansur Ali submitted that the local police were asking the petitioner to settle the matter with respondents with regard to the rented premises. This was despite the fact that the matter was sub judice and the police had no such authority.He said the private respondents were trying to take possession of the rented premises and were successful to some extent. But the petitioner, because of his personal efforts, was able to save the possession after the respondents tried to put locks on the premises. He later got the locks removed.Taking up the matter, Justice Kumar asserted: “Reply shall be filed by the Senior Superintendent of Police, SAS Nagar, Mohali, addressing the grievance of the petitioner that the police authorities are showing favour in the matter despite the pendency of civil litigation”. Justice Kumar also issued a notice to the official respondents for October 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-asks-mohali-ssp-to-explain-favour-charge-against-cops-132503
28-08-2020||---||Shops at Chandigarh's Terraced Garden auctioned||Chandigarh, August 27Having remained closed since these were constructed around two years ago, four shops at Terraced Garden, Sector 33, were auctioned today.These were given on licence fee basis for five years at Rs17,000 plus GST as applicable per month against the reserve price of Rs14,000. The shops could be auctioned after reducing monthly rent by 50 per cent.The auction was conducted in the presence of Rajesh Gupta and Ravinder Kaur Gujral, councillors, as observers, and committee members Satish Kumar Jain, Additional Commissioner, chief accounts officer and executive engineer (Roads) Division No. 2.The MCC fetched Rs42,000 as earnest money for the four shops. The shops were built along with a tunnel to connect two phases of the Terraced Garden.Meanwhile, shops at Shanti Kunj, Sector 16, found no takers today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shops-at-chandigarhs-terraced-garden-auctioned-132502
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Teams to ensure upkeep of Covid care centres in Chandigarh||UT Special Secretary (Health) Sarpreet Singh Gill today visited Sood Dharamshala along with officials of the GMCH-32 and the Engineering Department to review food arrangement, sanitisation, hygiene conditions and maintenance work on the premises.Gill directed the in-charge of officials to speed up the work at Covid care centres and ensure that the maintenance was done within the deadline.To streamline the work with the existing executive engineers deputed as nodal officers, Gill made additional teams for seven quarantine centres — Government High School, Sector 12, PGIMER, Government High School, Raipur Kalan, Government High School, Maloya-I, Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology, 100-bed hospital, Sector 48, Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22-D, and Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College, Sector 46, Chandigarh.These teams will dedicate themselves to these premises and ensure that the quarantine centres are well maintained and in proper condition. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teams-to-ensure-upkeep-of-covid-care-centres-in-chandigarh-132500
28-08-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Private centres yet to pitch in for dialysis of patients in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 27Private centres are yet to pitch in for the dialysis of Covid patients in Chandigarh despite the UT Administration’s August 19 order directing two such facilities to reserve two machines each for such patients.Coronavirus patients with kidney failure can either go to the GMCH-32 or the PGIMER for dialysis, but these two government institutes are overworked according to doctors there.The two designated private dialysis centres — Rahi Care Dialysis in Sector 22 and Dharam Hospital in Sector 15 — have cited infrastructural shortage for the delay in implementing the Administration’s order.While the PGI has reserved three dialysis stations at its Covid hospital, the GMCH-32 has two. UT Health Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said the PGI and the GMCH-32 dialysis units were being used for Covid and non-Covid patients to their optimum capacity. “Patients, who need maintenance dialysis, were earlier being dealt by private centres before Covid times. Why should they be denied dialysis if some of them are positive?” said Gupta.Action would be taken under the Epidemic Diseases Act if the centres failed to comply, Gupta added.Dr Pradeep Tayal, owner of Rahi Care Dialysis, confirmed they were not taking Covid patients. “As per the guidelines, there has to be a separate entry/exit for Covid patients. We have a single entry point,” he added.Dr Ajay Aggarwal, owner of Dharam Hospital, said, “We were neither kept in the loop nor asked if we are prepared to cater to positive patients. There’s only one entry and exit point at my hospital. Also, designated staff and a place for Covid patients are required.”“Government hospitals can increase machines for Covid patients. In the meantime, we can ready infrastructure at an alternative place,” he added.The head, Nephrology Department, PGI, Dr HS Kohli, said they had 14 Covid patients as of Thursday, who required dialysis. Additionally, the department was performing around 1,200 dialysis sessions a month since June and had 19 machines for non-Covid patients, he added. Also, three mobile teams provided dialysis to critically ill patients in ICUs, he said.A senior doctor at the GMCH-32, on the condition of anonymity, said neither the PGI nor the GMCH administered maintenance dialysis.Patient’s family harriedSuch has been the shortage that the family of a Covid patient on dialysis had to approach higher officials on Wednesday to ensure that he was not discharged from the GMCH-32. In a screenshot shared with The Tribune, a family member of the patient claimed that an official told him: “Mr Rao (name changed), I have communicated the dialysis concerns to the appropriate authority. Patients from other areas of Chandigarh too need dialysis. I have been told that both the PGI and the GMCH are full. The two private centres, designated for dialysis, have told patients that they are not yet fully operational. Please manage accordingly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-centres-yet-to-pitch-in-for-dialysis-of-patients-in-chandigarh-132499
28-08-2020||---||Raipur Rani man killed as car hits bike||Panchkula, August 27A 40-year-old man from Bhud village in Raipur Rani died after a rashly driven car hit his motorcycle at the Trilokpur-Morni T-point on Wednesday.The victim has been identified as Hushan Kumar, who worked in HAFED on a contractual basis.Naresh Kumar, the victim’s brother, told the police that he was riding pillon on the bike. On reaching near the Trilokpur-Morni T-point, a rashly driven car bearing registration number HR-01AL 0273, which was coming from the Trilokpur side, rammed into their motorcycle.The brother duo fell on the ground due to the collision. While Hushan sustained serious injuries on his head, Naresh received minor injuries. Passers-by caught the car driver, identified as Rahul of Ambala Cantt. Hushan was taken to the Civil Hospital where he was declared brought dead. A case under Sections 279, 304-A and 337 of the IPC was registered at the Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/raipur-rani-man-killed-as-car-hits-bike-132483
28-08-2020||---||Half-burnt body found near Dhanas lake||Chandigarh, August 27The body of an unidentified man, burnt above the waist, was found under mysterious circumstances in a forest area near the Dhanas lake this morning. The police have registered a murder case against unknown persons.Sources said forest guards were on duty when they noticed the body lying in the forest area along the road heading towards the dumping ground in Dadu Majra.The police were informed, who visited the spot. A CFSL team also reached there for investigation.The police said the victim’s body was burnt above the waist. The body was shifted to the mortuary at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.The victim is believed to be aged around 30 years.The police searched the area, but could not find anything that could lead to the victim’s identity. The police said they would enquire about people missing from nearby areas in the past few days.An investigation in this regard has been initiated at the Sector 11 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/half-burnt-body-found-near-dhanas-lake-132478
28-08-2020||---||Fire breaks out at Gurpal Bakers in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, August 27A fire broke out at a bakery on VIP Road here early Thursday morning.The products lying in the shop, Gurpal Bakers, were destroyed in the fire.Fire Officer Rajiv Kumar said on getting a distress call at 7.10 am, a fire tender was rushed to the shop. It took 15 minutes to extinguish the fire, he added.Last month, two fire engines stationed at the Zirakpur Municipal Council were relocated to Chandigarh Citi Centre on VIP Road.The move aimed at facilitating the swift movement of fire tenders as the MC office had a narrow approach road with the sub-tehsil, a police station and a busy market located nearby. A 24X7 helpline number, 9478030101, had also been started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-at-gurpal-bakers-in-zirakpur-132475
28-08-2020||---||Promised job in Haryana Police, man conned of Rs 8.5 lakh||Panchkula, August 27An Ambala resident has been booked for allegedly duping a Kaithal man of Rs8.5 lakh on the pretext of providing job in the Haryana Police.The complainant, Mandeep of Kalayat, stated that the Haryana Staff Selection Commission had invited applications to fill vacant posts of constable in 2018 and he had applied for it.Raj Kumar of Dera Bassi, one of the complainant’s acquaintances, told him that he knew someone with high links in the Haryana Government, who could help the victim get the job. In December 2018, the victim met the suspect, Dharamvir.The suspect demanded Rs16 lakh to be paid in two instalments, one before the written exam and the other after the physical examination. The first installment was paid to the suspect at the Mansa Devi market before the written exam on December 23, 2018.In January 2019, Dharamvir demanded Rs50,000 on the pretext that it was necessary to clear the written exam as the victim’s signature mismatched in the OMR (optical mark recognition) sheet. On January 15, the victim transferred the amount to the suspect’s account.However, the victim failed in the written exam. The suspect then told the victim that he would clear the exam in rechecking and obtained the victim’s signatures on a blank paper saying that he would apply for rechecking on his behalf. In February 2019, the final list of selected candidates was published and it didn’t have the victim’s name. Subsequently, the suspect stopped responding to the calls made by the victim.“The suspect refused to give back the money and threatened to kill me and my family members if I approached the police,” the complainant said.A case was registered under Section 420 of the IPC at the Mansa Devi Complex police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/promised-job-in-haryana-police-man-conned-of-rs-8-5-lakh-132471
28-08-2020||Panchkula||2 diabetics die of virus in Panchkula, 94 new cases||The district reported two more deaths and 94 new cases of Covid-19 today, taking the death toll to 15 and the total number of cases to 1,923.A 75-year-old man from Sector 17 succumbed to the virus at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. He had diabetes.A 60-year-old woman from Manakpur village, who was also suffering from diabetes, lost her life to the contagion at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.The fresh cases include 53 from Pinjore, 11 from Surajpur, three each from Sector 4, Sector 7 and Sector 12-A, two each from Nanakpur, Old Panchkula, Sector 6 and Sector 17, and one each from Hangola, Kalka, Sector 25, Sector 14, Sector 10, Sector 25, Sector 21 and Sector 11.While 730 cases are still active, 1,178 patients have been cured and discharged. So far, 31,000 tests have been conducted in the district and 28,005 came out negative. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-diabetics-die-of-virus-in-panchkula-94-new-cases-132470
28-08-2020||---||Chandigarh sees 2 deaths, record single-day spike of 188||Chandigarh, August 27The city today reported two deaths due to Covid-19 and the highest single-day spike of 188 cases.A 75-year-old man of Sector 46, who had tested positive for the virus on August 24, breathed his last at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 on Wednesday. He suffered severe acute respiratory failure.A 54-year-old resident of Sector 41 died at the GMCH today. He was detected with high uncontrolled sugar and Covid on August 21. He died due to complex lung injury, respiratory failure and cardiac arrest.As many as 188 persons tested positive for Covid today, taking the tally to 3,564. Earlier, the highest single-day spike was reported on August 26 when 167 cases of Covid had surfaced. On August 24, the city had reported 154 cases, the highest in a day then.Of the total cases reported today, 115 were found positive in the RT-PCR test and the remaining were diagnosed using the rapid antigen test. Among the new cases reported today were a 10-month-old girl and an 80-year-old woman.Besides, the city also saw 181 patients getting discharged today after being cured of the disease. A majority of them were under home isolation. There are 1,544 active cases in the city. With two deaths today, the toll reached 43.Part of MC office sealedA part of the office of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation was sealed for 48 hours after Social Development Officer Vivek Trivedi tested positive for Covid. He had been dealing with street vendors. The office area on the ground floor has been sealed.Badnore tests negativeChandigarh: Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore tested negative for Covid on Thursday. He underwent the test after Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar tested positive for the virus on August 25. Brar had attended war room meetings chaired by Badnore. Earlier, the Administrator was found negative for Covid while his Principal Secretary JM Balamurugan and four other employees of Raj Bhawan were found infected. TNSIn Mohali district, 1 death, 128 casesMohali: One person died of Covid and 128 fresh cases were reported from Mohali district on Thursday. With this, the district toll rose to 68 and the tally to 3,165. A 63-year-old woman from an unspecified location in Mohali succumbed to the virus. She was admitted to Mayo Hospital due to an accident and was subsequently found infected. The fresh cases include 36 from Gharuan, 29 from Mohali (Urban), 22 from Kharar, 19 from Dhakoli, 10 from Kurali, seven from Dera Bassi, three from Banur and two from Lalru. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-2-deaths-record-single-day-spike-of-188-132468
28-08-2020||Amit Bathla||PPE kits dumped at Sector 20 crematorium of Panchkula, trigger safety alarm||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 27What the protocol statesAs per clear-cut instructions from the World Health Organisation, all single-use PPE kits must be collected in an appropriate waste bag. The bag must be tightly shut and disinfected, and taken to a designated site far from inhabited land for incineration under controlled conditions.A shocking incident of PPE kits being discarded carelessly at the Sector 20 crematorium here has come to light. This is in defiance of the protocol set for the disposal of biomedical waste.The PPE kits found dumped in a bin inside the crematorium were subsequently burnt in the open.‘Not aware of how to dispose of these’Om Prakash Goyal of the Sanatan Dharam Seva Samiti, which runs the crematorium, said they were not aware of how to safely dispose of PPE kits and other protective gear. “We burn the PPE kits accumulated in the bins every evening,” he said.As per clear-cut instructions from the World Health Organisation (WHO), all single-use PPE kits must be collected in an appropriate waste bag. The bag must be tightly shut and disinfected, and taken to a designated site far from inhabited land for incineration under controlled conditions.It is not for the first time that such an incident has happened. On June 20 this year, two PPE kits were found thrown in the open near the gynaecology ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, had formed an internal committee to look into the matter.Om Prakash Goyal of the Sanatan Dharam Seva Samiti, which runs the crematorium, said they were not aware of how to safely dispose of PPE kits and other protective gear.“We burn the PPE kits accumulated in the bins every evening,” he said. KK Jindal, president of the Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 20, said, “Yes, this incident has come to my knowledge. I got to know that the crematorium yesterday received nine bodies for the last rites. The crematorium just has two small bins where PPE kits are thrown after use and workers there subsequently burn these every evening. We have approached the civic body to address the issue.”Sanyam Garg, Joint Commissioner of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation and nodal officer for biomedical waste management, did not respond to repeated calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ppe-kits-dumped-at-sector-20-crematorium-of-panchkula-trigger-safety-alarm-132464
28-08-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Biz down to 25%, finding it difficult to survive: Chandigarh traders||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 27Facing losses due to the lockdown, a delegation of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal today called on UT Adviser Manoj Parida.Mandal president Anil Vohra said they told the Adviser that traders were not happy with the decision of the Administration of imposing the weekend lockdown only on shopkeepers whereas the entire city was open and people were moving freely.‘Those dealing in non-essential items hit hard’Charanjiv Singh, chairman of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal , said traders dealing in non-essential goods were having a tough time with less than 25 per cent sales and it had become difficult for them to pay rent, salaries and meet other expenses.Charanjiv Singh, chairman of the mandal, said traders dealing in non-essential goods were having a tough time with less than 25 per cent sales and it had become difficult for them to pay rent, salaries and meet other expenses.Kamaljit Singh Panchi, general secretary of the mandal, said in addition to the weekend lockdown, the odd-even system had been imposed on small traders in booth markets. “It has become difficult for them to survive. This system should be discontinued so that they can earn their livelihood,” he added.Vohra said the Adviser had assured the deputation that they would review their demands sympathetically. He hoped a positive result would come out soon.Vohra said earlier, they had a webinar with presidents of different sector market associations in which a unanimous decision was taken that the UT Administration should roll back its decision on the weekend lockdown and the odd-even system. He said it was also unanimously decided that the traders would be forced to organise a protest if the Administration failed to review its decision.Meanwhile, representatives of the Tricity Salon Association also met the Adviser and pleaded that the weekend lockdown was worsening their financial condition as these two days in normal circumstances contributed 50 per cent business of the week.The association emphasised that the city had more than 25,000 families, who lived off the salon business and requested that in case they were required to shut down for two days, then it should be on Tuesdays and Thursdays.During a meeting through videoconferencing yesterday, the Union Cabinet Secretary had advised the states and UTs to consider revival of the economy before going in for any kind of lockdown.On various issued being faced by the trading community in the city, Parida said they would discuss all issues at a meeting with the Administrator tomorrow and take a decision accordingly.Neeraj Bajaj, president, Chandigarh Business Council, said, “All shopkeepers and traders are already suffering huge losses as there is hardly any business and they rely on working all seven days to meet the monthly expenses. The two-day lockdown results in 40 per cent loss of business.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biz-down-to-25-finding-it-difficult-to-survive-chandigarh-traders-132458
