30-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 240 COVID cases in new single-day high||Mohali reported 240 new coronavirus cases and two deaths---the highest single-day spike the district has seen yet in its infection tally---district officials said on Sunday.Two women---a 40-year-old from Bhagomajra and a 55-year-old from Baltana---died on Sunday. The victim from Bhagomajra died at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, the officials said. She was diabetic, and had liver problems and hypertension.The second person died at GMCH Patiala, officials said.    Mohali urban reported 92 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday---the highest number of cases it has seen thus far. Gharuan (56), Dhakoli (46), Kharar (31), Lalru (10), Dera Bassi (5) and Kurali (2) also added to the count.The development takes Mohali’s infection count to 3,666 cases, about 44 per cent of which are still active. Mohali’s death count now stands at 73.  Meanwhile, 104 people were released from hospitals after recovery, officials said.The development also comes on a day when Chandigarh reported seven deaths---the highest single-day rise in fatality count it has seen so far---and 170 new cases, and Panchukla saw 77 new infections.Tricity’s total single-day count on Sunday was 487.  Where Mohali stands  Total cases: 3666Active: 1627Cured:1966Deaths: 73||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-240-covid-cases-in-new-single-day-high-133806
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records seven COVID-19 deaths; 170 new cases||Chandigarh recorded seven new coronavirus deaths on Sunday, a medical bulletin showed---a new high in fatalities for the union territory that seen a significant rise in cases in August.One of the eight deaths took place on on Friday. The rest died on Saturday.A nine-year-old girl from Hallomajra with liver SOL---lesions in the liver---was among those who died, the UT’s medical bulletin said on Sunday. The child died of cardiac respiratory arrest at Sector 32’s Government Medical College and Hospital on Saturday, the bulletin said.Only two of the eight who died were over 65---a 65-year-old man from Sector 43 who died at Mohali’s Max Hospital and an 81-year-old woman from Sector 20 who died at Mohali’s Fortis on Saturday.Two were in their early 40s. A 43-year-old woman from Faidan with interstitial lung disease, scleroderma with tubercular meningitis and Type 2 diabetes died at GMCH-32 on Saturday.  A 45-year-old man from Manimajra who was diabetic died of cardiopulmonary arrest on Saturday at Sector 16’s Government Multi-Speciality Hospital.The last victim was a 52-year-old woman from Sector 30 had adrenal carcinoma---- a cancerous tumour in her adrenal cortex. She died at GMCH-32 on Friday.Besides, the UT administration added one death that had taken place earlier this month to its tally. A 20-year-old man from Raipur Kalan was brought dead to Panchkula's Civil Hospital on August 22 and was later moved to GMCH-32, where his tests came back positive.No other details of this person are available yet.The UT’s death toll now stands at 52.Chandigarh also recorded 170 new COVID-19 cases, taking UT’s COVID-19 tally to 4,155.Chandigarh’s COVID-19 cases have risen over 300 per cent in August, when the UT added 3,140 cases to its total infection tally.About 44 per cent---1,805 infections---of the UT’s cases are still active.The development also came on a day when Mohali reported 240 new COVID-19 cases and two deaths to its tally, and Panchkula added 77 new infections. This takes tricity’s single-day count to 487.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-seven-covid-19-deaths-170-new-cases-133802
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Mortar found at Makhan Majra village in Chandigarh||Panic gripped Makhan Majra village here after a live mortar was found in the forest area on Sunday afternoon. A woman identified as Manju along with her husband had gone to collect wood from the forest area, when she saw the mortar and told her husband that she found a piece of metal.Her husband identified the mortar and asked her not to touch it. They then further informed a local resident who called the police.Various teams, including area police and bomb disposal squad, rushed to the spot.Police cordoned off the area and placed sand bags around the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mortar-found-at-makhan-majra-village-in-chandigarh-133776
30-08-2020||Panchkula||Two ITBP personnel among 77 fresh COVID cases in Panchkula||Two ITPB personnel were among Panhkula’s 77 new coronavirus cases on Sunday.The district COVID tally now stands at 2,152---724 cases of them still active.Nine of Sunday’s cases came from Sector 20, seven cases from Sector 15, five each from Sector 21, Sector 2, Sector 10 and Raipur Rani, four each from Sector 8, Sector 12 and Indira Colony, three each from Sector 4, Sector 16 and Surajpur, two each from Sector 11 and Sector 6, one each from Sector 26, Sector 7, Sector 12A, Sector 19, Sector 14, Sector 27, Sector 17, Sector 25, Kalka, Morni, Old Panchkula, Hangola, Kot and Pinjore.Sunday’s COVID bulletin shows at least 11 patients were still untraced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-itbp-personnel-among-77-fresh-covid-cases-in-panchkula-133774
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Int’l conference begins at UIET||UIPS alumni explore career optionsChandigarh: The University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) organised an international webinar for students on “Beyond the usual rule book: Exploring non-conventional career options for pharmacy graduates”. The webinar was organised under the IEC series of the MHRD Institution’s Innovation Council of the UIPS. The resource persons of the webinar were the UIPS alumni, including Seema Gupta, consultant pharmacist and director, AAKS (Vic) Pty Ltd, Melbourne, Australia; Renu Koul, business head, Tecsol Media Solutions, Bengaluru (Karnataka), and Veena Sehgal, business consultant, Cadence Hub, New Delhi. Prof Indu Pal Kaur, chairperson, University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, and president, Institution’s Innovation Council-UIPS, welcomed the audience and introduced speakers on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/intl-conference-begins-at-uiet-133639
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Thieves make off with SUV, car||3 Covid deaths in Fatehgarh SahibFatehgarh Sahib: Police constable Manjit Singh posted in the security of the SSP died due to Covid at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. He was a resident of Faror village in the Khamano sub-division. Deepak Gupta, 36, of Sirhind and Paramjit Kaur, 45, also fell prey to the virus, taking the toll to 23. Meanwhile, 46 fresh cases were also reported from the district, taking the district Covid infection tally to 1,040. As many as 730 persons have cured. There are now 310 active positive in the district. OCHospital starts covid testingMohali: Sri Guru Harkrishan Sahib Charitable Hospital, Sohana, has set up a separate molecular lab in 1,500 sq ft to prevent non-Covid patients from getting infected. Now, Covid tests will also be performed at the hospital using rapid anitgen and RT-PCR methods. People having Covid symptoms can now get themselves tested at the hospital. The molecular lab set up at the hospital has been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and is accredited by the NABL. The hospital has also expedited the biomedical waste management programme as per the guidelines of the Punjab Government for proper disposal of biomedical waste and to ensure the safety of people on a large scale. TNSNo to protests, Yes to runPanchkula: A day after Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja ordered a ban on the protests in view of violation of social distancing norms, the local administration on Saturday said it is going to organise “Fit India Freedom Run” with the objective of staying healthy and making others health conscious by following all protocols related to Covid-19, including social distancing. Participants can run on any route of their choice and at any time that suits them.Plantation driveChandigarh: Members of the Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, on Saturday organised a plantation drive under the leadership of association president Kamaljit Singh Panchhi in Sector 17 here. Panchhi also distributed face masks among needy persons. “Masks should be treated as an essential in the present situation,” he said. Panchhi appealed to the public to frequently wash hands and observe social distancing. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-make-off-with-suv-car-133619
30-08-2020||Karam Prakash||Private hospitals run short of beds in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 29Covid-19 dedicated private hospitals in the district are facing an acute shortage of beds following a sharp surge in the number of cases. The situation has reached crisis stage as 80-90 of percent beds in these hospitals have already been occupied.The Health Department said more than 90 per cent of Covid beds were running full at a majority of the private hospitals. However, at Government Rajindra Hospital, less than 50 per cent of beds are occupied. As many as 246 patients are undergoing treatment against the capacity of 600 at the hospital, sources said.As the Health Department, as on Friday, nine of the 12 Covid beds at Amar Hospital, 17 of 18 beds at Columbia Asia and 29 of 30 beds at Vardhman Hospital have already been occupied. Sadhbhavna, also a private hospital, had only one bed left for Covid patients.Dr MS Dhaliwal, nodal officer, district health department, said that there was a rush towards private hospitals, however, efforts were being made to increase the bed strength therein.He said, “Nearly 80-90 per cent beds have already been occupied in private hospitals. New private facilities are being included in the list of dedicated hospitals. This will increase the bed strength in private hospitals.”It has been witnessed that people have been giving preference to private hospitals over Government Rajindra Hospital, the only major government facility in the district.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Harish Malhotra, said patients were generally recommended to get treatment at Government Rajindra Hospital, but they could also opt for private facilities. He said the Health Department and the district administration were trying their best to include more private health facilities in the list of dedicated Covid hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-hospitals-run-short-of-beds-in-patiala-133618
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sec 52 youth booked for assaulting woman||A Sector 52 resident has been booked for assaulting a woman with intent to outrage her modesty and thrashing her son.According to the police, a 45-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 52, reported that she was going to hand over lunchbox to her husband when she saw the suspect, Monu, alias Sethi, quarrelling with her son.The victim tried to intervene following which the suspect tore her clothes and assaulted her. The suspect also thrashed the complainant’s son. The police have registered a case against the suspect at the Sector 36 police station and initiated investigations into the matter.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sec-52-youth-booked-for-assaulting-woman-133617
30-08-2020||Mohali||Organisation heads to ensure compliance of health advisory||The district administration has put the onus of complying with the Health Department advisory to stop the spread of Covid-19 on respective heads of various organisations.Be it marriage palaces, shopping malls, markets, factories, village panchayats, government offices or marriage at home, the head of the organisation will be responsible for the absolute compliance of the advisory.The heads of all government departments will nominate department-wise nodal officers, who will ensure that people are observing social distancing and wearing masks. The DC’s order will remain in force till October 10. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/organisation-heads-to-ensure-compliance-of-health-advisory-133616
30-08-2020||---||5 HSVP workers booked for flouting Covid norms||Panchkula, August 29The police have booked five members of the HSVP Workers’ Union for staging a protest in violation of the Epidemic Diseases Act and several sections of the IPC outside the HSVP headquarters in Sector 6 here.The FIR filed, on the complaint of an ASI rank official, has alleged that around 150-160 protesters led by five representatives of the HSVP Workers’ Union reached the HSVP headquarters while raising slogans.“The act of the above persons was found to be a violation of guidelines by the Government of India to stop the spread of the pandemic,” it said.A case was registered under Section 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and Section 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station.The HSVP workers were protesting over their demands that included regularisation of contractual employees, insurance cover and allotment of a government job to the victim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-hsvp-workers-booked-for-flouting-covid-norms-133615
30-08-2020||---||6 firms carried out transactions with Punjab, HP companies||Chandigarh, August 29The UT Excise and Taxation Department has found that the six Manimajra-based firms allegedly involved in tax evasion had carried out transactions with various firms in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.In July this year, the department had unearthed a racket of state GST evasion on Rs 61 crore turnover by M/s SR Agencies, M/s Global Home Solutions, M/s Polytech, M/s Euro Sales, M/s Amba Agencies and Rajat Enterprises.A senior official of the department said they were verifying the details of the transactions and would soon seek records of the transactions for further investigation into the case.The department had issued summons to the owners of the firms to appear before the department, he said, and added that except one, all other owners had submitted their documents. He said they were verifying the documents for further action in the case and would issue fresh summons to the owner who failed to appear before the department.All firms dealt in items such as pipes and tiles and partners and owners of the firms were relatives or connected with each other.All six firms had carried out sales of Rs61 crore during the GST period, but did not pay tax to the government and adjusted it against manipulated input tax credits. The firms were not being filing their GSTR-3B monthly tax returns since February 2020 onwards.During preliminary investigation, the department found that the firms generated e-way bills using motorcycles, three-wheelers and even ambulance for showing transportation of goods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-firms-carried-out-transactions-with-punjab-hp-companies-133614
30-08-2020||Mohali||Keep your spirits high, beat Covid, says doctor||Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh today appealed to Covid patients to inculcate the spirit of “Chardi Kala” (high spirits) in themselves and keep their morale high in order to fight the deadly disease in a better and more effective way.He said, “In order to boost the immunity level to recover from the disease, which will ultimately reduce the mortality rate, it is very important for the patient to have a high morale as some deaths occurred due to fear, anxiety and nervousness.”During a visit to a micro-containment zone at Sohana, Sector 78, the Civil Surgeon, along with other senior health officials of the district, spoke to the family members of Covid patients at various houses. The health officials told them that it was a need of the hour that patients were in high spirits for which Punjabis are known the world over. While reviewing the arrangements in the micro-containment zone, the Civil Surgeon said the district administration and the Health Department had been making continuous efforts to curb the spread of the virus and there was no dearth of facilities at the Covid care centres. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/keep-your-spirits-high-beat-covid-says-doctor-133613
30-08-2020||---||Students showcase reading skills||Chandigarh, August 29Over 400 students participated in various activities organised as part of the reading week (English) at the Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 37-B, which concluded here today.A reading competition was held for students of Classes VI to X from August 24 to 29 during the reading week. All activities were conducted using various digital modes, including WhatsApp, audio/video clips, Google meet, Google forms etc.Students were asked to send video/audio clips highlighting their reading ability. The assessment was done on the basis of their reading speed, pronunciation, stress and intonation.Three students from each class were selected on the basis of their marks and time taken to complete the comprehension exercise. While congratulating the winners the school Principal, Rajan Jain, said more such contests would be organised in future to inculcate reading habits among students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-showcase-reading-skills-133592
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||DHE extends date for submitting sports gradation certificates||The Directorate of Higher Education (DHE) has decided to extend the last date of submitting sports gradation certificates for students, who have applied under sports category in various centralised and non-centralised courses, till September 2.No fresh applications will be entertained. The total applications received for admission in centralised courses in local colleges under sports category is 567. However, only 135 students have submitted their gradation certificates.“In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has been observed that less numbers of candidates have submitted their gradation certificates in comparison to the total applications,” said an official.“Gradation certificate is mandatory to claim admission under the sports quota. Candidates are also facing difficulties to get their gradation certificates due to the pandemic. Therefore, the last date for submission has been extended,” the official added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhe-extends-date-for-submitting-sports-gradation-certificates-133591
30-08-2020||---||Two-day webinar on NEP-2020||Chandigarh, August 29Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36-B, will organise a two-day national webinar on “Insights of National Education Policy 2020- Higher and school education” on August 31 and September 1. The webinar envisions to facilitate the transformational reforms in school and higher education sector implemented in the New Education Policy (NEP)- 2020, approved by the Union Cabinet on July 29.College principal Dr Agnese Dhillon is the patron of the national webinar. Dr Nandita Singh, Prof, Department of Education, Dean (International Students), Panjab University, and Dr Khushwinder Kumar, Principal, Multani Mal Modi College, Patiala, are the resource persons. Dr Nandita Singh will share her views on “Internationalisation of higher education in the context of NEP-2020” and Dr Khushwinder will address the audience on the topic “National Policy of Education 2020: School education-A discourse.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-day-webinar-on-nep-2020-133590
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala Div withdraws busy season surcharge||The Ambala division of Northern Railways, to further augment the rail share in transportation, has doubled the average speed of freight trains as compared to last year. Various concessions and discounts have been offered too.Now, the division has withdrawn ‘busy season surcharge’, which was charged at 15 per cent, till further orders. A long-lead concession of 15 to 20 per cent is being granted to coal, iron-ore, and finished steel. Short-lead concession of 10 to 50 per cent is being given to all traffic, except coal and iron-ore.Terminal access charge concession (50 per cent) is being granted at Group-III terminals.The container and automobile traffic has also been exempted from payment of stabling charges till October 31. The division has allowed a 5 and 25 per cent discount on haulage charges to loaded and empty containers. DRM, GM Singh, said, “Concession is also given to bulk/loose fly-ash and industrial salt.”— TNSPolicy to decongest terminals launchedThere will be no restrictions on booking of freight to any good sheds or terminals. Alternative good shed policy has been launched to decongest busy good sheds (no terminal charges levied). Private freight terminal and siding policies have been liberalised to attract more players in freight operation. Limit on co-users in private sidings has been withdrawn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-div-withdraws-busy-season-surcharge-133589
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||CBSE awards teachers||Anuja Sharma, Principal DAV Model School, Sector 15, was conferred the CBSE award for principals 2019 for her contribution in the field of education in the academic year 2019-20. In teacher’s category, Ram Kumar Sharma, a science teacher at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 37, was conferred the award.Every year two persons, one from private schools and one from government schools, get this national award. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbse-awards-teachers-133585
30-08-2020||---||6,500 posts up for grabs at job fair in Mohali||Mohali, August 29Around 90,000 candidates would be interviewed by various companies during the sixth state-level employment fair from September 24 to 30 under the Punjab Government’s door-to-door employment flagship programme.The campaign would be held in different districts of Punjab, including Mohali, at the district employment bureau as per the dates and places mentioned on the website.In Mohali, 6,500 posts in the district would be up for grabs at the job fair. Online interviews would be conducted by private companies on different dates during the job fair. Organisers can also hold a fair, where physical presence of aspirants is required, while following instructions of the Health Department.The posts have been uploaded on the website www.pgrkam.com. Candidates, who want to participate in the fair, can apply for posts as per their qualifications on the website. They can submit their applications for interview for which date would be uploaded on the portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-500-posts-up-for-grabs-at-job-fair-in-mohali-133584
30-08-2020||---||SAI asks regional centres not to employ persons above 60||Chandigarh, August 29The Sports Authority of India (SAI) has written to all its extension and regional centres (RCs) to discontinue services of persons above 60 years in order to follow the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs keeping in view the spread of Covid-19.After an official, who is above 60 years and working at the National Centres of Excellence (NCOE) in Rohtak, was found Covid positive. SAI has written to all its centres to stop the practice.“It is brought to the notice of the competent authority that those persons above the age of 60 years are engaged either on contract or through outsource agencies in regional centres or STCs, which is in violation of the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the MHA,” stated the order signed by Deputy Director Parveen Kakkar.“It has been decided that engagement of any person above 60 years either on contract or through outsource agency be discontinued in RCs, NCOEs and STCs with immediate effect. Non-compliance of above directions, if any, noticed will be dealt with firmly,” the order added. “There have been certain cases wherein persons above 60 years have been called on duty. Though the field work is almost near nil, they have been called for clerical work of the department. The advisory has been issued as a warning and all regional centres have been asked to adhere it,” said a local SAI official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sai-asks-regional-centres-not-to-employ-persons-above-60-133582
30-08-2020||---||Webinar dwells on Covid fear||Chandigarh, August 29Panjab University’s Girls Hostel No. 6 organised a special webinar on “How to get rid of the fear of Covid-19” to raise awareness among its residents about the need of psychological firmness to tackle the pandemic and negative environment created by rumours based on sensational propaganda.Dr Manisha Sharma, hostel warden, welcomed guests, speaker and all participants. Dr Sukhbir Kaur, Dean, Student Welfare (Women), PU, was the chief guest. Dr Madan Manav, CMO, Bhiwani Hospital, Haryana, explained how to boost immune system with yoga, pranayam and naturopathy. He said, “Instead of being afraid, we should adopt a positive approach to tackle coronavirus with a balanced and planned lifestyle and by adhering to precautions and immunity-building routine.”He advised the audience not to panic under the influence of sensational media propaganda. He suggested that along with proper food, a positive attitude was also beneficial to improve immunity. The audience got many psychological fitness tips about yoga to enhance immunity. The session was attended by students, teachers, wardens and staff of the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-dwells-on-covid-fear-133579
30-08-2020||---||Students at NATA centre complain  of  poor Internet||Chandigarh, August 29Students appearing in the National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA), held on Saturday, complained about poor Internet network/server problem at Sri Guru Ram Dass Preparatory School Skill Centre, Sector 19.According to some students, Internet connectivity troubled them during two hours exam duration. “The test was computer based and had two parts. The first part of the test started at 12:30 pm and went smoothly, but during the second part, the server went down in between. The test screen logged out automatically. I was unable to take the test due to some technical issue. Even invigilators present at the centre had no solution for the technical issue. We were made to sit there idle till 2:30 pm. I tried calling on the helpline contact number of NATA, but it was continuously busy,” said Anandita, a student.“There was no one at the centre to help students. Besides, there was no provision of thermal screening, social distancing or even availability of sanitisers. On the contrary, all things went on smoothly at an Ambala-based centre,” said Lohita, another student.“Invigilators had no connectivity with exam organisers. Majority of students faced poor internet connectivity issues. The organisers should have made proper arrangements for the test. We demand re-conduct of exams, especially for students at the Sector 19 centre. We have already written to the higher authorities,” said Parul, parent of a student, who appeared in the exam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-at-nata-centre-complain-of-poor-internet-133577
30-08-2020||---||Chandigarh to have 5 centres for JEE, 32 for NEET||Chandigarh, August 29The city will have at least five centres for around 7,000 JEE (Main) aspirants and 32 centres for nearly 15,000 candidates of NEET (UG), scheduled to be held next month.Amid the growing protest demanding cancellation of the upcoming NEET-JEE test across the country, the NEET has been scheduled for September 13, while JEE will be held from September 1 to 6.The principal of KB DAV School, Sector 7, Pooja Prakash, has been appointed city coordinator for the NEET exam in Chandigarh. She refused to give any details of the examination centres.Meanwhile, sources said only limited number of students would be allowed to sit in one examination room. “Considering the social distancing norms, half of the room’s seating capacity will be filled during the examination. Students will be given a demo for maintaining social distance while teachers are likely to attend a dummy seminar on the same. School managements have been asked to sanitise their buildings and also arrange things accordingly,” said a source.In 2019, there were 19 examination centres for around 16,000 NEET aspirants in Chandigarh.“Candidates have been instructed to wear face masks, which will be replaced with new masks to be provided at the exam centres,” the source added.Teams of the UT School Education department, along with the nodal agency for the examination, National Testing Agency (NTA), have also visited a few centres.“Majority of government schools have been chosen as exam centres. For JEE (Main), which is a computer-based test, different centres have been shortlisted,” said another source.NDA/Naval Academy exam on September 6City schools will also hold National Defence Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy (NA) exams together for the first time. Various private schools have been roped-in to conduct the exam. Last year, more than 12,000 candidates attempted the NDA examination in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-have-5-centres-for-jee-32-for-neet-133576
30-08-2020||---||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation House to take up violation of building bylaws tomorrow||Chandigarh, August 29The local Municipal Corporation has proposed to regularise building bylaws violations by making one-time payment for houses belonging to economically weaker section (EWS).The agenda and other issues will be taken up in the MC House meeting on August 31. It was based on representation of councillors Anil Kumar Dubey and Chanderwati Shukla. It has been proposed that no more notices should be sent after the payment.The rehabilitation colonies under the MC are in Vikas Nagar (Mauli Jagran), Sector 52 and 53. Owners have been getting violation notices, thus it has been demanded to regularise these by making changes in the policy.Another one-time payment has been proposed for water bill defaulters. Water bills of nearly Rs40 crore have been pending for a long time. It has been proposed that water bill defaults be regularised at 10 per cent for one-time payment, 7 per cent for two installments and 5 per cent for three installments. This will be applicable for general public and government institutions.For running vacant areas in Mahila Bhawan, community centres and gyms, the MC will table different suggestions to earn revenue.The House will also take a call on giving in-principle approval for using MC land for providing houses under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHC) scheme, which is part of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. If approved, a seven-member committee, comprising officials and councillors, will be formed to decide the further course of action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-house-to-take-up-violation-of-building-bylaws-tomorrow-133572
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh AAP forms ‘shadow MC’||A year ahead of the civic body elections, the city unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today announced the formation of ‘shadow Municipal Corporation (MC)’ by roping in people from all walks of life.The advisory board will function under the name of AAP Super 30, which will hold its meetings before each meeting of the MC House, in which the actual agenda of the House meeting will be deliberated upon and expert viewpoints shall be forwarded to councillors and MC officials. AAP’s shadow MC will endeavour to find out possible solution to all issues the city is facing and a pointed and practical action plan will be recommended to the respective departments of the Administration for implementation.Prem Garg, AAP convenor, Chandigarh, today announced the names of the first batch of the people, which included doctors, advocates, CA, architects, entrepreneurs, environmentalists, educationists and social workers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-aap-forms-shadow-mc-133570
30-08-2020||---||Insanitary conditions irk residents of Sector 35-C||Chandigarh, August 29The back lane of the Sector 35-C market has become a nuisance for people living in the adjoining residential area.Strewn garbage, waterlogged road, air pollution and insanitary conditions are troubling the local residents, who said that they had taken up the matter with the local authorities, but all in vain.The residents rued that staff of various hotels urinated in public parks, thereby causing inconvenience to them. “Chandigarh is such a planned city, but the condition of this back lane is deplorable. Residents are very troubled and they want this issue to be fixed as soon as possible,” said Satish, a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/insanitary-conditions-irk-residents-of-sector-35-c-133568
30-08-2020||Sandeep Rana||Nothing much ‘smart’ about parking lots in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 29There is nothing much smart about ‘smart parking’ lots in the city.Two firms were awarded the contract for running 89 parking lots in two zones around seven months ago. But the facilities and infrastructure at these lots are still a distant dream. The firms were supposed to provide the facilities within three months after taking over the parking lots.Licence agreement has not been signed yet. It was to be done by the companies within a month after taking over the possession. It may cost a loss of Rs20 lakh per year to the cash-starved Chandigarh Municipal Corporation.60-65% fee exemptionEven as the companies have failed to fulfil most of the terms and conditions of the contract, these are getting 60-65 per cent fee exemption due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The companies have been given exemption till August 31.Digital signage showing capacity, occupancy and vacant slots cannot be seen in most of the parking lots. E-ticketing, CCTVs and signboards displaying rate list are also missing at all parking lots. A central control and command centre to keep a track on parking lots has not been made functional yet.In a random check, it was found that there were major discrepancies in the manual slip system at these lots, mostly in southern sectors.What is lackingLicence agreement yet to be signed, CCTV cameras, e-ticketing, display of rate board, digital signage, central command and control centreEven as the companies have failed to fulfil most of the terms and conditions of the contract, these are getting 60-65 per cent fee exemption due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The firms have been given exemption till August 31.“Leave alone providing smart parking facilities, the firms even failed to sign the licence agreement. The companies are looking at more fee exemption,” quipped an insider.MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora, who heads the parking wing, said: “We have served notice to the firms for not complying with the norms and delay in signing the licence agreement. The firms took a plea that the licence could not be signed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The companies sought 15 days to fulfil the conditions of the contract. We will get it checked again.” A firm bagged the contract for Rs5 crore, while another one bagged it for Rs5.50 crore per annum. It is a three-year contract, which is extendable up to five years.Parking rates for two-wheelers and four-wheelers are Rs5 and Rs10, respectively. The rates are doubled at all existing 25 paid parking lots and new 64 lots in Sectors 7, 19, 22, 23, 24, 36 and on Madhya Marg after first four hours.In the third slab, after 12 hours, parking fee will be doubled again till 24 hours. There will be no charges for the first 10 minutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nothing-much-smart-about-parking-lots-in-chandigarh-133566
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Man attacked with sharp weapons, hurt||More than 10 persons armed with sharp weapons attacked a man outside his house in Sector 24, leaving him seriously injured on Friday night.The victim, identified as Surinder, had an altercation with some persons, including Shalu and Kali, at a park near his house in the evening. He reportedly asked the suspects to stop creating nuisance in the park. A few hours later, the suspects riding motorcycles arrived outside the victim’s house and attacked him with sharp weapons. Surinder sustained an injury on his neck.The victim’s neighbours rushed to his rescue after which the assailants escaped from the spot. The police were informed about the incident following which cops reached the spot and rushed the victim to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16. A case has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. The police have initiated an investigation into it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-attacked-with-sharp-weapons-hurt-133560
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||8 jhuggis gutted in cylinder blast||Eight jhuggis were gutted in a fire that broke out when a cylinder exploded in a slum area of Sector 25 here this afternoon. Besides, two shanties were partially burnt.A local said some jhuggi dwellers sustained minor injuries while trying to take out household items. Fire officials claimed that nobody was hurt.According to fire officials, the incident took place around 1.15 pm. Four fire tenders and water boozers were pressed into service, they added. “A gas cylinder was leaking for the past few days in a jhuggi. It exploded today. The fire spread to neighbouring jhuggis,” said a fire official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-jhuggis-gutted-in-cylinder-blast-133559
30-08-2020||---||‘Mentally disturbed’ man injures 3 with sword in Dera Bassi market||Dera Bassi, August 29Panic spread among people at the busy market near the bus stand here when a man, who was stated to be mentally disturbed, chased passers-by while brandishing a sword and injured three persons, including two women, this evening. Hurled abusesThe incident took place around 8 pm when the raging man hurled abuses at people and attempted random attacks from the bus stand to Gulabgarh chowk. For 20-odd minutes, people ran helter-skelter amidst shrieks of women and elderly.The incident took place around 8 pm when the raging man hurled abuses at people and attempted random attacks from the bus stand to Gulabgarh chowk. For 20-odd minutes, people ran helter-skelter amidst shrieks of women and elderly. In the melee, the attacker damaged two cars also.The police faced a tough time in overpowering the man. He was nabbed with the help of local youths.The assailant was later identified as Mani of Gulabgarh, who worked as a fruit vendor outside the bus stand. Fellow vendors said he was mentally disturbed for the past few days. He has been using swear words at passers-by earlier but for the past two days, he had become more aggressive.Dera Bassi police station incharge Satinder Singh said, “The suspect has been arrested. We have started an investigation into the case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mentally-disturbed-man-injures-3-with-sword-in-dera-bassi-market-133558
30-08-2020||---||Phase 7 traders hold protest against weekend lockdown||Mohali, August 29Shopkeepers at the Phase 7 market here today protested against the Punjab Government and the district administration for imposing additional restrictions and the weekend lockdown, which they rued was adversely affecting the business community.Led by Mohali Beopar Mandal general secretary Sarabjit Singh Paras, the shopkeepers resorted to sloganeering against the government and refused to observe the odd-even system. The police had a tough time persuading them to close their shops. Around 3 pm, the protesters pulled down the shutters of their shops.“Maintaining law and order is our first priority and sometimes it takes a little time in settling things peacefully. The weekend lockdown was a success,” said an official of the Mataur police station.Mohali Chamber of Commerce president Vineet Verma said, “The government is bent on ruining traders. Shopkeepers are forced to go against the orders of the government. Traders are losing patience.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/phase-7-traders-hold-protest-against-weekend-lockdown-133556
30-08-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Waiting to receive coveted trophy: Sandesh Jhingan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 29In a proud moment for the city, local lad Sandesh Jhingan was conferred with the Arjuna Award, while Panjab University lifted the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy for the second consecutive time on National Sports Day today.The virtual award ceremony for the region was held at the UT Secretariat Building in Sector 9 here today. Though players were only awarded certificates, the trophies are likely to be awarded later by the President in New Delhi.Other achievers hailing from cityOlympian rower Manjeet Singh, who represented the Chandigarh Rowing Association (CRA) during his initial days, and boxer Manish Kaushik, a former student of GGDSD College, Sector 32, were also awarded on Saturday. CRA Secretary Rajiv Sharma congratulated Singh, whereas Rajinder Mann, secretary, Chandigarh Amateur Boxing Association, congratulated Kaushik.“Initially, my dream was only to get into the national team. But you set different goals as you grow up, and the Arjuna Award was one of those. As players, we need to stay hungry. I dedicate this award to my family, brothers and well-wishers. I am waiting for the day to get the coveted trophy,” said Jhingan, who is the 27th footballer from the country to bag this award. Jhingan is the first footballer born and brought up in the city to win the award.Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar attended the function on behalf of the university. The PU won the trophy for the second consecutive time after a gap of 25 years. The trophy, which was already with the university, was displayed at its gymnasium hall later today.“I want to congratulate everyone for making this happen. This trophy is dedicated to our players and coaches,” said the Vice-Chancellor. Besides Jhingan, Kuldeep Singh Bhullar, Kuldeep Handoo, Ajit Singh, Krishan Kumar Hooda, Lovlina Borgohain, Romesh Pathania and Shiv Singh were also awarded in Chandigarh.Punjab Sports Minister to honour playersPunjab Sports and Youth Services Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi on Saturday announced to honour state players, who achieved the National Sports Award, on September 14 in Chandigarh. Akashdeep Singh, Kuldeep Singh Bhullar, Ajit Singh, Manpreet Singh, Manjit Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Lakha Singh and Colonel Sarfaraz Singh were also awarded on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waiting-to-receive-coveted-trophy-sandesh-jhingan-133555
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hit by speeding BMW driven by girl, pedestrian dies||A pedestrian died after being hit by a speeding BMW car reportedly driven by a girl on the road separating Sector 55 and 40 here this evening.Sources said the victim, who was tossed into the air, suffered serious injuries. The girl sped away from the spot. However, she was stopped on the road separating Sector 56 and 39.Sources said a motorcyclist, who saw the accident, chased and intercepted the car. Passers-by gathered and surrounded the vehicle.A PCR vehicle took the victim to the GMSH-16 where he was declared brought dead.The police said the victim was yet to be identified. The car was impounded. Sources said the girl, a student, was a resident of Mohali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-speeding-bmw-driven-by-girl-pedestrian-dies-133553
30-08-2020||Mohali||Three deaths, 110 fresh infections in Mohali||The district today reported three deaths, 110 fresh cases of Covid and 87 recoveries.A 70-year-old man from Radiala village died of Covid at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh.He was suffering from a heart-related ailment. A 49-year-old man from Phase 7 died at Paras Hospital and a 68-year-old man from Sector 71 breathed his last at Ivy Hospital.Meanwhile, 48 new cases were reported from Mohali, Gharuan (22), Kharar (20), Dhakoli (13), three each from Dera Bassi and Kurali and one from Lalru. So far, the district has reported 3,424 cases while 1,862 patients have recovered. There are 1,491 active cases while 71 patients have succumbed to the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-deaths-110-fresh-infections-in-mohali-133549
30-08-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula district witnesses first 1,000 cases in 144 days, next in 19||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 29As the Covid caseload of Panchkula went past the 2,000 mark, the health authorities introduced new measures to prevent the spread of the virus that has taken 19 lives ever since it struck first in the district on March 20 when a woman from Khark Mangoli in Old Panchkula was found infected.New steps for effective Covid management include an addition of 38 oxygen beds in private hospitals and 48 in the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, door-to-door surveys by ASHA and anganwadi workers to identify persons with influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), more RT-PCR and nucleic acid extraction machines to double the testing capacity and deploying more staff at Covid lab, deployment of mobile medical unit in clusters and containment zones and aggressive rapid antigen testing. With the addition of 96 new cases today, Panchkula district’s tally reached 2,075.The district had taken 144 days to cross the 1,000 mark. However, it took only 19 days to cross the 2,000 mark with an average of 56 cases a day. Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said the district expected to hit the Covid peak in the next few weeks. “The Covid situation in the district (whether it improves or deteriorates) totally depends on the Health Department’s efforts and general public’s behaviour,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-district-witnesses-first-1-000-cases-in-144-days-next-in-19-133547
30-08-2020||---||Two die in Panchkula, 96 more infected||Panchkula, August 29The district today reported two deaths and 96 new cases of Covid-19, taking the toll to 19 and tally to 2,075.Those who succumbed are an 82-year-old man from Sector 4 and a 71-year-old man from Sector 12-A. However, the Covid bulletin released by the Health Department lacked specific details like their medical condition before death, when and where they were tested and the place where they breathed their last.The fresh cases include 26 from Kalka, 20 from Pinjore, eight from Sector 20, six from Sector 15, five from Sector 21, four each from Sector 12A and Sector 16, three each from Surajpur, Sector 7 and Sector 17, two each from Raipur Rani, Sector 14 and Morni, and one each from Hangola, Sector 4, Sector 26, Ramgarh, Sector 9, Rajiv Colony, Indira Colony and Sector 12.While 1,266 patients have won the battle against the deadly virus, there are at least 790 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-die-in-panchkula-96-more-infected-133519
30-08-2020||---||Steepest single-day spike of 261 in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 29The city recorded its highest single-day spike of 261 Covid-19 cases today, taking the tally to 3,985. There are 1,692 active cases in the city, while 45 persons have succumbed to the illness. Earlier, the highest single-day spike was reported on August 27 when 188 Covid cases had surfaced.Of the total cases reported today, 210 were found positive in RT-PCR test, while the remaining were diagnosed using the rapid antigen test.It is for the first time that the city has crossed the 200 mark in a single day.141 patients dischargedA total of 141 persons were discharged on Saturday after being cured of the disease.A majority of the patients discharged had opted for home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/steepest-single-day-spike-of-261-in-chandigarh-133518
30-08-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh may reopen bars, lift night curfew||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 29The UT Administration may allow bars in restaurants, hotels and clubs to open and completely lift the night curfew in Unlock 4.0, which will start on September 1.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) today issued the guidelines for Unlock 4.0 and gave certain relaxations outside the containment zones.Wedding, funeral gathering sizeThe limit on gathering for marriage-related functions and funeral or last rites, which is 50 and 20, respectively, will continue to remain in force till September 20 after which the ceiling of 100 persons will be applicable.Under the new guidelines, social/academic/sports/entertainment/cultural/religious/ political functions and other congregations with the maximum 100 persons will be permitted from September 21. However, such limited gatherings can be held with the mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing and provisions for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitiser.The government has also decided that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain closed for students and regular class activity up to September 30.However, students of Classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones on voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers. This will be subject to a written consent of their parents/ guardians.The UT may permit up to 50 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching/tele-counselling and related work, revealed the guidelines.The Department of Higher Education, in consultation with the MHA, will permit higher education institutions only for research scholars (PhD) and post-graduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory/experimental works.What will be permittedWhat continues to remain shut||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-reopen-bars-lift-night-curfew-133516
