31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 4 people die of COVID-19; 191 new cases take tally to 4,346||Four people lost their lives to COVID-19 in Chandigarh on Monday and 191 fresh cases were reported to take the total tally to 4,346.Of the 4,346 cases, the number of active cases is 1,857.The death toll in the city has reached 56 while 2,431 patients have been cured till date.A 62-year-old male, two 50-year-old males and a 78-year-old female succumbed to the deadly virus. All the deceased patients had co-morbidities.As many as 135 patients were discharged after their recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-4-people-die-of-covid-19-191-new-cases-take-tally-to-4-346-134244
31-08-2020||---||Night curfew lifted in Chandigarh; bars to open||Chandigarh, August 31The UT Administration on Monday lifted night curfew in Chandigarh from September 1. The night curfew was in force from 10 pm to 5 am. The bars will also open.Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore on Monday presided over a war room meeting. The meeting was attended by Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator, and Sanjay Beniwal, Director General of Police at Punjab Raj Bhawan. Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Home), KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, deputy commissioners of Mohali and Panchkula, Director-PGIMER, Director Health Services & Director Principal, GMCH through video conferencing.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER stated that they have 164 Covid patients in Nehru Hospital Extension, out of which 57 belong to Chandigarh, 55 to Punjab, 31 to Haryana and 11 to Himachal Pradesh.He also mentioned that they have tested 737 samples, out of which 129 were found positive. Among the positive samples, 61 belong to Chandigarh. Dr BS Chavan, Director Principal, GMCH, mentioned that they tested 357 samples, out of which 160 were found positive. He also mentioned that 82 patients have been discharged after medical treatment.Dr G. Dewan, Director Health Services stated that they have conducted 898 Covid tests. He also mentioned that 4,500 patients have been treated in OPD and 377 indoor patients are being treated for various non-Covid diseases. Dr G. Dewan, Director Health Services, mentioned that till date 52,348 Digital Health Cards have been generated from the residents of Chandigarh.Deputy Commissioner, Mohali, stated that they have 1,638 active cases. Deputy Commissioner, Panchkula, stated that they have 724 active cases and Deputy Commissioner, Chandigarh, stated that they have 1,923 active cases.Governor of Punjab Badore decided to lift night curfew in compliance of the Central government’s directives under Unlock 4.The Administrator directed doctors to focus on symptomatic patients and to take special care of their health.  He also mentioned that Covid positive persons staying in home isolation should be regularly monitored. They should be brought to hospital in case there is deterioration or aggravation of their medical condition. The Control Room must check their status everyday over phone and ambulance should be in readiness to shift them to hospital.  Such facility should be available round-the-clock, he said.Manoj Parida, Adviser, stated that the orders received from Central government regarding Unlock 4 have been circulated for information and strict compliance by all concerned.Meanwhile, the COVID-19 death toll in Chandigarh on Sunday rose to 52 with a record seven fatalities, while 170 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 4,155.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/night-curfew-lifted-in-chandigarh-bars-to-open-134210
31-08-2020||---||Mortar shell found, triggers panic in Makhan Majra area||Chandigarh, August 30Panic gripped Makhan Majra after a mortar shell was found in a forest area this afternoon.A woman, Manju, along with her husband, had gone to collect wood from the forest area when she saw the mortar and told her husband that she had found a piece of metal. Her husband identified the mortar shell and asked her not to touch it. They informed a local resident, who called up the police.Teams of the police and the bomb disposal squad visited the spot. The police cordoned off the area and placed sand bags around the spot.The police said they could not say whether the mortar shell was live or dead. The Army was informed about the recovery of the mortar.“The area was secured and barricaded to restrict the movement of locals. The Army has been informed; we will wait for its team to arrive,” said a police official.A fire engine was also stationed at the spot as a precautionary measure. A DDR has been lodged at the Mauli Jagran police station and an investigation has been initiated.“It is suspected that a scarp dealer must have dumped the mortar shell in the forest area,” said the police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mortar-shell-found-triggers-panic-in-makhan-majra-area-133928
31-08-2020||---||11-yr-old dies as electricity pole falls on her||Panchkula, August 30An 11-year-old girl was killed after an electricity pole fell on her here last evening.The victim has been identified as Harshita, a Class IV student and resident of Ghari Kotaha village in Raipur Rani.The incident took place around 6.30 pm yesterday when she was on her way to her friend’s house to collect a textbook. A 12-wheeler truck came in contact with the hanging wires, bringing the pole down. The victim was rushed to the CHC, Raipur Rani, where she was declared brought dead. The truck driver fled from the spot. The police impounded the vehicle and registered a case against the suspect under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC at the Raipur Rani police station. The police said efforts were on to nab the truck driver.Asked whether the wires were hanging low, ASI Devi Dayal said earlier there was no problem in the movement of trucks due to overhead wires.“Onlookers had warned the truck driver to be careful while driving the vehicle under the wires. However, he didn’t pay heed,” he said.Deputy Commissioner MK Ahuja had recently stated that overhead cables must be removed from the entire district for the safety of residents. He had also asked the MC and the UHBVN to carry out a survey to check such cables and submit a detailed report to his office.Truck driver bookedThe truck driver fled from the spot after the mishap. The police seized the vehicle and registered a case against the suspect under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC at the Raipur Rani police station. The police said efforts were on to nab the truck driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-yr-old-dies-as-electricity-pole-falls-on-her-133929
31-08-2020||---||IOC official found hanging at Sec 44 house||Chandigarh, August 30A 28-year-old man, working as an assistant manager with Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), was found hanging from a gym machine under mysterious circumstances at his house in Sector 44 here. The police suspect it to be a suicide. However, no suicide note was recovered from the spot.The victim, identified as Rishabh Kumar, was found hanging by a maid this morning. He was a native of Delhi.The maid informed the police, who visited the spot and rushed the victim to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead.The police said the maid stated that the door was open when she reached the house.The police have seized the victim’s mobile phone and a laptop. His family was informed about the incident.An investigation has been initiated into the matter at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ioc-official-found-hanging-at-sec-44-house-133930
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Man held on assault charge||UTCA registrationChandigarh: The registration of men and women senior team probables of the UT Cricket Association (UTCA) for the 2020-21 season is open. Players can register online at www.chandigarhcricket.in. The registration will remain open till September 30. — TNSHomage paid to college founderChandigarh: SD College on Sunday organised a virtual lecture in the memory of Pandit Mohan Lal, the founder president of the GGDSD College Society, to mark his 21st death anniversary. Congress leader Ashwani Kumar delivered the lecture which was attended by 300 people. At one time, Pandit Mohan Lal was the Finance and Education Minister of Punjab. He started the college from a house in Sector 8 here in 1973. TNSMan found dead on railway trackZirakpur: An unidentified man was found dead in Baltana on the Chandigarh-Ambala railway track here on Sunday. The Ghaggar railway police have kept the body in the mortuary in the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital for the next 72 hours. The deceased, in his 30s, was wearing a purple shirt and black pant. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-on-assault-charge-133931
31-08-2020||Amit Bathla||17 of 19 dead in Panchkula had comorbidities||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 30Of the 19 patients who have lost their life to coronavirus in the district, 17 had comorbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, kidney ailment or cardiac issues.Sixteen persons lost their lives in 20 days, six of them in the past four days.According to health officials, two patients, who lost their lives to Covid, had no comorbid conditions. They started their treatment late.Early detection key to prevent fatalitiesThe officials said a majority of the deceased were vulnerable. Those with no other conditions sought medical help late. Prognosis and recovery from the deadly virus are difficult if treatment gets late.63 per cent men Gender-wise analysis of patients showed that among the deceased, 12 were men and seven women.73.68% deceased above 60The data revealed that 14 persons were above 60 years and accounted for 73.68 per cent of the total deaths in the district. Five were aged between 40 and 60 and accounted for 26.31 per cent of the deaths due to Covid-19.Condition of 46 patients criticalAt present, the district has 46 critical patients in four health facilities – three at private hospitals and one at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6. Of them, three are on ventilator support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-of-19-dead-in-panchkula-had-comorbidities-133932
31-08-2020||---||Two trees fall on cars, poles in Sector 21-B||Chandigarh, August 30Three cars and three electricity poles got damaged after two trees fell on these in Sector 21-B early this morning.According to Dr Sanjeev Mahindru, whose XUV 300 got damaged, the incident occurred at 6 am. All of a sudden, a huge tree got uprooted. Along with this, another small tree also fell.Three cars came under it. The bonnet and roof of the cars got damaged. The trees also broke three electricity poles, disrupting power in the area.“It is sad that despite the fact that we have been demanding the removal of such trees for a long time from the horticulture wing, it has done nothing,” said Dr Mahindru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-trees-fall-on-cars-poles-in-sector-21-b-133933
31-08-2020||---||Girl behind the wheel doesn’t have DL||Chandigarh, August 30The 20-year-old-girl, a BCom second-year student, who was driving the BMW that took a pedestrian’s life, does not possess a driving licence (DL). The UT police have now added Section 3/181 of the Motor Vehicles Act to the case registered at the Sector 39 police station.The BMW had hit the pedestrian on the road separating Sector 40 and 55 last evening. The girl driving the vehicle had sped away from the spot. However, she was chased and intercepted after around one and a half kilometres on the road separating Sector 39 and 56.A police official said the girl could not furnish a DL following which the relevant section had been added to the case.The police said the driver’s medical examination was conducted, which revealed that she was not driving under the influence of liquor. However, her blood and urine samples were taken, which would be sent to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), Sector 36, for tests.The girl is the daughter of a retired Colonel and she is a BCom second-year student at SD College, Sector 32. The police said the victim’s identity was yet to be established.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girl-behind-the-wheel-doesnt-have-dl-133934
31-08-2020||---||GST returns: UT bags top spot||Chandigarh, August 30The UT has bagged the top spot in the country in the filing of monthly GST returns by achieving 99 per cent compliance against the national average of 87 per cent.The Excise and Taxation Department had achieved 100 per cent compliance in 2017-2018 and 2018-19.“The department will also accomplish ‘Mission 100 per cent’ in 2019-20 in 15 days as there are some defaulters and the department will take legal action against them. If the defaulters do not file the returns within the given time, their GST registrations will be cancelled,” said RK Chaudhary, Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner (AETC).The department had launched ‘Mission 100%’ in January. Officials said the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry helped the department in achieving the target.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gst-returns-ut-bags-top-spot-133935
31-08-2020||---||18 head of cattle die in gaushala at Saketri||Panchkula, August 30At least 18 head of cattle, including calves, died in a suspected case of food poisoning at a gaushala in Saketri here last evening.Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Manita Malik and Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Sukhdev Rathi have been asked to look into the matter and submit a report.It is suspected that chemicals and pesticides might have got mixed with the fodder that was fed to the cattle.Bijender Singh, gaushala manager, said the animals started collapsing while eating the fodder. The Animal Husbandry Department was informed and a team visited the spot. Around 50 head of cattle were taken ill of which 18 died. The exact cause of the death will only be known after the postmortem, ADC Manita Malik said.She said they had collected samples of fodder, which would be sent to Madhuban for forensic examination.Appropriate action against the supplier of the fodder would be taken on the basis of the report, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/18-head-of-cattle-die-in-gaushala-at-saketri-133936
31-08-2020||---||Two more lose life in Mohali||Mohali, August 30The district today recorded two deaths due to Covid-19 and the highest single-day spike of 240 cases. A total of 104 patients were discharged today after being cured.A 40-year-old woman from Bhago Majra died at the PGI. She was suffering from liver disease, diabetes and hypertension. A 55-year-old woman from Baltana died at the GMCH, Patiala.The fresh cases were reported from Mohali Urban (92), Gharuan (56), Dhakoli (46), Kharar (31), Lalru (10), Dera Bassi (five) and Kurali (two).The district has so far reported 3,666 cases with 1,627 being active. As many as 1,966 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease. The death count in Mohali has reached 73.The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said: “We are carrying out extensive sampling for the past two days. Close to 900 persons are being sampled every day. In most of the cases, three to four close contacts of infected persons test positive.”UT doctor dies at Mohali hospitalPradeep Aggarwal, a Chandigarh-based doctor, died due to Covid-19 here on Sunday. The 63-year-old doctor was admitted to Max Hospital in a critical condition two weeks ago. His health worsened eight days ago and he breathed his last on Sunday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-lose-life-in-mohali-133937
31-08-2020||---||Record 7 fatalities push Chandigarh toll to 52||Chandigarh, August 30The city today recorded the highest single-day Covid-19 deaths with seven persons falling prey to the virus, taking the toll to 52.A 52-year-old man, a resident of Sector 30, died due to metabolic acidosis and cardiac arrest at the GMCH-32.A 43-year-old woman from Faidan died due to aspiration pneumonia with acute respiratory failure at the GMCH-32.A 45-year-old man from Mani Majra died due to cardiopulmonary arrest at the GMSH-16.A nine-year-old girl from Hallo Majra, who is a case of liver SOL, died due to cardiac respiratory arrest at the GMCH-32.A 65-year-old man from Sector 43 died at Max Hospital in Mohali. An 81-year-old woman from Sector 20 died at Fortis Hospital in Mohali.A 20-year-old youth from Raipur Kalan was brought dead at the Civil Hospital, Panchkula. His body was shifted to the GMCH-32 and his samples tested positive post-death.Meanwhile, 170 fresh cases were reported from the city today, taking the tally to 4,155. There are 1,805 active cases in the city. A total of 48 patients were discharged today after being cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/record-7-fatalities-push-chandigarh-toll-to-52-133938
31-08-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Liquor vends cock a snook at rules||Tribune News ServiceMohali, Zirakpur, August 30Liquor vends in the region are unabashedly violating the lockdown rules that prohibit them from operating after 6.30 pm.Two liquor vends on either side of Airport Road near TDI City and two on the Patiala chowk in Zirakpur were found selling liquor at night with no fear of the police or the district administration.Two days ago, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had directed the DGP to strictly enforce closure of liquor vends in cities and towns by 6.30 pm.The two liquor vends on Airport Road were open at 7.30 pm with all lights on and customers stood in front of the outlet without paying heed to the norms.Not only the liquor vend, an eatery alongside was serving snacks too.“They do not care for the police or any other authority as if they already know nobody is going to stop them. Weekend or weekdays, they keep making a mockery of the lockdown rules,” said Siddharth Vishwas, a resident living nearby.“Airport Road is probably the most accessible road in Mohali, if a PCR vehicle cannot reach there, then forget about other places,” said Mani Ram, a retired IAF officer.At the Patiala chowk, the liquor vend has carved out a little window in the shutter to cater to the latecomers. ‘’The shutter closes at 6.30 pm, but you can buy liquor till late at night. An employee is stationed outside to collect cash and pass on the liquor through the window,’’ said an eyewitness. A couple of steps ahead, another liquor vend is operating through its back door.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-vends-cock-a-snook-at-rules-133942
31-08-2020||Sandeep Rana||Only 97 eateries found keeping tables outside||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 30According to a fresh survey by the Municipal Corporation, only about half of the total food joints, which had put up tables and chairs outside their outlets, are now operating in the city.Due to the Covid-induced lockdown, only 97 such outlets have been found operating. Several have shut down their operations due to losses or lack of customers while some of them are presently not occupying the space outside their outlets as a majority of their business is through takeaway orders.In view of large-scale encroachment by these outlets and to enhance its revenue, the MC had recently ordered the survey to be conducted. Earlier, 150-200 such outlets were identified by the MC and only 40-50 of them were paying the monthly fee — even they had stopped paying the fee during the pandemic.However, certain councillors had pegged the number of shops putting up tables and chairs in the open at 500. They said many of them did not get themselves registered to avoid paying the fee to the MC.The civic body assigns them certain spots for putting up chairs and tables and bars them from using parking lots and corridors.To avoid discrepancies, MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora has already stated the survey by enforcement wing would be verified by another special team.Earlier, the food joints were allowed to put up tables and chairs outside only in the evening, but now the MC is giving permission for the whole day. Thus, it wants to identify these outlets and then convey them about the new policy. The MC recently approved the new rates for the practice.Meanwhile, a Sector 15 shopkeeper said since Panjab University is closed and most of the paying guest accommodations are empty, they had been at the receiving end. “We are finding it even to pay the rent. So, we want the MC to stop charging fee for the facility for some time,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-97-eateries-found-keeping-tables-outside-133943
31-08-2020||---||Animal Carcass Plant: Chandigarh MC to take final decision today||Chandigarh, August 30The issue of location for opening the city’s first animal carcass plant continues to hang fire.After scrapping the idea of opening it in the Industrial Area and then in Sector 25, the MC is bringing the agenda in the Monday’s House meeting for final decision.Local councillor Sheela Devi had objected to the proposal of setting it up at the processing plant site in Sector 25. Before that, councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali had opposed the plan of opening it in Industrial Area.Residents said it would cause foul smell and air pollution in their area. Thus, the work on it could not move further.At present, dead animals are disposed of in the dumping ground or forest areas. It is the duty of the MC to remove and dispose of dead animals.According to the initial plans, the plant will have two burners. The environment-friendly plant will have 30-m high chimney. It will also have the facility of cold storage and automatic loading.Animals will be cremated with commercial LPGs.Starts shifting wasteThe MC has started the process of shifting waste dumped at the garbage processing plant, Sector 25, to the dumping ground in Dadumajra for biomining. The work is expected to be completed in two months for nearly Rs80 lakh. More than 25,000 metric tonnes of waste is lying at the site, which causes odour and leachate in the plant. The MC general House approved it in its last meeting. At present, there is 5 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste at the dumping site. The waste is being biomined.The MC took over the plant from the Jaypee Group recently and has been running the plant itself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/animal-carcass-plant-chandigarh-mc-to-take-final-decision-today-133944
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||One more held in Mani Majra firing case||The UT police have arrested the second suspect involved in a firing incident that took place at Mani Majra in February this year.A team, led by Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO at the Mani Majra police station, nabbed the suspect, Ausaf Ahmad, (30), alias Sappa, a resident of New Indira Colony, Mani Majra.The case was registered on the complaint of Randeep Singh, who had reported that on February 12, unknown persons were having arguments near RIMT School, during which one person fired two gunshots after which all persons escaped from the spot.During the course of investigation, suspect Balwinder Singh, alias Bachi, of Mouli Complex was arrested on February 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-more-held-in-mani-majra-firing-case-133945
31-08-2020||---||NSUI leaders continue strike, demand deferment of exams||Chandigarh, August 30The indefinite hunger strike of NSUI leaders against the Central Government for its decision to conduct the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET), entered Day 2 at the Congress Bhawan, Sector 35.NSUI leader Manoj Lubana and PUCSC vice-president Rahul Kumar have started an indefinite hunger strike, demanding postponement of the exams.The president of the Punjab Youth Congress, Brinder Singh Dhillon, also visited the Congress Bhawan. He said at a time when governments around the world were suggesting people to stay indoors and take precautionary measures to avoid getting infected by Covid, the Modi government was putting the students in danger by conducting exams.City Cong chief condemns registration of FIRChandigarh: Pardeep Chhabra, president, Chandigarh Congress, along with other senior party leaders Rampal Sharma, Subhash Chawla, Darashan Jindal, Pawan Sharma, Surinder Singh, Devinder Babla and Jatinder Bhatia, have condemned the registration of an FIR against them by the Chandigarh Administration for staging a protest against the BJP government for holding JEE-NEET exams during the pandemic.The leaders said in a democratic set-up, holding a peaceful protest against the “wrong and flawed” policies of the government could not be suppressed. Accusing the Administration of “double standards”, the leaders said no such action was taken by the same police and the Administration when BJP leaders gathered hundreds of people at their homes for havans or sat on protest in Sector 17. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nsui-leaders-continue-strike-demand-deferment-of-exams-133946
31-08-2020||---||Mohali delimitation board meets tomorrow||Mohali, August 30Councillors across the political parties in Mohali will look forward to the delimitation board meeting scheduled to be held on Tuesday as the steam gathers for the upcoming Mohali Municipal Corporation elections.The meeting, which was earlier scheduled for August 24, will now be held on September 1.The delimitation, if happens, is likely to affect the composition of the electorate due to the redrawing of the boundaries of wards. Depending on the party affiliation, opinions are divided on the whole exercise of delimitation.Some of the councillors feel that whatever be the proceedings of the meeting, the hearing in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the matter related to the readjustment of wards of the Zirakpur Municipal Council will have a bearing in Mohali too.On August 12, the court had directed that final notification in the matter of delimitation be kept in abeyance. The next hearing in the matter is on September 3.Former Congress councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said, “I don’t think it will have any impact on delimitation of wards in Mohali as it’s a municipal corporation, while Zirakpur is a municipal council.”Bedi, one of the board members, said, “It is the first meeting. All members will put forward their views and see what the report says. We are in no hurry.”Former Deputy Mayor Manjit Singh Sethi has asked the authorities to find out the date when the door-to-door survey regarding delimitation began and when it was completed. Through an RTI filed recently, he has asked for a copy of all registers maintained for this survey.Even as the delimitation of wards is yet to be finalised and the date of the elections is yet to be announced, all candidates in the fray are virtually canvassing with full gusto.“The canvassing for the elections begins much earlier than the schedule is announced. Every candidate is chalking out his or her strategy. There is no harm in starting early,” said a former councillor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-delimitation-board-meets-tomorrow-133948
31-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Two more fall prey to virus in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 30Two more deaths were reported from Fatehgarh Sahib due to Covid today, taking the toll to 27.Meanwhile, 10 fresh cases were also reported from the district. With this, the total number of cases now stands at 1,088.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Surinder Singh, said that till today, 25,776 samples had been collected and of these, 24,482 tested negative and 1,088 positive. As many as 794 have been cured and 267 are active cases in the district. He said the result of 206 persons was awaited. He said four sites — residential area at the Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Hospital, Bhathan Khurd, Pagro Factory in Chanarthal Kalan and Ward Number 10 of Amloh — had been declared micro-containment zones and all activities in these places had been banned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-fall-prey-to-virus-in-fatehgarh-sahib-133949
31-08-2020||---||Chandigarh cops nail two thieves, recover items||Chandigarh, August 30Two thieves have been arrested by the operation cell of the UT police in two theft cases reported from the city.The police said valuables, including an LED TV, were stolen from a plot in the Industrial Area, Phase I, regarding which a case was registered on July 23 on a complaint of Vinod Kumar Bakshi.The second case was registered on a complaint of Paramjit Singh, who stated that he had a business of coolers and almirahs at Plot No. 702, Industrial Area, Ram Darbar, Phase II, Chandigarh. A cooler and cooler motors were stolen from his house.During the investigation, Rinku, alias Tunda (20) and Yogesh, alias Pandit (20), both residents of Maloya, were nabbed by a team, led by Inspector Ranjit Singh, at a naka near the Maloya bus stand. The stolen goods have been recovered. “Goods worth around Rs1 lakh have been recovered on their disclosure,” said a police official. The duo will be produced in a court tomorrow.The police said Rinku had a criminal past. A case was registered against him in August last year at the Industrial Area police station, which is still under trial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-nail-two-thieves-recover-items-133955
31-08-2020||---||2 ITBP personnel among 77 found infected in Panchkula||Panchkula, August 30The district today reported 77 new cases, taking the tally to 2,152. Two ITBP personnel were among the new patients.The fresh cases include nine from Sector 20, seven from Sector 15, five each from Sector 21, Sector 2, Sector 10 and Raipur Rani, four each from Sector 8, Sector 12 and Indira Colony, three each from Sector 4,Sector 16 and Surajpur, two each from Sector 11 and Sector 6, and one each from Sector 26, Sector 7, Sector 12-A, Sector 19, Sector 14, Sector 27, Sector 17, Sector 25, Kalka, Morni, Old Panchkula, Hangola, Kot and Pinjore.According to the Covid bulletin released today, at least 11 patients were still untraced.As many as 724 cases are active, while 1,409 patients have been cured and discharged. Panchkula has conducted 32,885 Covid tests so far, of which 30,132 have come out negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-itbp-personnel-among-77-found-infected-in-panchkula-133957
31-08-2020||Open House||MC, residents should join hands to restore Chandigarh's lost glory||Residents, admn must come togetherThe City Beautiful cannot achieve second rank like in 2016 until all three, residents, the RWAs and the Administration, work together. It is the people of the city, who only can take this initiative, whether they want to live in a clean city or not. Once decided to keep Chandigarh clean it will be done because these residents are part of different RWAs and government departments. Therefore, making residents aware is important.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhWork on solid waste managementFailing to segregate garbage at source, open dump at Dadu Majra and non-implementation of solid waste management plan are the main reasons behind falling of Chandigarh in Swachh Survekshan ranking. The Municipal Corporation has not been able to improve the sanitary condition of the city. Non-availability of sufficient staff and poor infrastructure at the ground level can be cited as reasons for insanitary conditions. The MC must try to work rigorously on this front. The civic body authorities must focus on cleanliness instead of imposing new taxes. This can be done in collaboration with resident welfare associations.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliWaste management need of the hourIt is distressing that our City Beautiful’s ranking has gone down in Swachh Survekshan. There is a saying “Charity begins at home”. Residents are also to be blamed for throwing waste in the open and not segregating at source. Stray cattle and dogs roam in the residential areas defecating on roads, in parks and common places. The Municipal Corporation authorities have not taken any steps to control this menace, which leads to unhygienic conditions. Besides, waste management is the need of the hour. We must not throw waste in the open.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliReduce, reuse and recycle wasteWaste management is the key to ‘Swachh Bharat’ and that is where the Chandigarh has been failing repeatedly. The private door-to-door waste collection model has not worked. The MC has miserably failed on three R’s of waste management - reduce, reuse and recycle. The UT has little to speak on waste management and disposal. Hence, its Swachh Survekshan ranking has gone down. The UT Administrator, MP, Mayor and councillors must handle this issue immediately.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurStray cattle roam freely in cityEvery project of the Municipal Corporation whether it is Swachhta Abhiyan or any other campaign is based on lining pockets of people at the helm. So, lifting and disposal of garbage has failed many times in the past and will not succeed this time too. Roads, streets, parks and markets in the City Beautiful are dirty. Stray cattle roam freely and defecate at all places. Chandigarh will never regain the second spot in the Swachh Survekshan till corruption is there.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhLopsided waste managementThere is no denying the fact that the Swachh Survekshan grading of Chandigarh had an adverse impact because of lopsided management of waste. City residents, who generate waste, must adhere to segregation norms. The MC can collect wet garbage from each household and send it to recycling plant everyday. Dry waste can be collected twice a week and sent for recycling. Such an arrangement might generate some revenue for the MC. Above all it will take improve city’s grading in the cleanliness survey.SC Luthra, ChandigarhPenalise people who litterThe civic authorities cannot do anything without the cooperation of residents of the UT. They should be responsible enough to maintain high standards of cleanliness not only at their homes, but their surroundings too. A habit of cleanliness needs to be inculcated among children. The Municipal Corporation should keep an eye on tourist spots where litter is noticed. Penalising people, who do not throw garbage in dustbins, can be effective in checking littering. The Municipal Corporation employees should be regular in their duties. Only combined efforts of the civic authorities and residents can improve the cleanliness standards, which will in turn improve Chandigarh’s rank in Swachh Survekshan.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, Chandigarhresidents must follow mc guidelinesThe City Beautiful has gained a few points on the cleanliness parameters to improve its previous score, but it remains beyond satisfaction as compared its second rank in 2016. Councillors and residents need to work together. They should leave no stone unturned to make Chandigarh cleanest and most beautiful city in the country. Residents must follow the MC guidelines regarding segregation of garbage. The councillors and officials of the Municipal Corporation must ensure implementation of the garbage disposal guidelines. Joint efforts of all would surely yield desired results.Hardeep Singh Sulach, MohaliMC, residents need to be more activeResponsibility of keeping the city clean lies on shoulders of residents equally as on the MC. Residents need to be more civic by not littering and throwing garbage in trash bins provided at places. They need to cooperate with the MC by segregating waste. The MC should provide more dustbins in the city and collect garbage on time. Roads should be cleaned in the night.Abhilasha Gupta, Mohalicheck cleanliness in all sectorsThe Municipal Corporation is responsible for maintaining cleanliness, but onus lies on city residents too. The authorities concerned must visit each sector once in a month and check the progress of cleanliness. Safari karmcharis sometimes do not take interest in their work. Residents’ welfare associations must cooperate with the MC and make sure that the staff deployed for keeping sectors clean works.Tarlok Singh, ChandigarhGive more funds to keep city cleanFixing responsibility is one method to improve cleanliness in Chandigarh. Factors, which reduce cleanliness in the city are over population, pollution, internal politics of the MC and the issue of waste treatment plant at Dadu Majra. Fixing responsibility of MC employees is the last resort. Poor Budget passed by the MC also hampers swachhta abhiyan in the city.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhUT lags in waste segregationChandigarh lags behind in waste segregation, which is integral part of collection. UT also did not fare well in waste disposal and processing because of the legal battle with Jaypee Group. The municipal solid waste (MSW) is not being processed as per rules. It is disposed of directly at dumping ground. Chandigarh should exert maximum on the MSW segregation at source. Door-to-door collectors managed by private firm should be immediately deployed by the Municipal Corporation on salary basis because they are the backbone of waste segregation at the source.Dr PS Bhatti, ZirakpurCheck Boys & girls littering parksWe alone can keep our City Beautiful clean as not much is expected from the MC authorities. We understand the importance of keeping our houses and surroundings clean. Consider city as joint property and start maintaining cleanliness at parks, markets and parking places. Dust bins should be installed at every place and used by residents. Parks littered with empty cold drink bottles, cans, cigarette packs and buts, packing for snacks etc present a bad picture of the city. Boys and girls are responsible for littering at public places. They should stop all this immediately.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhGive incentive for innovation, good workFixing responsibility is not an easy and logically conclusive task because no project is a one-man show and the blame can be passed on to the system. The better line of action is motivation and giving incentives for innovation and good work. All endeavours go for a toss when waste dumps, roads and localities get inundated after rain. Maintenance and augmentation of stormwater infrastructure and construction of reservoirs to store rainwater should be mandated in low-lying spots the city. These reservoirs will make city look more swachh.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaFix responsibility of all concernedThe Swachh Survekshan ranking of Chandigarh has not gone down well with residents. No doubt, maintaining cleanliness is MC’s responsibility, but it cannot be achieved without residents’ involvement. Cleanliness starts from houses, areas around houses, garbage disposal, roads, parks and markets. People should help the authorities to maintain cleanliness in the city. The authorities must start a campaign to make public aware about cleanliness and fix duties and responsibilities of all concerned to achieve top rank in the next survey.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliPay attention to waste managementNo doubt this year Chandigarh has improved a bit from 20th to 16th rank. Not bad. But, in 2016 the city bagged second and in 2018 third position in Swachh Survekshan. It means the city has steadily dropped in ranking. Yes, the authorities are responsible, but residents are equally responsible. The system for ranking a town makes sense only when people know about it and participation in it. To improve ranking the UT needs to pay special attention to proper collection, segregation and disposal of waste.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaSelf-discipline need of the hourSwachh Bharat Abhiyaan was launched to fulfil the aim of cleanliness. It means not only cleaning roads, infrastructure, but also using toilets and not defecating in the open. The City Beautiful rank dropped from third to 20th in Swachh Survekshan. Reason is undisciplined population. People throw leftover of eatables, plastic empty bags and bottles on roads. They vandalise public property and use public parks for partying. Garbage is not lifted for many days. Safai karamcharis also don’t take responsibility. Until and unless people are taught self discipline, Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan will not gain significance.Charu Malhotra, MohaliImprove door-to-door garbage collectionBoth residents and the Municipal Corporation must coordinate to maintain cleanliness in Chandigarh. Residents should not throw horticulture waste, debris, polythene and paper outside their homes. Door-to-door collection of waste should be improved. Every councillor should hold meetings with residents’ welfare association of his/her ward to create awareness about sanitation. People should be fined for littering, spitting and defecating in the open.Anita Tandon, KhararAdhere to ‘restrict, recycle and reuse’Cleanliness starts from the door of an individual. Every resident is responsible for keeping his/her house and surroundings clean. The MC should ensure regular lifting of garbage and disposal. Once can find heaps of garbage still lying in the open. Also, garbage has to be segregated at source and lifted accordingly. The principal of restrict, recycle and reuse, which at present is lacking, has to be adhered to. There is no check on stray animals, which is responsibility of the MC. Keeping city clean is not possible without cooperation of the people and the MC.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar (retd), MohaliSupport MC to make city clean againAlthough Chandigarh has upped its rank in the Swachh Survekshan from last year, yet it’s still far below the second rank achieved in 2016. To fare better, the Municipal Corporation (MC) should improve waste collection, segregation, processing and disposal, which will lead to sustainable sanitation. The civic body must also clean vegetable markets, slums, Dadu Majra dumping ground, upgrade the grievance redressal system and aim for achieving the five-star garbage free cities (GFC) certification. Residents must support the authorities in making ‘the City Beautiful’, beautiful and clean again.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhNot much achieved in four yearsCity jumping to only four ranks in the Swachh Survekshan this year is discouraging. The city should have at least achieved it old rankings of 2016. It could have been possible if the MC authorities, residents’ welfare associations and the public in general would have seriously cared for the cleanliness in the city. Though official responsibility of maintaining cleanliness lies on the MC, residents welfare associations can play a big role by ensuring timely removal of garbage from respective localities and proper maintenance of parks and roads.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliDetermination is the key to successEveryone knows that Chandigarh is a modern and beautiful city. Despite this, it could not give the best performance in Swachh Sarvekshan. The civic authorities and residents are equally responsible for not maintaining cleanliness. Determination is the key to success. The MC and residents should take interest keeping the city clean. Heaps of garbage should be removed from roadsides (for example near Central Library, Sector 34, Chandigarh ) and Dadu Majra. The MC should check and supervise cleanliness work in routine. No one should throw garbage in the open.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliConcerted collective efforts will bear fruitThe responsibility for city’s upkeep and cleanliness lies with the Municipal Corporation. Chandigarhians too are equally responsible to ensure such conditions. Each sector should choose and appoint its own “Swachh Abhiyan Marshal”, who should daily take rounds of the area to ensure that residents do not litter trash. Punishment those, who litter. Create awareness, followed by hammering into collective unconscious need for cleanliness, and finally build intolerance for dirtiness. The concerted collective effort would certainly bear fruit.DR SS Bhatti, Chandigarhincrease capacity of waste treatment plantChandigarh is not doing as good as expected on the parameters of Swachh Survekshan. The two main parameters where the City Beautiful is lacking behind others are 1) residents participation and 2) waste management. The authorities concerned should increase the capacity of waste treatment plant by installing a new and modern technology plant. The MC should improve maintenance and cleanliness of roads and surrounding areas and ensure people’s participation.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhDevelop civic sense among residentsChandigarh is still low in cleanliness ranking because there is little accountability of the authorities and residents. We got to develop a good civic sense not only to solve the problem of garbage disposal, but also to keep the city clean. Fines by the MC are in order, but it alone will not help. There are many, who throw litter on roads and in streets. In Chandigarh, garbage can be turned into fuel and manure. If garbage collectors do not turn up, we ourselves dispose it in a bin. Take initiative, do it yourself. Don’t keep blaming others. Thinking out of the box will help.Colonel RD Singh (retd), AmbalaFind drawbacks in cleanlinessThe prime responsibility of the administration is to raise the level of infrastructure for cleanliness in the city. But, the role of general public is of paramount importance to further maintain it. Take it for sure that no movement can be transformed into revolution without the sincere involvement of civilians at mass level. Agencies involved should find drawbacks in cleanliness and put their best to improve conditions to revive honour of the City Beautiful. Residents must help wholeheartedly to achieve the desired outcome.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliKeep public toilets cleanFollow two-point development programme for Chandigarh to make it a clean city. First, all roads to and inside Apni Mandis should be made of cement. During the rainy season, they become muddy and dirty and inconvenience buyers. Public toilets at places like hospitals, markets and parks must be kept clean. If finance is a problem then these may be converted to “Pay and use” mode.Dr AK Agarwal, ChandigarhCity is plagued with civic issuesChandigarh bagged 16th position in Swachh Survekshan owing to the poor waste management and segregation. Besides, the city is plagued with other civic issues, including rainwater drainage, cleanliness, broken roads, poor maintenance of greenbelts and non-functional street lights. The MC has abdicated its responsibility and all these works have been given to contractors. Consequently, the MC is on the verge of taking loan for giving salaries to its employees and major works have been deferred. Thus, the fault lies not on any individual, but on the capitalist system in which we all live.SK Khosla, ChandigarhSwachhta is like tonic for residentsIt is joint responsibility of the civic authorities, individuals, RWAs, institutions and establishments to make efforts for maintaining cleanliness in the City Beautiful. We all are aware and know well that the benefits of ‘Swachhta’ are as best as tonic in life.Jagdish Singh Jassal, PanchkulaQUESTIONPeople in the tricity are facing rain-related problems such as road cave-ins, waterlogged streets and water entering houses and offices. Despite these being recurring problems during the monsoon, why are the civic authorities caught unprepared every year? What measures do you think should be taken to prevent these problems?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent toopenhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-residents-should-join-hands-to-restore-chandigarhs-lost-glory-133958
