01-03-2022||Former Union Health Secretary||A digital health revolution to empower citizens||IT was in mid-2019 that the National Digital Health Blueprint (NDHB) was launched, in keeping with the vision of the National Health Policy-2017 and adopting the principle of ‘Think Big, Start Small, Scale Fast’. As the then Union Health Secretary and Chairperson of the Global Digital Health Partnership, it is a matter of pride for me that India was one of the few countries that had a comprehensive and transformative vision of its digital health path ahead. The NDHB, based on the J. Satyanarayana Committee report, is now seeing a determined actualisation.On August 15, 2020, the Prime Minister announced the implementation of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) in the country. Its vision is to create a national digital health ecosystem that supports universal health coverage in an efficient, accessible, inclusive, affordable, timely and safe manner, with the creation of a seamless online platform through the provision of a wide range of data, information and infrastructure services, leveraging open, interoperable, standards-based digital systems, while ensuring the security, confidentiality and privacy of health-related personal information.On September 27, 2021, the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission (ABDM) was launched by the PM, and on February 1, 2022, the Finance Minister, in her Budget speech, announced that the ABDM would be rolled out this year. On February 26, the Union Cabinet approved the national rollout of the mission with a budget ofRs 1,600 crore for five years. The National Health Authority will be the implementing agency. It is gratifying that within a couple of years, the country has prepared the ground for an initiative that has high potential to be a game-changer for healthcare delivery.There are several digital solutions developed in the recent past that are being effectively used in our healthcare system. These solutions are aimed at empowering frontline workers and service providers by facilitating data collection used to improve individual and population health outcomes, enable digital training platforms for rapid dissemination of new knowledge, streamline procurement, distribution and payment systems and most importantly allow public engagement, thereby improving transparency and governance. Some examples are ANM-online (ANMOL), the Health and Wellness Centre portal, Nikshays, i-GOT, Mera Aspatal & Online Registration System (ORS), e-Raktkosh, e-Sushrut, Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN), Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), and so on. The importance and value of digital health tools became even more apparent during the pandemic, when solutions such as telemedicine (through eSanjeevani and others), Aarogya Setu, and CoWIN greatly helped in driving public health interventions and the delivery of various health services to the people.However, despite the rising acceptance of the role of digital health services, most of the digital health solutions, be it public or private, have continued to develop in a fragmented manner, restricted to their own silos, with little consideration of interoperability and a comprehensive larger picture. The ABDM envisages a unifying platform with open APIs (application programming interface) based on INdea (India Enterprise Architecture) notified by the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology to provide a single window for patient-centric healthcare.India’s digital initiatives like Aadhaar, Direct Benefit Transfer, Unified Payments Interface (UPI), Digilocker, though viewed with scepticism initially, have benefited the public immensely, helped weed out discretion and corruption and won international accolades. The most recent initiative of CoWIN is now being emulated by other countries.There is scepticism regarding the ABDM too. Concerns have been raised regarding data privacy, absence of a regulatory framework, and the possibility of exclusion due to the digital divide. It is acknowledged that health data is sensitive data and health is a State subject. That is why the mission envisages a Federated National Health Information Architecture consistent with well-defined data standards across public and private health providers, across state and national levels and across different health systems (modern medicine and Ayush). Privacy and security of health records is a key focus area of the mission.The ABDM can be seen as a digital highway connecting various players across the healthcare ecosystem. Loss of medical records and the need for repeat tests will be minimised as citizens will have access to their complete medical history through digital health records. Ascertaining the availability of doctors, hospital beds and medicines will become easier with a single ecosystem helping citizens find the services they need efficiently.Healthcare providers will also benefit from ABDM. Timely access to relevant digital medical records can help healthcare providers make better decisions in the interest of their patients. Providing teleconsultations can help them serve patients from far off areas as well, and not just in their vicinity.The ABDM would not just enable the delivery of healthcare, but also be able to harness data for real-time public health decision-making. Policy-makers can also improve decision-making based on population-level health data in an anonymised and aggregated manner. Digital health records can also help doctors and patients seek follow-ups, second opinion from specialists or avail of referrals, allow for the development of integrated decision support systems which aim to maximise effectiveness and patient safety.Public health programme beneficiaries can also be provided services with greater ease with the support of a digital health ecosystem. Portability of benefits for beneficiaries can be carried out more efficiently.There will be a need for digital workforce enablement, capacity building and aligning processes facilitating security and privacy of data. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, under consideration of Parliament, will help lay down the legal framework. In the meantime, the ABDM has already and will further develop the ecosystem for digital health through Ayushman Bharat Health Account (ABHA) — a unique 14-digit randomly generated health ID number for individuals, Health Facility Registry and Healthcare Professional Registry. Assisted mode and an offline mode for registration is also provided for to enable greater inclusion for all. Stakeholders are coming together in the form of a community to develop the protocols for exchange of services in the ecosystem, in open source.In the coming years, along with another health sector scheme, PM-Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission (ABHIM), the ABDM will set the scene for affordable, inclusive, quality universal healthcare in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-digital-health-revolution-to-empower-citizens-373953
01-03-2022||Distinguished Fellow||Why a larger regional role eludes India||Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s remarks on February 18 that in “Nehru’s India…almost half the MPs in the Lok Sabha have criminal charges pending against them, including charges of rape and murder,” touched a raw nerve in New Delhi. The result was a litany of protests about something that is common knowledge. In fact, he was critical of Israel as well on the same count.Considering that Singapore views India and Israel as close friends, Lee’s remarks, made in a speech to the Singapore Parliament, were actually more in sorrow than in anger. But for India, it was a red rag, especially since he contrasted the current period with the era of Jawaharlal Nehru.As for facts, they are quite clear. Based on declarations made by candidates at the time of filing their nomination, the NGOs Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) had noted in May 2019 that 43 per cent of the new MPs had criminal charges against them, a 26 per cent increase over the 2014 figure, and yes, nearly 29 per cent cases related to rape, murder and attempt to murder.But this was not the true burden of Lee’s speech. Though the remarks were in the context of some local developments, what the Singapore PM obliquely did was to express his deep disappointment with India. For long, the tiny island republic has seen India as the key to maintaining the balance of power in Asia.Well before China emerged as a global power in the early 1980s, Lee’s father, the legendary Lee Kuan Yew, had had high hopes of India and had seen that at some point in the future, stability and peace in Asia would be served by India balancing China.As Prof V Suryanarayan once pointed out, within hours of becoming independent from Malaysia in August 1965, Lee Kuan Yew summoned the Indian representative in the island and requested New Delhi’s help to establish its armed forces. But New Delhi was lukewarm and Singapore turned to Israel. In the 1965 India-Pakistan war, Singapore was one of the first countries to back India, but later as the Cold War intensified, the two countries drifted apart and only began a rapprochement in the 1980s.In the 1990s, when India initiated its “Look East” policy, Singapore was one of the first ASEAN nations to welcome it. Today, though ASEAN is India’s fourth largest trading partner, a lot of this relates to Singapore which accounts for 90 per cent of India’s inbound and outbound investment from the region. Indeed, 29 per cent of the $81.72 billion FDI that India got in 2020-21 came from the country. Over 8,000 Indian companies are registered in the city-state, making it the largest foreign corporate contingent there. India’s trade is an anaemic $21 billion or so but its outward FDI to Singapore is over $63 billion, making it one of the top destinations for Indian investments.China, of course, looms larger in terms of trading and investment, as well as political issues, taking into account the South China Sea dispute. Singapore investments in China are nearly $200 billion.China is Singapore’s largest trading partner with trade worth $136 billion. The difference in the economic imprint of the two in the region is best brought out by India’s decision to stay out of the Regional Economic Comprehensive Partnership (RCEP).But India has developed important security ties with Singapore. These began in 1994 as an adjunct of the Look East policy which culminated in the signing of a Defence Cooperation Agreement between the two countries in 2003. Since 1994, India and Singapore have been conducting the annual bilateral naval exercise, SIMBEX, which have become increasingly sophisticated over the years. It was only the next year in 1995 that India reached out to other ASEAN navies through Exercise Milan in the Andaman Sea.In recent years, there have been annual ministerial and official level dialogues on security issues, as well as staff level talks between the three wings of the armed forces. Since the mid-2000s, Singapore has used the IAF base at Kalaikunda in West Bengal for training and exercises using its own F-16 aircraft. More recently, the Singapore Army has used training and firing facilities at Babina for its tanks. In November 2017, the two sides agreed to bilateral naval cooperation which would involve maritime security, port visits and mutual logistics support.As the Chinese expanded into the South China Sea, greater congruence has emerged between the two sides on security issues. Both have stressed the need for a pacific settlement of disputes and the importance of the freedom of navigation of the seas.In the current churn in the Indo-Pacific, Singapore would like India to play a more robust role in the South-east Asian region, both economically and from the security point of view. It has so far depended on the US for its security, though it is not a treaty ally. But the US is an extra-regional power which can pack up and go home, depending on the vagaries of its politics.India, a regional country that shares maritime borders with four of the 10 ASEAN states, is a surer bet to offset China’s growing power and assertion. But for that, New Delhi needs to get its act together. Divisive domestic policies are distracting from the strength India could have brought to bear in the region. Further, an indifferent economic performance affects its ability to field a military which is capable of a larger regional role.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-a-larger-regional-role-eludes-india-373950
01-03-2022||Every time armies march to reduce cities to dust and citizens to destitution in Iraq||Desperate for a degree||The licence-permit Raj in the education sector has resulted in substandard quality of education, high fiscal and political costs for new entrepreneurs and scams galore. Much is said about Russian President Vladimir Putin’s villainy; much less is said about the US-led NATO’s perfidy in turning old Soviet republics and almost all Warsaw Pact countries into its own allies — 14 new allies since 1997, not counting East Germany that was unified with the West in 1990, leaving Russia with no buffer, nor bulwark, almost naked against western designs. Celebrated British journalist John Pilger’s Twitter timeline offers a counterview to the western narrative, as does University of Chicago’s highly regarded political scientist John Mearsheimer’s recent lecture widely circulated on YouTube.India has been walking a rope that gets tighter by the day, alluding to Russia’s legitimate security concerns one day and Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity the next and then abstaining in the UN Security Council vote and commiserating with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Whether India antagonises both Russia and the US in the process or derives some leverage out of its jugglery depends on the balls that would still remain in the air after the cessation of hostilities. Till then, the pitiable Indian situation is that of a largely friendless nation that fears losing its old friend while not winning new ones.Equally central to the Indian crisis is the student community that has got stranded in Ukraine. These are largely students seeking medical degrees, for the simple reason that these courses are offered dirt cheap in this east European country — dirt cheap according to the standards set by the private teaching shops that have mushroomed all across India. While a five-and-a-half-year MBBS degree course in a private Indian medical college, in terms of fees, costs upwards of Rs 50 lakh and up to even Rs 1 crore, a similar six-year course is offered even at Rs 21 lakh in Ukraine. There are about 15 universities offering a huge number of MBBS seats in English language there, some of which are 200 years old and at least five of them established during the Soviet era.No wonder there are nearly 18,000 Indian students stranded in Ukraine and Union ministers are being photographed welcoming them back. But why do they have to travel to Ukraine in the first place? India with its colonial past does not have 200-year-old universities or Soviet-era health infrastructure to compete with the standards of the rest of the world, but students who are desperate for a Ukrainian degree aren’t the ones to look at the antiquity of their medical colleges or universities. For them, this is an option only as good as the one in Bangladesh, China, Philippines, Armenia or any other destination that offers a cheap but valid degree without asking whether the student is really good enough.The two crucial reasons why Indian students seek out these colleges are: one, they have no cut-off score – that is, they are not merit-based; and two, they are cheaper than Indian private medical colleges that offer similar admission without high marks. The basic qualification is just 50 per cent for science subjects in Class 12 and a score, or rather any score, in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for medical courses. If 18,000 students on an average have paid about Rs 25 lakh for their course fee in Ukraine, the opportunity loss for Indian educational entrepreneurs would be a minimum of Rs 4,500 crore. Add travel, lodging and incidental expenses and the figure assumes a fearsome proportion in terms of flight of capital for medical education.And this is the amount spent by Indian parents just in Ukraine. Agents offering admission consultancy online list over 10 countries as possible destinations for Indian students. There are no reasons why Indian parents should be shelling out tens of thousands of crores for their children’s education when all it would take the government is to allow hospitals running well for over 10 years to offer MBBS courses in the private sector.The licence-permit Raj in the education sector has resulted in substandard quality of education, high fiscal and political costs for new entrepreneurs and scams galore. India will never be able to match the facilities offered by foreign universities, private or public. For instance, Ukraine, with less than the population of Punjab and Haryana, has about 15 universities offering MBBS courses, mostly in the public sector. The only option to retain Indian parents’ life savings is by opening up the sector. Unlike the earlier blunders of greenfield medical colleges without hospitals, the government should allow all reputed private hospitals to have MBBS courses.The fear of scamsters dishing out substandard education can be allayed by the National Testing Authority holding at least two examinations countrywide instead of just the national exit examination. Students in Ukraine are expected to take two national tests, KROK-1 and KROK-2 — the first after three years into the course and the second at the end of the six-year course. In fact, more than the possible new medical colleges that can come up in future, such national tests will help regulate the quality of our existing teaching facilities, where our commissions, councils and universities have failed conclusively.India’s national hypocrisy over private education has left our students stranded in a geopolitical minefield. In an era of global instability, parents should not be forced to spend their life savings and push their 17-year-olds into uncertainty for a degree that can be easily available in their hometowns. #indians in ukraine #MBBS #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/desperate-for-a-degree-373943
01-03-2022||Commentator and Author||Russia-West conflict of interest over Ukraine||The world is facing the “biggest global peace and security crisis”, says UN chief Antonio Guterres on the Ukraine-Russia stand-off. Indeed, but who created it? Is Russia solely responsible for the war of “mutually assured destruction” (MAD)? Is Russia’s monopoly the spoilsport in the midst of traditional gunboat diplomacy and an expansive Western world whose out-of-area land-grabbing was universally despised and resisted, from Cape Town to Calcutta, Syria to Singapore and Tunisia to Tasmania, till recent times?To a perceptive observer, the 24x7 high-decibel media reportage projecting Moscow as the criminal is difficult to accept and hard to believe. True, Russia is culpable and responsible for the escalating violence. But the responsibility of the US-led NATO also is no less than that of an agent provocateur. All in need of land, gas, resources, cash and containment of Russia, smarting since the ignominious break-up of the Soviet Union in 1991 when the giant landmass with its formidable military collapsed like a house of cards, wherein the role of the West too remains questionable.That the latest Russian act of unilateral political recognition to two portions of Ukraine and the invasion has created an avoidable crisis is undeniable. Whether this act is right or wrong depends on who belongs to which side. Suffice to recall that another similar, if not graver, crisis —the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962 — almost brought the world to the brink of the ‘third World War’ between the then Soviet Union and the US.Contextually, however, in a bigger and broader frame, it’s not Russia versus Ukraine on Crimea, but Russia versus the entire West. The genesis can be traced back to the Second World War, when Russia was the worst sufferer with the highest fatalities of 30 million and incalculable economic ruin along the area extending almost up to Moscow, Leningrad and Stalingrad. Yet, Russia has been the eternal “enfant terrible”. In adversity, Moscow is the implacable adversary and even when starving, Russia is ‘Satan’, not those creators of wealth through war.To India, however, the maverick/pariah ‘Muscovite’ was the sole friend and saviour in the greatest and grandest 1971 military-cum-political victory. Hence, whatever be the ‘internal’ or ‘bilateral’ Kiev-Moscow ties, India’s neutral diplomatic position today deserves appreciation. Both Kiev and Moscow have a Delhi bond, deserving respect, and should not act rashly at the behest of those who may have other aims.Coming back to the October 1962 missile crisis, the US rightly confronted the Soviet Union owing to the latter’s military/missile intervention in Cuba, the backyard of the US, 90 miles off Florida’s coast. Moscow’s act was certainly wrong and overambitious because it fell under the US “zone of interest”, like exclusive economic zone-cum-territorial water.Unsurprisingly, Moscow in 1962 had to retreat, thereby vindicating the US stand. Six decades on, why then is the US resorting to misadventure with destructive consequences? If the Cuban island is the backyard of the US, what should the contiguous land of Ukraine/Crimea be referred to vis-a-vis Moscow? Further, when did Cuba belong to the US? Didn’t Ukraine/Crimea constitute an inalienable and inviolable part of the Soviet Union till 1991?It’s clear that owing to the collective failure of the West to face the economic juggernaut of the Communist Party of China (CPC), the US and its allies are now desperate to cobble up an economic/financial coalition, to at least contain and curb the steady inroads Moscow too has been making into the European heartland through one of the most lucrative exports — natural gas. Russia alone was enough to meet the energy needs of the overlapping politico-economic geography of the European Union and NATO nations.Today’s Second Crimean War, however, implies a sudden shift of the US-led West’s focus from the Indo-Pacific pivot to the familiar, fertile and fratricidal soil of Europe, which holds the record of killings, conquests and catastrophe across the globe for more than three centuries.The US-led West started feeling the pinch in a two-front economic-cum-military resurgence. China as a rising sea power from the Far East of Alfred Thayer Mahan’s waterfront, and Russia replicating Mackinder’s Euro-Asian heartland with an assertive stance of “thus far and no further”, owing to her dismemberment in 1991. Aside, with declining demography and economic uncertainty gripping the West, global economy struggling with inflation, supply-chain snarls and rocky recovery from the pandemic leading to less growth and lesser power to influence the traditional non-West spanning from Gibraltar to Hong Kong and South Africa to Sakhalin, agonising tension was building up fast and furious on all sides. Russia has never been accepted as a European power and has always been despised and looked at with suspicion. That’s what the then German Navy Chief Vice Admiral Kay-Achim Schönbach had pointed out in Delhi two months ago: “What Putin wants is respect. Giving respect is low cost, even no cost.”The Crimean War of 2022 is about geography and zone of influence/interest, which beyond a point, can hardly be kept under the carpet. Thus stands out the 1982 UK-Argentina war over the Falkland Islands. The latter are located in the South Atlantic Ocean, 100 miles off Argentina’s coast and 15,675 km from the UK port of Southampton. Once with Argentina, these islands have been ruled by the UK since 1833. Yet, for the retention of this remote archipelago, London fought the war with Buenos Aires. Soldiers were killed, ships sunk and aircraft downed, all owing to its being a zone of national interest and sovereignty for the distant but powerful Europe’s UK prevailing over a non-European state in South America. The Cuba Missile Crisis, on other hand, was taken up head-on by the US on the grounds of proximity. In India, the zone of national interest lies in the whole of the south of the Himalayas and the proximate island territories up to the equator. Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh are inalienable and inviolable parts of India; yet large portions thereof are under the illegal occupation of Pakistan and China. Can this area, therefore, remain peaceful till eternity? So, what Putin today has done, and is still doing, is incorrect no doubt, but the question is: why did he do this?National “self-interest” is a convenient word, used by the rich and powerful States at the drop of a hat to justify each aggression since the era of imperialism. The West forgets that Russia’s land power extends almost half way around the globe. And as land powers are “perennially insecure”, without seas to protect them, they axiomatically either expand or succumb. Russia’s land is an asset and a liability — an asset during peace and a liability when neighbours are hostile. Russia has been attacked from Napoleon to Hitler; and Moscow too threatened smaller states like Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania and the Balkans. Today, however, the lingering loss of territory and power in 1991 constitutes the fulcrum of Moscow’s ill-conceived Second Crimean War. Avoidable provocation, America! Avoidable aggression, Russia! Hope, it’s not a big power game with tacit understanding. #Russia #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/russia-west-conflict-of-interest-over-ukraine-373661
01-03-2022||Ex-Secretary||The Delhi dilemma||Russia’s ‘special military operation’, which began on February 24, in Ukraine is an invasion. For PM Modi, this invasion constitutes an enormous diplomatic challenge which includes the need to safely evacuate thousands of Indian students caught in the conflict zone and navigate through the competing demands of US-led NATO countries and Russia. In another age, Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi faced the contradictions arising out of Soviet actions in Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Afghanistan, but their dilemmas were not as cruel as Modi faces now. India’s relations with the US and its allies were then constrained by ideologies and the compulsions of the Cold War and its dependence on Moscow was crucial. Today, India’s engagement with the US is critical while its defence relationship with Russia is still essential for its interests.Modi will have to use all his political and diplomatic skills to continuously navigate between US and Russian demands to ensure that India’s interests are protected.As President Putin prepared to take military action, India called for ‘de-escalation of tensions taking into account the legitimate security interests of all countries and aimed towards security and long-term peace and stability in the region and beyond’; its UNSC statements of January 30, February 17 and February 21 included these words. While the February 23 UNSC meeting was going on, news reached the council chamber of the invasion. India’s statement called for ‘de-escalation’, ‘sustained diplomatic dialogue’ and the need to take into account ‘the legitimate interests of all parties’.In the present context, the words ‘legitimate security interests of all countries’ tilted towards Russia, for it had drawn a red line on Ukraine’s membership of NATO. Hence, Russia found the formulation favourable to its position. As one of its senior Delhi-based diplomat told the India media, ‘We welcome the independent position India has taken in the UNSC twice already and which was expressed openly by the external affairs minister and other officials’.The security interests of one great power can be ignored by other great powers only at the cost of international peace and stability. Russia’s pleas that the expansion of NATO into Ukraine was not acceptable to it were brushed aside by the US and its allies who focused on the sovereign rights of all states. Theoretically all sovereign states are equal, but the reality is that the international system gives primacy to the interests of great powers. India was therefore indirectly stressing the need for the US and the European great powers to reconcile their security interests with Russia.The western powers did not publicly comment on India’s position. They adopted the path of quiet diplomacy which they have really not given up till now. They did not emphasise the inconsistency in India’s insistence, along with them, in demanding a rules-based Indo-Pacific while basing its approach on realism in Europe. The quality of India’s relations with the US and major European countries led them to give India space.That space is now closing with Putin’s invasion and the outrage in NATO and other parts of the world. Putin’s action has threatened Europe’s security order put in place by NATO. The merits of this order can be debated because it pushed Russia into a corner, but Putin crossed a red line. This is obviously the point that the US and other European countries are pressing on India in an attempt to get its position closer to theirs. A hint on what is occurring behind the scenes was given by President Biden in his media interaction on February 24. He was asked, ‘Is India fully in sync with the United States on Russia?’ He said, ‘We’re going to be —we’re in consultation with India today. We haven’t resolved that completely.’ A State Department official later said, ‘We are continuing to consult with Indian counterparts on a collective response to Russia’s invasion.’Modi spoke to Putin on February 24. The Ministry of External Affairs statement on the conversation noted Modi’s appeal to Putin ‘for the immediate cessation of violence’. (The choice of the word ‘violence’ for an invasion is noteworthy.) While calling for a ‘return to the path of diplomatic negotiations and dialogue’, Modi ‘reiterated his long-standing conviction’ that Russian and NATO differences can only be ‘resolved’ through dialogue. Is Putin likely to pay heed when he is creating facts on the ground in Ukraine? His stated initial aim was Ukraine’s ‘demilitarisation’ and ‘denazification’. The meaning of the first word was clear but the second is heavy with history and its connotation, though imprecise, indicated a desire for regime change. That is now confirmed by Putin’s appeal to the Ukraine army to do so.Significantly, NATO Secretary-General told a media briefing on February 25 that Russia had demanded that the organisation should remove troops and equipment from those of its members that joined it after 1997. This implies that Putin wants those countries which were members of the Warsaw Pact or part of the USSR should be ‘defanged’. Russia-NATO ties will continue to be an element of global instability. In this situation, India’s diplomacy will continue to get severely tested. Modi will have to use all his political and diplomatic skills and continuously navigate between competing US and Russian demands to ensure that India’s interests are protected.That India has begun this process of diplomatic adjustment is shown in India abstaining on the UNSC Resolution criticising the invasion and demanding a return to status quo ante. In its explanation of vote, India dropped the formulation regarding ‘legitimate security interests’ and stressed the need to respect the ‘sovereignty and territorial integrity of states’, which Russia has violated in Ukraine. Clearly, the US has put great pressure behind the scenes, despite the growing partnership. Did it convey that it would sanction India for its purchase of the Russian S-400 missile system and reconsider intelligence cooperation? The question now is how will Russia react to India’s changing position. Its ire may be constrained because China too abstained! #america #Russia||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-delhi-dilemma-373658
