02-03-2022||---||Ukraine challenge in changing global order||Ukraine, a nation of 44 million free citizens, is fighting valiantly to defend its freedom and territorial integrity against Putin’s Russia, a war of choice for all the wrong reasons. Caught between disbelief, despair and compulsions of realpolitik, the world at large seems helpless to help beyond an expression of outrage, even as the Russian armed forces continue to penetrate deep inside Ukraine. Moscow has placed its nuclear forces on alert in an ominous signal of a possibly prolonged confrontation. Meanwhile, the exclusion of Russia from the SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication) financial system and additional pledges of military support from the United States and other countries is of some comfort to those who stand on the right side of history.The escalating armed hostilities in Ukraine underscore the urgency of reforming the UN system so that the aspirations of the ‘numerical majority’ are not suborned by the ‘mighty minority’ through an unconscionable exercise of the veto power.Putin’s repeated misadventures, starting with Georgia in 2008 and the annexation of Crimea in 2014, represent a brazen infraction of the first principles of the UN charter. Russia’s ambition to redraw the territorial map of Central Europe and to forcibly reconfigure its geopolitics is a case without parallel in the 21st century. The possibility of a sovereign nation losing its identity within days by deployment of brute Russian force, inspired by the fading memories of imperial grandeur and superpower status of the erstwhile Soviet Union, tests the assumptions of a rules-based international order. Just when the world was beginning to limp back to a semblance of normalcy, having suffered the consequences of a devastating pandemic, Russia’s unprovoked assault on the territorial integrity of Ukraine has ramifications for global political stability. It raises once again the profoundly important question about the role and relevance of the UN and its instrumentalities as facilitators of global peace. The escalating armed hostilities in Ukraine underscore the urgency of reform of the UN system so that the aspirations of the ‘numerical majority’ are not suborned by the ‘mighty minority’ through an unconscionable exercise of the veto power, seen in the West-sponsored UNSC resolution against Russia. In a bizarre scenario, the aggressor, acting as a judge in its own cause, vetoed the critical resolution in the UNSC to shield itself against a formal international censure for its act of war in Ukraine.Moscow’s justification for ‘demilitarisation’ of Ukraine as a measure of self-defence, through what it describes as a ‘special military operations’ to prevent the former Soviet republics from moving into the US-led NATO orbit, is an orchestrated case of invented injury to reclaim lost territory and restore the dented Russian prestige following the dismemberment of the erstwhile Soviet Union. Putin’s excursions in Georgia, Crimea, Moldova and Donbas et al, are clearly part of a time-driven strategy, bolstered by the China-Russian entente and facilitated by divisions in Europe to ‘reset the imperial table’ and reclaim Russia’s lost sphere of influence. Revelling in revanchism, Putin longs for Moscow’s old glory and wishes to rewrite the past into the future. The outcome of the war in Ukraine would determine whether or not his wish would be fulfilled.Even though Putin’s assertion that Ukraine cannot be treated as a state independent of Russia, is a historical absurdity post 1991, his boastful challenge that “any country attempting to interfere will create consequences you have never seen,” has introduced a chilling dimension to a grim situation. An extended war in Europe could de-freeze frozen conflicts in the region and challenge the received wisdom that economic interdependence between nations could alone safeguard international peace. The trajectory of the Ukrainian conflict could re-kindle international interest in nuclear capability as the ultimate deterrent and defence against threats to territorial integrity, in a setback to the nuclear disarmament process.Through the course of its evolution, international law has been repeatedly called upon to defend not only its efficacy but also its existence as an instrument of world peace. The debates in the UNGA and UNSC on several defining moments bear testimony to its impotence for securing peace in zones of conflict. This reminds us over and over again that we live in a world of power untamed by legal constraints since a ‘power is apt to be insolent’. Will the world find its voice to denounce Putin’s war gambit or yield yet again to validate the ancient Greek wisdom that those who have the odds of power exact as much as they can and the weak yield to such conditions, as they get, is the question.Resolution of the Ukraine crisis, consistent with its sovereignty and territorial integrity, will indeed test the ‘tenuous balance between power and principle’. It will demonstrate whether the question of justice can be divorced from the equation of power and whether in civilising itself in the use of state power, the world has progressed from force to diplomacy, from diplomacy to law. For the moment, we must accept that the repeated triumph of force over freedom in times of conflict belies the claim that the present global order is designed to secure the triumph of freedom everywhere.Europe’s darkest hour today must spur the world to recognise the futility of evading hard choices to sustain principles that can ensure a just and humane world order. Indian diplomacy is challenged once again to navigate, as best as possible, the balance between principle and pragmatism. In asserting the inviolability of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations, without explicitly endorsing the censure of Russia in UNSC through abstention, India’s has been a fine balancing act. While reinforcing the sacrosanct principle of the UN charter, India has preserved its strategic neutrality in the service of its overarching and multi-dimensional national interests. Jawaharlal Nehru had cautioned that “no government dare do anything, which in the short or long run is not manifestly to the advantage of the country.” Prime Minister Modi’s implicit message to Putin in his reported telephonic conversation and through India’s statements in the UNSC is to step back from the red line and work towards a negotiated settlement with Ukraine.Despite the formidable and vastly superior war machine at his command, Putin should know that in today’s wired world, any act of injustice or brutality is bound to have global ramifications. He would know from history, that the cry for freedom is an ‘unending frenzy’ once it seizes popular imagination and that neither the aggressor nor the victim can escape the ravages of war. And Putin, the strategist, cannot ignore history’s profound reminder that a ‘strategic frivolity’ is punished sooner or later. He should know that just as Iraq and Afghanistan have irretrievably diminished America’s credibility as the superpower arbitrator of global peace, the perception of Putin as an aggressor in Ukraine has dented his standing, both in the chanceries of the world and in the collective consciousness of the people as a whole. The emergency resolution condemning Russian invasion of Ukraine, being discussed in the UNGA, is likely to reflect the international mood against Russia.In the meanwhile, a collective global will to stand in solidarity with the Ukrainian people fighting for their freedom and dignity, will be the test of civilisational progress anchored in empathy for the oppressed and resistance against injustice.Views are personal #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ukraine-challenge-in-changing-global-order-374236
02-03-2022||---||Caste emerges bigger than Hindutva in UP poll||No state capital in India has erected a more magnificent monument to Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar than Lucknow, the city of nawabs. When Mayawati became the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh in 2007, she gave Lucknow a new look by building large red-stone memorial parks on the banks of the Gomati river in honour of not only Dr Ambedkar, but also of Kanshi Ram, her mentor, and herself.On an early morning walk a few days ago near the river front (impressively beautified by Mayawati’s successor Akhilesh Yadav), I started a conversation with a roadside chaiwala. “What is likely to happen in the UP elections?” I asked him in Hindi. He stonewalled my question with a set answer: “Can’t say. Wait until March 10, the counting day.” Then, after a long pause, he made a revealing comment: “Remember, no incumbent government in UP has been voted back in the past 40 years.”The BJP, of course, is making all-out efforts to win a second term for the Yogi Adityanath government. Will it succeed? All the responses I have heard in Lucknow, Kanpur, Rae Bareli, Azamgarh and Varanasi can be clubbed into two categories.One, it’s a tough contest and even if the BJP returns to power, its seats will come down significantly from its 2017 tally of 312 MLAs (in an Assembly of 403). The BJP supporters, too, concede this.Two, the Samajwadi Party’s alliance is winning and Akhilesh Yadav will be UP’s Chief Minister again.At the risk of being proved wrong, I venture to say that the chaiwala will be proved right. The most important factor going against the BJP is that its politics of Hindutva, which had yielded rich dividends in the 2017 Vidhan Sabha elections, and also in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections in UP, is not having the same appeal on the voters this time around. Caste identities have again emerged as the dominant influencers, frustrating the BJP’s attempts to polarise society along communal lines by consolidating its Hindu vote bank.The electoral influence of caste has never been absent in UP. It increased considerably after the advent of the Mandal politics in the late 1980s. This is how the Samajwadi Party (with the Yadavs as its main support base, along with Muslims) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (with the Jatavs as its main support base, along with other Dalit castes and a section of Brahmins and Muslims) gained power and kept the two national parties — the Congress and BJP — at bay.The Ayodhya movement led by the BJP partially succeeded in suppressing the caste factor and bringing non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav Dalits under the Hindutva appeal. Indeed, even a section of the Yadavs and Jatavs supported the BJP in 2014, 2017 and 2019.However, the situation in 2022 is quite different. Akhilesh Yadav has put together an impressive coalition of OBC castes and also wooed a section of the BSP’s non-Jatav supporters. The fact that Mayawati has become inactive in this election (amid fears that the Modi government could reopen corruption cases against her) has helped the Samajwadi Party become the main challenger to the BJP.It is not that the BJP is not trying to play Hindutva politics by whipping up anti-Muslim sentiments. Yogi gave ample evidence of this by saying that this is an election of “80 per cent versus 20 per cent” (the Muslims in UP constitute nearly one-fifth of its population). But apart from the re-emergence of OBC politics, what is frustrating the BJP’s Hindutva strategy is that the Muslim community in UP, despite all provocations, has not reacted in an angry and counter-provocative manner. As a consequence, there is no evidence of Hindu vs Muslim tension in the state, which would have helped the BJP.In addition, barring the BJP’s core voters, its bid to retain power is strongly countered by the unprecedented price rise, severe unemployment, the government’s mismanagement of the Covid crisis during the second wave, the effect of the kisan andolan (particularly in western UP) and the problem of stray cattle, which has arisen due to the ban on cow slaughter.The decline in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity, which had worked wonders for the BJP in the previous elections, is a new development in UP elections. Some of his speeches in rallies defy logic. For example, at a rally in Hardoi, he cited the recent court verdict in the 2008 Ahmedabad bomb blasts and said, “Have you seen the election symbol of the Samajwadi Party (cycle)? The terrorists planted bombs on cycles in busy markets. I am so surprised, why did they use cycles?”Akhilesh Yadav has clearly become the star of this election in UP. His election rallies are far bigger than those addressed by either Modi or Yogi. Moreover, unlike in 2017 when he was facing many problems within his family and party, he has now taken complete control of the Samajwadi Party.Another leader has begun to catch the people’s imagination in the state this time — Priyanka Gandhi. Her public meetings and road shows are attracting huge crowds. For the first time after nearly four decades, the Congress under her leadership is showing signs of revival. The party will surely increase its vote share, although it may not improve much from its pathetically low tally of seven MLAs in 2007. But if Priyanka continues to work at the ground level in UP, she can spring a surprise in the next Lok Sabha elections.In case the BJP loses in UP — and it is not going to do well in Goa, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Manipur either — there will be a dramatic change in the national politics. The people in UP will begin to look up to the Congress, as the only other national party, with hope in the next parliamentary elections. A slogan doing the rounds in UP is this: Bayees mein Akhilesh, Choubees mein Congress (Akhilesh in 2022, Congress in 2024). #adityanath yogi #akhilesh yadav #Hindutva #narendra modi #up poll 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/caste-emerges-bigger-than-hindutva-in-up-poll-374229
02-03-2022||---||Putin shakes the world||In an emotional address to his people, and to the world at large, on the evening of February 22, Russian President Vladimir Putin spelt out the challenges that Russia faced from the US, which, he claimed, appeared set on destabilising Russia’s neighbourhood. This address came amid growing tensions in Russia’s relations with neighbouring Ukraine. Putin focused extensively on how, he claimed, the US had ‘maliciously’ sought to undermine and destabilise the Soviet Union. He also dwelt on the alleged role of Ukraine, as a partner, in more recent western conspiracies to destabilise the Russian Federation.Jingoism and gloating by the US and others over Russia’s problems will have disastrous consequences. He, however, added: ‘I would like to emphasise again that Ukraine is not just a neighbouring country for us. It is an inalienable part of our own history, culture and spiritual space.’ He concluded that in this situation, it was necessary ‘to take a long overdue decision to immediately recognise the independence and sovereignty of the Donetsk People’s Republic and the Lugansk People’s Republic’ — territories located in Ukraine. His proposal was quickly approved by Russia’s Parliament.The stage was thus set on February 22 for a Russian faceoff, primarily with the US, amid Moscow’s growing tensions with Ukraine. US President Biden faced sharp domestic criticism over these developments. Republican politicians, led by former President Donald Trump and his Secretary of State Pompeo, asserted that what had happened was the result of inept handling by the Biden administration, much like what had transpired in Washington’s debacle during its ignominious withdrawal from Afghanistan. The Russian media, meanwhile, noted that Donetsk and Lugansk regions had asserted their independence from Ukraine.Putin made it clear that it was not just Donetsk and Lugansk, but the whole of Ukraine which was the target of his territorial ambitions. His blunt criticism of past Soviet policies spared no one, including past Soviet era icons like Lenin, Stalin, Khrushchev, and three generations of the entire leadership of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. It was, to say the least, strange and inappropriate for him to criticise past leaders who laid the foundation of Russia’s scientific and technological achievements, and made the Soviet Union a world power.Developments that have followed Putin’s territorial ambitions have created deep schisms across the world, and within his country. While his original territorial demands were confined to securing ‘independence’ from Ukrainian rule in some areas of Ukraine, Putin surprised the world by laying claim to the whole of Ukraine. This claim was accompanied by a military attack on Ukraine, which many assert was aimed at the takeover of the whole of Crimea. These developments, which have followed Putin’s recent actions, have created concerns across the world. He mounted a powerful military assault across Ukraine. While India had rightly supported earlier proposals for working out a negotiated settlement to tensions in Ukraine, it has not supported any change in the existing borders of Ukraine. India and others across the globe could hardly support a Russian military takeover or ‘salami slicing’ of Ukraine.Not surprisingly, Biden has now sought to mobilise the support of all his NATO, European and Asian allies to mount pressure on Russia. The most damaging sanctions that Biden has proposed include closing a vast range of international banking facilities to Moscow. These sanctions are now being put in place. The US-based Bloomberg, however, noted that within 24 hours of Putin signing the decree, recognising two breakaway Ukrainian territories, the US and UK hurriedly bought 3.5 million barrels of Russian oil, refined oil products, and gold, apart from large amounts of Russian natural gas, aluminium, titanium and coal, valued at an estimated $700 million. These Russian exports reportedly continue even today. Nevertheless, the sanctions are set to be strengthened. This has inevitably had a serious impact globally.The most damaging economic sanctions include measures for blocking Moscow’s ability to use the ‘SWIFT’ banking system. This will seriously affect Russia’s ability to operate smoothly in global markets. There will also be restrictions that will hinder and even prevent Russia’s Central Bank from using its resources effectively in its global transactions. These are, however, measures that Russian banking authorities would have expected. The Russians are not ready to end military operations in Ukraine, which had disingenuously suggested talks to restore normalcy to be held in Warsaw. Russia rejected this proposal. One round of talks has since been held at the Belarus border.Resort to continuing repression in Ukraine can, however, only lead Russia and its people to prolonged suffering, bitterness, disunity and disrepute. One hopes that all concerned in Russia and Ukraine would bear in mind that it is their responsibility for restoring peace in their neighbourhood. France and Germany could play an important role in restoring a measure of peace. Jingoism and gloating by the US and others over Russia’s problems will have disastrous consequences. Russia has a stockpile of 6,400 nuclear weapons and a strategic arsenal of 1,600 warheads. Moscow has made no secret of its readiness to respond strongly, if provoked.A global political and diplomatic effort is crucial to ensure that things do not get further out of hand in Ukraine. Biden and Putin had agreed in a statesmen-like manner, when they met in Geneva that: ‘A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought.’ Both powers will, hopefully, not allow these tensions to get out of hand. Sanctions imposed by the US, together with its allies will also pose hurdles for India’s trade and economic ties with Russia. These hurdles can be suitably overcome. Putin’s actions are, however, leading to new global tensions, at a time when the world is still reeling, under the impact of the deadly pandemic. But, Putin appears averse to pulling back just now, evidently confident of the brute power of his nuclear arsenal. #ukraine crisis #vladimir putin||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/putin-shakes-the-world-374219
