03-03-2022||---||Ukraine crisis could stall economic recovery||The conflict raging in distant Ukraine is having repercussions around the world. The fallout is seen here too as soaring global oil prices are worrying while stock markets are rocked with volatility owing to fears of economic disruption. The immediate impact on the world economy has been a spike in crude oil prices beyond the psychological mark of $100 per barrel, while gas prices have shot up equally rapidly. Metals prices are ruling at a multi-year high on the prospect that key supplies may be stalled from Russia. Even European countries imposing sanctions are well aware that these are a double-edged sword. For instance, Germany’s move to stop certification for the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, which bypasses Ukraine, means preventing a 10 billion euro project from going on stream. It is part of the pipeline network that has enabled Russia to supply nearly 40 per cent of Europe’s energy needs.As for India, the immediate impact is of hardening world oil prices. These are expected to touch $125 per barrel in the near future. Contrast this with the assumption made in the budget that international oil prices would be ruling at $70-75 per barrel during 2022-23. Clearly, budgetary calculations will have to be reworked unless geo-political tensions subside rapidly. As of now, it seems evident that the oil marketing companies (OMCs) will have to raise petroleum product prices as soon as state elections are over. Technically, public sector OMCs are free to fix prices linked to international rates but effectively they wait for clearances from the administrative Petroleum Ministry. Hence, there was a pause in price movements as soon as electioneering began but the hiatus is not going to last long.With India importing over 80 per cent of its consumption, the oil companies have no option but to raise prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. Otherwise, they could be saddled with huge under-recoveries on these products. Raising prices will inevitably fuel inflation which has already touched 6 per cent, the upper end of the band fixed by the Reserve Bank of India. The cascading impact of diesel prices, in particular, will accelerate inflationary pressures. And this, in turn, will motivate the central bank to drop its accommodative policy aimed at pushing growth, and move towards containing inflation. In such a scenario, interest rates will be pushed upwards.The first measure that the government needs to take to curb the impact of ever-higher international oil prices is to cut excise duty on petrol and diesel. This may be a tough call, given that the budget looks forward to a leap in spending on infrastructure. On the other hand, revenues have been surprisingly buoyant in 2021-22, giving the exchequer some leeway on this front. The loss would be substantial as the petrol and diesel duty cuts last November led to a revenue loss of about Rs 45,000 crore for only five months of the fiscal. But a cut at this stage could halt the growing effect of spiralling fuel prices on the economy.The second is to review the situation regarding the availability of key raw materials for agriculture and industry, as a result of the Ukraine crisis. Fertiliser availability is now problematic globally and India is no exception as Russia is a major source. The shortfall in sunflower oil imports, on the other hand, can be made up by alternative oils from other countries. A more serious situation could emerge in metals needed in a wide swathe of industries. In case supply disruptions affect availability from Russia, prices of aluminium and nickel are likely to shoot up. Though India is self-sufficient in aluminium, scrap has lately been imported in large quantities. Similarly, nickel is a key item required in many industries. Both metals have already risen to multi-year highs.Prices of precious metals used for industrial applications like platinum and palladium, of which again Russia is a major supplier, are also on the upswing. Palladium, especially, has become a highly prized commodity in recent years, given its use in catalytic converters as well as hydrogen cells.In this context, the issue of payments becomes relevant especially as western countries have barred the use of the international messaging system for financial transactions, SWIFT, by some Russian banks. Significantly, however, the system of payments for gas supplies to European countries continues without any disruption. In other words, sanctions are selective and are not being imposed in areas that could cause discomfort to European consumers.To clarify, SWIFT or the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications is a secure messaging system that enables rapid cross-border financial transactions. Blocking this system has been done earlier while imposing sanctions on Iran. The present sanctions exclude Russian energy transactions in non-sanctioned banks enabling oil and gas to flow into world markets. The careful exclusion indicates that India similarly needs to focus on its own economic self-interests just as the US and Europe have been doing while imposing sanctions. Fortunately, India can rely on rupee-rouble transactions as in the past to deal with most payment issues, though there are also alternative messaging systems available for use.The outlook is not all bleak, however, for the Indian economy despite the Ukraine crisis. The first good news is that the deal between western countries and Iran to lift sanctions has almost been finalised, which will bring more oil into international markets. The availability of Iran oil could ultimately contain the hardening price trend in coming months.Second, the disruptions in global supply chains could work to India’s advantage and enable higher exports. Analysts are already highlighting the gaps where India could become a bigger exporter. This includes commodities as disparate as wheat and steel products. Supplies of both could be disrupted from Russia and Ukraine.Clearly, the conflict between these two countries has wide-ranging ramifications on economic growth in India as well as other emerging economies. There are definitely more negatives than positives right now. Savvy economic management is thus imperative to tackle the challenge of the rocky external environment. This includes taking rapid steps to cut oil taxes and ensuring easy availability of key industrial goods. Any delay in decision making could put the fragile economic recovery in jeopardy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ukraine-crisis-could-stall-economic-recovery-374528
03-03-2022||---||Voter’s silence may hold key in UP elections||The Uttar Pradesh election is characterised by anomalies. On the surface, the multi-phased poll seems “normal” and quiescent, the stillness broken by the roar of bigoted threats and rhetorical pomposity or the crowds gravitating towards a roadshow and occasionally by nasty exchanges between opponents. To be sure, the prelude was marked by a single note: There was no question that the BJP, which was elected to power in UP in 2017 and oversaw a controversial government, was on a high. The ‘impact’ of its much-touted double-engine growth, pushed by a party that ruled the Centre and the state, was perhaps more discernible in UP than say Jharkhand which was lost in 2019. The slew of sops and freebies, unrolled by Delhi and Lucknow, overlaid with Hindutva, ‘nationalism’ and the persona of a tough-as-nails chief minister, made for a re-run of 2017. The BJP prided itself on creating a new constituency, patronisingly called the labharthee (beneficiary) of the government’s purported munificence, although this tactic was borrowed from Indira Gandhi’s playbook. But who has the time or inclination to delve into history?The election looks like winding down on a vastly different note. Elements of the dreaded ‘India Shining’ glitz that lit up the BJP’s 2004 electioneering are glimpsed periodically, undermining the double-barrelled effect of the labharthee project. The fear among Dalits and the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) of their jobs being on the line if public sector units are privatised is so palpable that those who voted for the BJP in 2017 are rejecting it this time; and for the young Dalits, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), once an unquestioned choice, no longer seems that attractive. The Dalits and OBCs are afraid that privatisation would ring the death knell of their hard-fought right for statutory reservation in jobs. The issue of enforcing quotas in the private industry is flagged by the so-called champions of social justice but even the Samajwadi Party (SP) and BSP never pursued it vigorously; if anything, their leaders flaunt their proximity with the movers and shakers of India Inc.The BSP maintained a low profile for the past five years and has not exactly re-emerged, guns blazing. Indeed, there are signs that the BJP and BSP would not be averse to striking a post-poll arrangement if circumstances demanded. Therefore, young Dalits veered towards the SP, calculating that it’s more important to unseat the BJP before taking a hard look at its core agenda. It’s a last-ditch effort because the Dalit-Yadav (the SP’s core voter) equation was always stressful.Despite the unceasing attempts to dredge Hindutva from the underflow and place it on top, surprisingly it did not figure in conversations with Hindus, not even the Ram temple, unless they were prodded to speak. The most vocal proponents of the Hindu religion were Brahmins like those one met at Ghupa Pande ka Purva village (Isauli Assembly seat, Sultanpur district). The matters that most exercised others — notably inflation and the crop loss caused by the predatory cattle let loose because they can no longer be sold to the abattoirs — were validated in a religious context by the Brahmins. The cow is our “mother”, so an anti-cattle slaughter law had to come, never mind if the cattle plunder our fields; it’s a form of benediction. And which government has checked the price rise? Manmohan Singh’s?The traders, wedded to the BJP and Jan Sangh for decades, were ostensibly not that enamoured of the party this time. Those traders who doubled as agriculturists in villages complained that the business losses suffered during the pandemic were not recompensed by their crops because much was devoured by the cattle. Business families looked like they were divided in their support for the BJP. The consistently low turn-out in the urban areas in each phase so far is attributed to the apathy of the better off segments towards the BJP. The refrain was, we don’t wish to vote for the BJP but we can’t go for another party either.Like the Dalits, the OBCs were preoccupied with economic matters, uppermost on their minds being the security of their children’s future in a market-governed economy exemplified by the new pension scheme (NPS) adopted by the UP government. Under the NPS, the pension’s value depends on the corpus amount saved by the employee while retiring and is subject to a rise/fall in investment value. SP leader Akhilesh Yadav promised to restore the old scheme which fixed pension at 50 per cent of the last basic salary drawn along with other benefits and hikes. Akhilesh’s assurance might appeal to a section of the electorate comprising serving and superannuated employees but its symbolism was significant. It was an attempt to safeguard vulnerable persons against the vagaries of an unregulated economy.However, the scales unquestionably tipped against the BJP only when the election schedule was announced. The departure of three important OBC legislators — Swami Prasad Maurya, Dara Singh Chauhan and Dharampal Saini — followed by their induction in the SP weakened the BJP’s big tent social engineering fabric that hoisted its Hindutva and “nationalist” ideologies to reinforce a sense of pan Hindu identity, and not of a caste-dissevered polity.The trio’s walkout not only bolstered the message of statutory reservations being in jeopardy that got across the countryside but spurred a shift in the BJP’s OBC votes towards the SP. Akhilesh, whose SP rests on a Muslim-Yadav combination, might not have anticipated this trend. When he did, he put together a rainbow coalition of OBCs through tactical alliances because he himself never nurtured non-Yadav leaders unlike his father, Mulayam Singh Yadav.Doubtless, the BJP’s votive offerings of ‘ration-paani’ to the less well-off created a following in the rural areas. The ‘ration-paani’ was regarded as an insurance policy against hunger and deprivation during the pandemic. In hindsight, some of the recipients wondered if the benefits were outweighed by the pain inflicted by the price rise and agrarian distress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/voters-silence-may-hold-key-in-up-elections-374526
03-03-2022||---||Russia fighting its corner||World politics might not be the same after Putin has seriously challenged the current US-led ‘new international rule-based order’. As a continental land-based power, Russia has always retained a defensive posture in its strategic thinking and never ventured into the maritime domain, until the early 1960s. It also never conceded control over its strategic borderlands, but for the Soviet Union’s collapse.If the West had shown less belligerency in trying to trespass upon the former Soviet space, Russia would have been more mindful of regional sensibilities.Putin regretted the Soviet collapse as a ‘geopolitical disaster’, but reconciled to the post-Cold War reality — empathised with the US after 9/11, shared intelligence on Al Qaeda and facilitated military bases in Central Asia for war against terror in Afghanistan. But when the West stirred up colour revolutions in the former republics since 2003 and mechanised NATO’s expansion into Russia’s ‘near abroad’ (Georgia and Ukraine), Putin stood up to stave off any threat to Russian heartland and its ‘near abroad’, for Putin thought the idea is being set by people having a history of settler colonialism, the genocide of Native Americans and slavery.When it became ‘a matter of time’ for Ukraine to join NATO, Putin reopened the chapters of Russia’s past history and took military actions against Ukraine after the West rejected the legal guarantee that Russia proposed. Putin declared 2014 as Russia’s ‘Year of Culture’ to revive the Russian ethnic roots — not akin to the Czarist imperialist or to the Soviet expansionist logic but on the belief in honouring and defending 1,200-year-old Russia’s civilisational identity from trespassers.The West blamed Putin for working on Stalin’s playbook for annexing Crimea. But he was taking a reverse path to restore Russia’s destiny as a great power. After Crimea, Donetsk and Luhansk were to follow next.In 1991, Andrei Kozyrev coined the blizhneye zarubyezhe (‘near abroad’) theory. It became ‘sphere of influence’ in the Putin Doctrine, through which Moscow acts as the protector of russkiy mir (Russian world), including millions of ethnic Russians living outside Russia from Moldova’s Transdniester to eastern Ukraine and elsewhere.As much as we project digital platforms controlling the future direction, the facts of geography are once again becoming determinant of international security. Any omission can have serious consequences, Ukraine being a case in point. Even independence appears not an absolute state of affairs. Even for an abstract entity like the EU, that undermined the value of power politics and believed in the idea of promoting security by building the resilience of states and civil societies, may have to now relearn the basics of strategic geography — the normative heartland, rim-land, buffer zone, neighbourhood and borderlands concepts.But why blame only Russia? The Americans have been following the Monroe Doctrine for the last two centuries to gain world domination. What underpins the Ukraine crisis is the declining strength of American power. Since the Cold War ended, the US has been following its Wolfowitz Doctrine that outlined a policy to prevent the rise of any potential rival that may challenge its supremacy. The doctrine envisaged the American right to intervene and undertake preemptive military actions to overpower potential threats, in particular against a resurgent Russia or an ascendant China.The notion of ‘Middle-Kingdom’ defines China’s glacis. Beijing still follows the organic concept of Li — a ritualistic tributary system of the ‘core’ controlling the ‘peripheries’ through a myriad forms of economic, trade and cultural relationships. While citing the imperial-era history from the 7th century Tang to Qing Empire, Beijing views the rest of Asia within the pale of Chinese glacis. Communist China quickly nibbled its perceived glacis — Inner Mongolia, Xinjiang, Tibet, the Parcels, Spratly Islands and the South China Sea. Ladakh is the latest on its list of land to be grabbed through a slow invasive tactic.China follows the edict with modern tools to gain both territory and market access outside. Unlike Russia, which plays a straight game of chess on a single front, the Chinese ‘go’ is a slow build-up game played on multiple fronts to inflict incremental losses upon its adversary. While China is still rising, Beijing uses its faltering client North Korea as a buffer against South Korea, Japan and the US. Similarly, Pakistan is used as a buffer against India. The duplicitous Chinese justify glacis for its unification agenda with Taiwan but tacitly dissuades inter-Korean or India-Pakistan reunion. Under the Kuomintang regime, Chinese soldiers were encouraged to marry Vietnamese brides, hoping that their offspring would uphold China as Vietnam’s protector. This is being experimented elsewhere, including in Central Asia now.So far, Moscow’s resistance against NATO expansion appears non-negotiable. European borders are not clear-cut but Russia enjoys a much-coveted zone of influence like a ‘thick’ border. This has made the choice of many in-between central European countries, caught in intersecting spheres of influence of a traditional Russian and a modern European power, difficult. While some states have reconciled to maintaining their strategic neutrality, Ukraine’s desire for complete and dual accession to NATO and the EU remains flawed and should never have been encouraged by the US. Ukraine can never become a shield against Russia but will always remain a buffer. It was people like Brzezinski, who suggested that ‘Western establishment in Ukraine would be a strong sign of Russia ceasing to be an empire and of it becoming a Nation-State like any other’.But Russia is harking back to playing the classical defence-in-depth to protect its glacis. If, indeed, the West had shown less belligerency in trying to trespass upon the former Soviet space, Russia would have been more mindful of regional sensibilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/russia-fighting-its-corner-374523
