05-03-2022||---||Stray cattle menace no mere footnote in UP poll||One of the hot-selling items in rural Uttar Pradesh is a battery-operated cattle prod stick with a sharp-pointed end, designed to push stray cattle off fields where they devour and destroy standing crops. This is a common sight across the state: abandoned bulls, cows and livestock wandering into fields while farmers go racing after them with sticks, lathis and now battery-operated Made in China cattle prod sticks. There are day vigils and night vigils against cattle referred to as ‘awara pashu’ in villages across the state. It is a tragically farcical outcome of the original stated purpose of cow protection by those who currently run the state and are facing a tough election.If the BJP loses many seats in rural UP, it would in large part be due to the human-vs-cattle struggle across the state. Ask disgruntled farmers why they would abandon the BJP when they are getting free rations and the answer is preceded by some invective in the varying local dialects and then the reply comes that what will we do with five kilos of ration when saand (bulls) are eating up five quintals of our crops.There is indeed a constituency of the very poor who would remain with the BJP because of the free rations just as there is support among those at the top of the social-economic pyramid who back the party for what they describe as a strong national leadership and a “Hindu first” ideological orientation. It is social groups between the very top and the extreme bottom that are in turmoil and chunks are shifting their votes away from the ruling BJP. The final result will be determined by the scale of the shift in what is a neck-and-neck battle.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken cognisance of the problem and announced at a rally on February 22 that some arrangements would be made after March 10, when the election results will be declared, to tackle the stray cattle menace. He promised to bring in a new system to help farmers earn from cow dung. Days after the prime ministerial promise, the UP government issued a communique saying the problem is mostly solved and it declared 44 of the 75 districts in the state “free of stray cattle”. And so, the farce continued. A few days after the prime ministerial speech, farmers in the Awadh region’s Barabanki district released hundreds of cattle at the rally site of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Clearly, they did not believe the cattle menace had vanished because a government statement said it had.There are larger issues about failed promises and the crisis of Hindutva that the raging cow/bull issue in UP reflects. After coming to power in 2014, PM Modi had promised to double agricultural income by 2022, but the reverse has happened. Yet, the faith continued and in the 2017 state elections that took place just three months after demonetisation was announced, people genuinely believed the PM would clean up black money and punish the rich and corrupt.In the time since, data shows that the rich have become richer and millions more Indians have fallen beneath the poverty line. The most troubling aspect of covering UP is to encounter pockets of such acute poverty, that the politics being done on the back of such desperate human indices, seems almost callous. Some data from the recently published National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5) should trouble us. According to this data, the infant mortality of Uttar Pradesh is 50.4 per 1,000 live births, far worse than figures in war zones such as Syria and Iraq. Among the children who live, close to 40 per cent are stunted, worse than figures in the poorest countries in Africa. That is why 59.6 out of 1,000 children die before they reach the age of 5 in India’s most populous state.Working malnourished children, anaemic mothers, overworked and underpaid fathers are part of the landscape of Uttar Pradesh that gets poorer and poorer as we head east, away from the relative prosperity of the western parts of the state. When human beings are struggling, they cannot be expected to care for cattle once it stops being productive, especially when there are no common grazing grounds in a story that also has an environmental dimension.In the past, farmers would have sold unproductive cattle to a slaughter-house that would have recycled it for meat, leather and ingredients used by the pharmaceutical industry to make medicines. But the clamping down on slaughter and the attack by cow vigilantes on transportation and trade of cattle has led to the current scenario. As people cannot risk transporting animals to states with less stringent application of anti-slaughter laws, they just set them loose and hungry animals subsequently wander in fields eating crop.A state government communique states that 572 gaushalas are run by self-help groups under the Uttar Pradesh Gaushala Act of which 394 are active, besides which they claim to have set up 6,000 temporary gaushalas. Whatever the intent, the gaushalas are clearly over-burdened/insufficient and cases of corruption have emerged. In the course of the campaign, Priyanka Gandhi had also attacked the Yogi government on the conditions of gaushalas in the state following horrific reports of poor treatment and starvation of the animals, including a report of cattle and cows being buried alive.Cow slaughter has been banned in most Indian states for decades. What some BJP-ruled states have done is made existing laws more stringent and applied them vigorously even as the phenomena of cow vigilantes have been allowed to go unchecked. If we recall the names of individuals lynched by cow protection brigades, we can see that it was perceived to be an anti-Muslim policy promoted vigorously by the RSS/BJP/VHP/Bajrang Dal.But it actually turned out to be an anti-people policy that has ruptured the natural cycle of the rural economy and is harming everyone, including the BJP itself. The cow/bull problem and the manner in which it is impacting electoral choices will undoubtedly create what is called a dharamsankat (crisis of faith) for the RSS/BJP. For whatever policies they put into place have certainly not protected the cows either, who are now chased out of fields by electric prods and often pushed to starvation in fenced spaces. It’s a cruel story of the human/animal interface and both are currently struggling in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/stray-cattle-menace-no-mere-footnote-in-up-poll-375134
05-03-2022||---||The semi-final in UP||Uttar Pradesh is the key to the future of governance in India. I don’t say this because the state has nearly 15 per cent of Lok Sabha seats. It is possible that the BJP might lose the Assembly polls but people might still vote for Modi to be PM in 2024. We saw that happen in 2019, when Modi swept several states that the BJP had lost just a few months earlier.The problem for Modi is that his political playbook is now visible to all parties, and anyone who gets a stab at power is going to use it to win votes. There are several reasons why UP is crucial for the BJP, some of which have nothing to do with the state itself. The first is a matter of political economy. The BJP won UP with a commanding majority in 2017, at a time when India’s economy was still reeling under the impact of demonetisation. Many journalists and political watchers believed that the miseries caused by the sudden note-ban would cost the BJP dearly.One of the few who believed the exact opposite was my former colleague, the late Kamal Khan. He had told me that the BJP was going to ride to power on the back of UP’s poor. He believed that the poor saw Modi as a messiah who had taught the rich a big lesson. The poor also happened to belong to the most backward castes, non-dominant Dalits, and Adivasis, who did not find adequate representation in either the Samajwadi Party (SP) or Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).This consolidation of the subaltern vote sat on top of unprecedented levels of communal polarisation. A senior journalist, who had covered UP since the mid-80s, told me she had never witnessed such communal hatred in her career. This made the BJP doubly attractive to the poor, who were immersed in the polarising discourse of both mainstream and social media.PM Modi took several days to finalise who would be the Chief Minister of UP. Several names were floated, mostly from the backward castes. It surprised many BJP-watchers when the party leadership settled on Yogi Adityanath. It was a calculated message to the entire system of power in UP. Yogi belonged to the Thakur caste, which had been historically considered to be a martial caste. At the same time, Yogi was a saffron-clad monk, a perpetual icon of political Hindutva.In effect, as CM, Yogi fulfilled two key requirements of the BJP. The first was a permanent state of ideological messaging so that the new vote-base could be consolidated further. The second was to set up a new structure of physical dominance on the ground, to dismantle the network of strongmen and officials, who had been placed in positions of power by the SP government. This meant removing Yadavs and Muslims from positions of authority and de-facto power. This was the subtext of the government’s ‘war on crime’.Along with this, the state implemented the key vote-winning formula of Modinomics – the economics of subsistence, where the poor were given handouts and cash through multiple schemes to augment their meagre income. Like the Modi government at the Centre, the Yogi government made no attempt to increase jobs. In fact, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy data, the number of employed people in UP dropped from 57.6 million to 55.8 million between September-December 2016 and September-December 2021.But employment doesn’t necessarily fetch votes. When a voter gets a job, they don’t see the government as their benefactor. Handouts, on the other hand, are different. All benefits given by BJP governments now, are provided in the name of the PM and CM. This has a much higher recall value for voters when they go to the polling booth.UP, therefore, is the laboratory of the Modi-BJP’s economic and political philosophy. It is a combination of constant polarisation and handout economics. On the one hand, there is an overt communal tone that the party’s leaders maintain, and on the other, there are record direct transfers to the poor by the state government. If the BJP fails to win UP with this political-economic combination, it will mean this strategy has reached a saturation point and is no longer yielding electoral results.There is one more reason why a victory in UP is essential for Modi. The state sends 31 members to the Rajya Sabha, and a loss will affect the BJP’s dominance in Parliament, even if Modi manages to return to power in 2024. Losing UP will also weaken the Centre in its relationship with states. The Opposition currently rules many of the big states, and when they come together, they are able to push back against the Modi government’s policies and laws. The Modi government has a strong centralising vision, and if the BJP loses in UP, that vision will face a lot of turbulence.The Modi-BJP’s politics is also heavily dependent on dominating public discourse. This is done by controlling and directing the media. Much of this is in the Hindi-speaking belt, where several popular newspapers and publications are closely allied with the Hindutva project. A non-BJP government could make life difficult for UP-based media houses who are close to the Sangh Parivar. This could make it difficult to control the messaging in the run-up to the next General Election in the crucial Hindi heartland.Finally, anyone who controls UP also has the ability to give out contracts to big corporates. This has, ironically, been made easier by this year’s Budget, which gives interest-free loans to states to spend on infrastructure projects. This could make corporates more open to providing electoral funds to any non-BJP dispensation that rules UP. The moneys could not only help win elections but also move the media through big-ticket advertising.The problem for Modi is that his political playbook is now visible to all parties, and anyone who gets a stab at power is going to use it to win votes. That is why, the BJP cannot afford to let anyone else win UP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-semi-final-in-up-375129
05-03-2022||---||India’s materiel dilemma over Ukraine crisis||The chatter in official and media circles over diversifying India’s predominantly Russian materiel, following widespread punitive sanctions against Moscow over its Ukraine invasion, costs nothing. However, the expense, energy and time required to vindicate such a gargantuan endeavour are, well, simply inestimable.A distant casualty of Moscow’s ongoing campaign, India faces a nightmarish situation that will necessitate its military replacing some 50 per cent of its Soviet-era and Russian-origin platforms for all the three services, assorted other hardware, missile systems and varied ordnance with local or imported equivalents.The sheer magnitude, complexity and density of such an enterprise, however, would be exacerbated by India’s complex and hidebound procurement procedures, byzantine bureaucracy, continually deferred decision-making, corruption scandals and other handicaps. These, in turn, would be doubly compounded by the services’ ineptitude in clearly delineating their wants and in formulating realistic and attainable equipment specifications.But the more immediate crisis surrounded diverse Russian materiel awaiting delivery to India, for which substantial payments had already been made, alongside continually needed spares and components for the in-service kit to keep the military adequately operational. These included four of the five Almaz-Antey S-400 Triumf self-propelled surface-to-air (SAM) missile systems, four Admiral Grigorovich Project 1135.6M frigates, leasing of one more Project 971 ‘Akula’(Schuka-B)-class nuclear-powered submarine (SSN) and providing 20,000 Kalashnikov AK-203 7.62x39 mm assault rifles, which were a part of the deal signed last December to locally licence-build 601,427 of them.Additionally, India had recently concluded assorted deals with Russia to provide it diverse missiles, including man-portable Very Short Range Defence Systems (VSHORADS), tank ammunition and ordnance, much of it for employment by the Indian Army, which is locked in a continuing faceoff with China’s People’s Liberation Army in Ladakh since May 2020.But more critically, the US and European sanctions on Russia could conceivably jeopardise India’s recent $375-million BrahMos cruise missile export order from the Philippines. Industry officials deemed this more than likely, as Russia’s NPO Mashinostroyenia (NPOM) that constituted the joint venture with India’s Defence Research and Development Organisation to design, upgrade and manufacture BrahMos was responsible for providing the missile system’s engine and seekers. NPOM’s inability to provide these vital components due to sanctions would threaten India’s first major overseas contract aimed at officially boosting materiel exports five-fold to Rs 35,000 crore by 2025.India was also in advanced discussions with Russia to procure 464 Russian T-90MS main battle tanks (MBTs), an undisclosed number of 2S25 Sprut-SD light tanks for employment in Ladakh and 12 Sukhoi Su-30MKIs — to be licence-built locally — besides several other items. All are collectively imperilled now by the sanctions.An inventory of the Russian defence employed by India’s military reveals the immense and unimaginable magnitude of the task in seeking substitutes. The Indian Air Force’s 29 or 30 combat squadrons, for instance, comprise some 272 Su-30MKIs, over 100 MiG-21 ‘Bis’ ground attack fighters, around 60 MiG-29 air superiority platforms and 220-odd Mi-17 ‘Hip’ variant medium-lift helicopters.The Indian Navy’s principal warships were predominantly Russian in origin and design, or both. Topping this list was INS Vikramaditya (ex-Admiral Gorshkov), the retrofitted 44,500-tonne Kiev-class aircraft carrier and its air arm of 16 MiG-29K/KuB fighters. Concurrently, another 29 MiG-29Ks will comprise the combat fleet of INS Vikrant, the indigenously developed 37,500-tonne carrier, presently undergoing sea trials and scheduled for commissioning in August to mark India’s 75th Independence Day anniversary.The Navy also operated six Talwar-class frigates, in addition to another four advanced variants on order, while its underwater platforms included nine ‘Kilo’-class Type 877 diesel-electric submarines of a total of 16 boats. Russia had also provided the DRDO vital assistance in designing INS Arihant, the Navy’s first indigenously designed and built nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine (SSBN) that joined service surreptitiously in August 2016.Russia is also presently involved in transferring knowhow to miniaturise the 82.5-MW reactor for the four or five follow-on SSBNs, presently under construction at the classified Ship Building Centre in Vishakhapatnam.No other country has been willing to make such strategic technology transfers to India, but sanctions would most definitely thwart Moscow’s ability to continue doing so, thereby endangering the SSBN programme and adversely impacting the Navy’s operational reach in the Indian Ocean Region to challenge the PLA navy.Furthermore, over 95 per cent of the Army’s fleet of around 3,000 MBTs operated by 67-odd armoured regiments were Russian T-72M1 and T-90S variants — imported directly and licence-built — whilst some 2,000-odd infantry combat vehicles or ICVs — the Boyevaya Mashina Pekhoty (BMP) 1& 2 — were similarly sourced.Russia’s militarism also hit a multiplicity of Ukrainian contracts, like the upgrade of around 60 IAF Antonov An-32 ‘Cline’ transport aircraft, the supply of critical R-27 air-to-air missiles for Su-30MKIs and the transfer of eight Zorya-Mashproekt M7N1EW gas turbines to power the Navy’s four under-construction Talwar-class frigates. Two of these were being built at Russia’s Yantar Shipyard and two at Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL), under a transfer of technology pact. The Ukrainian engines for the former two warships had reportedly been transferred to Russia, but not the ones intended for GSL.No Ministry of Defence official or service officer could even remotely predict the outcome of either the Ukraine conflict, the world order after it ended or Russia’s future status as one of the world’s leading weapons providers. But there was increasing unanimity amongst them that diversifying India’s materiel needs was critical and planning for it needed to begin straightaway, especially with regard to spares and related apparatus for in-use equipment.Such a mammoth task, however, also presented the federal government and the services an opportunity to streamline procurement procedures and undertake realistic planning keeping in mind India’s depreciating financial resources. Accelerating decision-making and erring on the side of advanced technologies would also serve to effectively modernise the country’s lugubrious military and easing the formation of the proposed integrated theatre commands to meet the palpable threats in India’s neighbourhood.  #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/indias-materiel-dilemma-over-ukraine-crisis-374833
05-03-2022||Since Vladimir Putin has hogged the limelight ever since his mighty country Russia invaded its small neighbour||Caught in Putin’s war||Every Indian is one with the families of the stranded students in this moment of extreme anxiety.Putin thought that his hand of friendship would be grabbed by the Ukrainian Vladimir (spelt Volodymyr) Zelenskyy and an understanding would be reached by the two Russian-speaking people in a couple of days after Russian troops were sighted on the outskirts of Ukrainian capital Kiev! But his gamble has failed and his country’s economy is in death’s grip.At the turn of the first millennium of the Gregorian calendar, the Russian Czar ruled the whole of Russia from his capital in Kiev. A story is told of how the inhabitants of Russia became Christians. Sitting on his throne, the Czar is said to have dispatched his emissaries to neighbouring lands to learn about the more organised religions practiced there. They reported that there was a religion called Catholicism which was presided over by the Pope, whose writ ran through all countries that followed Catholicism. The rulers of Catholic countries followed the diktats of the Pope in most things, both spiritual and temporal. The Czar rejected that religion.The emissaries who travelled to Islamic countries reported that the most significant factor about that religion was its dietary practices that prohibited pork. Since this would revolutionise the normal eating habits of the people, this religion was also rejected.Orthodox Christianity, where monks in each country elected their own ‘Metropolitan’, who confined himself to religious matters, won the Czar’s favour. And that is how Orthodox Christianity, which incidentally has followers in the Indian state of Kerala, was enthroned in Russia.I am not sure if this story is true. I was tempted to tell it because of the reference to Kiev. It is a digression from the main thrust of my article which is the plight of Indian students in the war zone. Students stranded in Ukraine, thousands of them, are being evacuated via the land borders that connect Ukraine with Romania, Poland, Hungary and Moldova. Romania is where I spent four years from 1989 to 1993 as our country’s ambassador. Romanians are friendly people and have cooperated in evacuation. Many flights have left Bucharest, delivering our children safely in the arms of their parents.Moldova is a tiny country. Most people there speak Romanian, a Romance language as distinguished from the Slavic spoken in the countries neighbouring Romania. There are Russian speakers also who were settled there after the USSR was established. The Russians can be found mainly in the Transnistria region across the Dniester river. A whole Russian army, an important strike force, was headquartered there. That strike force was used to suppress the Prague uprising that challenged Russian hegemony in 1968.When the USSR collapsed, India assigned new envoys to these new nation states. The ambassador accredited to Romania was assigned to cover Moldova also. So, I visited this poor country a few times by car from Bucharest.On one visit, I decided to visit the Transnistria region. The Moldovan foreign ministry, which had assigned a junior official to facilitate my visit, expressed its inability to send its officer to accompany me to Transnistria. It admitted that the region was officially a part of Moldova, but government officials of the newly formed Republic of Moldova were not welcome there. It was something like the Maoist-infested areas of Chhattisgarh, where the state’s police and revenue officials fear to enter. I went in my official car and had a bird’s-eye view of the scenario that enfolded.I presume Ukraine’s Donetsk and Luhansk regions, now in the hands of ethnic Russian rebels, present a similar picture to that which I encountered 25 years ago in Moldova. The fact that there were 20,000 Indians studying medicine in Ukraine was not known to most people in India. What happens when they graduate and return to India? Is the medical degree obtained there recognised in our country? Are they permitted to practice medicine here with those degrees? Private medical education in our country is prohibitively expensive. If there is so much demand why is there no corresponding supply of avenues to meet this demand locally?I agree that now is not the time to go into these issues. Now is the time to rescue our young boys and girls caught up in Russia’s Ukraine war. They have to be quickly evacuated before they become casualties of a war they never thought would happen. One young man from Karnataka has just lost his life in the shelling. PM Modi has correctly identified our priority and the MEA has been working overtime to get our people back. Kudos to Modi for sparing time to preside over countless meetings on the process, despite his current preoccupation of convincing the voters of Uttar Pradesh to reject the danger of the ‘lal topi’.The Poland route has hit a bottleneck because Ukrainians wanting to exit the country know which route is the best. The confusion caused by anxious locals at the Polish border has made that route problematic. Hence, the Romanian, Moldovan and other options are preferred. Modi’s brainwave of deputing four hand-picked ministers to four countries bordering Ukraine to facilitate the evacuation must be commended. If nothing else, it will make our already hard-pressed staff at those embassies work even harder and raise the morale of the parents of the students back home.And it is not only the closest relatives of the stranded youth whose nerves are on edge. Every countrywoman and countryman of theirs is one with them in this moment of extreme anxiety. #indians in ukraine #vladimir putin||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/caught-in-putins-war-374832
