07-03-2022||Former DGP||Bruised Putin may still have his own way||During the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, the western media has amplified western hopes that US-EU sanctions will decimate Russia and break President Putin’s Hitlerian resolve to physically redraw borders in a hyper-connected modern world. However, almost two weeks after the invasion began, Russia continues to press forward city by city, having spread its ambitions to all ports on the Black Sea coast, undeterred, and possibly even more motivated, given the complete absence of any armed intervention by NATO.American President Biden’s statement of non-intervention, coupled with NATO’s non-committal approach to Ukrainian President Zelenskyy’s desperate cry for a no-fly zone over Ukraine and the rushed US withdrawal from Afghanistan just six months ago — these were clear messages to Russian strategists that America will not intervene by land, sea or air, messages that would surely have been heard by Xi Jinping as well.The chosen method of western intervention has been economic. With the crashed rouble and the stock market, restrictions on the use of at least half of foreign exchange reserves of $640 billion — those in gold, CNY (Chinese Yuan Renminbi) and SDRs (special drawing rights) remaining liquid — potentially limiting oil exports, transport and payments, and a highly inflationary 20 per cent interest rate, matters appear to be difficult for the Russian economy in the days ahead.Yet, there are chinks in this approach. The US-EU hesitation in including Russia’s largest banks, Sberbank and Gazprombank, to the list of seven sanctioned banks is a gaping hole in the ‘stern’ measures adopted. Both are key facilitators of payments for Russia’s exports of 8 mbd (million barrels per day) oil and 15% of the EU’s imports of Russian gas, which is actually turning out to be a wedge between the US and the EU. The US seems to be drawing apart from EU by focusing only on oil, given American desperation for reviving JCPOA (Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action) and permitting at least 2.5 mbd of Iranian oil in global markets, a few months before its mid-term elections, already loaded against Biden, given his plummeting approval rating. The EU is focused only on gas and can ill-afford another hike in prices, given that the commodity costs twice more than the pre-pandemic level already. The flow of Russian natural gas to the EU continues and has even risen, even via pipelines passing through Ukraine.Putin’s assessment of western reactions appears to have been based on real-time scenario-building. Russian troops were amassed over two months on Ukraine’s northern and eastern borders and the West only talked, unable to gauge Putin’s plans. This inaction encouraged him to declare Donetsk and Lugansk independent and build an almost contiguous land bridge north of the Crimean peninsula, lay siege to Mariupol and set his sights on Odessa, possibly intending to use the Russian Navy, all of which is steadily and conclusively pushing NATO’s expansionary ambitions back.In another sign of western weakness, after just five days of the invasion, Zelenskyy was prompted to publicly sign an application to join the European Union only, but not for NATO — the West blinking first over Putin’s aggressive display of his intent to use the nuclear option. For NATO to initiate a hotline for a deconfliction zone with Russia, to obviate the negative effects of ordnance flying mistakenly into a NATO territory, was as good a certificate to Putin that Ukraine would not be ever taken in as a member. Therefore, 12 days after a blatant, publicly announced and war crime-ridden invasion, the western pushback is moderate to weak and not in the language any invader would understand.A stronger immediate western reaction of including Ukraine in the EU and NATO would have surprised Putin. An even stronger statement would have been to actually send fighter jets with Ukrainian flags to strafe the several-mile-long sitting-duck convoy headed to Kyiv for so many days now. Putin’s slow movement into Kyiv appeared to military strategists as failure to advance faster on account of weak supply lines, insurgency and blown-up bridges. However, the relatively low use of the Russian Air Force, non-decimation of the Ukrainian Air Force and news of a regime change, with Viktor Yanukovych tipped to return as President, do indicate a possible Putin plan for post-invasion Ukraine. The plan clearly is to get Zelenskyy to surrender, the reward for which could be retention of the Ukrainian State and non-absorption in the Russian Federation, a move that would also pacify Ukrainian nationalists for the time being.Putin seems set to succeed in his revivalism of Russian expansionism, albeit with the heavy price of sledge-hammer sanctions, which will not go away soon, whether he withdraws or not. In a way, permanence of the sanctions and the high probability of more western ostracism will spur Putin on for more territorial muscle-flexing.Zelenskyy and the West allowing weapons into civilian hands all over the country and some countries encouraging nationals (read mercenaries) to travel to Ukraine to fight, are clear signs of the West having accepted Russian control as a fait accompli and is preparing for an insurgency. Once Russia enters Kyiv, finds and/or replaces Zelenskyy with friendly dissidents, western hegemony will have suffered a larger hit than the rushed withdrawal from Afghanistan last year.Added to all this is the history of an expansionist China gobbling up Hong Kong, escalating threats to Taiwan, pushing into Bhutan in Doklam and fortifying a long border with India, and of Russia entering Georgia and Crimea, all opposed toothlessly by the west and the UN. The moment Putin manages a takeover of Kyiv, the world will wake up to a three-superpower world, with two of them propelling a resurgent Asia and the third declining fast. Ukraine may just turn out to be the first reversal of NATO’s expansionism, initiated after the humiliating dismemberment of USSR.Putin may have some more cards up his sleeve, including using his relationship with OPEC+, which has refused to raise its target to expand production higher than 400,000 barrels/month from April 1 onwards. Further, he will seek to consolidate an emergent Asia, with strong bilateral relationships and trade with 30-plus ‘abstaining’ members, most of whom are from Asia and Africa; negotiate hard on gas with Europe; hold neon gas exports (Ukraine supplies 50 per cent of the world’s production) and palladium exports (Russia produces 43 per cent of the global supply) to stifle semi-conductor production; and mess up wheat markets, 25 per cent of which comes from Russia and Ukraine.The lazy manner in which Putin’s army convoy is present around north of Kyiv is perhaps the most telling visual of this war, where all of Ukraine’s friends deserted it, leaving it only with words, promises and a budding insurgency. #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis #vladimir putin||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bruised-putin-may-still-have-his-own-way-375693
07-03-2022||President||Cost-benefit study of MBBS degree abroad||The recent death of an Indian student in Ukraine has brought into focus the plight of thousands of medical students stranded there. Ukraine attracts a large chunk of Indian medical students, though Russia and China are the more favoured destinations. Many students go to Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Nepal, Bangladesh and the Philippines as well.Currently, there are 605 medical colleges in the country with an intake of 90,825 students each year for the MBBS course. Nearly half of the colleges are run by state governments and the other half are private or run by trust/society. The MBBS fee in government medical colleges varies from less than Rs 10,000 (AIIMS) to Rs 1.5 lakh (Kerala) annually, but is up to Rs 83 lakh (Mullana) to Rs 1.15 crore (DY Patil, Navi Mumbai) for the whole course in private institutions.Why do students go abroad for medical education? This year, over 15 lakh students are expected to appear in NEET, the combined qualifying entrance exam for just over 90,000 seats. Because of different reservations and high cost of education in private colleges, students with ranks as good as 35,000 fail to get a seat while those with a low rank get admission in a deemed university or under management quota. Those who cannot afford a private college are attracted to foreign shores since the expenditure there is Rs 20-30 lakh for the whole course. Then there is another category of students, who do not clear NEET or have such a poor rank that they would not get a seat locally.It was in 2002, in the TMA Pai case, that the Supreme Court ruled that non-aided private institutions could fix their own fees for professional courses. Subsequently, a fee fixation committee was formed in each state which was authorised to take into account the existing infrastructure and expansion plans etc to fix the fees. The aim was to discourage capitation fees and promote merit. The National Medical Commission (NMC) which replaced the much maligned Medical Council of India had formed an expert committee last year to give recommendations for fixing fees for 50% of seats in private medical colleges whose report was submitted in November. In each private college, 50% seats are given on merit (NEET rank) with fees up Rs to 6-10 lakh per year. The rest of the seats are the management quota seats with fees of Rs 15-18 lakh per year. The fees in deemed universities go up to Rs 25 lakh per year. Till 2016, private colleges were mandated by law to run the course on a no-profit basis. However, the government has done away with this clause, and has also allowed up to 10 per cent fee escalation every year.The foreign-trained doctors are allowed to get registered in India to practise or do post-graduation only if they clear the Foreign Medical Graduates Examination (FMGE). Over the last five years, the average pass percentage of the FMGE has been about 16%. Pralhad Joshi, Parliamentary Affairs Minister, recently stated that 90% of the students who study medicine abroad fail to clear qualifying exams in India. This is a reflection of poor standards of teaching as well as poor aptitude of students who despite their low rank in NEET aspire to become doctors. Thus, of the close to 30,000 foreign degree holders, only less than 5,000 can practise medicine officially. The rest would take the exam again or practise medicine in a small place illegally or change their profession. Their chances of getting into post-graduation are abysmally small.It has been suggested that India should increase medical college seats. As per the suggested doctor:patient ratio of 1:1000, India needs 1.38 million doctors. It has 1.2 million registered allopath doctors. In the last eight years, the number of MBBS seats in the country has increased from close to 51,500 to over 90,000. There is a debate among the experts whether there should be a further increase or not. Adding more seats requires not only infrastructure but also adequate faculty. And if only a small proportion of such seats are in the range of affordability, it will only aggravate the problem.The other related issue is of post-graduate (MD/MS) seats. Today, there is a clamour for specialists and super-specialists. Resultantly, every MBBS doctor wants to be one. But the number of PG seats is only about 55,000 (MD/MS/DNB/diploma) currently. Last year, 1.75 lakh MBBS doctors appeared for the NEET PG. Thus there is an ever increasing backlog of PG aspirants which gets compounded by the number of foreign trained doctors joining the pool. Increasing MBBS seats will further aggravate the problem.Another serious matter which has not been discussed much is what are the returns on investing Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore in an MBBS degree. An MBBS doctor gets Rs 30,000-40,000 in a private hospital (more if he invests in his own clinic) and approximately double that in a government job.To recover the cost of his/her education, some doctors often indulge in unethical practices. A few years ago, the BMJ had published the account of Dr David Berger, an Australian doctor doing a stint in an Indian government hospital (‘Corruption ruins the doctor-patient relationships in India’, BMJ 2014). He was surprised to see routine patients of hypertension being referred for echocardiography to a private facility, every three months. He was informed by other government doctors that each referral gets them a few hundred rupees. He had commented: “The country’s doctors live in an ‘unvirtuous circle’ of referral and kickbacks.”We need to find a way out of this situation. Though the revamped NMC has been proactive recently, yet it needs to do much more. It is imperative that medical education be streamlined, starting with rationalising private college fees and MBBS/PG seat mismatch. The need for increasing MBBS seats should be assessed keeping in mind employability. Parents and aspirants should be counselled about the prospects after graduation from foreign colleges. #MBBS #NEET||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/cost-benefit-study-of-mbbs-degree-abroad-375691
07-03-2022||Former Ambassador||Foreign policy at T-junction||The meeting of the Quad leaders on Thursday at the initiative of US President Joe Biden exposed fault lines that hold consequences for India’s foreign policy. The joint readout issued after the meeting signals that it was not ‘business as usual.’ In a stand-alone paragraph, the readout highlighted that the Quad leaders ‘agreed to stand up a new humanitarian assistance and disaster relief mechanism’ that could ‘provide a channel for communication as they each address and respond to the crisis in Ukraine.’Time has come to review India’s association with Quad. This dalliance has not brought India any dividends.Although innocuously worded, a mechanism is being established which makes Quad a platform to coordinate responses to the Ukraine crisis. This is the main outcome of the meeting, which simply ignored the agenda that Prime Minister Narendra Modi proposed in his speech, such as debt sustainability, supply chains, clean energy, connectivity, and capacity-building. Evidently, Biden called this unscheduled meeting with a one-point agenda — Delhi’s hesitancy to identify with Washington in regard of the Ukraine issue. Biden was determined to discipline the laggard.The joint readout leaves little to imagination. What remains unclear is only whether Modi allowed himself to be shepherded into a joint position with his Quad partners, or prudently chose not to make an issue of it. Either way, Indian diplomacy has reached a ‘T-junction’. The American strategy to precipitate an epochal confrontation with Russia over Ukraine’s NATO membership is anchored on Washington’s quest for a world order for the 21st century, which it can dominate. Thus, Russia’s operations are borne out of its existential concerns over national security. President Vladimir Putin listed these concerns in a conversation with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz on Friday: Ukraine’s neutral and nuclear-free status, mandatory demilitarisation of the country, denazification of the Ukrainian state, recognition of Crimea as part of Russia and the sovereignty of the Donetsk and Lugansk People’s Republics.None of these issues concerns Quad even remotely, and, indeed, Modi even ‘underlined that Quad must remain focused on its core objective of promoting peace, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region.’ Now, Washington precipitated the present crisis with great deliberation from the perspective of Biden’s ‘containment’ strategy against Russia. That is why the link-up of Ukraine developments with a Quad ‘mechanism’ becomes a matter of disquiet. Washington hopes to create a contradiction between India’s relations with Russia and its Quad commitments. The American diplomacy is famous for making linkages. Reports suggest that some US lawmakers are showing displeasure over India’s stance on Ukraine by making threats to impose sanctions against India on account of its defence cooperation with Russia. Of course, this must be a crude foreplay enacted in tandem by the administration and the Congress ahead of Biden’s encounter with Modi. Americans are known to stage such theatrics.The time has come to review India’s association with Quad. This dalliance has not brought India any dividends. If the unspoken intent of UPA government was to pressure China, that was a miscalculation, as subsequent events in the recent years show. On the other hand, Delhi needlessly introduced another irritant into the complicated India-China relationship. Anyway, what is it that India has in common with Japan or Australia when it comes to Russia’s place in the world order?Japan has become confrontational toward Russia and is lately calling the Russian presence in the Kuril Islands an ‘occupation’. In the absence of a peace treaty between Japan and Russia after World War II, the two countries are technically at war! Given Japan’s violent history as an aggressor, anything can happen on the Japan-Russia template, considering also that Tokyo has the full backing of the US within the framework of their 71-year old Security Treaty, which commits the two countries to defend each other. Recently, an American nuclear submarine was detected in Russia’s territorial waters in that region.As for Australia, in practice, it is an Anglo-Saxon outpost in the Asia-Pacific region with a history of responding to the call of duty whenever western interests in Asia (or anywhere on the planet) came under challenge — eg., Korean War, Vietnam War and the war in Afghanistan. Unsurprisingly, both Japan and Australia promptly stood up in support of the US over Ukraine — although neither has any direct interest at stake in that country or in Eurasia. They are dutifully implementing the sanctions package against Russia that Washington dictated, including the sanctions on Putin’s personal assets! Plainly put, what is it that India has in common with these two nations that do not even seem to have a mind of their own? Sloganeering over ‘rules-based order’ cannot obfuscate this reality.Biden will be in trouble once the Russians complete their special operation in Ukraine. Russia says Ukraine President Zelenskyy left for Poland in disappointment that Biden’s NATO cavalry was not coming. As the new regime is formed in Kiev on the basis of any understanding reached at the ongoing talks in Belarus, which have made progress so far in the first two rounds, Americans will face a most devastating defeat so soon after their Afghan debacle that will dent the credibility of US leadership irreparably worldwide, especially in the European and Asian eyes. That explains the Russophobic paranoia.The US’ need to create misperceptions in India-Russia relationship must be put in context. It is in India’s interests that Russia plays an effective, independent role on the world stage. This is not to be construed as off-shoot of any phobia vis-a-vis China, as some Indians seem to believe, but in intrinsic terms as an asset enabling India’s own rise as a great power. #quad #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/foreign-policy-at-t-junction-375687
07-03-2022||OUR own R Praggnanandhaa has become the youngest player to beat Magnus Carlsen since Carlsen became the world chess champion. This will give Pragg||Our teen chess geniuses and the wonder years||Praggnanandhaa is one of our best hopes. He’s mentally strong. When he has tough tournaments, he loses games but he does not lose heart. He comes back, he fights. This time he beat Magnus, who had come up with three wins in a row. He interrupted a very good streak. Pragg has been having a lot of difficulties, but that is because he is competing against the best in the world at the senior level now. He is being tested. This exposure is very good for his game.Pragg is among the young players I’ve been working with at the WestBridge Anand Chess Academy since January 2021. He, Arjun Erigaisi and D Gukesh are all under 19 and are competing very fiercely. I think them being peers could have a big impact on chess in India, similar to what happened in the former Soviet Union, where the juniors would drive each other up.Working with juniors is wonderful. I try to be realistic with them. We are all human beings, we will react emotionally in most situations. So, for me, it’s about passing the wisdom to them, rather than strategies, which keep evolving in this sport. I try to share with them how I approach a problem, how I work on it, and they can incorporate things that work for them.I try to share with them that once I too was a teenager, travelling the globe. At that time, I didn’t know many people. I experienced it and it turned out to be a lot of fun. I try to reassure their parents that this will turn out OK, so do not worry.The kids recognise that I’m a multiple-time world champion, so in the beginning, they were surprised to see me sitting there and analysing games with them, but they got used to it and talk freely now. They are respectful kids and I am over 50, so there is a bit of ‘sir’ and ‘uncle’ during conversations!They need to grow but they need to experience things. Chess gives you the opportunity to meet interesting people, travel. The important thing is to have other interests, to make friends, to have the ability to put chess aside for a few hours a day – switch off for some time. It is very important.There are eight Indian GMs in the top-10 right now, and the average ELO rating of India’s top-10 is 2671, the fourth-best in the world. Vidit Gujrathi is in the top-25, P Harikrishna was in the top-15 for some time, touching No. 10 at one point.It is true that we’ve had many promising players but they could not push on. Sometimes, luck matters too. Many players had to take up a job early, or they had obligations. They tried their best, but some may not have pursued it all the way. But many of the earlier generation GMs seeded the present generation. Many of them started their academies, became coaches.I often tell people that yes, I was very talented, I was very good – but I had lots and lots of breaks as well. My parents were supportive. I was a very talented junior but many talented juniors did not win the Junior World Championship, I did. I became a Grandmaster, and that opened doors for me. I was invited to tournaments, and I got my chances and I took them.We’ve had many good players but the first generation after me was perhaps a good 100-120 ELO points behind me. The younger ones will eventually hit 2700 ELO ratings. I think many in my academy and a couple of those who are outside are heading in that direction. I hope to help make it happen.I’ve been the top player in India for 35 years. My time at the top will end. It will be tough. The day it happens, it will be a bit of a shock. I have experienced it before, when I lost my world title or the day somebody overtook me in ratings… You find new ways when the world passes you by! The last couple of years have left me slightly bemused as to where I am in chess because I had to take a long break. I’ve had breaks before, but not like six months. I will play some tournaments later this year and I am trying to get ready for that. I have never been this inactive for this long.I am also at a stage where I can see that it is nice to assume new roles. I have been doing a lot of coaching, mentoring, taking on lots of other assignments and commentating. You always learn, you try new things. I will cope.As the first GM from India, I’m often told by players they were inspired by me. The baseline has shifted for the new generation. They will always be compared to my results. Many of them are starting at a very high stage. Pragg, Nihal Sarin, Gukesh and Arjun are capable of becoming 2700 ELO players, which means they will play top tournaments. We are a few steps behind the world’s best, but I am confident we will get there.(As told to Vinayak Padmadeo) #chess||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/our-teen-chess-geniuses-and-the-wonder-years-375403
07-03-2022||NEVER boast of your qualifications or achievements||The officer who would say it as it is||He carried a legacy of tales narrated over the years by his subordinates, which became a benchmark for youngsters to emulate. As a young Captain, he refused to divert from a reconnaissance mission sortie, not budging under pressure from the Air Force Station commander who wanted to oblige a Governor, a former Air Chief. His simple justification was that his mission was more important than the ‘valuable time’ of the VIP. This could have cost him his career. Not to buckle under pressure was the takeaway from this incident.Posted in the Army Headquarters, he twice voiced his concerns over a decision taken by none other than the Army Chief. The entire hierarchy was in resonance but this man, then a Lt Col, a small rank in that big ship, would not budge. The issue was revisited and the Chief himself appreciated and was magnanimous enough to reverse his own decision when he was convinced that it was in the larger interest of the organisation. You need not hold a high rank to give the correct advice to your superiors, he would always preach.The Brigade Commander refused to carry out the Annual Inspection of his regiment, being upset seeing the unit rear area not up to the mark. He point-blank reminded the visiting officer that being deployed on the Line of Control in a snow-bound operational area, operational readiness was more important than peacetime frills. ‘You may embarrass me, but kindly do not insult my unit,’ he said, politely. The inspection went through as scheduled. Focusing on the priorities of life was the lesson here.Later, he was marched up to the General Officer Commanding after a vehicle of his outfit met with an accident. When the General wanted the driver to be punished, he as the Commanding Officer (CO) took moral responsibility for the accident and sought punishment for himself instead. The General, exhibiting fine leadership, recommended the CO for a career course that ensured he got his next rank. Moral courage pays in the long run was the message conveyed.I was part of the control and umpiring team for a Corps-level exercise with him as the chief umpire. I was taken aback when he covered all the maps as his immediate boss entered the operation room. ‘I cannot update you Sir, and I wish you had not visited us.’ The General officer, who was part of the exercise, was not amused by this forthrightness. The choice of taking the harder right than the easier route always rests with you.‘Military decisions have a direct impact on the lives of men under command and it is obligatory for us officers to care for them. If you look after them as your own children and stand by them, they will follow you into the deepest valleys even unto death,’ he would often say. He firmly believed that if you have conviction, you must convey your viewpoint, especially when it involves national or organisational interests.His candidness was no impediment for his rise to a senior rank and he would have risen to be a General had age been on his side. Brigadier Puru Tewari, my commander, showed us that not saying yes when you want to say no, was a sign of great moral strength and authority. #iaf #indian army #indian defence||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-officer-who-would-say-it-as-it-is-375401
07-03-2022||AMONG the millions caught on the wrong side of the divide was my family from the village of Ladhewala Waraich||Our journey to nowhere||However, as August 14, 1947, approached, tension began to mount and people’s worst fears of extreme violence were realised. There were killings on a large scale in Rawalpindi (now Islamabad). Lahore became a fertile ground for group clashes and individual killings mostly by stabbing. Amritsar, where the rivals were more or less evenly placed, held the unenviable distinction of the maximum of damage to life and property.Ladhewala Waraich, however, remained peaceful, and good relations across the religious divide were seemingly confirmed when my father, Bhag Singh, though a Sikh, was chosen to unfurl the new Pakistani flag at a village-level ceremony to celebrate the creation of the Muslim state. But the goodwill did not last and just 10 days after Partition, our family and hundreds of other non-Muslim villagers were forced to leave their homes. News of gruesome atrocities committed elsewhere in the region, coupled with half-baked rumours of impending attacks by non-Muslims, led to the demonisation of the minority Hindu and Sikh population — something that I later discovered was happening in reverse on the other side of the border.On August 23, after mounting tension during which my father had to negotiate with the Muslim villagers to prevent a massacre of Hindus and Sikhs, he was ordered to surrender his licensed firearms — an order that he disobeyed because it would leave him with no means of defending his family. The message was loud and clear: We had no place in Pakistan.Where to go was the biggest worry. There was a refugee camp in Gujranwala, but it was considered too dangerous to make that short journey. The only other option was the track through the fields; walking trails that would enable us to reach a camp at a gurdwara called ‘Sacha Sauda’, around 20 miles away. Only a few among our co-villagers had traversed through this route.At dawn of August 25, we started assembling in the village playground, packing whatever we could carry, and depositing the rest of our belongings with trusted Muslims in the hope that we would eventually be able to return home. Many of our neighbours were there to see us off, embracing equals, patting youngers and bowing to the elderly. I can vividly recall one of my friends, a staunch proponent of Pakistan, clutching at the shoulders of my elder brother while loudly wailing in anguish.Since the crowd consisted of around 300-odd people, including the elderly, infirm, and infants, we were walking at a snail’s pace. Another reason was that all of us were overloaded with whatever possessions we could carry. Some farmers had their own camels, a resourceful few had hired or purchased an odd donkey.I was carrying my father’s 12-bore single-barrel licensed shotgun, and his revolver was tucked below my shirt in the loose sheet-like dhoti commonly sported by us villagers. The rifle was with my elder brother, an army officer who had served in World War II. Almost every adult was carrying some weapon or another. Among the assortment there were kirpans, spear-like weapons called ballams, and lathis. A few among us were wearing steel armour under the shirts, which had been improvised in the wake of bloody events.We had hardly walked a couple of miles when we came across some prowlers who started firing with primitive improvised devices to scare us. We could see no purpose in their sporadic forays, which could not actually harm us since we were better armed. A few miles further on, as we approached village Qila Mihan Singh (the first settlement on our journey), we came under heavier and more effective fire from the villagers, splitting the crowd in two and preventing us from moving further. I happened to be in the rear group, along with my two younger brothers, whereas my parents, elder brother, and a few other leading families — along with baggage-laden animals — were further ahead, close to the sugarcane fields near the village. The miscreants who had fired on us earlier, lacking the requisite firepower, dared not assault the forward group. Hence, they started assaulting the softer target. Driven by survival instinct, I managed to escape the loose dragnet and joined the forward group. Once I joined my parents and disclosed to them that the two younger ones may have met their end, my father said none of us was going to survive the day.Suddenly, the shooting stopped and the attackers offered the refugees a deal. We were asked to hand over our firearms, our only defence. The moment we did that, we were at their mercy, and they proclaimed: “Now is the time to avenge the killings at Amritsar.”I ran into the adjoining sugarcane field, lying there to escape fire. After a while, I heard some movement. It was my brother, who signalled me to keep mum. We were soon joined by a young Sikh boy who told us that our mother had been assaulted.My brother and I managed to crawl through the field and escape. When we came out of the thick grown fields, there was no one around. The attackers were perhaps busy looting our baggage left behind. We were moving cautiously towards the next village when a Muslim boy offered shelter, but soon changed his mind. He told us to wait until he came back after locating a safer place. The moment he left, both of us decided to part just because we felt that if separated, one of us may survive. I volunteered to go to the nearby Khabbe Ke village, where I knew a Muslim family. It turned out later that our fears were unfounded. The Muslim boy returned soon and was responsible for saving my brother, besides three other youngsters.Meanwhile, I had continued with my flight totally alone. I was near Khabbe Ke when I heard a drumbeat, which signalled danger. However, it turned out to be a response to a threat from the other side of the village. The mobilisation proved a boon for me since the villagers had all assembled on the western side of the village whereas I was on the eastern side. I approached an old man standing near the first well, and begged for mercy. He locked me inside the cattle shed.Later that afternoon, from my hideout, I heard voices discussing the killings that had taken place in Qila Mihan Singh that morning. I recognised one of the voices as the head of the family I had been seeking, and came out of my hiding place. He showered all his affection on me and felt grieved at our tragedy. I came to know that a few Hindu and Sikh families were looking after the injured. I was desperate to rejoin my family but could not gather the courage to proceed alone. I requested my acquaintance to accompany me.When I finally made it back to Qila Mihan Singh, terrible news awaited me. My father and our youngest brother had been killed, and my younger brother grievously injured. Mother escaped with only a minor injury. In all, 26 refugees had been killed and 26 seriously injured, but the situation had changed completely since that morning. The villagers who had shot at the refugees were now offering them protection. It transpired that the troublemakers had sent a false message to the inhabitants of Qila Mihan Singh that a group of armed Sikhs was about to attack their homes. The villagers had attacked just to save themselves.We stayed in Qila Mihan Singh for a few days before setting out for a new-destination — the refugee camp in Gujranwala that we had originally rejected. This time, though, we had military transport. Ironically, the camp was located in my alma mater, Khalsa High School, from where I had matriculated in 1945. We — my mother, two brothers and I — crossed over to India in September, first reaching Amritsar and then Jalandhar, and eventually settled in Kapurthala, where I joined college in March 1948.A few years later, in 1956, I got a chance to visit Pakistan and my village, Ladhewala Waraich. I haven’t gone back since but keep in touch with the villagers there through a Facebook page.— The writer is a historian #partiiton||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/our-journey-to-nowhere-375400
