08-03-2022||---||Gender inequality a roadblock||On International Women’s Day, Indian women are joining others around the world to work towards ending the gender bias that they face. Gender equality would get women ease of access to resources and opportunities, including economic participation and decision-making, and the state of valuing different behaviours, aspirations and needs. Gender equality is not only a fundamental human right, but a necessary foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable society.Gender inequality is glaring in India. According to the Gender Inequality Index 2020, women compare very unfavourably in relation to men in three dimensions: reproductive health, empowerment and the labour market. Switzerland is the most gender equal country in the world. India, on the other hand, ranked 132 out of 187 countries. Its low ranking is calculated from its skewed sex ratio, with only 914 females for every 1,000 males as also from employment, which shows 29% of Indian women above the age of 15 being in labour force, as compared to 80.7% men and our lawmakers in Parliament having 10.9% women only. According to the report, 200 women die from every 100,000 childbirths in India. Every day, 39,000 girls are forced into early marriage. All these go towards indicating gender inequality.Constitutionally, ‘equality’ forms a part of India’s basic structure. Theoretically, women have all the rights regardless of gender differences. There are also various government laws and schemes which seek to promote gender equality. Yet, examples of gender inequality may be found in the fields of education, employment, social customs and general attitude of the people. Being born as women in Indian society, one has to face gender discrimination at all levels. The preference for sons and aversion to daughter is a well acknowledged phenomenon in India. Sons are considered to be economic, social and ritual assets whereas daughters are considered to be liabilities. The boy receives a ceremonial welcome on his birth but not the girl child. Sex determination tests, female foeticide and abortions are commonly used to eliminate this unwelcome presence.The most important causes of gender inequality are located in poverty, illiteracy, unemployment, social customs, belief and anti-female attitude. In India, among the 30 per cent people who are below the poverty line, 70 per cent are women, leading to economic dependence on men that becomes a root cause of gender disparity. Illiteracy follows closely in contributing to this inequality. There are around 960 million illiterate adults, of whom two-thirds are women. Educational backwardness of girls has been the resultant cause of gender discrimination. Girls account for only 43.7% of enrolment at the primary level, 40.9% at the upper primary level, 38.6% at the secondary level and 36.9% at the degree and above level. Consequently, the participation of girls in education is still below 50%. Gender differences in enrolment are prevalent in all the states at all levels. Due to illiteracy, females are not able to realise their full potential and power in any sphere.Further, conventional division of labour imposes enormous domestic role on women, both in rural and urban India. Rights and obligations within a household are not shared or distributed evenly. Women spend a large proportion of time on unpaid house work. Consequently, they are not able to respond to new opportunities and shift to new occupations because of their intra-household allocation of responsibilities. In addition, child-bearing has natural implications for labour force participation by the women. Thus, women are not able to be economically self-sufficient due to unemployment, and their economic dependence on the male counterpart becomes a cause of gender inequality, reducing women to a subordinate status. In the field of health and nutrition, male members of family are supposed to take relatively fresh and nutritious food in comparison to women because either they are earning members or head of the family or are ‘naturally’ more important than female members. This type of social attitude is conducive to create/sharpen the problem of gender discrimination.Promoting gender equality and improvement in the status of women are specifically stated to be the central goals of development and social policy in India. Though many social activists and reformers crusade against such social odds to restore honour and dignity to women, attitudinal disparities continue to thrive. How then can we rectify matters in order to promote gender equality? For this, there are two things that are needed. One, women must be made aware of their basic rights and capabilities, as they accept all types of discriminatory practices that persist in the family and society, largely due to their ignorance and unawareness. Women have to come together to assert their demands regarding equality. Two, men have to be taken into confidence and accepted as partners in taking a stand against gender inequality. In patriarchal social order, such as ours, it is impossible to succeed without the consent and involvement of the male population.Women need to get the support, assistance, understanding and involvement of males. For this, education has to be made gender-sensitive. There is the need to educate boys and men in terms of their understanding, information and capacity building, regarding equal opportunity for both the sexes. Without this, any amount of women’s reservation and welfare programmes will not be able to enhance the status of womenfolk or reduce their inequality. It’s time that every day is treated as Women’s Day and not just March 8, and celebrated together by men and women. Let’s jointly start celebrating Women’s Day from today. Are you ready? #women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/gender-inequality-a-roadblock-375902
08-03-2022||---||Build sustainable society||The International Women’s Day 2022 comes with a futuristic gaze for a sustainable world. It will coincide with the 66th session (March 14-25) of the UN Commission on the Status of Women.The metaphor of ‘sustainability’ has a deeper meaning in the 21st century world mired in institutionalised bias, especially by the male gender against the female gender, resulting from a deeply entrenched mindset. The global campaign seeks minimal acceptance of female gender as equal in all respects. It is a real challenge to walk the talk on elimination of gender-based bias that is against the order of nature and the root cause of many of the global ills.At the advent of the United Nations, the first decisive step on gender equality was taken when feisty Indian delegate Hansa Mehta shook the western women members out of their stupor at a meeting of the UN sub-commission on the status of women. She is credited with getting the line “All men are born free and equal” changed to “All human beings are born free and equal” in Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted on December 10, 1948. The ‘gender neutrality’ pioneered by Hansa Mehta holds the key for global mainstreaming of gender equality. It vividly came out in the UN report of May 13, 1946. “Freedom and equality are essential to human development and whereas woman is as much a human being as man and, therefore entitled to share them with him,” the Sub-commission said.A March 9, 2021, WHO report showed the data for 161 countries on intimate partner violence and 137 countries for non-partner sexual violence. It is concerning that one in three women (30%) above 15 years of age has experienced physical and/or sexual violence at least once in their lifetime from a male intimate partner or others. The use of the rubric ‘Intimate partner violence' shows only the tip of the iceberg. It does have ominous consequences for most women. A closer study of the reality of violence against women (VAW) shows that gender inequality remains at the root of pervasive violence against women and girls.Now there is a growing acceptance of the existence of VAW. As a result, the 2021 WHO report estimates multi-sectoral VAW policies were found in 81% of all 194 countries, 53% of them had a national health policy that mentioned VAW and 48% countries have clinical guidelines/protocols to address the menace. Still, operationalisation of the policies does not match since funding allotted for VAW was reported only in 42% of the countries.There is an imposing corpus of global instruments to address inequality, discrimination and violence against women prevailing in all the countries. These include the 1995 Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, the 1997 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the Optional Protocols. They, in turn, provide a comprehensive set of measures for realising gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls rooted in human rights and fundamental freedoms. The UN Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) plays a central role in promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls. In fact, it coordinates all UN system-wide action on all issues affecting women.In view of critical issues, especially conflict-induced VAW, on March 8, the presidency of the UN Security Council, led by the United Arab Emirates will witness an open debate on ‘women, peace and development’ (WPS). This ‘securitisation’ of VAW in conflicts has been institutionalised through the historic UNSC resolution 1325 (2000). The UNSC debate assumes significance since 100 million people now experience food insecurity and an unprecedented number of 82.4 million people are forcibly displaced. There is a growing scholarly view on an inextricable link between sex, gender inequality and violence.The report of the UN Secretary-General (UNSG) on September 27, 2021, called on the UN member-states to implement measures to increase women’s equal participation in peace, political and other decision-making processes. There is a widening global gender gap wherein 23% women delegates took part in the UN-led peace processes, 5.2%women took part in peace operations and women held a mere 18.9 per cent of parliamentary seats in conflict-ridden countries.The UNSG’s 2021 report spells out persistent gaps in women’s role, equality and participation at various levels in national societies. The primary challenge pertains to the control over female sexuality amidst outdated social, cultural and State-driven normative systems. Even as the UN has called for elimination of the global scourge of female genital mutilation (FGM), in 2021, some 4.16 million girls globally faced the risk of undergoing FGM. Covid-19 has only worsened the plight of women as it exacerbated sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV), resulting from deep-rooted patriarchal systems, stereotyped gender-based norms and harmful cultural practices.“Sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV) is a heinously prevalent scourge, too common in all societies. It is also exacerbated by conflict, as well as other humanitarian crises and the climate emergency,” Peter Maurer, President of the ICRC, Geneva, said. Ironically, international law is not adequate in specifically addressing SGBV and it requires a global Lex specialis for bridging the ‘normative gap’ in the field.As we celebrate yet another International Women’s Day, the world needs to move from ritual and rhetoric to genuine actions for safe and healthy existence of half of the world’s population that faces gender-based inequality, discrimination and deep-rooted violence. Before the onset of Covid-19 pandemic, a staggering 243 million women and girls (aged 15-49) were globally subjected to sexual or physical violence. This has only worsened during the pandemic. The global cost of VAW has been estimated by UN Women at $1.5 trillion. It is likely to have reached frightening proportions with no let-up during the two years of pandemic. It is high time this yearly global campaign is translated into measurable concrete action at the national level before it is too late.  #women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/build-sustainable-society-375899
08-03-2022||---||There is no just war||As I write this piece, television news channels are continually giving a running commentary on the devastating war — the Russian army intoxicated with the technologically sleek weapons of destruction ravaging the major cities of Ukraine. In the age of media simulations and psychic impoverishment, even this war might look like a spectacle; and so long as it doesn’t affect us directly, we tend to consume it as some sort of mass entertainment: no less thrilling than a video game! Even though wars are traumatic — economically, culturally and existentially — our Generals, techno-fascists, narcissistic leaders and weapon-manufacturing empires would continue to create an environment conducive to war. Or, is it that as pragmatists, we too have normalised the mass psychology of aggression and violence, and accepted the inevitability of war in some form or other?Why is it that the age of modernity, despite its gospel of progress, reason and freedom, has further brutalised our consciousness?Possibly, in this dystopian age, we see Trump and Putin, or George W Bush and Saddam Hussein as more ‘real’ than, say, Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr, or the Dalai Lama and Thich Nhat Hanh. Who knows we might ridicule the pacifists for their anti-war position, and brand them as ‘idealistic’ and ‘impractical’? Are we then destined to pay the price of being practical —war, mental trauma, influx of refugees, homelessness, and untold misery of women of invaded territories?The trajectory of human history is filled with the narratives of war. However, what ought to disturb us is the fate of modernity. Why is it that the age of modernity, despite its gospel of progress, reason and freedom, has further brutalised our consciousness? Far from taking us to the land of peace and solidarity, modernity has given us a never-ending cycle of wars — with mathematical precision, and ever-expanding sophisticated technologies of violence and weapons of mass destruction. There is no ‘just’ war, be it the Gulf war in the name of restoring civility and democracy, or the destruction of Ukraine in the name of rescuing it from what Putin would have characterised as ‘neo-Nazis’.Possibly, the reason for the inability of the age of modernity to free itself from war is a mix of three destructive principles — the discourse of hyper- nationalism, often sanctified by a techno-authoritarian state with narcissistic leaders like Hitler and Putin; militarism as a hyper-masculine practice that manufactures and cultivates the fear of ‘enemies’, and thereby sanctifies itself in the name of patriotism and martyrdom; and above all, the greed implicit in modern capitalism, totalitarian socialism and associated colonial/imperial ambitions. It is, therefore, not surprising that only in a world of this kind can we dance with death, kill more than 75 million people in World War II, and, as Zygmunt Bauman said, think of holocaust with ‘scientific planning’. We saw Soviet tanks and troops crushing a spontaneous national upsurge in Hungary in 1956, or the might of the US manifesting itself in the aerial bombing or dropping of thousands of bombs on Iraq in 1991. From Vietnam to Afghanistan to Ukraine, the story goes on.It is sad that the prevalent practice of education seldom encourages the young learner to interrogate the ideology of militant nationalism and militarism. If you talk to an average school/college student, you would find how his mind has already been conditioned to believe that, say, Pakistan is our enemy; military aggression is not bad because our Army personnel, as true patriots, are rescuing the nation! Our education system transforms young minds into warriors of multiple forms — hyper-competitive careerists with the aggression of social Darwinism; techno-managers with instrumental reasoning; or sado-masochists willing to be carried away by authoritarian personalities.Yet, those who have not yet lost faith in the possibility of human goodness must come forward, raise their voice against war, and strengthen the pacifist movement. This requires a paradigm shift in our worldview — from brute instincts and narcissistic urge to dominate over others to what Erich Fromm would have regarded as the ‘art of loving’; from the monologue of power to what Thich Nhat Hanh would have characterised as ‘loving kindness’ and compassionate listening; from colonial aggression and militarism to what Gandhi would have stressed: nonviolence as an art of resistance, or, as Johan Galtung would have said, a mode of conflict resolution; and from instrumental science and technological violence to ecological holism, or what feminists would have regarded as the ‘ethics of care’. Be it Jesus and Buddha, or Leo Tolstoy’s The Kingdom of God is Within You and Tagore’s Gitanjali: we see the finest aspiration for the elevation of humankind.In this Orwellian/Foucauldian world, not many would be willing to be convinced by these pacifists. Yet, we need this utopia — not as some sort of day-dreaming, but as an inspiration for a nuanced art of resistance, or a creatively nuanced and spiritually elevated pedagogy to nurture the seeds of a peaceful world. We need this utopia to make our children realise that the cult of militarism is ugly, the invention of nuclear weapons reveals our moral decadence, and narcissism, far from being an expression of courage, is a manifestation of chronic fear and psychic insecurity. And atom bombs are not more powerful than love and empathy.Even under extremely difficult circumstances, the hope for a new world should not wither away. Amid the ongoing war, as we see young Russian students and pacifists in the streets of Moscow raising anti-war slogans and pleading for peace, it arouses hope. Why should we negate the redemptive power of this hope? #russia ukraine war||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/there-is-no-just-war-375896
