09-03-2022||---||From empty coffers to zero pending bills||WHILE scripting a tribute to his mentor Alfred Marshall, John Maynard Keynes had described the qualities of a good economist as: “He must understand symbols and speak in words. He must contemplate the particular in terms of the general and touch abstract and concrete in the same flight of thought. He must study the present in the light of the past for the purposes of the future... He must be purposeful and disinterested in a simultaneous mood, as aloof and incorruptible as an artist, yet sometimes as near to earth as a politician.”Having served as finance minister of Punjab for two terms, I would say that this description does befit the role of an FM because such a person must constantly walk the tightrope of political expectations and economic realities. When I became the finance minister in 2017, Punjab was on a fiscal precipice. With the state coffers virtually empty, there were hardly any resources left for public welfare schemes — something that was perturbing because Punjab was fast declining on crucial human development indicators and development goals.The previous government left pending liabilities to the tune of Rs 13,000 crore for expenditure already incurred, including unpaid liability of the Atta Dal Scheme, dearness allowance and power subsidy.The situation was so dire that the Reserve Bank of India stopped honouring payments of the state government. This happened for the first time in the history of the state and, perhaps, the rarest occasion when the RBI had to take such a drastic step.While the previous government inflicted several wounds on the state’s fiscal, the unkindest cut was the conversion of Rs 30,584.11 crore of the CCL gap into a long-term loan on the last day of the previous government’s tenure. We have documentary evidence that proves that the Centre was willing to apportion the burden between itself and the banks, but the then government put this onerous burden on the people of Punjab.As I look back at the last five years, it is satisfying to say that the Punjab Government today has zero pending bills in the state treasury. In fact, one of the high points of prudent financial management has been the fact that the state government has not gone into overdraft for even a single day during fiscal years 2020-21 and 2021-22 (up to November). The primary deficit stood at a monstrous Rs 41,198 crore in 2016-17.Again, it is comforting to observe that in 2019-20, the state had a primary surplus of Rs 741 crore. In 2017, when the new government was sworn in, there was a funding gap of Rs 10,273 crore. A priority of the government was to bridge this chasm and there has been success on this front too as the government has been successful in achieving a zero funding gap for two consecutive years, i.e., 2020-21 and 2021-22.A breakthrough for the improvement was the money we were able to secure for the state from the 15th Finance Commission (FC), wherein we got almost Rs 40,000 crore worth of revenue deficit grants. The 15th FC, in its final report for 2021-26, has acknowledged the viewpoints put forth by the state and recommended an increased share of 1.807 per cent in the devolution of the net proceeds of the taxes for Punjab, which was earlier 1.577 per cent for the 14th FC period of 2015-20. This was especially significant because the disbursals for Punjab from the 13th and 14th FCs were rather paltry.One reason why we succeeded this time was because we were better prepared and presented solid arguments for Punjab before the FC. This, coupled with prudent debt management (wherein Punjab today borrows money from the open market at a rate of interest lesser than most comparative states). A proactive cash management approach ensured these improvements. Leakages and profligacy were checked through the Punjab Transparency in Public Procurement Act, 2019, which has brought transparency in procurement of goods and services.Similarly, to remove arbitrariness, all receipts of the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board are now routed through the Consolidated Fund of Sate. Vindication came from the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India, which, in its report for the year ending 2019, singled out Punjab for praise, mentioning that it was on a fiscal-correction path. The state has started investing in the Consolidated Sinking Fund to pre-emptively mitigate the rollover risk or reinvestment risk. Nearly Rs 2,000 crore has been invested in this fund up to February 2022.Some might suspect that this turnaround has been brought about by compromising on economic growth. Quite the contrary. The Gross State Domestic Product of Punjab has grown handsomely under the tenure of the current government. It stood at Rs 4.71 lakh crore in 2017-18, from where it increased to Rs 5.25 lakh crore in 2018-19 (registering an 11.5 per cent annual increase). The GDP further grew by 9.41 per cent to reach Rs 5,74,760 crore. The per capita income of the state has gone up from Rs 1.28 lakh per annum in 2016 to Rs 1.67 lakh in 2020, almost a 30 per cent increase — also, a good 25 per cent more than the national per capita average.As a son of the soil of this land, I was mortified when I looked at the balance sheet I inherited in 2017. Credit goes to my colleagues in the Department of Finance and Planning who worked hard to bring about this improvement.As a politician, I have often been accused of being parsimonious. The truth is, I am a social democrat who believes in the Keynesian principle of the government being the primary propellor of economy. I do not mind deficits, but I do object to unconscionable expenditures and kakistocracies, wherein a few profiteers thrive at the expense of a larger population. Any action that I take is governed by whether it is in the interest of the people of Punjab. And if the answer is in the affirmative, then whether it involves making an expense or curtailing it, I have never shirked.In the closing scene of Christopher Nolan’s masterpiece The Dark Knight, the protagonist says: “I may not be a hero that Gotham deserved, but I was a hero that Gotham needed.” It will be presumptuous on my part to regard my tenure as FM with any feeling of grandeur. I am a man with modest talents, but what I do possess is an abiding love for my land of Punjab and for her people. In that sense, when I became the FM, I inherited a poisoned chalice deficit — fiscal as well as emotional — a sluggish economy, a precarious financial situation.I submit that today Punjab is in a much improved situation. If the people repose trust in me again, I can tell you I will be back in whatever role the people of my magnificent state want me.I am reminded of the hauntingly beautiful words of the great poet of Punjab, Allama Iqbal: Yehi ain-e-qudrat hai, yehi asloobe fitrat hai, jo hai rahe amal mein gaamzan, mehboob-e-fitrat hai (This is the law of Nature, the way by her prescribed. He who treads the path of action is the nature’s favoured child).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/from-empty-coffers-to-zero-pending-bills-376167
09-03-2022||---||Ukraine crisis tilting balance of global power||RUSSIA’S ‘special military operation’ against Ukraine, now two weeks old, is taking a heavy toll in terms of human casualties and suffering with the destruction of several cities and displacement of more than 1.3 million people. Due to their eight years of combat experience and knowledge of the local terrain, the Ukrainians have put up an impressive fight. The Russians have had difficulties in fighting in deeper areas, maintaining supply lines, dominating the sky and blocking Ukraine’s supply routes from the West.Russia is now resorting to heavy bombardment to force Ukraine's capitulation as it has refused to accept her terms, mainly a neutral status, ‘demilitarisation and denazification’ (change of regime) and Russia’s sovereignty over Crimea.Despite its strong resistance so far, the Ukrainian army is unlikely to prevent the advance of the superior Russian army for long. While the USA and NATO countries have refused to join the war, they are providing steady support to Ukraine through the supply of weapons, training, fuel and money and hitting Russia with waves of sanctions.Some scholars have called this war as a continuing clash between Russia’s desire for the consolidation of its empire and Ukrainian nationalism and separatism, stretching back three centuries. The Ukrainians now firmly reject any identification with Russia and want a closer association with Europe and other western organisations.There are doubts whether either side will achieve its desired objectives through this war. The more likely scenario is of Russia capturing some parts of the country, setting up a new regime and the Ukrainians mounting a prolonged insurgency with the support of the West.Russia’s invasion has reinvigorated the moribund NATO and rallied the European countries against Moscow, prompting even bystanders like Germany to increase its defence spending. Even historically neutral countries such as Finland, Sweden and Switzerland are now taking a tougher stance against Moscow. Ukraine’s application for membership of the European Union (EU) was approved with an overwhelming majority by the European Parliament. If Ukraine eventually gets the EU membership, a western democracy would come next door, challenging Putin’s Russia, a scenario he would abhor.Russia has been hit by a large number of sanctions by the West against its major banks, including its expulsion from SWIFT (biggest financial network to facilitate payments among 200 countries), import of dual use technologies, denial of certification to the Nord stream 2 pipeline for the export of gas to Europe, sanctions on President Putin, several oligarchs and parliamentarians and closure of the airspace of several countries to Russian flights.Russia’s oil and gas sectors, which account for 50 per cent of its foreign trade and 40 per cent of its fiscal revenues and some banks, remain outside the scope of these sanctions. Also, some of Russia’s foreign reserves are held in the Chinese yuan and gold. The last time the West put sanctions on Russia for its takeover of Crimea in 2014, its average economic growth declined to less than 1 per cent from 2015-20; wider sanctions this time will hit its economy harder.The USA is working on imposing an ‘iron curtain’ on Russia by declining access to new investments and technologies, constricting trade, encouraging western companies to leave and isolating her globally. Ukraine has become a battleground for a sustained USA-Russia rivalry as the USA would not like to see Russia (and China) succeed in challenging its global supremacy and security architecture.China has balanced its support to Russia, declining to term its military action as ‘invasion’. It has also conveyed its concern for “respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries, including Ukraine.” It has dangled the carrot of collaborating with the USA, including joining the G-7 Build Back Better World, and her own Belt and Road initiatives, if the latter abandons its ‘competitive-collaborative-adversarial’ approach and respects China’s core interests, including dropping its support for Taiwan’s independence.While China will continue to buy Russian oil, gas, wheat and other items as these are in its own interests, it would not provide unlimited support to Russia as that could disrupt its economic ties with the West. China’s prime interest will be to safeguard its economy from the adverse impact of sanctions. A weak and pliant Russia suits China fine in responding against the USA and containing a rising India.The conflict has complicated India’s position. India has to be mindful of its traditional military dependence on Russia when China has amassed 50,000 troops with high-tech weaponry on its northern borders. It also needs the political support of the USA, France, Japan and others, much more than in the past, for getting foreign investment, emerging technologies and new generations of weapon systems to resist China’s aggression in its neighbourhood. An important concern for India is if an attenuated Russia emerging from this war would be able to resist China’s pressures in the future against the supply of new generations of weaponry to India, such as the S-400 air defence system and others.In recent years, India’s strategic dependence on the USA and its allies is growing (e.g., purchases of new weapons systems and emerging technologies) and that on Russia declining. These countries dominate the present international order, including the global financial system. During the faceoff between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh in May-June 2020, the USA provided useful political, intelligence and military support to India; closer ties with the USA has been an important countervailing factor to resist China’s hegemony.The Modi government has shown the necessary dexterity in balancing our interests with India’s traditional and new strategic partners and asking the Presidents of Russia and Ukraine to talk directly to resolve this conflict.As the war progresses, India will have to be more mindful of the shifting balance of global power, new equations emerging among major powers and our increasing dependence on the USA and its allies and juggle its position carefully to secure our long-term interests and play a positive role in resolving the Ukraine conflict. #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ukraine-crisis-tilting-balance-of-global-power-376166
09-03-2022||---||Sounding the alarm||THE draft of the 6th Assessment Report of the Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has just been released. Its conclusions must be taken seriously as it represents the consensus among climate scientists and experts. Each report had a significant impact in raising international awareness of the nature and intensity of climate change and in mobilising national and international action to deal with the challenge. The historic Rio Convention of 1992, which led to the adoption of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, was inspired and informed by the first IPCC report of 1990 that drew attention to the accelerated pace of climate change and the urgency of tackling it through collaborative, multilateral action based on equitable burden sharing. The assessment reports and occasional special reports on specific issues constitute a veritable encyclopedia on climate change. The special report on 1.5°C issued in 2018 led to the implicit adoption of a lower target of 1.5°C for average rise in global temperature, rather than the 2°C limit enshrined in the Paris Agreement of 2015, which had 1.5°C as an aspirational target.India is a major player because its decisions on energy security will have impacts, both on its own economy as well as on the world’s capacity to tackle climate change. Looking at the series of IPCC reports since 1990, it becomes evident that: climate change is the result of man-made activities, in particular the adoption of a fossil fuel-based energy system; the ability to tackle climate change lies in the success in transforming the energy system away from fossil fuels; this is happening too slowly to make a difference; climate change is taking place at an accelerated pace; its impacts are and will be more severe in tropical and sub-tropical zones of the planet; beyond a certain temperature threshold (now thought to be 1.5°C), there will be irreversible and catastrophic changes in the planetary ecology; that failure to reduce global greenhouse emissions through an accelerated transition from fossil fuels to renewable and clean sources of energy will also place limits on natural and human adaptability to climate change; ensuring climate justice is an indispensable component of meeting the challenge of climate change; economic inequalities among nations and within nations diminishes both the capacity to mitigate emissions and to adapt to climate change impacts; and the phenomenon has become complex as it interacts through feedback loops with ecological degradation, biodiversity loss and population growth.The sixth report is notable in several respects. It recognises the ‘interdependence of climate, ecosystem and biodiversity’. These domains are interlinked and cannot be addressed through interventions limited to each domain. The report goes even further in spelling out how climate change is now part of a much larger ecological challenge related to ‘biodiversity loss, overall unsustainable consumption of natural resources, land and ecosystem degradation, rapid urbanisation, human demographic shifts, social and economic inequalities and a pandemic’.This leads to an explicit focus on what the report calls ‘coupled systems’ among climate, ecosystem and human society. But the agency of change is human society. Though this is not stated in so many words, the implications are clear: unless there is a change in human and societal value systems, it would not be possible to transition to a resilient and sustainable ecosystem. No technical fixes can solve the existential challenge humanity faces. Beyond technological transformation, there must be the transformation of society and its values and aspirations.The report has considered the climate change challenge in three time periods, taking the 1850-1900 period as the base. There are 2021-2040 (near-term), 2041-2060 (mid-term) and 2081-2100 (long-term). The current period (2011-2020) has already seen a temperature rise of 1.09°C. The report concludes that ‘there is a greater than 50% likelihood that global warming will reach or exceed 1.5°C in the near term, even in the very low emissions scenario’.Going back to the Special Report on 1.5°C, it has a section on the more specific impacts on different regions of the world. This has a particular relevance to India and the subcontinent. There is reference to the likely rise in sea levels which would endanger some of India’s key coastal cities of Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata. There will be large-scale climate-induced migrations, both inland and across borders, and could reach 40 million by 2050. There could be large-scale adverse impacts as a result of the melting of glaciers in the Himalayan zone, which could cause glacial lake outburst floods in the short run and affect the perennial snow-fed river systems in the long run. These rivers could end up as seasonal flows, worsening water scarcity and reducing food security throughout the densely populated Indo-Gangetic plain. There will be significant health impacts as the frequency and intensity of heat waves increase in our tropical zone.The report has included some promising examples of successful mitigation and adaptation but these are few and far between. These are like band-aids on a wound that is spreading and festering. We need to take most seriously the report’s key conclusion: ‘There is a narrowing window of opportunity to enable climate-resistant development.’For every country, the response to this mounting challenge has to be both in terms of domestic action as well as multilateral diplomacy. India is a significant player because decisions that it takes on ensuring its energy security will have major impacts, both on its own economic prospects as well as on the world’s capacity to tackle climate change. An accelerated shift towards renewables and cleaner sources of energy would enhance India’s energy security and contribute to global action. The ongoing Ukraine war is seriously affecting our access to gas and oil imports and their rising prices are draining our foreign exchange reserves. Even the prices of coal have gone up. It should be our effort to ensure that the latest geopolitical crisis does not shift attention away from the need for enhanced multilateral focus. The disaster that awaits us round the corner will have consequences which may dwarf even the terrible tragedy unfolding in the heart of Europe. #climate change||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sounding-the-alarm-376165
