10-03-2022||---||Medical teaching out of sorts||The Russian aggression in Ukraine has brought an unexpected focus on India’s medical education system. The images of Indian medical students stranded in various Ukrainian cities are disturbing. The students have found themselves caught in war zones and on the borders of neighbouring countries while fleeing conflict areas. The evacuation also brings back memories of Indian students stuck in Wuhan in China after the coronavirus pandemic broke out years ago. It is well known that a large number of Indian students head to foreign universities for medical education, but the sheer number of them in Ukraine has come as a surprise. This has necessitated the need for a thorough review of India’s medical education system.It is meaningless to propose that the private sector can rid the health sector of all its ills, including the flight of students abroad. The government needs to step in.Among the chief reasons being cited for Indian students opting to study medicine in foreign universities is the high fee structure in India, and also the lack of an adequate number of medical seats in Indian colleges. This is partly correct, but the problem is much deeper and closely connected with the state of the country’s health system. The only way to address the problem is to bring about structural changes in the health system, of which medical education is a sub-system. The first systemic survey of the health system, including medical education, was done by the Health Survey and Development Committee under the chairmanship of Sir Joseph Bhore in the 1940s. Many of the recommendations of the panel were implemented after Independence and new institutions were created to serve the health needs of people, and medical curricula were modified based on these needs. No such comprehensive and wide-ranging review of the health system was done after this exercise, though expert committees were formed to examine specific issues from time to time.The link between the health needs of people and medical education got severed with the entry of the private sector in the 1980s, which was also the period when private corporate hospitals were permitted to operate. Till this point, private sector participation in health services and medical education was restricted to institutions run by charitable, religious and minority institutions. The policy decision to allow for-profit or corporate players led to mushrooming of private medical colleges as well as corporate hospitals. Medical education being a state subject, some states aggressively promoted private medical colleges. The regulator, Medical Council of India (MCI), which was supposed to be a self-regulatory body, helped private players. Surplus money from agriculture was diverted into medical — and engineering — education in some states, with many of the private colleges owned by political leaders or their cronies. The courts also ruled that privately run professional education institutions had a right to charge fees higher than government institutions. Anomalies like NRI and promoter’s quotas crept in. Medical seats began to be sold to the highest bidder. The result of all this was the wild growth of medical colleges as a commercial business. In addition, the growth of private medical colleges was mostly in western and southern states, leading to a skewed distribution of medical colleges. Southern states have a greater share of government-run medical colleges as well. For dental education, the number of colleges being approved was so huge that many had no takers and dental graduates are being offered salaries lower than even drivers and plumbers. The overall quality of medical and dental education deteriorated. Many private medical colleges do not have qualified staff or attached teaching hospitals. On the other hand, the demand for medical and dental seats rose. Given the lure of high salaries in corporate hospitals or private practices in urban areas, parents of children who could not afford a seat in ‘capitation’ colleges started sending their students to teaching shops outside India. The experience shows that private participation in medical education has failed. The shortage of qualified medical personnel in rural areas continues. The concentration of doctors in urban areas and cities is high. There is the clamour of certain specialities while expertise in others, like preventive medicine, public health and communicable diseases is slacking. The distribution and spread of medical colleges are tilted in favour of some states. Medical training is out of bounds for the poorer sections of society. Above all, the cost of health services in the private sector has skyrocketed. In such a scenario, it is meaningless to propose that the private sector can rid this sector of all its ills, including the flight of students to unlikely destinations like Ukraine.Government agencies pushing for more privatisation only need to look at some of the solutions experts have proposed in the recent years. One such set of ideas came from the panel on Universal Health Care (UHC) a few years ago. It was suggested that the government should open medical colleges in underserved districts and attach them to the existing district hospitals. And in these colleges, preference should be given to students from rural areas. This way, new medical colleges can be opened in deserving regions and they can turn out doctors who would be willing to serve in rural areas as they would be drawn from the region. In addition, these doctors will be better equipped in their skills and clinical experience as they would get exposed to local health problems during their training. These could be snakebites, maternal child mortality, leprosy, water-borne diseases and so on. In addition, the training of doctors should not be addressed in isolation, but as part of overall health workforce planning. Several new ideas can be implemented based on needs in different regions and states. Such a strategy is critical if India is to achieve the goal of UHC as enshrined in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) agenda. The plight of young Indians caught in a war zone should serve as a wake-up call. #indians in ukrain #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/medical-teaching-out-of-sorts-376469
10-03-2022||---||Post Ukraine, China’s Taiwan policy under lens||While China has been incrementally raising the level of threat to Taiwan and in the Indo-Pacific, the potential for conflict has increased with the onset of the war in Ukraine. Chinese President Xi Jinping is intently watching the US and Western responses in Ukraine for any hint of vacillation or weakness, which would give China an opportunity to effect the forcible reunification of Taiwan with the mainland when Washington is preoccupied with the developments in Europe.Revealing the Chinese leadership’s thinking, the day after Russia invaded Ukraine, the Chinese Communist Party-owned Global Times on February 25 published a lengthy, sharply-worded editorial threatening Taiwan. Reacting to Taiwan Foreign Minister Joseph Wu’s remark hoping the international community would continue providing weapons to Taiwan to deter the mainland’s “invasion of the island”, the editorial claimed Taiwan’s ruling Democratic Progressive Party’s (DPP) “deep fear of being abandoned by the US has resurfaced”. Taipei, it said, had failed to realise that “Taiwan is just a pawn in Washington’s game against China”.The editorial warned: “The red line drawn by the Chinese mainland for ‘Taiwan independence’ secessionist forces is already there” and “if ‘Taiwan independence’ secessionist forces misjudge this goodwill and attempt to gain a sense of security by riding the US’ coattails and reinforcing Taiwan’s military forces, they should get ready for a tragic end”.Earlier, on February 5, an ostensibly “civilian” Chinese aircraft for the first time “approached” Dongyin island, one of Taiwan’s outlying islands in the East China Sea, under the public radar. This new manoeuvre by Beijing thickens the fog of uncertainty over its intentions towards Taiwan while raising tensions. This development too came in the midst of the Ukraine crisis where the US and West are arrayed opposite Russia and China.The Global Times reported that Taiwan’s defence authorities had confirmed on February 15 that a Chinese mainland civilian aircraft recently approached Dongyin island and “speculated that the Chinese mainland was testing Taiwan’s response measures”. Chinese mainland experts responded that the incident only exposed Taiwan’s weak air defence capability. They warned that if provocations by Taiwan secessionists continue, such flights could become routine, or even expand to include larger areas. The addition of civilian aircraft in the mix raises the risk of a sudden, amphibious military operation by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) against Taiwan.Further raising the level of apprehension has been the progressive increase in intrusions of Taiwan’s Air Defence Identification Zone (ADIZ) by the People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) aircraft. The number of PLAAF aircraft on exercise around Taiwan has also increased. On January 23 this year, 39 PLAAF aircraft, including one H-6 bomber and four electronic warfare aircraft violated Taiwan’s ADIZ. The J-16D electronic warfare aircraft were spotted near Taiwan for the first time. Taiwan’s defence department separately announced that the PLAAF aircraft hadconducted over 146 sorties and entered Taiwan’s airspace on nearly 30 days in 2022.Other countries in the region have also taken note of the rising tensions. With tensions around Taiwan building and its defences getting increasingly overshadowed by China’s military might, Japanese Defence Minister Nobuo Kishi said in June 2021 that the security of Taiwan is directly linked with that of Tokyo. On December 1, former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe warned China that a “military adventure would be the path to economic suicide”. He clarified that “an armed invasion of Taiwan would present a serious threat to Japan. A Taiwan crisis would be a Japan crisis and therefore a crisis for the Japan-US alliance. Beijing, President Xi Jinping in particular, should not have any misunderstanding in recognising this.”Japan’s Kyodo news agency disclosed in mid-December that amid increased tensions, the Japanese and US armed forces have drawn up a draft plan for a joint operation in case of a possible Taiwan emergency. Most recently on February 20, Nikkei Asia quoted French Foreign Minister Francois Le Drian as having stressed that “the stability of the Taiwan Strait is important for the stability of the entire (surrounding) region”. France was “ready to act” to ensure stability in the Taiwan Strait. He suggested that the French military might try to restrain China by sailing around the Taiwan Strait.There is concern in the US too. On February 17, US Congressman Mike Gallagher argued that “failing to defend Taiwan puts America’s allies and even the American homeland in danger”. He said one handbook for mid-career PLA officers states: “As soon as Taiwan is reunified with mainland China, Japan’s maritime lines of communication will fall completely within the striking ranges of China’s fighters and bombers…Japan’s economic activity and war-making potential will basically be destroyed.”In a sudden move to demonstrate American support in the midst of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, US President Biden sent a five-member delegation to Taiwan and Japan on March 2. Former Taiwanese legislator Shen Fu-hsiung observed that with the experience of Ukraine showing “strategic ambiguity” to be a big mistake, the US delegation’s visit may be a step towards “strategic clarity”.Chinese military commanders will be intently studying Russian military tactics in Ukraine while the leaders are monitoring the impact of the sanctions. In this backdrop, the presence of Chinese armed forces on India’s borders and refusal to restore the status quo that existed before April 2020, is an ever-present potential flashpoint. China’s reunification with Taiwan is also a long-standing aspiration. At this time, Xi will be looking for opportunities to become the first Chinese leader to embark on the reunification of China. India and Taiwan both need to be highly vigilant during this period and till the 20th Party Congress later this year. #China #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/post-ukraine-chinas-taiwan-policy-under-lens-376472
10-03-2022||---||India should keep door open for talks with Pak||Russia’s flirting with Pakistan and its deepening partnership with China following the Russian invasion of Ukraine must invite a rethink of our macro-diplomacy to limit adversaries. Setting muscular prestige aside, Islamabad must be courted to dilute a China threat which will grow.US scholar Stephen Cohen, the last word on India and Pakistan relations, used to say that the two countries would end their hostility in 100 years. That would mean abridging the 25-year gap if one is to take Pakistan’s first Nuclear Security Policy (2022-26) seriously. A public version of the NSP states that Pakistan is not seeking hostility with India for the next 100 years. Fiction? Still, PM Imran Khan’s greatest ambition is to normalise relations with India and play cricket. Consensus is claimed between elected government and the army over the NSP though the goal of peace with neighbour contradicts the military objective of India being an existential threat. Khan has pontificated about Pakistan drawing geo-economic and geo-political benefits from its geo-strategic location once it is at peace with its immediate neighbours. Army Chief Gen Qamar Bajwa has also spoken about burying the past and focusing on geo-economy. Kashmir is a core issue in NSP, though Pakistan has tied itself in knots over it, especially after India annulled Article 370. Strategic ambiguity prevails over its demand for rolling back Article 370 before talks.Pakistan is desperate to begin a formal dialogue with India which ceased in January 2013 after the beheading of an Indian soldier in J&K. Several constructive backchannels were opened, including one between NSA Ajit Doval and former ISI Chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, that led to the February 25, 2021, cease-fire. Islamabad is also pressing New Delhi to participate even virtually in the SAARC summit, in abeyance since 2016. India is not budging.With Pakistan retained on grey list in FATF review this month and an impoverished economy, the hybrid civil-military government has decided to reorient its objectives and priorities, placing internal security high on NSP agenda which is the Bajwa doctrine. Pakistan wants a makeover of its image of being the fount of religious fanaticism and terrorism with congenital links to almost every terrorist attack outside its soil. When Khan became the Prime Minister, while speaking at the United States Institute of Peace, he admitted to Pakistan having 40-50,000 terrorists who had fought in Kashmir and Afghanistan. India and Pakistan's mutual sniping at the UNGA shows their pettiness. Last year, after Khan had called the Modi government ‘fascist, unleashing Islamophobia’, India rebutted: ‘The neighbour is an arsonist disguised as a fire-fighter…’ There were better days for almost the entire rule of Gen Musharraf when backchannel thrived, Kashmir was off limits for both sides.India’s national interest in golfing parlance requires making the best of a ‘bad lie’ (Pakistan-China nexus, loss of Afghanistan as ally and post-Ukraine developments), given its own difficult internal and external situation. President Xi Jinping is now likely to harden position on the LAC with no chance of China reverting to the pre-April 2020 status. Instead it is possible that another Doklam-like contingency could arise in Chumbi valley given the Chinese rampant construction activities inside Bhutan. Clearly, the expanding two-front border confrontation reflects the failure of Indian diplomacy in which this government is heavily invested. With Pakistan having made the strategic choice of backing Russia vis-a-vis the US under evolving geo-political environment, India’s inflexible and unrealistic position of no talks till cross-border terrorism stops must be reviewed. The Balakot deterrence prevails with no major attacks in last three years. All previous governments engaged Islamabad due to the Kashmir dispute which will not go away even after its assimilation.Prime Minister Manmohan Singh decided to restart talks with Pakistan even after the fatal Mumbai attacks because backchannel had come up with a mutually acceptable Kashmir solution. Mumbai killed it! Similarly and earlier, former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee took up the challenge twice: After Kargil, when he went to Lahore and following the terrorist attack in Parliament that resulted in backchannel which continued into the Singh era. Today, not only Track I is shut, even Track II is blocked. But the backchannel is open.The current cease-fire on LoC — which does not preclude a two-front situation — is the result of one of the many effective backchannels. The scale and intensity of these contacts were unexpectedly fruitful, according to Adrian Levy and Kathy Scott-Clarke in their book Spy Stories: Inside the World of R&AW and ISI. Conversations have been variegated: between ISI and R&AW; NSA Doval and Gen Bajwa; NSA to NSA; and ISI and Doval. The last, held at Dubai facilitated by the UAE, resulted in the ongoing cease-fire. Pakistani business magnate Mian Muhammad Mansha confirmed last month that backchannel is operational.The silver lining to the clouded out India-Pakistan relations came from the most unlikely quarter: Speaking at the Army Day media conference, Army Chief Naravane said that demilitarisation of Siachen was possible once Pakistan agreed to marking the Actual Ground Position Line (AGPL) on the map. In 1988, 1992 and 2006, the two countries came within a whisker of demilitarisation. Pakistan’s stated intent to end hostilities with India and New Delhi’s willingness to demilitarise Siachen constitute a trigger for another backchannel to restore the High Commissioners, and create conditions for normalisation and resumption of dialogue.(The writer is the convener of the longest surviving India-Pakistan Track ll dialogue begun in 2003) #article 370 #imran khan #manmohan singh #Pakistan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-should-keep-door-open-for-talks-with-pak-376478
