11-03-2022||It is always heartening to talk of hope. The angry||Kejriwal as contender||Kejriwal offers a national alternative as voters can break away from identity silos to get their lives improved.The most shocking aspect of these results is how the mighty bit the dust, a lesson taught by angry voters to the feudal, tainted and rent-seeking leadership of Punjab. Among the banyan trees of political privilege that fell are five-time former CM and Punjab’s political patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, the “Maharaja” of Patiala, former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, ex-CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, sitting CM Charanjit Singh Channi, celebrity Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Shiromani Akali Dal president and former deputy CM Sukhbir Badal, his controversial brother-in-law fighting drug cases, Bikram Singh Majithia, and his cousin and Congress’ finance minister Manpreet Badal. Most importantly, these weighty “lords” have been knocked out of the ring with a huge thud by first-timers — mobile phone repairmen, volunteers and other nobodies.But mere free-floating anger would not have consolidated in favour of one party to cause this landslide of an election result. And this anger was not confined or focused against just the incumbent government. It was a sort of a tidal wave of anti-incumbency against the entire privileged political class. The rushing river of anger that was dammed in 2017 appears to have burst forth in 2022 to submerge the political landscape. Another factor that worked in favour of the AAP was that it became the sole beneficiary of the collective angst against the new farm laws. So, while Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal lost his credibility and the polls, the anti-establishment vote that coalesced as a result of farm unions’ mobilisation went into the AAP’s kitty.The results prove that rural Sikh farmers voted for the AAP in huge numbers, a fact further established by the decimation of the Akalis. From 15, the party’s strength has been reduced to three. Similar is the BJP’s drubbing. Despite all its dirty tricks — including Kumar Vishwas’ last-minute stab in the back — the Hindus of Punjab voted overwhelmingly for the AAP, helping the party sweep the urban seats. So, if in 2017 it was a backlash of the Hindus over unfounded fears of a Khalistani connection that defeated the AAP and made the Congress victorious on 77 seats, Kejriwal worked hard early in the campaign to allay those old apprehensions by launching the Tiranga Yatra to burnish his nationalist credentials. And it worked: the committed Hindu voter turned against the Congress and the BJP to emphatically support the AAP. Or rather, Hindus rose above sectarian interests and minority insecurities and voted along with other communities for hope and change.That leaves the famed Dalit voters of Punjab — 32 per cent of the population. The replacement of a lazy Maharaja with an enthusiastic Dalit as CM was thought to be a masterstroke by the Congress leadership. But angry Dalit voters treated the high command’s trump card as if it was the joker in the pack. And like Sikhs and Hindus, Dalits voted against the political establishment, proving yet again that anger overrides identity in Indian politics — for there was an attempt to split the Dalit votes in favour of the BJP and the Akalis through the discredited Dera Sacha Sauda. Neither Channi's candidature nor Ram Rahim’s furlough seemed to have made any difference to the determined Dalit voter seeking revenge against corrupt tokens taken out of the cupboard at the last minute. The Enforcement Department raid seizing crores in cash from Channi’s nephew robbed him of all his “poor Dalit” sheen and Sidhu’s daily barbs against the government left Congress with nothing worth defending.If these elections have thrown up Kejriwal as a national contender for the top post, offering a credible alternative beyond Delhi, it is because voters are breaking away from their identity silos and coalescing to get their lives improved. The same logic applies to Yogi Adityanath’s victory, however unseemly his saffron robes may appear to the liberals. The Muslim-Yadav formula, with some non-Yadav OBCs thrown in, did read like a winning combination, but popular sentiment had forgiven Yogi and the BJP for the Delta deaths, floating graves on the Ganga, the farm laws and even the Lakhimpur Kheri killings. The law and order situation, free ration, direct benefit transfers and various targeted schemes improving the people's lot seem to have caught the voter's imagination. Yet, the Samajwadi Party’s performance only shows that there is simmering anger against the incumbent, which has not yet reached the boiling point. Its leader Akhilesh Yadav may also have to get out of the caste costume to look at the new realities of a changing India, in which the political capital of identity politics may just not be enough to win elections.The Congress’s failure as an alternative to the BJP is writ large over the results in Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. The party is steadily sliding into inconsequence, with its leadership refusing to re-engineer itself. In this context of a crisis of Opposition leadership steps in Kejriwal, with the amalgamation of two contemporaneously disparate political slogans of ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ and ‘Inquilab Zindabad’. The 2024 contest just got hotter with Kejriwal’s promise of ‘inquilab’. #arvind kejriwal #balbir singh rajewal #bhagwant mann #capt amarinder singh #charanjit channi #navjot sidhu #sukhbir badal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/kejriwal-as-contender-376759
11-03-2022||---||Home run for BJP in UP||As the BJP rewrote a serial and spectacular comeback for itself in Uttar Pradesh in the assembly elections, it was evident that the party’s electioneering went according to a script that coalesced multiple strategies and responses to the drawbacks its government in Lucknow ran into in the past five years. It was as though the BJP anticipated the electorate’s positive and negative feedback on the Yogi Adityanath government and switched on its feed-forward correction capabilities to the best possible extent. It takes a level-head to assess a party’s internal weaknesses and accept them as real before rectifying. That’s what the Delhi leadership did, sometimes in consultation with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and at times unilaterally. Given its experience with the maverick chief minister, the BJP brass recognised that while it was impossible to dump him like its two incumbents in Uttarakhand and Gujarat, it was not feasible to give him the long rope he desired. The mix-and-match formula the BJP adopted was fraught with uncertainty but the gamble paid off.The Samajwadi Party (SP), in tandem with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and other parties, positioned itself as the BJP’s principal challenger and converted the contest into a bipolar joust, hoping that the votes that went to the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress — the other significant players — would pool into its kitty. The SP’s calculation was that this tactic alone would help enhance its depleted vote share to a level of parity with the BJP and make the contest fairly even. It didn't happen.Statistics speak for themselves. The SP, which was the incumbent in 2017, dropped from a high of 224 seats in the 403-member legislature to 47 in the election that year, its vote share plummeting to 21.82 per cent in the 311 seats it contested with the Congress as an ally. UP was awash with the Narendra Modi wave that swamped every party. The BSP picked up just 19 seats with a vote share of 22.23 per cent. The BJP was on top, winning 312 of the 384 seats it fought and posting a vote share of nearly 40 per cent. Its team-mates, the Apna Dal (Soneylal) and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), benefitted immensely from the partnership. The SBSP left the BJP shortly thereafter while the Apna Dal stayed with it. Therefore, the SP had a vast swathe of ground to cover before it hoped to catch up with the BJP.The SP’s role in the Opposition was not inspiring. For instance, during the horrific pandemic strikes when the Adityanath government seemed apathetic to people’s plight, the SP was nowhere on the ground to help people. Its defence was that the situation was not conducive for its workers to be mobile. The state government tactically unrolled the Centre’s scheme to hand over rations to the less well-off in the villages and stave off hunger, particularly among the migrants returning home. A realistic assessment would have it that the sops would not have recompensed the loss of lives suffered in this phase. But months later, people thought less of the sufferings inflicted by Covid-19 and remembered the “ration-paani” delivered to their doorstep.The BJP had several problems in the prelude to the elections. Unlike the CMs “anointed” by the “high command”, Adityanath was not one to be subservient to Delhi’s diktat. From Day 1, the custodian of Gorakhpeeth, North India’s wealthiest monastery, fancied himself as a potentate and potentially a PM candidate. Delhi’s efforts to have a former Gujarat bureaucrat, Arvind Sharma, a Modi favourite, inducted in the UP cabinet after Sharma was elected a member of the UP legislative council, failed. Adityanath refused to have him. A perception that the CM in saffron was just as casteist as any UP politician and pandered excessively and overtly to his Rajput community angered the Brahmins, core BJP voters since 1989, and alienated the backward castes and Dalits. The agrarian distress, caused by the state government’s obduracy to enhance the state advisory price for sugarcane farmers, and the scaled up costs of agricultural inputs was too real to be brushed aside.The Centre stepped into the breach, at times distanced the CM from the damage-control moves, and addressed these issues. The repeal of the contentious farm laws that provoked protests in western UP among the Jat farmers went some way to assuage their anger.A defeat is invariably followed by the unpleasant aftermath of apportioning blame; a victory means it is time to savour the fruits of hard work. The BJP organisation worked as one army on the ground under the stewardship of Amit Shah, the Home Minister, who went on door-to-door visits in seats that seemed tricky. Prime Minister Modi camped for days in Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency, after reports of a couple of shaky constituencies came in and campaigned tirelessly.However, in the end it is apparent that the credit for the victory will largely belong in UP’s case to Adityanath. His cheerleaders propagated the view that the Yogi’s hard-bitten image as a man who will not tolerate law and order challenges and dissent on the ground-evident in the manner in which he put down the protests against the Citizenship Act amendments-and is “incorruptible”. Like Modi, Adityanath is a singleton and, therefore, thought to be a politician who will not lust after wealth and favours for the family. The fact that he didn’t attend his father's cremation in Uttarakhand because of his “preoccupation” with managing the pandemic added to the profile of a “singularly committed” leader. The “attribute” was accentuated in the BJP's campaign as a counterpoint against the “dynasts”, represented by the SP and RLD leaders, Akhilesh Yadav and Chaudhary Jayant Singh.What does Adityanath’s ascendancy portend for the BJP? It marks the return of UP’s pre-eminence in the BJP’s political scheme after the Vajpayee years. Although Modi adopted Varanasi as his constituency, he is primarily identified with Gujarat, his home state. It puts Adityanath high in the reckoning as a future leader. #yogi adityanath||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/home-run-for-bjp-in-up-376760
11-03-2022||---||New low for battered Cong||The outcome of five Assembly polls seems to have sounded the death knell for the Congress. The Grand Old Party had nearly 11 months to prepare for the Assembly polls of Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Uttar Pradesh after the April-May 2021 round of polls in Kerala, Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, but Rahul Gandhi, considered as the real head of the party, did little. Until July 2021, he kept himself in isolation over the second round of Covid. Then Rahul began experimenting in Punjab, rather recklessly, losing a state to an ambitious Aam Aadmi Party.Rahul also frittered away a chance to rope in poll strategist Prashant Kishor. PK, as he is fondly called, would perhaps have helped the Congress retain power in Punjab and wrest Goa and Uttarakhand from the BJP. Instead, Rahul tried to abruptly bench Captain Amarinder Singh. When contender Navjot Singh Sidhu looked all set to make good governance, drug-sand mafia, transparency and be-adbi key poll issues, Rahul ensured that Sidhu’s oratory and campaigning skills did not take off.In an acrimonious selection of Amarinder’s successor, Sidhu was sidelined and a “Dalit card” was played. Charanjit Singh Channi’s 111-day tenure as the chief minister of Punjab was touted as a masterstroke but the agile and sagacious Punjabi electorate was able to see through it. Channi was neither considered a poor man nor an able administrator. Allegations of corruption, nepotism and tales of disproportionate wealth kept doing the rounds and did the Congress in. In fact, in the six months prior to March 10, the Congress in Punjab looked an assembly of disgruntled party leaders in a self-destructive mode. Virtually everyone in the state Congress was happy to be unhappy. Punjab was yearning for change which AAP dished out. Sidhu too was for change but his vision and programme was not put to any use.The electoral success of AAP outside Delhi is a bigger headache for the Congress than the BJP’s fabulous march in Lucknow, Dehradun and Imphal. Over the next 24 months, AAP chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal would act as a spoiler for the Congress. AAP will go all out to expand its base outside Punjab and Delhi — to the poll-bound states of Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka where Assembly elections will be held later this year or in early 2023.The choice of Congress managers for the poll-bound states of Punjab, Uttarakhand and Manipur left a lot to be desired. Harish Rawat was looking after Punjab affairs till November 2021 when he had to request Rahul and Sonia Gandhi to relieve him from the organisational duties and focus on Uttarakhand. Rawat, during his term as AICC’s point man, had enjoyed good rapport with Sidhu, Sunil Jakhar and others. He was replaced by Harish Chaudhary, a state minister in Rajasthan. For Uttarakhand, Sonia appointed Devendra Yadav, a lesser-known and lightweight politician from Delhi. In the tricky poll preparation matters, Yadav and Chaudhary proved inadequate. They lacked the heft that was required to strike a balance among the warring factions. Sonia in particular remained a casual bystander each time Sidhu fumed or Jakhar made remarks that proved politically damaging. Perhaps Sonia wanted to give Rahul and Priyanka a free hand, but this course of neutrality and indifference proved fatal.What will happen to the Congress? The loyalists may try to rally round the beleaguered Gandhi siblings but 10, Janpath has lost its ‘iqbal’ (grace) within the Congress parivar. It is high time that Sonia Gandhi, acting as defunct ‘interim AICC president’, resigns immediately and convenes an emergency AICC session to let 1,300 party delegates elect a new president — a non-Gandhi. A number of Congress leaders have the potential to lead the party effectively while the political leadership stays with the Gandhis. For the parliamentary wing, the party should start looking away from Adhir Ranjan Choudhury to a more credible Shashi Tharoor. It is never too late for course correction.The dissenters and rebels within the Congress are waiting for the presidential poll to question the leadership’s authority. The presidential poll has a history of turning the country’s political fortunes. When President Zakir Hussain died on May 3, 1969, in office, Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister then, had stunned her own party managers by backing VV Giri. The official Congress party had issued a whip to all party members to vote for Neelam Sanjeeva Reddy. Indira appealed to all Congress MPs and MLAs to vote according to their “conscience”. VV Giri was elected and Indira was subsequently expelled from the Congress.In July 2022, the Congress or the Opposition may not be in a position to influence the outcome of presidential polls, but it provides an opportunity for the Congress dissenters, to harm and hurt the Gandhis.In a series of interviews after joining active politics in 1998, Sonia Gandhi had repeatedly stated that her purpose in politics was to revive and restore the glory of the Congress. Having played that role for almost 24 years, Sonia now needs to let someone else, a non-Gandhi, to attempt achieving that task. Timing is invaribly crucial in politics. Sonia should consider passing on the baton before an ordinary party worker musters courage to tell her and her children: “Aapse nahee ho payega.” #capt amarinder singh #charanjit channi #navjot sidhu #rahul gandhi #sonia gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/new-low-for-battered-cong-376761
