12-03-2022||Deepa parent||Of airs and graces||It comes naturally to Romanian people to care for others. Once, the then President Iliescu unwittingly re-established my old friendship with former Maharashtra CM Shinde.The minister was one of the four chosen emissaries of PM Modi sent to countries adjoining Ukraine, from where Air India or IAF planes were to fly the students back home. Romania was one of the countries that was aiding India in a big way.  Students who exited Ukraine via Romania were all praise for the local authorities and the people who welcomed them at the border.The students were provided accommodation in improvised shelters, where beds, blankets, water and food were hastily gathered, some by the government, but mostly by local people. The Romanians have seen hard times themselves. In the Ceausescu era, when poverty used to be distributed, people had proper houses to stay and a job to keep them fed and clothed, but essentials like heating during the winter months, for instance, was denied. So they know what hardship means.They expected the minister to be grateful, even if the arrangements did not meet his expectations. The students, who were the recipients of the benevolence, were grateful! I have heard many of them on TV, praising their hospitality. But, according to the mayor, Scindia was more intent on publicity (with an eye on audiences back home I presume) and on emphasising the Indian Government’s concern for and help rendered to its nationals. According to the mayor, the only thing done by the Indians was providing planes for the flight back home. The mayor felt that the minister did not try to enquire from the students about their trauma. He straightaway embarked on a speech, extolling the efforts of the Indian Government to rush airplanes and succour to the miserable students. In short, he misjudged the mood of the students and of their hosts, who obviously expected a pat on their backs, which should have been given and, I dare say, was.I spent four years in Romania from 1989 to 1993, and I have experienced the hospitality of its people. It comes naturally to them to care for others, having gone through difficult times themselves. One experience will suffice to emphasise what I want to say. After the former Cabinet Secretary BG Deshmukh, Mumbai pediatrician, Dr Raj Kumar Anand, and I set up an NGO called the Public Concern for Governance Trust (PCGT) to fight corruption in Mumbai, we were confronted by a sordid story of the poor being deprived of land reserved in New Mumbai by CIDCO and slyly misappropriated by a builder who built expensive flats on that land. The CM then was Sushil Kumar Shinde, a friend of mine from his pre-politician days in Sholapur when I was the SP of that district. Shinde had affixed his initials to the irregular arrangement, as we learnt from the file which we obtained through the RTI Act. We cited him in the PIL we filed in the Bombay High Court, demanding the cancellation of the deal and demolition of the construction. We won, and strictures were passed against the CM and the IAS officer in charge. Incidentally, the officer was also a friend of mine.The CM became the Union Home Minister by the time the judgment was pronounced. When I attempted to speak to him on phone on some other issue, he declined to take my call! A year or so later, he was the minister assigned to assist the Romanian President Ion Iliescu who was on a State visit to India. Iliescu, like a good Romanian, asked Shinde about my whereabouts and that approach nudged him to forget my ‘perfidy’. He phoned me to tell me that Iliescu had enquired after me. The Romanian unwittingly had re-established an old friendship between two Indians with disparate views on government decisions.I mention this incident to demonstrate why Anghel was disappointed by Jyotiraditya’s approach, which he felt bordered on arrogance. Later, the two gentlemen shook hands before parting, but not before Scindia’s lack of thoughts that matter at such times came to the adverse notice of the Romanian public!Since many more Indian students were expected to use the Romanian route in Operation Ganga, the minister needed to rein in his own frustrations at the slow pace of evacuation and adopt a less adversarial attitude to foreign dignitaries sitting in the driver’s seat. During my four years in Romania, I had visited all its districts and met district heads, their officials and mayors. They were courteous, helpful and hospitable. There was no need for our minister to strike a sour note.I presume he was very anxious to please our Prime Minister, who is known to be a ‘man in a hurry’. I presume also that he has calculated that there is greater scope to step up the ladder in the party he has joined than in his previous party where room at the top is available only to a Nehru-Gandhi!Modi misses not an opportunity to regale audiences at home, whether at election rallies or children riding with him in the newly-inaugurated Pune Metro, that the evacuation of Indian students studying medicine in Ukraine was successfully completed (almost) because of India’s ‘rising influence in the world’. He has given us to understand that this influence rose only after 2014! In the UP elections, he expects to garner votes on that account. Students from UP interviewed on TV channels did not think that would matter much to the voter in their state. They felt bread and butter issues, besides of course caste and caste politics, would matter more.Personally I would not detract from what Modi has invested in the evacuation of the students. It was a Herculean task. And Modi was personally involved. The parents of the students will certainly not forget his contribution to the effort and that may help him in 2024. Or will it? Only time will tell.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/of-airs-and-graces-377048
12-03-2022||---||After victory, burden of proof now on AAP||The citizens of Punjab have spectacularly committed regicide. This is political theatre at its best. A people who have been driven to indebtedness, drug abuse and alcoholism, who are unemployed, whose fields have been environmentally degraded, and who suffer from various maladies of the human condition, have spoken back to history. One leader after another has been defeated in own fiefdom. Will this lead to well-being? Punjabis took up arms against a sea of troubles. Will the massive mandate given to the Aam Aadmi Party end their troubles?We should celebrate the massive victory of a new party in Punjab. The AAP has traded on the ‘Delhi model of governance’. It has aroused expectations that all problems confronting Punjabis, problems that have driven their children to take refuge abroad, will be resolved. There is cause for hope. In Delhi, the AAP has strengthened public education and health systems. Students from ‘government schools’ have topped school-leaving exams. Mohalla committees have been set up. Leaders are accessible. After the second round of Covid destroyed lives, livelihoods and families, the government has done its best to help those who survived the tragedy. Thankfully, we are not subjected to hate speech. Ministers of the Delhi government do not spend their time counting Hindus and Muslims.Yet there is unease. The AAP speaks the language of governance. It belongs to a post-ideological world. But it is ideology that speaks of the politics of a party. Of course, a government should not be corrupt. But the political is always contested. Who contests governance and corruption? What is, then, the politics of the AAP? Across the world, governments that ban corruption happen to be police-states. Democratic states should do more, they should be able to tell us what they stand for.It is precisely here that the AAP has faltered. It has not taken a stand on inalienable human rights, and certainly not on the right to protest the anti-CAA agitation, Shaheen Bagh, the attack on the students and faculty in Jawaharlal Nehru University in January 2020 by goons, and on manufactured communal riots in Delhi in February 2020. Can we trust it to safeguard the rights of citizens? This is what democratic governments are supposed to do. Let us not mistake the matter, authoritarian governments provide their people with social goods as a matter of social policy. What they do not do is protect basic rights and freedoms.Worryingly on crucial issues, the AAP falls within the provenance of right-wing conservatism: public exhibition of religious rituals and Hindu religious imagery. The party articulates and implements anxious expressions of an overripe Indian nationalism, such as desh-bhakti in schools. Unthinking and excessive nationalism deflects reasoned consideration of issues, such as justice, which is crucial to the project of living together in a political community. On nationalism, we should take our cue from Rabindranath Tagore. “I am willing to serve my country,” states Tagore’s protagonist Nikhil in Ghare Baire, “but my worship I reserve for Right, which is far greater than any country. To worship my country as a god is to bring a curse upon it.” Rabid nationalism, if employed in the wrong cause, or if harnessed to defend and rationalise institutionalised injustice, can cause more harm to the nation and to its people, than critical interrogation of the project. Let people relate to the nation in their own way. Leave them and their nation alone.Finally, the AAP has failed to build up a party organisation. It remains a one-man party. Ministers and senior colleagues hail the leader with as much fervour as ministers of the Modi Cabinet hail the Prime Minister. If AAP wants to be a party with a difference, it should begin to institutionalise organisations that facilitate democratic interaction with its cadre and with the people. Let them hold the leader accountable, let them challenge him, grill him and offer alternatives. In short, the party should take care not to slide into a durbar. The Congress has withered for this precise reason. The BJP is better off because a disciplined cadre of the RSS mobilises people, howsoever pathetically undemocratic this mobilisation may be.If the AAP wants to govern Punjab well, and sort out some, if not all, of its problems it should hasten to construct and strengthen a party organisation. Consultation through phone calls is bad politics, democratic decentralisation is good politics. What Punjab needs is good politics, responsive politics, democratic politics, not a politics that circles around a supreme leader. Let AAP not subordinate the hopes of Punjabis to one individual, or even a collective. Punjab has suffered enough, it is time to restore a state that was once the pride of India to its former glory. But nothing can be done unless the party that rules it is democratic, and unless the leader is a statesman. Statesmen do not practice demagoguery. They practice the art of listening to the people and responding to them effectively. They heal wounds, not inflict more harm. This is the difference between statesmen and rabble-rousing politicians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/after-victory-burden-of-proof-now-on-aap-377051
12-03-2022||---||Century-old RIMC an iconic cradle of military mettle||THE Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC), Dehradun, traces its origin to the Prince of Wales Royal Indian Military College, inaugurated on March 13, 1922, by Prince Edward VIII, the Prince of Wales. Set amidst 138 acres of lush-green flora, it was established keeping in mind the ethic of the guru-shishya continuum. After Independence, the governorship of the college was handed over to the Union Ministry of Defence.With the vision of teaching Indian boys to reach the zenith of military honour and leadership, while also acquiring further training in Royal Military College, (later Royal Military Academy), Sandhurst, the aim was to Indianise the officer cadres of the nation. The RIMC thus served the dual role of an educational institute along with a pre-Sandhurst institution. Today, the college is revered as the primary cradle of military excellence.The Chiefs of Staff Committee took a historic decision at its meeting on December 21, 1998, to treat the RIMC as an Inter-Services Category ‘A’ institution. This decision is testimony to the unique contribution of the RIMC to the three Services for a hundred years and counting.Financial assistance in the form of scholarships from Central/state governments is granted to deserving cadets on the recommendations of the Commandant. These scholarships are based on merit-cum-means basis and are awarded in compliance with strict rules and regulations.The beauty of the preserved heritage at the RIMC in the shape of infrastructure belies description. The campus has a number of heritage buildings in faux Tudor style, some even over a hundred years old. These elegant buildings house the cadets as well as provide for the Cadet’s Mess. The sprawling campus also has an educational block with capacious classrooms and well-equipped laboratories manned by a highly professional faculty. A well-stocked library, laboratories, a kaleidoscope of hobbies, expansive playfields, indoor-outdoor games courts, shooting ranges, a riding school, a swimming pool and many other facilities provide the oeuvre for the holistic development of any child.With a teacher-student ratio of 1:13, the growth of intellect and physique is simultaneous and exponential. Well-thought-out and focused co-curricular activities complement the curriculum. Abundant scope is provided for meaningful enrichment of social, cultural and individual growth of cadets. In order to provide the cadets with an opportunity for self-expression and recreation, a number of hobby clubs are run by the cadets themselves under the watchful tutelage of the staff. Cadets are also encouraged to devote time and effort to diverse co-curricular activities and social work.The RIMC was awarded GOC-in-C, Central Command, Unit Citation in 2018 for its stellar contribution towards nation-building by perennially sending the highest number of cadets to the National Defence Academy and producing leaders in all walks of life. Some of them deserve special mention: Gen KS Thimayya, Gen GG Bewoor, Gen VN Sharma, Air Chief Marshal NC Suri, Gen S Padmanabhan and Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa. They all served as Chiefs of respective Services.The RIMC’s alumni have distinguished themselves before as well as after Independence. Second Lieutenant (later Lt Gen) PS Bhagat was a recipient of the Victoria Cross. Maj Somnath Sharma (brother of Gen VN Sharma) was posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra. Many more awards have been won by officers, cadets and members of the staff of RIMC for both gallantry and distinguished service.Fortitude, formidability and plurality are the hallmarks of the RIMC and they continue unabated as the college completes a century of persevering with these ethics. An epoch of knowledge and wisdom is encompassed by this institute within itself as it becomes the insignia of the very finest of the values cherished by our country.At present, RIMC has its serving alumni at prestigious positions in the armed forces. In the Army, there is Lt Gen AS Bhinder, AVSM, VSM, serving as the GOC-in-C, South Western Command; and Lt Gen Nav K Khanduri, AVSM, VSM, as the GOC-in-C, Western Command. In the Air Force, it has serving officers Air Marshal DP Dharkar, AVSM, and Air Marshal N Tiwary, AVSM, VM, holding the designations of Senior Air Staff Officer (SASO) and Deputy Chief of Air Staff (DCAS), respectively. In the Navy, Vice Admiral Adhir Arora, a recipient of the Nausena Medal, is serving as Chief Hydrographer.The RIMC proudly boasts of 45 Army Commanders and 194 three-star officers. The lineage continues with immense gusto and firmer determination than ever before.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/century-old-rimc-an-iconic-cradle-of-military-mettle-377066
