13-03-2022||As the light changes from gentle to sharp and temperatures rise to signal the beginning of a new summer||In season of exams, meeting our children where they are||Students are responding in a variety of ways. They are studying, pretending to study, being distracted, acquiring new anxieties, waiting for it all to blow over and like generations of young people before them, experimenting with innovative coping mechanisms.A particularly frustrating form of rebellion we witness is when our adolescent students shut down and close in on themselves. Parents demand their attention, they seem to be listening to us, but we can never be quite sure. Teachers stare at blank faces. The young spend time poring over books and gadgets but adults cannot tell if they are absorbing anything. They seem to be mocking us with their expressionlessness. In reality, most of the time they are punishing themselves with guilt, self-blame and shame, even if they look like they couldn’t care less.Education systems, like all other symbols of modern civilisation, were supposed to get more progressive and freer in the 21st century, but the state of our children and our frayed relationships with them tell a different story.In his 1991 book, ‘A Letter to Teachers: Reflections on Schooling and the Art of Teaching’, Vitto Perrone writes, “There is, it seems, more concern about whether children learn the mechanics of reading and writing than grow to love reading and writing; learn about democracy than have practice in democracy; hear about knowledge… rather than gain experience in personally constructing knowledge… see the world narrowly, simple and ordered, rather than broad complex and uncertain.”Across ages, parents are constantly realising that the education industrial complex does not centre their beloved children in the process of educating them. Despite our privilege and understanding of the psychology of relationships, we continue with methods that diminish children. Demanding obedience above all from a child (whether by psychological means, by physical punishment, or through some combination of both), elders inhibit the child from fostering an authentic sense of self.Dependent on adults for their survival, when children are punished — even if they are punished for no reason or for a reason that makes no sense — they blame themselves and believe that the fault lies within them. Trapped in a corner, the child cannot allow himself to experience fully his own pain, because that, too, might lead to questioning of his parents and other significant adults. It is easier to turn the hurt inwards than to confront the brittle authority of others.We despair that none of our disciplining tactics seem to work on the new generation. “Children these days are very smart,” is a constant refrain across generations. This isn’t spoken in admiration, but in disdain.We forget that good discipline requires time. It needs attention. When we have no time to give our children, or no time we are willing to give, we cannot stay in touch with their needs and developing personalities. We outsource attention. Our time is dedicated to work and gadgets. We hire others to pay attention to our children.Sometimes after I have been angry with our first-born child, or after her father has snapped at her and she has quietly, purposefully left the room, I worry that our daughter may be plotting to leave our home as soon as she is able to. And go very, very far away. Of course, it is embedded in the process of raising children that we will often find our emotional states mismatched.I want our children to be independent. I also want us to be deeply emotionally connected. I want our home to be their safe space, not a place where they feel un-seen.“I dream about a room of my own. A kitchen that belongs to me,” our daughter shared one evening. I remember my own fantasies from my teenage years. I made them come true. I shared about them with my daughter.I also made a mental note to create enough loving, confident space between us for her to feel that the home and its landscape belongs to her. It’s not just about space or gadgets, really. It is about freedom. Children flourish when they are free to express themselves. Discover their own preferences without fear of judgment and a reminder of taboos.To return to this time of the year when examinations loom ahead, let us not develop seasonal allergies all over again. After two years of living with the uncertainty of death and loss brought on by the repeated waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, we must find it in ourself to look anew at old fears.Raising children can empower us; it offers us a chance to find our agency. To realise that what makes us most vulnerable as adults is also the source of our greatest strength.—The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/in-season-of-exams-meeting-our-children-where-they-are-377321
13-03-2022||In a tent-pitching competition in an artillery brigade||Attributes of being a commander||The British were past masters in writing detailed instructions for everything. He found a wealth of information: team composition, duties of each member, angle at which the peg should be hammered in, the circular direction of wrapping the rope around the peg, et al. He trained his team accordingly. In the competition, his team was far ahead of all the others. Buoyed up and motivated, he read every military regulation in existence.This story of his younger days came to me from Maj Gen VK Das when he was posted to raise an infantry division and I was his General Staff Officer (Grade 1) or GSO1. “Knowledge of rules enables you to speak with confidence,” he would say. “You cannot be bullied by seniors or be bluffed by juniors.”There was so much to learn from him. He was a moving encyclopaedia. He instructed me to hold a monthly written test for all staff officers on regulations. When I mentioned that I would put up before him only a summary of results and not the individual scores, he readily agreed. His aim was organisational improvement and not pettily targeting individuals.He was remarkably methodical in managing his hours, and never worked beyond office time. His instructions were clear, concise and timely, which was a great boon for the staff. I do not recall even a single occasion when he said, ‘On second thoughts…’, which can be very disconcerting for the staff. Brevity was his hallmark. Serving in that headquarters, I remember even single-sentence letters being issued.He issued orders that no one would work after lunch and the offices would be locked. The purpose was two-fold. Firstly, it would impel all to finish their work in time. The second reason pertained to security. In the hot climate of western Rajasthan, the clerks preferred to spend their afternoons in the offices where coolers were installed. Since officers invariably went for games, and the maximum risk of leakage of classified information occurred during that time. He was spot-on. When I pointed out that being a new headquarters, at times post-lunch working may be unavoidable, he modified the order allowing latitude to the GSO1 to open offices selectively.When the Army Commander made his first visit, the GOC gave me certain points on which I was to prepare a brief to be handed over to the visitor. “Send it just before I have to leave for the Circuit House to receive the Army Commander. I will read it in the car,” he said. On noticing the doubt on my face, he added, “I have full confidence you will make sure it is error-free.” That made me so conscious that I re-checked the document some half-a-dozen times.During our first wargame, an important document pertaining to the ammunition scaling policy had to be conceptualised. Three of us worked for six hours nonstop. I sent it to the flag staff house in the evening. The same courier brought it back in half an hour. Having made changes, the GOC had also pared it down to half its original word length. Next day, when I conveyed my amazement at his speed, he laughed, “Don’t forget the many hours I spent in thinking about it. My mind is not cluttered with the mundane that you as Staff Officers have to deal with.” He conveyed the essence of what differentiates commanders from the staff.Unable to pick up his promotion due to age, he retired as a Major General and is settled in Lucknow. His regular posts on social media could animate a teenager. On March 4, I called up to greet him on his 94th birthday. Barring some impairment in his hearing, he is as alert and sharp as he was five decades ago. When I mentioned that he must earn his double pension (on reaching 100), he turned philosophical: “The earth has a finite capacity to accommodate humans; we oldies must go, to make place for the younger generation.” Luckily, his strong voice and sound cerebral health betray no such hurry. I knock on wood!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/attributes-of-being-a-commander-377318
13-03-2022||War is brutal. Photographs and videos from Ukraine remind us of this. The plight of Indian students stranded in cities across Ukraine engaged our attention over the past couple of weeks; fatalities among them were heartbreaking||War, sport, peace||Though it’s abhorrent that sport be used as a political tool, perhaps it’s better to use sport to release pent up anger and frustrations than engage in warfare; as Ajay Jadeja said in a television show in Pakistan a few years ago, it’s better that sportspersons bear the brunt of the public’s anger at a defeat — that’s much preferable to bloodshed at the border.A bit off tangent: Wouldn’t it have been much better to see George Bush Jr taking on Saddam Hussein in boxing? Or Ronald Reagan fighting Leonid Brezhnev in wrestling? Or, better still, tennis? What about Vladimir Putin vs Joe Biden? Pleasant thoughts.For sportspersons, playing sport when war rages at home must be absolutely devastating. Many Ukrainian sportspersons have returned to their country, or enlisted in the army. Among the most famous of them is heavyweight boxing champion Oleksandr Usyk, who said: “My country and my honour are more important to me than a championship belt.” Boxer Vasiliy Lomachenko, two-time Olympics champion, came back from Greece to defend Odesa. Tennis player Sergiy Stakhovsky, who beat Roger Federer at Wimbledon nine years ago, returned from Hungary to sign up with the territorial army. “I pretty much hope that I will not have to use the gun, but if I have to, I have to,” said Stakhovsky. That’s a very discomfiting thought for a peaceable tennis player.There have been anti-war protests in Russia, but for athletes, it’s not easy to go full-throttle against war. Years, decades of bearing the national flag on your breast, carrying it after wins, make sportspersons believe in the myth of their hyper-nationalism. Yet, some have made anti-war statements, without explicitly blaming their motherland: Emerging tennis star Andrey Rublev’s message is “no war please”; Dynamo Moscow football team player Fedor Smolov was much more daring when he wrote “No to war” on social media — and, hold your breath, added the Ukrainian flag to his message.Retired tennis star Maria Sharapova went a step further, donating to ‘Save the Children’ as it tries to bring relief to Ukrainian children impacted by war. Men’s world No. 1 Daniil Medvedev removed the Russian flag from his Instagram account and appealed for peace, though he too could not bring himself to explicitly criticise the invasion.Photo-bombMeanwhile, an ‘unarmed’ Indian missile landed in Pakistan due to ‘technical malfunction’. Much more pleasant was the engagement of the Indian and Pakistani woman cricketers when they played in the Women’s World Cup in New Zealand. India won comfortably, extending the undefeated streak against the women from across the border. There was some excitement and aggression on the field. It didn’t last, and it turned into bonhomie as Pakistan captain Bismah Maroof’s infant daughter became the star of the evening — the Indian players milled about her, coddled her, tried to get her to look into the camera held by Harmanpreet Kaur for a selfie.Fifty years ago, in November-December 1971, even as the Pakistani army butchered Bengalis in East Pakistan and war erupted, India’s Sunil Gavaskar and Pakistan’s Intikhab Alam found themselves as teammates for the Rest of the World in Australia. Gavaskar wrote in ‘Sunny Days’ that they’d go for meals at a restaurant owned by a Pakistani, who would write down news bulletins on a napkin in Urdu and give it to Alam. Alam would ‘barely glance at it, crumple it up and throw it away’, Gavaskar wrote.Perhaps Alam was distressed by the news of the debacle in East Pakistan, perhaps he didn’t want to revisit the memories of the frenzy of 1947, which he barely escaped with his family when he was only five. When Alam got the chance to coach the Punjab team in 2008, he grabbed it as a ‘challenge I couldn’t pass up’. It also gave him the opportunity to visit Hoshiarpur, where he was born in 1941.As Jadeja said, even if it’s unfair on them, it’s better that sportspersons be proxies of war — because if there’s a real war, there are chances that the one after that would be fought with sticks and stones, as Einstein predicted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/war-sport-peace-377313
13-03-2022||Idon’t remember the exact date of my birth but I was well into my late twenties when the partition of the country took place. This one incident in history changed the fortunes of so many lives forever. Now only frayed memories remain.||Crossing the Sutlej in '47||I remember the time when I got married to Inder Singh of Sahu Chilli village in Sialkot district in Punjab province of what is now Pakistan. It was a matter of great pride for me that my husband was fifth standard pass in Urdu language. He was among the very few literate persons of his village.Most inhabitants of the village were poor. My husband’s family owned about 20 acres. Though not all of it was cultivable, but it was enough to feed our family of seven persons. Life was going on well and I gave birth to a daughter. But she was barely four months old when rumours about Partition started spreading, though at that time we didn’t take these seriously.The news that India would be divided on the basis of religion shattered the joy of the country attaining Independence after nearly 200 years of British rule. It is sad that politicians take decisions without considering the effect it would have on the lives of millions of people. With a heavy heart, my husband told me that it was no longer safe to stay in a land which was our very own. Even comprehending a life in an alien land was tough for us, but when reports of murders of Hindus and Sikhs started coming, we decided to leave the country for good.It was a challenge to bring the entire family, which included my aged mother-in-law, father-in-law, two brothers-in-law and a sister-in-law, safely with us to India. I was worried for the future of my daughter, who was barely five months old. There were already reports of massacre of Hindus and Punjabis taking place in trains. To avoid engaging in a bloody scuffle with the Muslims, we decided to take the relatively difficult river route against the government advisory. Arrangements were made to get a big boat that could withstand the strong currents of Sutlej river, which flowed near our village.My village and its lanes were the only place we had ever known. That afternoon, as we stepped onto the boat, we knew our lives would never be the same. We had taken some essential household items and about 10 tolas of gold ornaments with us, but many of the household items had to be thrown into the river to accommodate more people. We were 10 to 12 persons on the boat, mostly relatives.The nearly hour-and-a-half boat ride wasn’t easy. There were moments when it seemed that the turbulence and strong water currents would result in the boat capsizing, and none of us would be able to make it alive to the other side of the river. All the time, we kept praying. Luckily, we landed safely on the other banks of the Sutlej to a new life. The initial few years were tough. For two to three years, we kept moving from one village to another in search of work. We worked on dihadi (daily wages) till we got 5 acres of fertile land from the Indian government and we finally settled in Ghubaya village in Fazilka district of east Punjab. It has been nearly 60 years since we have been living in this village.Life has been kind to me. We were blessed with six more daughters and a son. I do not remember the total number of our family members spread in and around the village, but it should be more than 100. My husband passed away a few years back. The death of my son two years ago brought back the painful moments. I live with my daughter-in-law, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. I haven’t gone back to Pakistan ever since 1947 nor do I wish to revisit the country from where we had to flee for our lives. I have had a full life, complete with joy and sorrow. This land has given us shelter and I am grateful to the people here for accepting us and giving us love and hope.Earlier, a cross-border meeting would be held every year on Independence Day at Sadiqi border outpost in the Fazilka sector. At the joint check post, the separated residents of the two countries would come, meet and hug each other, reliving memories of the happy times they had spent together. The practice was stopped more than a decade back due to security reasons. I wish the meeting gets restarted so that there is some connect with our friends and families there. It was the only way to relive the past.My old age pension was discontinued a couple of years back for reasons best known to the authorities. I’m perhaps Punjab’s oldest woman voter and never miss a chance to cast my vote. After a news report published in The Tribune mentioned that my pension had been discontinued, a few officials came to meet me and took details of my case. However, nothing has come out of it yet.My age has been failing me. I have no vision in my right eye and I’m hard of hearing too. I am over 100 years old and I find it tough to go and cast my vote at the polling station, but in every election, I never miss casting my vote. Who better than our generation, which had sacrificed so much to attain Independence, can realise the importance of keeping democracy alive?(As told to Praful Chander Nagpal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/crossing-the-sutlej-in-47-377311
