14-03-2022||Senior Economic Analyst||Make medical education affordable, accessible||The plight of the Indian students, mostly medical, in Ukraine has highlighted several anomalies. India takes pride in the medical tourism dollars that it earns by way of offering treatment, but there is a critical shortage of doctors. Simultaneously, there is a shortage of medical education seats. Last year, a massive 1.6 million appeared in tests for admission to only 90,000 seats in all government and private medical colleges.The other side of the reality is that it is impossible for a middle-class family to afford private medical education and seats in government medical college are few and therefore open only to the most meritorious. The promoters of private medical colleges, like engineering colleges, are often without any earlier exposure to education and of variable integrity who will extract as much from the market as they can.Fees for a degree in a private medical colleges can go up to Rs 1 crore when a government college charges between Rs 67,000 and Rs 3 lakh. No wonder, parents often find a medical degree in countries like Russia, China and the Ukraine cheaper than a privately acquired one in India.The prime minister has invited the private sector to take up a bigger role in delivering medical education. Anand Mahindra, head of the eponymous automobile group, has asked his educational complex in Hyderabad which delivers engineering, management and legal education to look into medical education also.One reason why there are fewer private medical seats than engineering is that private deliverers have kept away from medical education which has to be imparted over a longer duration. This means simultaneously there will be more batches going through the course and thus there is a need for more infrastructure. An MBBS course, including internship, needs 5.5 years to deliver whereas a bachelor’s course in management takes three.Thus private investment in medical education is best done by those entities which can live with a longer gestation period and that typically comes with a degree of commitment to the idea. Hence, the prime minister’s plea is best responded to by the corporate sector which has a longer perspective than other businesses.A fundamental question remains. How have Russia, China and Ukraine come to acquire a degree of capability in delivering medical education which India has not been able to? The answer is that they are all more developed countries with a higher per capita GDP and a longer experience in the development process than India.What is equally important is that they all have a socialist background and consider it natural that the state should fund development of the educational infrastructure. Thus today, these countries have a ready educational infrastructure with the necessary development costs already sunk. This also explains why they have the capacity to spare to offer education as a service — get into this service export so to speak.As the scope for immediate corporate investment in medical education is limited, for even upper middle-class parents to be able to find Indian medical education affordable, the government has to sharply hike its investment in medical education. This is also for the cardinal reason that there are too few doctors in India and the country needs to sharply and quickly hike its output of trained doctors. Without this, healthcare delivery cannot reach the desired levels.There needs to be Centre-state cooperation with the state governments bearing a part of the load. For example, the states can be asked to provide land free for the medical colleges that can come up with Central funding. As for the Centre, it needs to formulate rules which are both geared to ensure quality without being unnecessarily bureaucratic and cumbersome.Just as governments need to improve the ease of doing business, they need to do the same to improve the ease of delivering private medical education. Currently, the most daunting requirement a private medical education provider has to face is the necessity to also simultaneously run a hospital with four times the number of seats. This is so that interns can have a place to work.However, thinking is progressing along the right lines with the Union Budget containing a proposal to attach medical colleges to district hospitals. Plus states that offer land at concessional rates to set up medical colleges will get viability gap funding from the Centre.India is not alone in having to grapple with a humanitarian crisis in trying to bring back its students from Ukraine. Several African countries are equally affected. Nearly a quarter of the 76,000 foreign students who were in Ukraine when the Russians struck were from countries like Nigeria, Morocco and Egypt, according to a BBC report.This is the result of a tradition that was set during the Soviet era when there was an effort by the government to attract students from newly independent African countries with an eye on long-term geopolitical interests. Over time, Ukraine has emerged as a gateway to Europe and European jobs for foreign students, both African and Indian. Ukrainian degrees are widely recognised in Europe for the quality of those who have acquired the stamp.Indian medical students seeking degrees abroad mostly wish to return to India afters graduation and have to take the foreign medical graduation examination. The numbers taking this test have gone up by more than three times since 2014-15. As against this, over the same period, the number of medical colleges has gone up by only 1.5 times and the number of seats by 1.6 times.During 2021-22, only a quarter of the students who appeared for this test (it is held twice a year), cleared it, thus acquiring the right to practice in India. This success rate, low as it is, has itself gone up over the years. Those who eventually do not clear the test despite reappearing stand to lose the investment made in a foreign degree.Thus students going abroad for medical degrees take a risk. Despite this, they continue to do so, indicating the desperation in individual families where the offspring wishes to secure a medical degree, but an affordable seat is just not available in India.The desperation to get an affordable foreign medical education is apparent from the fact that leaving aside the top three countries and Kirgizstan whose degree holders appear for the qualifying Indian test, Nepal accounted for 7.6 per cent and Bangladesh 2 per cent in 2018-19 (the latest figures available). The question that India needs to ask is what have Nepal and Bangladesh got that India has not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/make-medical-education-affordable-accessible-377538
14-03-2022||Commentator and Author||What N-threat means to global arms market||Even as the Russia-Ukraine war rages on, Russia should be more alert so as not to get provoked or trapped in the politico-diplomatic cobweb to prevent further erosion of the global public perception, opinion and confidence owing to her Kyiv invasion. Indeed, whatever may be the justification for the invasion, Russia’s action is potentially self-defeating in the long run, leading to a further break-up of or loss to Moscow’s huge landmass, like in 1991. Singularly, Moscow’s East Europe aggression has woven an unprecedented unity amongst the smaller/weaker nations on security concerns alone. The writing is on the wall.Fact is that the long Russian geography’s longitudes — from the Baltic Sea to Bering Strait and the latitudes extending from the Arctic to Aral Sea and beyond, to Pamir knot — constitute an eyesore to most, in an era and area of tiny nations and their unavoidable dependence on muscular and moneyed-states of a “global village”. Globalisation has led to glaring economic domination of a few “developed” Western economic powerhouses and pushed a majority of the weaker nations to perceived political subordination. Because, the traditional money-powered but declining demography of a White West doesn’t like being overwhelmed by a traditional transcontinental pariah state’s military ops in mainland Europe, notwithstanding the Western European nations’ deplorable record of human rights violations and gross unethical wars on an alien land.Financially, commercially and economically, the sanction-hit banking transaction of the dollar has already damaged Moscow, and it is a chilling warning to non-European and Indo-Pacific nations too. None dare mess with the US-led West (European heartland). The economic hammer will fall hard with force for defiance. Understandably, therefore, an alternative to “dollar transaction” in international trade and commerce appears inevitable and imminent for those already sanctioned and its business partners. The only question now is: which or whose currency should be accepted or is acceptable in lieu of the dollar?That Putin erred in assessing the situation appears certain. However, what turned error to provocation is uttering the word “nuclear” to deal with the Europe “situation”. Non-nuclear “conventional war” or “occupation”, from Korea (1950); followed by Suez, Vietnam, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Falklands and various conflicts across the globe, are “good economics” for arms manufacturers and mentors, but not public utterance of the word “nuclear”. The unprecedented reaction of the West was expected.Duplicity, however, is visible here. When the Communist Party of China (CPC), in July 2021, threatened to “nuke” Japan “non-stop” if the latter “tries to defend Taiwan” and “dares intervene, Beijing will launch a full-fledged war”, none of the world powers reacted or is known to have even diplomatically rebuked China. Why? Is it because Tokyo is far from the West? In remote, desolate corner of the Pacific? Being the sole state of the world to have been horrendously harmed by the US nuclear holocaust?Has the world forgotten the history of the West’s criminality for distant wars, far from one’s own soil? Should one refer to the legendary Bertrand Russell’s “Has man a future?”, the erudite icon, in his 90s, plunging into civil disobedience to be imprisoned only with the hope to survive a nuclear war? Truly and truthfully, Russell exposed the “hypocrisy of the West on nuclear weapons” to forcefully write in 1961 that there are a “number of territorial questions” which will have to be decided before peace can be considered secure. “The West has been to blame, ever since the Russian Revolution, for a Rip Van Winkle policy. For long, the West refused to acknowledge the Soviet government... communist... will never consent, except as a result of defeat in war. But such defeat would only happen.... in which the West would be equally defeated and all ordered government would come to an end.”Russell’s six-decade-old prophecy on world remains unchanged. Because today, the West doesn’t have minimum, stable demography to fight even a conventional war owing to its slowest growing population. At least 30 European (including Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Poland, Italy and East European) states face a declining population. Hence, none of the developed European states can afford the luxury of losing able-bodied men to multiply widows, orphans and disabled like that of battered, shattered and wretched Afghanistan.The reality is that prosperous men cannot fight from the high table. For them, it is easy and profitable to make non-prosperous people fight and die in a hot terrain. Death for the poor is ‘development’ for rich arms manufacturers. Soldiers die for a purported “cause”; sovereigns thrive, with or without a “cause”.Coming back to the 2022 war, the Pope, Switzerland, Jews and the arms bazaar link to the Moscow-Kyiv conflict make things interesting and intriguing. In a departure from traditional policy, the turnaround announcement, to abjure neutrality, by the Pope and Switzerland for an anti-Russia stand, stands out. The head of the Rome-based Roman Catholic Church must be disturbed by the word “nuclear”, thereby making him stand with the majority. Switzerland, the perennially neutral state, to preserve its merchant banking and financial services, nevertheless appears to have followed the conventional forces of Europe as the lake-country is surrounded by all, being in the same boat. Since there’s no Germany versus France, or Italy versus the Allied powers of the UK and the US, the Swiss decision of “discretion is better than valour” comes out loud and clear, following the West’s “sanction against Russia”.Regarding the Jews, numbering 2 lakh in Ukraine, Zionist Israel is understandably apprehensive of its religious fraternity’s well-being and survival in another unfolding European horror story. To Israel, the war in Europe is an unexpected opportunity to tackle its eternal internal turmoil of Muslim Palestinians in Israel-claimed land. Can the Jews in Ukraine be permanently shifted to Israel to bolster the number of followers of Judaism, thereby upgrading a religious demography balance in the zone of endless conflict like Gaza or the West Bank?And then come the merchants of the machine gun. In a sensational February 27 announcement, Germany’s 2020 $51.3 billion defence budget was overnight hiked to $113 billion, thereby making it the third highest in the world, behind the US’s $770 billion plus and just announced China’s $240 billion budget. How one local war in the European heartland’s eastern wing becomes a super booster dose for the arms bazaar? How coolly the Cold War of yesteryear becomes the Cold Peace of profit for the fighter, bomber, tanker and carrier? Stock shares instantly turning bear to bull and the West’s post-Cold War era closed shops of the 1990s suddenly rejuvenated?Make no mistake! Watch out the rush for big-ticket arms orders. From island to landlocked land; Switzerland to Poland; Iceland to Holland; Australia to Austria; India to Indonesia; Japan to Jordan, all will “strengthen security”. Expect the unexpected. How the word “nuclear” changed the global military market! The worst part of the story is: suddenly everybody’s talking about war and national security and few have time for the welfare and safety of the people in distress. Cash prevails over casualty, wealth precedes wanton wreckage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/what-n-threat-means-to-global-arms-market-377536
14-03-2022||Strategic Analyst||Go back to how it was||The most important lesson to be learned from the evacuation of Indian students from Ukraine — and the preceding massive Covid-related rescue operation of Indians, globally known as Vande Bharat — is that there is a strong case for reviving the Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs (MoIA). This dynamic ministry was disbanded in 2016 and its mandate was integrated into the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA).South Block, the MEA headquarters, can either be a consular agency or it can be in the vanguard of diplomacy. Governments, by their nature, reduce people to files and shelve them. Thereafter, they are mere application or representation numbers on pieces of paper, upgraded in recent years to tracking numbers on computers. This is not peculiar to India, but common to governments all over the world. The MoIA was the only ministry in the entire Indian system, which dealt with people as people and dealt with Indians not merely as a job.For that reason, its spirit lives on eight years after the MoIA was shut down and its well-meaning and welfare measures became memory. If evidence of this was needed, it was aplenty during the evacuations out of war-torn Ukraine. Take a look at these messages from the families of boys and girls, mostly medical students, who found themselves in conflict zones, only to be misguided by agents who took them to Ukraine in the first place.‘You are a God for NRI, saving their life without power and position, no expectation, doing Nobel (sic!) work, great woman of our era.’ This message was received by Arathi Krishna, now a private citizen in Bengaluru, who was once among the most people-focused executors of many welfare initiatives, when the MoIA was in operation. Krishna received this message after her incessant, targeted individual phone calls to students from Karnataka in one of the Ukrainian towns under Russian bombardment. She kept up their morale when a personal touch from back home with pretensions of authority and assurance was needed. Krishna stepped into a void which was left by the Indian embassy in Kyiv, which merely issued advisories and washed its hands of the matter.As the war raged and Indian students became desperate, Shashi Tharoor, the Lok Sabha member from Thiruvananthapuram, enquired after the niece of one of his constituents, who was trying to get out of Kyiv and go to safety in Slovakia. Tharoor received this reply: ‘Not OK, harrowing experiences is what she is having for last four days, Just now heading towards the border of Slovakia. My niece got out of Kyiv yesterday somehow. Absolutely no assistance from embassy. She has been calling the embassy from the day of the invasion and they were just not answering or disconnecting the call. Even the Opposition is not putting any pressure, including the stalwarts of the Indian National Congress. One lady, Dr Arathi Krishna, is the only hope to us in this time who is making efforts to help as many as possible in her personal capacity. She has been coordinating with my niece and me on daily basis. Sad, very sad.’Jasbir Mongia is a Person of Indian Origin (PIO) in Washington, who is active in the Sikh community on the east coast of the US. When the MoIA existed, he was associated with that ministry through its designated officers at the Indian embassy in Washington. Mongia and other members of the Sikh diaspora sent out the following message and a GPS location link globally: ‘If any known acquaintances stuck in Ukraine, ask them to reach Poland gurdwara. They will get accommodation, food and all support. All are welcome. Location: Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha, Warsaw. Contact +48 602 666 666.’ A large number of evacuees, even non-Indians, took advantage of the gurdwara hospitality.EP Teki, a veteran of the airlift of Indians during the first Gulf War — an evacuation which made it to the Guinness Book of Records — says nothing gladdens the hearts of evacuees pining to get home from conflict zones as the sight of a cup of hot soup or fresh rotis and steaming dal when they reach a reception centre for repatriation after dodging bullets and risking a drive through mined roads or IEDs. Teki was known for years as the most people-oriented officer in the capital’s Shastri Bhavan, the seat of several union ministries. He loathed what most government servants do: pushing files. His contacts in the global Indian diaspora and the media are the stuff of many stories.After the MoIA was merged into the MEA, Sushma Swaraj, the minister who held charge of both ministries till then, opted to be the de facto Minister for Overseas Indian Affairs, choosing to delegate the duties of the Minister for External Affairs to the Foreign Secretary and three other MEA Secretaries. Young Indians who joined the IFS with aspirations of becoming diplomats saw their ambitions evaporate as they were reduced to consular officials. A senior Indian diplomat in Houston subsequently told me that the MEA had ‘become the biggest service delivery organisation in the world’.Incumbent External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has restored the foundational functions for which the MEA was created. However, South Block, the MEA headquarters, cannot adequately fulfil two roles with equal efficiency. It can either be a consular agency or it can be in the vanguard of Indian diplomacy. The sprawling size and geographical diversity of the Indian diaspora demand the resurrection of the MoIA to deal with eventualities like evacuations and the welfare of NRIs and PIOs.Tailpiece: A spillover advantage of sending an experienced diplomat-turned-minister to supervise evacuations — instead of mere politicians — is that the country gets collateral benefits from such unique cabinet presence. India has had no Ambassador in Hungary for many months, even though the Ukraine crisis has been looming for a year. Hardeep Singh Puri, the minister who brought Indian students out of Ukraine via Budapest, repaired the bilateral relationship somewhat. The minister relied heavily on the resources and goodwill for his wife, Lakshmi Puri, who was a popular Indian Ambassador in Hungary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/go-back-to-how-it-was-377533
