15-03-2022||---||Efficacy of economic sanctions debatable||With more than 5 per cent of Ukraine’s population having crossed over to neighbouring countries as refugees amid the ongoing war, the US and its allies are banking on a slew of much-publicised economic sanctions to rein in Russia.Apart from freezing the assets of Russia’s central bank, the US, the EU and UK have reportedly banned people and businesses from dealings with this bank, Russia’s finance ministry and its wealth fund. Reports say certain Russian banks had been removed from Swift (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications) and the ban will delay the payments Russia gets for its oil and gas exports. The US has decided not to buy Russian crude oil, though its dependence on Russia is minimal as compared to Europe. The practical reality is that the potency of these economic sanctions has to be examined in the context of past evidence and present geopolitical realities.Sanctions are an age-old instrument. On the basis of earlier studies done on the human cost of sanctions in Central Europe and the Middle East, academic Nicholas Mulder, in his recent book, The Rise of Sanctions as tool of Modern War, writes, “In World War I, 300,000-400,000 people died of blockade-induced starvation and illness in Central Europe, with an additional 500,000 deaths in the Ottoman provinces of the Middle East affected by the Anglo-French blockade… In 1919, the Soviet republics of Russia and Hungary were the first states to be subjected to western blockades without an official declaration of war.”In the post-colonial world, the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) has imposed sanctions within the scope of Article 41 of Chapter VII of the UN charter which states that “the UNSC may decide what measures not involving the use of armed force are to be employed to give effect to its decisions, and it may call upon the Members of the United Nations to apply such measures.” In the past 56 years, 30 sanctions regimes, including 14 ongoing ones, with a focus on supporting political settlement of conflicts, nuclear non-proliferation and counter-terrorism, have been established. Another bucket of sanctions are unilateral impositions by Member States and in this case, the US sanctions are considered the most potent because of America’s disproportionate weight in the global economy. Cuba is an example of unilateral country-specific sanctions.Sanctions imposed by the US and the UK on Saddam Hussein-ruled Iraq were potentially a PR disaster. From 1995 to 2000, newspapers reports, particularly in the global south, documented their deleterious impact on Iraqi nationals, particularly the health of Iraqi children. Resultantly, smart sanctions entered the US discourse. The concept was to target the ruling elite in a country-specific context and minimise the impact of sanctions on the masses. This is easier said than done.There is evidence that even the ruling elite in sanctioned countries with much less heft in the international system was able to withstand sanctions. Take the case of Myanmar: from 1990 to 2010, it faced comprehensive western sanctions. Myanmar’s ruling elite traded with China and other neighbouring Asian countries. The leadership of the army, better known as Tatmadaw, internalised the lesson of capitalising on the geopolitical rivalry between great powers to advance its goals and objectives. And, with China as one of the main destination points for its natural resources, the ability of smart sanctions by the western countries to impact the interests of the current Myanmar military leadership was considerably blunted.Any initiative to impose UN sanctions on Russia is a non-starter as it is one of the P-5 nations. Though insecure and shaken after the invasion of Ukraine, Europeans also want to inoculate themselves to a large extent economically from the measure of economic sanctions against Russia. In 2021, the EU reportedly imported around 45 per cent of its gas from Russia. In 2020, Russian oil imports accounted for about 25 per cent of the bloc’s crude purchases. In this regard, the EU has pledged to cut Russian gas imports by two-thirds before the end of 2022. However, this is a mere pledge and many countries within the EU have opposed a complete ban on Russian imports.At the UN General Assembly, 141 of the 193 Member States demanded that Russia immediately, completely and unconditionally withdraw all of its military forces from the territory of Ukraine within its internationally recognised borders. Fifty-two Member States didn’t vote against Russia, including China, India, Bangladesh and Pakistan —four countries which together account for more than 40 per cent of the world population. China has reiterated its old stance that “sanctions are never effective means to solve any problem” and opposed all forms of “US unilateral sanctions and long-arm jurisdiction”. In de facto terms, India’s position on sanctions is similar and a decision to continue or increase crude oil imports from Russia will depend on the cost-benefit analysis, including the impact of the decision on relations with the West and also European countries’ own approach towards imports of Russian crude oil.The record of country-specific sanctions in achieving the desired goals is patchy. In the international system, where no great power can escape the charges of hypocrisy in the application of the principle of upholding territorial integrity, concocting evidence to invade a sovereign country and hubris, the selective and half-hearted instrument of economic sanctions is not a panacea that hapless Ukrainians require at this stage. Probably, combining a display of stronger will of Europeans to fully jettison energy dependence on Russia and preparedness to face the costs, a face-saver for President Putin and concerted action to address Russia’s real or perceived immediate and long-term insecurities may be potential means to end this impasse. #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/efficacy-of-economic-sanctions-debatable-377814
15-03-2022||---||Four reasons for the BJP’s triumph in UP||The results of the 2022 Assembly elections indicate a reinforcement of the decisive rightward shift that India’s polity had embarked upon in 2014. Barring a few setbacks, notably the defeat in the West Bengal elections in 2021, the trend is not reversing. The BJP, the party of the Far Right, has, in fact, consolidated its primacy in most states, barring those where the regional parties hold sway and have kept it at bay. The recent poll results have set the stage for the General Election in 2024, with the ruling BJP retaining control of four states, including winning a two-thirds majority in the politically crucial state of Uttar Pradesh.Numerous media reports exposed multiple sources of economic discontent in UP. Voters complained ceaselessly about the joblessness, price rise and stray cattle menace among the host of issues reported by journalists covering the election campaign from western to eastern UP. While employment, public health, education or industrialisation were not on the BJP’s agenda, they were on the people’s agenda and, yet, economic dissatisfaction did not translate into a large enough vote to defeat the BJP.That the BJP has held power and increased its vote share has to be seen in the light of the issues it campaigned on which seemingly matter more to large numbers of people in the state.Importantly, economic frustration was not blamed on the government. Instead, the people commended the government’s handling of cultural and security issues, with economic distress taking a backseat. Hence, this couldn’t become a counterweight to Hindu majoritarianism. Even the disastrous impact of the Covid-19 pandemic didn’t figure in the voter calculus.The BJP’s massive win in UP has sparked a discussion about the balance between economic discontent and voter choices, government subsidies and voting preferences, and hate politics and vote. The materialist understanding led many commentators (including this writer) to argue that the economic discontent and shift in public discourse could trigger an electoral change in UP. But the assumption that the need to maximise material well-being would drive voting preferences hasn’t transpired.Four factors signpost why this didn't happen. The four things that set the narrative for the BJP were: Hindu majoritarianism, rashan, prashasan and induction of caste under the Hindu canopy (though not in this order). Put differently, the Hindu-Muslim divide, free ration and law and order were the mainstays of this canopy.Communalism was the ideological driving force of the campaign and nearly 44 per cent of those who voted approved of this slant. The overall thrust was dominated by the Chief Minister’s messaging and his statement in the beginning of the campaign that UP was facing an 80-20 election, denoting the Hindu-Muslim conflict and competition. This template framed the meta-narrative of the campaign, signalling the central role of communalism in this landmark election.Arguably, the campaign was not overtly communal; it was disguised through dog whistles of ‘law and order’. This was a code for converting Muslims into a security threat and then claiming to control this threat. The ‘law and order’ platform echoed fears about the ‘Muslim criminality’, depicted through front-page advertisements in newspapers with two images of a young man with a kaffiyeh around his neck, symbolising a terrorist; and the other without the kaffiyeh, seeking pardon. And the caption was: now we have established law and order in the state. The use of the bulldozer to demolish those seen opposing the ruling party, and placing them outside election rallies, was another unabashed signal of the same message. The ‘law and order’ rhetoric was explicitly meant to divide citizens into two classes: those who are lawful by nature, and those who are not, who are inherently lawless. This created a strong sense of community identity that required protection. Above all, it created a communalised common sense. As a consequence, people were willing to overlook the economic failures of the government. Economic discontent was cancelled out by the much greater cultural and ideological acceptance of the BJP as a protector of the Hindus.The third issue is the impact of ‘welfarism’ or, more precisely, free ration on voter choices. Free foodgrains provided by the Central scheme to tide over the pandemic period, and additional items like cooking oil provided by the UP Government, is claimed as the key to the BJP’s electoral success. Undoubtedly, free ration at the time of the pandemic, with little prospect of getting a job, did count for a lot. However, the point is that even this minimal economic security was not provided as a matter of right to decent living but as largesse from the state. MGNREGA, which was instituted as an economic right has been whittled down, while the distribution of free ration, gas cylinders, toilets or houses as one-time benefits have become the main items on the welfare list closely identified with the political leadership hailed for its benevolence in helping the poor at a time of economic crisis. In return, the beneficiaries support the party offering these benefits. In the bargain, the beneficiaries have emerged as a new electoral category of labharthis linked to political choice. The political logic of this beneficiary category has profited the ruling party.While we must not disregard the significance of the economic relief provided to the people through free ration, it doesn't explain the BJP’s spectacular success in UP. This alone could not have defanged the effect of economic distress and massive unemployment and the vote against it. It appears that the people voted for something else which was non-economic reasoning, which is to say, they voted for the political agenda of this government, fuelled by a communal campaign. Those who see the BJP's victory as a vindication of its welfare policies ignore the compelling logic of communalism in UP politics today, as its impact is reflected in the poll results.Last but not least is the caste question. The caste-oriented social justice plank as a mobilisation strategy of the Opposition was superseded by religion, as in the 2017 and 2019 elections, pushing traditional notions of caste-based identity politics to the margins. Caste politics was effectively countered by the BJP’s campaign, uniting voters across caste lines by emphasising the Hindu identity of the backward castes under the capacious Hindutva umbrella. That paid rich dividends for the BJP, making lower castes indifferent to the Mandal politics and this also underlined the problems of a single-minded focus on caste-based empowerment and representation. In sum, what worked for the BJP was religion plus caste plus ‘welfarism’.The public discourse in the election campaign and the results have shown that the BJP is not invincible. The significant increase in the Samajwadi Party’s vote-seat share shows the limits of communal politics, which further indicates that communal consciousness was not the decisive factor for many voters, and such consciousness is subject to change. The BJP’s handsome victory cannot trump the economic challenges facing the people. The wider issues thrown up in this election — the bulldozer approach to dissent, communal polarisation, economic inequality, agrarian distress, joblessness and public health — will not go away, but continue to influence public discourse in the longer run.  #up poll 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/four-reasons-for-the-bjps-triumph-in-up-377811
15-03-2022||---||Steer a middle course||Last month, a Pakistani business magnate created a flutter when he claimed that PM Modi could make a cross-border visit in March, if the resumed backchannel process succeeded. Predictably, Moeed Yusuf, Pakistan’s NSA, attacked the ‘prevailing ideology’ of the BJP government for the current stasis in ties and declared that India had to first create the enabling environment.The BJP did not need dog-whistles like ‘terrorism’, ‘Pakistan’ or ‘the bravery of our jawans’ to post its spectacular performance in Uttar Pradesh.A striking aspect of the recent state Assembly elections is that the BJP did not need dog-whistles like ‘terrorism’, ‘Pakistan’ or ‘the bravery of our jawans’ to post its spectacular performance in UP. BJP support, that included significant OBC and Dalits, came on the basis of its Hindutva ideology, as well as the party’s effective use of welfare measures to overcome the distress of the people on account of poverty, economic stagnation and the ravages of the pandemic. Above all, the BJP, master of the art of populist politics, outdid itself in deflecting responsibility for its own shortcomings by blaming everyone else—Nehru, the Opposition, Muslims, urban Naxals, foreign forces, the elites and so on.Recall in 2017, the so-called ‘surgical strikes’ played an important role in the BJP’s outreach to the electorate in UP and how the ‘martyrdom’ in Pulwama and the Balakot airstrike became part of the ‘nationalistic’ 2019 General Election campaign.This current development could suggest that Modi could consider a resumption of efforts to make peace with Pakistan. Recall Modi’s early approach that had him descending on Lahore to greet the then PM Nawaz Sharif on his birthday on December 25, 2015. This initiative was swiftly derailed by the Pakistani deep state that engineered a terrorist assault on the Pathankot Air Force base a week later.The Uri attack on September 18, 2016, that led to the death of 18 soldiers brought a major shift. Eleven days later, the Indian Army conducted simultaneous retaliatory raids across the LoC. These were propagandistically elevated to ‘surgical strikes’ and they became part of a narrative that fed into the campaign of the UP Assembly election that the BJP swept in early 2017.Indian diplomacy also took a tough turn by working to corner Pakistan on terrorism. The PM used the platform of G20, ASEAN, BRICS and bilateral meetings to repeatedly denounce terrorism and call for the isolation of ‘countries that back terror’. Simultaneously, he pushed for the adoption of the UN of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism (CCIT).Many wondered why India was raising the terrorism issue so insistently. Data was showing that separatist violence in Kashmir and Islamist terrorism had actually been declining for quite some time. The answer lay in the use being made by the BJP of terrorism as part of its domestic political agenda. Pakistan became a proxy for Indian Muslims in the party’s rhetoric — attacking the former was a means of marginalising the latter.After the Mumbai attack of 2008, Pakistan had switched tactics to direct attacks by its jihadi proxies against Indian military and police targets that did not have the same emotional or political response from the international community as the attacks on civilians and non-combatants.Coincidentally, in 2018, when Pakistan was in the Trump administration doghouse, it was placed on the FATF (Financial Action Task Force) grey list and asked to clean up its act on money laundering and terrorist financing. This decision has had a bite that Islamabad has not been able to ignore.Both India and Pakistan are now realising that the current deadlock is not in their interest. Backchannel talks in the last two years helped re-establish the ceasefire along the LoC in February 2021. This set the stage for Pakistan army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa’s call for a ‘paradigm shift’ in his country’s relations with India. But the usual obstacle remains — Kashmir.But Pakistan has understood that New Delhi’s harsh repressive measures have checked violence in the state. Reporting for The Tribune last week, Mukesh Ranjan cited Indian intelligence assessments that the number of jihadi fighters along the LoC have ‘come down to half’; where last year there were 115-120 fighters, this year the number was around 70. This was most likely an outcome of some decision by the deep state, aka the Pakistan army.Pakistan has good reasons to make a shift in its approach to India. First and foremost its economy is in a bad shape. But with a friendly government in place in Kabul, it can afford to take a more relaxed posture with New Delhi which has, at last, decided that its primary security challenge comes from the north. Equally, the deep state seems to have realised that military-friendly governments like that of Imran Khan can’t really deliver. And then, Islamabad may be going great guns with China, but Modi had hugely enhanced New Delhi’s ties with its key Gulf benefactors, Saudi Arabia and the UAE.India’s reasons for a new approach to Islamabad may not be as compelling, but they are no less important. Despite all the brave talk about fighting two-front wars, India needs to be realistic about its security situation. More important, its longer term plan can’t but rest on the notion of an integrated South Asian economic region which includes Afghanistan and Pakistan and has a pathway to Central Asia and beyond. Even so, New Delhi needs Pakistan to clearly demonstrate that it is making a strategic shift away from the use of proxy warriors against its neighbour.It’s time to understand that the millstone around Pakistan’s neck does not just weigh it down, but India as well. #Pakistan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/steer-a-middle-course-377807
15-03-2022||---||Crime-politics nexus imperilling democracy||By 2050, India is likely to have a well-known mafia don or a criminal as the Prime Minister with more than half of his cabinet consisting of criminals. This prediction is based on some facts. Out of the 539 winners analysed in 2019, 233 MPs (about 44%) have declared criminal cases against them. This is an increase of about 26% over the 2014 figures. An MP from Kerala has declared 204 criminal cases against himself! The figure is far more alarming when it comes to serious criminal cases. Around 159 (29 percent) winners in 2019 had declared serious criminal cases against them including cases related to rape, murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping and crimes against women etc. This percentage was 14% in 2009 and 21% in 2014.The situation is no better in the state assemblies. For example, according to ADR (Association for Democratic Reforms), over half of the newly-elected MLAs of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and West Bengal had declared criminal cases against them in the last elections. Further, the Supreme Court was informed in September 2020, while hearing a PIL, that 2,556 MLAs and MPs from 22 states are accused in criminal cases. This number rises to 4,422 if former MPs and MLAs from these states are also included.As a very rough estimation of an average, if we divide 44% (the present figure of MPs with declared criminal records by them) by five decades since 1970, the average comes to around 8.8% increase in each decade. This figure should reach about 70.4% by 2050, presuming the speed of their increase remains the same. But actually, it is more as there was 26% rise in their figures from 2014 to 2019, in five years only.In a private chat during which I was present, late PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, when he was not even an MP, had mentioned that in about two decades after Independence, there were hardly any criminal MPs. In the 1970s, initially the politicians started taking the help of criminals for winning elections. The criminals soon became wiser and they thought as to why support others and why should they themselves not come forward and enjoy the fruits of power which would give them much more than what they can have with their normal ‘hard work’ — and the die was cast. What started in that decade as a seed is now a big tree. Slowly in each subsequent Lok Sabha and State Assemblies, there has been a steady rise in their visibility and their speed is increasing. The Vohra Committee report in 1993 had also confirmed the criminal-politics connection.The founding fathers of our Constitution were actually afraid of this scenario. Our first President Dr Rajendra Prasad, as President of the Constituent Assembly of India, said the following on November 26, 1949, before putting the motion for passing of the Constitution, “If the people who are elected are capable and men of character and integrity, then they would be able to make the best even of a defective Constitution. If they are lacking in these, the Constitution cannot help the country …We can only hope that the country will throw up such men in abundance.” His hope has been belied. Today, these elements are a powerful section in the country and in most of the states. In fact, some of them are such big mafia dons in their respective districts/area that they win each election from inside or outside the jail and from whichever party they contest, which they keep on changing depending on their need. If they don’t contest, their proxies win. Each political party is fond of them due to their winning ability. They are the route to the political power. Sometimes even the voters like them because these dons are able to get them what they want even from government agencies.Today, many are so powerful that some of them even become ministers in the states. Once ensconced, they can look after themselves and their cronies in their ‘business’ well. The policemen who should be after them look after them and give them security. What a pity? They can manipulate the police and judicial system to their advantage once their party is in power. The police become their servant and the judicial system of delayed trials and long procedures of trial and appeals help them. Besides they brow-beat witnesses who turn hostile. These criminal elements are able to get cases against them withdrawn when their party comes to power.Even though there has been a hue and cry that those who break the law should not make the law, they have thwarted all attempts so far to show them the door. Who will bell the cat? There are three wings of the government — the legislature, the executive and the judiciary. These criminal elements are themselves a part of the legislature. They would never ever want a change in the laws to their disadvantage — so no hope. The executive is subordinate to them — so again no hope. That leaves the judiciary. It has done its bit but is falling short. Their orders regarding affidavits declaring criminal cases against them while contesting, asking political parties to publish their criminal records after nominations are filed, fast-tracking of the trial of cases against them and so on has not produced any effective remedy. Still, the Supreme Court is the only hope. It must step out if we want to cleanse the system.In a democracy, ultimately it is the will of the people that really matters. But in this matter, there is no chance of their rising in one big movement to purge thesystem of the criminals because of various factors. This situation is an early warning of the danger to the Indian democracy, and the future of our children and grandchildren is a matter of great anxiety. So in sheer desperation, we can only raise our hands upwards and say, “So, help us God.” #criminals in politics||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/crime-politics-nexus-imperilling-democracy-375130
