16-03-2022||---||Has the 2024 poll outcome been foretold?||AFTER the BJP’s victory run in four of the five Assembly elections held recently, it is tempting and facile to call out the 2024 parliamentary polls in its favour, as some commentators have assumed without caveats. The enervated state of the Congress, a disparate Opposition consisting of regional parties, the lack of a compelling storyline to confront the ruling party’s incessant evangelism and indoctrination and the absence of that one leader who can potentially stand up as a counterpoint to the BJP’s Narendra Modi do not add up to anything substantive two years before the next Lok Sabha elections.Parts of the east and south alone offer a bulwark of resistance against the BJP’s rolling juggernaut.Let’s delineate the geographical scenario. The BJP’s hegemony over the north and west (Maharashtra is a significant exception) is near-complete.The North-East is within its grasp, but electoral history establishes that the eight sisters (Sikkim and Assam always vote independently) go with the party at the Centre out of fiscal and security considerations. The BJP is now as firmly entrenched in Assam as it is in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh after the multi-ethnic state embraced the Hindutva ideology.After a promising start, West Bengal slipped from the BJP’s grasp. The powerful Delhi brass is unable to rein in the recalcitrant regional leaders, many of whom returned to their original abode in the Trinamool Congress.Odisha was high on Delhi’s radar, but the savvy Naveen Patnaik, who heads the Biju Janata Dal and the state government, has not yielded an inch of space to the Opposition, with his blow-hot-blow-cold approach towards the BJP. Patnaik aims to keep the BJP’s central leaders happy and run circles around the party’s state functionaries. The outcome of the recent panchayat polls, where the BJD won 766 of the 852 seats, testifies Patnaik’s grip on every power tier.In the south, Karnataka — where the RSS worked hard for decades and continues to be the BJP’s spine — is the outlier in the party’s scheme. Given the BJP’s appetite for conquests and persistence, it identified Telangana as a high-growth region and may well displace the Congress as the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s (TRS) principal rival by the next Lok Sabha and state elections. It made a breakthrough in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections and won two Assembly bypolls, Huzurabad and Dubbaka, in a wake-up call to the TRS.Between them, the east (including the North-East) and the south add up to 215 of the 543 Lok Sabha seats or 39.5 per cent seats. A bulk of the seats belongs to West Bengal (42), Tamil Nadu (39), Andhra Pradesh (25), Karnataka (28), Odisha (21), Telangana (17), Kerala (20) and Assam (14). The BJP can count on Assam and Karnataka as fail-safe states and Telangana for prospective gains.The picture changes dramatically in the north and west. On the 110 seats sprawled across Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Haryana, the BJP and the Congress are pitted in head-to-head fights. However, the scenario discounts a few imponderables. Haryana has a fair share of regional entities. In case the BJP’s ally, the Jannayak Janta Party, goes solo, the decision might add another dimension to a muddled state of affairs. Bolstered by its Punjab success, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is also trying hard to break into Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.The AAP’s rise should cause more consternation among the Congress than the BJP, although the party has hurt the BJP for time to come in Delhi. While the BJP’s stock-in-trade rhetoric against the Congress played successfully on elements like parivarwaad, legatees, “corruption”, “minority appeasement” and a “lack of commitment” towards its version of “nationalism”, the AAP often beat the BJP at its game. The parivarwaad charge can’t stick to the party. Arvind Kejriwal’s consistent endeavour to steer clear of a debate on Hindutva — indeed his detractors have accused him of being the BJP’s B-team — robbed the BJP of another plank to assail the AAP.On balance, the Opposition offers a mixed account: some of the regional entities are strong in their geographical areas, but none of them has a pan-India presence despite TMC chief Mamata Banerjee’s exertions to spread beyond West Bengal, while the Congress, potentially the sole sheet anchor, is enfeebled beyond redemption.The Congress has a chance at survival in the impending Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka elections if it keeps its nose to the grindstone. But that’s too much of an expectation from a party that has buried its head in the sand, oblivious of the BJP’s capacity for hard work and single-minded focus on politics.In the last Gujarat elections, at one point, it looked like the Congress could outpace the BJP, until the BJP recovered in the last phase. It was a narrow win for the BJP. The Congress could have built on the gains accruing to it after decades, but it lost the painfully accumulated political capital. The BJP spirited away its legislators, purloined district functionaries and hollowed out its innards. The Congress is left with a shell of an organisation.In Gujarat again, the AAP hopes to chip away at the Congress, although it recently lost the elected members of the Surat municipal corporation to the BJP.In Karnataka, the Congress’ internal squabbles robbed the party of the vitality needed to challenge the BJP.On the other hand, a day after the state election results were declared, PM Modi rushed to Gandhinagar to celebrate the victory, but also, importantly, to launch the election campaign. Like in Uttarakhand, the BJP changed its Gujarat CM, a decision that should put the party at a disadvantage but will possibly not.Whether it is the Assembly or national polls, the Opposition’s robustness manifests itself in spurts. It has not crafted a storyline to take a narrative to the people, distinct from the BJP’s hyperbole. Has the 2024 outcome been foretold?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/has-the-2024-poll-outcome-been-foretold-378095
16-03-2022||---||Deliver or perish||POLL 2022 has thrown up two new political stars — Yogi Adityanath and Arvind Kejriwal — who have found a new acceptance among the people. Neither is an unknown entity. Yogi is the CM of Uttar Pradesh and Kejriwal of Delhi. One of them is from the ruling BJP and the other from the Opposition side. Both are likely to influence the future course of politics.Both Yogi and Kejriwal, the new faces of performance, have emerged as leaders in their own right.With Yogi’s phenomenal success, another mass leader has been born inside the BJP, apart from Narendra Modi. It is hardly a secret that Yogi will be a claimant for the country’s top job in the post Modi era.With AAP’s victory in Punjab (and two states under its belt now, unlike most regional leaders), Kejriwal is also eyeing the ‘Dilli gaddi’, though for him it could be a longer haul, for the simple reason that he is building an organisation from scratch. Yogi, on the other hand, would have a massive, well-oiled, resource-driven and cadre-backed machinery — probably the largest in the world — behind him. The RSS has supported him all along and is already viewing him in a ‘futuristic’ role. Of course, given the way it functions, the RSS would be keeping in mind several leaders at the same time. But Yogi is more of a Hindu icon than are other leaders.Yogi has been helped by brand Modi, which remains intact and was the common factor that influenced voter choices in the four states — UP, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa — where the BJP has retained power. If anything, the 2022 victory has made Modi even more invincible. True to character, and without losing any time after the victory, he took off to Gujarat, where polls are due later this year, spending three days there, meeting his mother, enthusing BJP karyakartas and doing a roadshow for a popular outreach.Yogi has emerged as a leader in his own right. So far he was seen as someone who had compelled the BJP leadership to make him CM in 2017 because of his following among a group of MLAs. Though there was dissatisfaction with the UP Government, it wasn’t a sentiment of aakrosh. Despite their unhappiness, people were prepared to give him another term. The upper castes, including the disaffected Brahmins, consolidated even more firmly behind the BJP than in 2017. It was clear that when the chips are down, the BJP remains a ‘Hindu rakshak’ party.The BJP has also pitched itself as a party which is garib rakshak, with its free rations and direct benefits in cash and kind (what is called labharthi venture) — Rs 6,000 to kisans, help during the lockdowns, package of grain, oil, salt reaching people’s hands, pension, insurance, money in women’s bank accounts, houses being built for them. Social welfarism has now come to stay and has become an integral part of the BJP’s recipe for success.This has brought the poorer sections — in caste terms, the lower (non-Yadav) OBCs and non-Jatav Dalits — in the BJP fold even more firmly. Akhilesh Yadav wanted to dent this support base of the BJP but could not make enough headway. The BJP has made some forays even into the Jatav votebank — so has the SP — with the virtual collapse of the BSP, and the Dalit vote is now up for grabs. The four-point formula the BJP has gone for, and will increasingly go for also in other states, is strong leadership (Modi and Yogi have no families in tow), Hindutva nationalism-national security, social welfarism, and a huge organisational machinery. It poses a formidable challenge to the Opposition.The victory of Yogi in UP and Kejriwal in Punjab has been stunning. Punjab did not turn to the BJP, as did the other four states. If anything it was the opposite. Punjab’s per capita income is double that of UP; it did not sway the labharthis in the border state. The farmers’ angst had much more of an impact in Punjab than in UP. Punjab was looking for new faces, new narrative, away from the tried-and-tested politicians who had been found wanting. What went for Kejriwal was his credibility in delivering what he had promised in Delhi — bijli, paani, school reform and medical care. There is a ‘Congress’ space in the country today, which is getting occupied by other forces, with the party unable to get its act together election after election. It is this space which ‘AK’ will try and capture.Within hours of Punjab victory, AAP leaders were talking about focusing their energies immediately on four states — Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh, where polls are due and the party is already active; Haryana, a state, which, like Punjab, could look at new chehre with anti-incumbency building up against the Khattar government and fatigue with the Congress and Chautalas’ politics (it is Kejriwal’s state); and Karnataka, which too is a battle between the BJP and the Congress, though the JD(S) also has a presence there.If Kejriwal concentrates on Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, and can manage a strike rate of 60%, and picks up a few seats in other states, he could be (at least theoretically) as weighty a player in 2024 as any of the other regional satraps who rule larger, but single states of India. As things stand, he would not be in a hurry but would concentrate on increasing his footprints and becoming an alternative to Congress leaders in parts of India (He may also look at Rajasthan, where the Congress will be on the back foot, and Madhya Pradesh).Unlike the Congress, and sensing the popular mood, he has positioned his party as a pro-Hindu entity, without being seen as anti-Muslim, without being caught in the Hindu-Muslim conundrum that the BJP would like to entrap Opposition groups into. Kejriwal is also selling his Delhi model of governance to other states.India is changing rapidly and politics is throwing up new faces. Otherwise, unknown AAP candidates would not have been able to rout the stalwarts of Punjab, some of them with decades of public work behind them — including Parkash Singh Badal, his son Sukhbir, Capt Amarinder Singh, Charanjit Channi and Navjot Sidhu. Therein lies the message that the voter has delivered in 2022 — and this goes also for Kejriwal and Yogi — deliver or perish.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/deliver-or-perish-378094
