17-03-2022||---||Electoral losses leave Congress at the crossroads||MOST Congress commentators — from long-time party reporters to extramural experts — are convinced that India needs a strong Opposition party, and the role can only be played by the Congress, and that Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra should step down from their perch and let others take over. The implication is that unless the Gandhis leave their privileged positions, there is no hope for the Congress. And the commentators are demanding that the three abdicate their power in a weakened and near-extinct Congress. It is a comic demand coming from serious folk because there is not much they can do on their own.The people who can set things right in the Congress are members of the party themselves. And there seems to be none in the party who can move a motion in the Congress Working Committee (CWC) or in the All-India Congress Committee (AICC) demanding the resignation of Sonia Gandhi as working president of the party, and the resignation of Priyanka as general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh. Of course, Rahul Gandhi does not hold any formal position and he can be ignored.And at the same time, the CWC and AICC must elect a president in place of Sonia Gandhi and the new one must appoint a general secretary in place of Priyanka. And this is the only way that the Congress can get rid of the Gandhis. And who is preventing members of the party from executing this plan? Of course, they need to muster a majority to accomplish this. And it seems that those who are unhappy with the Gandhi leadership do not have enough support in the party. The honourable thing for those unhappy members is to resign from the party and start a new one to fight the good fight against the majoritarian and communal politics of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress critics of the Gandhis must announce loudly and clearly that they want to fight the communalism of the BJP and its other ideological affiliates. And they need to come up with better arguments than what the Gandhis and their aides in the party have to offer on this count.The reason for the Congress’ electoral failure is the erosion of the party’s base over the years, both at the ideological and at the organisational levels. Ideologically, the Congress argument for secularism and inclusivity got frayed over the years because of the many acts of omission and commission of the party and that of its governments at the Centre and in the states. Secondly, the party’s economic policies from the 1980s did not change its rhetoric. It was intellectual laziness on the part of the party ideologues that they did not fashion a nuanced ideological position that gave preference to market forces.Manmohan Singh, P Chidambaram, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari and Jairam Ramesh did not convince the party to shift its planks as times changed. Sonia Gandhi brought in a measure of moderation and flexibility, following in the footsteps of Rajiv Gandhi, by showing openness to economic reforms, and claiming the credit for turn to markets. However, Sonia Gandhi was ungracious in acknowledging the work done by PV Narasimha Rao because there was no better dyed-in-the-wool Congressman than Rao. Though she did not directly berate Rao, many of the other Congress leaders did. It was cowardly on the part of the Congress to have disowned its own government from 1991 to 1996. And that has only added to their woes.It should also not be forgotten that the Congress under Sonia Gandhi did come back to power in 2004 and 2009, though leaning on coalition partners. It was inevitable that the party should have lost in 2014. But the extent of the defeat was unjustified. The party should have recovered in 2019. But it seems what has queered the pitch for the party is the unsteady hand and rhetoric of Rahul Gandhi at the helm. There is the criticism that he created his own cabal around himself, and he was not listening to wiser counsel from the party elders. It sure might have been the case. And Rahul Gandhi should have been challenged within the party. But it required that the challengers have enough support inside the party. And the fact is they do not command any kind of support. Of course, it is easy to blame it all on the Gandhis for not allowing leaders to emerge. In politics, no one gives way to another. Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sachin Pilot should have reached out to the others in the party and expanded their base. Instead, Scindia left the party, and Pilot continues to sulk.The Congress is weak, and the Gandhis have lost their ability to win elections. So, it is for the party to elect a new leader. If Congressmen and Congresswomen are so helpless that they are unable to function without the Gandhis and not one of the other leaders is able to offer a national vision, then the Congress deserves to die and there is no need to shed tears. The Gandhi cronies in the party will certainly obstruct any challenger. But the point is to defeat them in the party. Rebellion in the party has to be widespread for it to succeed.The dominance of the BJP in two successive parliamentary elections, and the prospect of a third win in 2024, is not as disastrous as it might appear to those diehard BJP critics. The BJP will go the same way as the Congress, and that too, sooner than imagined. No one party, not Congress, not BJP, can monopolise the political space in India. There is much diversity in India and it cannot be straitjacketed, and that too within the narrow-minded framework of Hindutva. This does not ensure the return of the Congress, but it does mean the reassertion of political pluralism in the country. The Congress never had a monopoly over power, nor does the BJP now. The Congress believed that it represented India, and the BJP believes that it is India. The reality is delightfully different.  #jairam ramesh #kapil sibal #manish tewari #manmohan singh #p chidambaram #priyanka gandhi #rahul gandhi #sonia gandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/electoral-losses-leave-congress-at-the-crossroads-378396
17-03-2022||---||Rich scientific heritage of north-west India||THE scientific research heritage of north-west India, including Punjab, is no less significant than that of the presidencies of Calcutta, Madras and Bombay, where universities were created in 1857. This surmise finds support in a recent Vigyan Prasar book, 75 Founders of Modern Science in India, released by Minister of State for Science & Technology Jitendra Singh on National Science Day (February 28). Nine of these names belong to north-west India.Another book, Founders of Modern India, published by the Indian Academy of Sciences (IASc) to kickstart Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav last year, comprises 16 scientists, including legends such as JC Bose, PC Ray, S Ramanujan, CV Raman, MN Saha, SN Bose, Homi Bhabha and Vikram Sarabhai. Of the remaining eight, three were from the north-west region — DN Wadia, Birbal Sahni and SS Bhatnagar. Wadia had joined as Professor of Geology in the new Prince of Wales College at Jammu in 1907 and he went on to become the first Director of the (Wadia) Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun. Birbal Sahni founded the Institute of Palaeosciences, Lucknow, in 1946. Bhatnagar was asked to become first Director of Board of Scientific and Industrial Research in 1940. Sahni, Bhatnagar and Wadia were the first botanist, chemist and geologist from India to be elected Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1936, 1943 and 1957, respectively.Ten Indians had been made FRS before 1947, and 45 more got elected thereafter, six of whom were born in north-west India. Among the latter, BP Pal, AS Paintal and Gagandeep Kang have the distinction of being the first agricultural scientist, first physiologist and first woman from India to receive the honour in 1972, 1981 and 2019, respectively. Two students who had studied at Panjab University (PU), Chandigarh — botanist Kamaljit Singh Bawa and physicist Ajay Kumar Sood — got elected as FRS in 2015.The Indian National Science Academy (INSA) had released a book, Bright Sparks, comprising biographies of 40 scientists, during its 75th year in 2009. Half of them were born in the 19th century. These included Ruchi Ram Sahni (1863-1948), whose biography was the first book brought out by Vigyan Prasar in 1994. He had co-founded the Punjab Science Institute at Lahore in 1885 and is credited with popularisation of science through over 500 public lectures. In 1887, he became the first Indian to be appointed lecturer in science at Government College, Lahore. CV Raman had invited him and his two scientist sons, Birbal and Mulk Raj, to be Foundation Fellows of IASc in 1934. Ten other alumni of PU were also invited to be among the 130 Foundation Fellows of IASc. These included legendary botanist Shiv Ram Kashyap (1882-1934). PU had honoured JC Bose and Kashyap with DSc (honoris causa) during its golden jubilee in 1933.The INSA has had 39 presidents so far, including six with a north-west connection. These include Ram Nath Chopra (1939-40 term), SS Bhatnagar (1947-48), SL Hora (1951-52), AN Khosla (1963-64), BP Pal (1975-76), AS Paintal (1987-88) and AK Sood (2017-19).Sir Ram Nath Chopra (1882-1973) is described as the father of pharmacology, while Sir Sahib Singh Sokhey (1887-1971) had served as Director of Haffkine Institute. The latter played a key role in setting up Hindustan Antibiotics and Indian Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited.Sunder Lal Hora (1896-1955), a contemporary of Bhatnagar (1894-1955), was an expert in fish taxonomy, and he served as the Director of Fisheries in Bengal. Civil engineer AN Khosla (1892-1984) contributed to the building of Bhakra and Hirakud dams.Legendary civil engineer, irrigation innovator and philanthropist Sir Ganga Ram (1851-1927) has been described as the father of modern Lahore. He was a contemporary of Sir M Visvesvaraya (1860-1962), who was honoured with the Bharat Ratna (1955).Two Lahore students, Har Gobind Khorana and Abdus Salam, who proceeded to England for their PhD, went on to win the Nobel Prize in physiology (1968) and physics (1979), respectively. Salam (1926-96) and noted mathematician Ram Prakash Bambah were students of Sarvadaman Chowla at Lahore. Chowla is counted among the top mathematicians of India along with Srinivasa Ramanujan and Harish Chandra. FC Kohli (1925-2020), reckoned as the father of software industry in India and the founder of Tata Consultancy Services, was also a student of Chowla.Narendra Singh Kapany (1926-2020) had envisioned making light traverse along a curved path. He demonstrated this in Imperial College, London, in 1953 and coined the term ‘fibre optics’. Dr Charles K Kao was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics in 2009 for “groundbreaking achievements concerning the transmission of light in fibres for optical communication”. Kapany narrowly missed getting the coveted prize.Dr Brahm Prakash, who did PhD under SS Bhatnagar at Lahore, progressed to be recognised among the foremost nuclear technologists of India. He worked as a colleague of Bhabha and Sarabhai on the atomic energy programme. Another iconic alumnus of PU, Dr Satish Dhawan, invited Brahm Prakash to help him steer the space programme after Sarabhai’s death. The Lahore background of Satish Dhawan, Brahm Prakash and Yash Pal laid the foundation of harmonious teamwork for mission-oriented strategic research.Sustaining the tradition of pharmacy of PU, Dr Har Krishan Singh (1928-2020) became the first pharmacy professor in India to be honoured with the Padma Shri in 2017. He had made the drug ‘Chandonium Iodide’, named after Chandigarh. Another PU alumnus in the mould of Bhatnagar as an innovator, Dr Girish Sahni, went on to head the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (2015-18).Three alumni of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana — Gurdev Singh Khush (FRS), Surender Kumar Vasal and Rattan Lal — won the World Food Prize in 1996, 2000 and 2020, respectively. Nine Indians have so far won this prize out of 51 worldwide recipients since its inception in 1987.The 75th anniversary of India’s Independence is an appropriate occasion to seek inspiration by saluting our rich science heritage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rich-scientific-heritage-of-north-west-india-378395
17-03-2022||---||Breaking camp on Russia||A BLOODY conflict continues across Ukraine, even as over three million of its people have fled to neighbouring countries. The parting of ways between Russia and its Muslim-dominated Central Asian republics was harmonious and marked by friendly and cooperative relations. The same cannot be said of Russia’s relations with its European/Eurasian neighbours. Former Soviet republics bordering Europe, like Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, are now NATO members. Moscow sees these developments as an attempt for its ‘containment’ by the US and its NATO allies.Criticising Australia, it was ‘unusual’ for China to support India’s independent strategy on the current crisis.The present tensions along Russia’s borders arise primarily from the quest of Ukraine to distance itself from Moscow, while seeking closer security ties with the US and NATO. These tensions followed the election of Volodymyr Zelenskyy, a charismatic Ukrainian politician, and a former actor, as the country’s sixth President. Zelenskyy soon got involved in seeking a close relationship with widespread security dimensions with the US. This process led to the takeover by Russia of parts of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine. Matters came to a head and tensions escalated when Ukraine and the US signed the Charter on Strategic Partnership in November 2021.Reports appeared almost immediately in the US media of ‘unusual Russian troop movements’ near the Ukrainian border. The US-Ukraine charter referred to ‘unwavering US support for Ukraine’s sovereignty’, with respect to its ‘internationally recognised borders, including Crimea, and extending its territorial waters, in the face of ongoing Russian aggression’. The stage was thus set by the charter for an escalation of tensions with Ukraine. That conflict has become a full-fledged war, with the use of air power by Russia, with millions of refugees fleeing Ukraine. Many of these refugees see little prospect of a return to their home.The use of tanks, artillery and lethal airpower has turned world opinion against Moscow. It has also inevitably spurred not just the US, but most countries across Europe to turn against Moscow. This, in turn, has compelled the already determined Vladimir Putin to dig in his heels. Russia is now involved in an all-out war in Ukraine. The tide of international public opinion is set against Russia. Following a long and heated debate, the UN General Assembly condemned Russian action. As many as 141 nations voted in favour of the resolution, with 35 countries, including India, abstaining. US officials drew attention to India’s traditional policies on arms acquisitions, necessitating its continuing ties with Russia.The Russian intervention in Ukraine has led to otherwise cautious European powers, like Germany and France, to join the US in providing support to the Ukrainian government. But, there should be no doubt that Putin will do whatever is necessary to discourage even more former Soviet republics from joining NATO. Moscow knows that NATO member countries do not relish the prospects of a direct confrontation with it. There is a widespread belief that the Ukraine crisis has come as a boon for US President Biden to divert attention from the criticism he was facing for his disastrously executed withdrawal from Afghanistan.There has been considerable US pressure on India to join the bandwagon in condemning Russia, which it has rightly rejected. This has been accompanied by western sanctions imposed on Russia and a stepping up of the supply of weapons to the Ukrainian resistance. India will, however, continue to cooperate with the US in Quad on security and other challenges posed by China. The last meeting of Quad spelt out areas in which India, Japan, the US and Australia will cooperate. These issues range from vaccines produced in India to greater maritime and military cooperation across the Indo-Pacific.It is clear that while dealing with the tensions now prevailing across Russia’s borders, amidst Moscow’s strained relations with the US, India will have to remain focused on keeping the wheels of its external economic relations moving smoothly. There has naturally been concern in India about the likely impact of the financial and currency restrictions and sanctions on Russia. There will now be growing problems that India will face on its crucial imports of arms, defence equipment and ammunition from Moscow. We, however, have a vast experience of trading with the Soviet Union with payments in Indian rupees before we took to economic liberalisation. Trade, and virtually all economic transactions with the Soviet Union, were in Indian rupees. Given its vast resources of oil and natural gas, Russia cannot be kept out of the global energy market indefinitely. There is, in fact, a feeling that the US and China will be the principal beneficiaries of such sanctions. China can always arrange payments for its purchases of natural gas from Russia. The US, in turn, will benefit with better prices for its exports of natural gas. There is already talk in the US of financial incentives for increased indigenous production of shale gas.China’s mouthpiece Global Times recently took a dig at Australia because of its strident calls for increasing sanctions on Russia. It noted: ‘A submissive Australia is in no position to criticise India’s independent strategies on the Ukraine crisis’, and added: ‘The Modi government has not been as submissive as Canberra to Washington. A more cool-headed approach is at play in New Delhi, with India’s national interest and long-term strategic goals taking precedence. India has refrained from blindly joining the West-led chorus censuring Russia, and has instead adopted an independent diplomatic approach, much to the chagrin of Australia. There is something important for Australia to consider.’ It was ‘unusual’ for China to voice such a comment amid the prevailing global tensions over developments in Ukraine. #China #NATO #Russia #ukrain russia war #Ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/breaking-camp-on-russia-378394
17-03-2022||---||Oil imports call for review of energy options||THE Ukraine crisis has put the spotlight on energy. Normally, the issue is mentioned only in passing during any discussion on the economy as it is a truism that India depends heavily on imports for its oil and gas needs. The reliance on purchases from abroad has been growing over the years. There was a time in the halcyon days of the 1980s, after the Bombay High offshore oilfieldshad been discovered, that India was able to meet 70 per cent of its needs from domestic sources. The situation has now reversed. Currently, the country needs to import about 85 per cent of its crude oil and natural gas consumption.The conflict in a distant European country has highlighted this vulnerability of the economy. Global crude prices reached a peak of $130 per barrel recently but are now hovering around $101. For a country that was expecting to spend roughly $75 per barrel for buying oil this year, the surge has come as an unpleasant surprise. But every crisis can turn into a learning opportunity. This is the time to review the country’s energy options for the medium and long-term and make course corrections to ensure such problems do not occur more often. While it may not be feasible to become atmanirbhar or entirely self-sufficient, it should be possible to reduce the present state of being virtually completely dependent on external sources for fossil fuels.The first issue that needs to be considered is the efforts being made to find more oil and gas within the country. In the past, at least some oil majors like Chevron took part in the bidding for on land and offshore blocks. But in recent years, the many rounds of bidding have yielded responses only from private companies, like Vedanta and Reliance or from state-owned oil firms, the ONGC and Oil India Limited. It is clear that better terms and conditions need to be offered, especially given the fact that geological prospectivity for hydrocarbons is better in several other countries. And one of the advantages in offering improved terms right now is that oil exploration activity tends to increase during periods of high prices, as it makes the operations more feasible in financial terms. Exploration is a risky and highly capital-intensive business, so adequate returns are essential.A second area of focus needs to be investments in oilfields abroad. Whether these are ultimately going to yield returns in terms of actual supplies needs to be considered for the long run. India has invested in several countries, including the UAE, South Sudan, Azerbaijan and Russia. Output from these countries dipped from a peak of nearly 25 million tonnes in 2018-19 to about 22 million tonnes in 2020-21, largely owing to reduced commitments made to the oil cartel, OPEC plus. In the changed scenario, this country needs to make investments in future only in countries from where it can get regular uninterrupted supplies of oil.Specifically in the case of Russia, the short-term issue has obviously become more complex owing to the stringent sanctions. But just as in the case of defence supplies, crude oil availability is a strategic requirement that cannot be held hostage by Western countries. A suitable strategy needs to be worked out to ensure that the sanctions can be bypassed in terms of payments as well as physical supplies. Coincidentally, the entire relationship with Russia in the oil sector was expanded just last year in September. Fresh agreements were concluded by the IOC and ONGC with the state-owned Gazprom during the visit of Petroleum Minister Hardeep Puri. This was in addition to the existing investment of $16 billion made by India in oil and gas assets in the Far East and Siberia. Analysts had even argued at the time that India needs to reduce its dependence on West Asian oil by bringing more oil from Russia through the shorter East Asia sea route.And finally, the long-term aspect of moving away from fossil fuels to renewable energy needs to be given greater urgency. Though the country has been achieving its stated goals for renewable energy capacities faster than expected, the time frame now needs to be shortened even further. This has to be viewed in the context that even oil companies have realised that their long-term existence is being threatened by the need to reduce carbon emissions over the next few decades. Oil majors like Shell Oil are making investments in wind, solar, electric vehicle charging and hydrogen, in a bid to ensure their continued relevance in the future. BP has even pledged to cut output by 40 per cent over the next decade and raise investment in renewables by ten times in the coming years.The launch of the National Hydrogen Mission last year was an idea whose time has come but much will depend on the speedy implementation of plans to produce five million tonnes of green hydrogen by 2030. Similarly, the push on manufacturers to provide electric vehicles to the market needs to be further accelerated along with a chain of charging stations running across the country. Solar and wind energy capacity are rising, but the truth is, nothing is coming even close to replacing fossil fuels in industry and transportation as yet.There is thus a short-term need to ensure that hydrocarbon production goes up within the country by giving enough incentives to oil majors to seriously consider oil and gas exploration here. Along with this is the need to ensure that the investments made so far in foreign oilfields are not only expanded but give returns at a time when crude oil prices are surging to multi-year highs.The long-term outlook, however, mandates that India needs to look towards a future with a reduced dependence on fossil fuels. Not only is that in the interests of the environment and the planet, but also for its own self-interest to shift from heavy dependence on imported oil and gas. The present crisis is the time to revise the long-term hydrocarbon policy, with the aim of moving away from the existing deep-seated dependence on the world oil markets. #hardeep puri #ongc #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/oil-imports-call-for-review-of-energy-options-378096
