20-03-2022||AFTER the noise and shock defeats of many known and confident politicians and the endless post-mortems on TV screens and podcasts||Our young & old||As I heard commentators highlight the enormous anger among our aspirational youth and broken promises, I wondered whether many of them were even capable of passing a simple school-level test. The dire levels of basic communication skills should be evident to anyone who has had the misfortune of holding a conversation with such youth. I can understand their lack of fluency and confidence in English, but even their own native languages operate out of a limited vocabulary. Very often, they resort to expletives and fillers such as ‘Y’know’, ‘I mean’. They all want to qualify for the civil services exam, NEET and what have you, but are incapable of even passing a high school exam. This frightening epidemic of ignorance has been highlighted by several reports commissioned both by the government and NGOs such as Pratham, but we are willfully blind to their alarming feedback.What breaks my heart is how poor parents work themselves to a bone so that their children go to an English-medium school, yet perhaps one of 10 such children is focused on education. All of them ask their parents to buy them smartphones (especially now so that they could participate in online lessons), but if you scroll through the history of their searches, you will find innocous downloads, porn and worse. The damage that uncontrolled access to the Net has done to our young far outpaces the good it was meant to do. While others wrote admiringly of the huge crowds that Akhilesh Yadav’s rallies drew, I noted how virtually no young girls or even women were to be seen. In our haste to greet new faces, what we miss out is the underdog and the silent or absent presence in election rallies. Young men on bikes, bandanas wrapped on their heads shouting and driving dangerously — this is the new generation that is impatient for change, but unwilling to change themselves. Yet, let us never forget that it is the women, the young girls and the old grannies that have kept the home going throughout these terrible times. And they were the ones who swung elections in one direction. Psephologists need to factor in this into future electoral calculations rather than micro-study caste divisions. Never forget that women represent one solid constituency that cuts across religion and caste.To come now to our own Punjab: what can one say except that one wishes the new government well. My sister asked me whether I knew anyone among the now elected MLAs and I laughed as I said, ‘Not one!’ People such as us, who moved out almost three decades ago, have a limited frame of reference anyway, but I never thought I’d live to see the day when the Maharaja of Patiala would be ousted from his own seat or Badal Senior lose Lambi. Many will say they had it coming, but it makes me wonder why many (especially politicians) can never leave an active life when they are at their peak to mentor a new generation. It isn’t just the two names mentioned above; this list goes back many decades and cuts across political parties of every hue. I used to joke that there is no greater bore than a retired bureaucrat, but now let me add that there is no greater fool than a has-been politician. The Congress party is in the throes of death but even now, the Family believes that it has relevance.In this respect, one has to admire the ruthlessness with which the old guard of the BJP was quietly nudged into retirement. Even then, several people felt that they had been treated unfairly but today, we feel differently about this culling. The lesson of bowing out gracefully is one that all seniors must learn. In the Ramayana, Dashrath handed over the reins of his kingdom to Rama when he saw the first grey hair on his head. More harm was done by the ‘Abhi to main jawan hoon’ ghazal than we dreamed of. The importance of the older generation in any organisation can never be denied, but their retirement is equally important to consider. From sports to industrial houses, from teachers to humble homemakers, when it’s time to go, go!Finally, after the joy and exultation of the AAP victory settles down, we all hope that Punjab gets the kind of governance that it has needed for a long, long time. One that is free of sycophants, family hangers-on, corrupt businessmen, self-serving and lazy bureaucrats and a police force that is bloated on the pickings thrown its way over the years. Remember that the police bandobast in Delhi — where the AAP has ruled for all these years — is firmly kept out of its hands. While this is a fact that Kejriwal has long bemoaned, it has also added as a check on a man who likes to have his way.Good luck, Punjab!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/our-young-old-378989
20-03-2022||I HAPPEN to be one among the many who left Kashmir in 1990 due to the political upsurge. There are many layers to the situation. Pandits lost their homeland||How art can lend perspective in times of disaster||Art activism grew in me and I tried various ways to tell the stories, address the homeland issues through public performances, and along with other colleagues, build consciousness and address the pain, but the state and Centre machinery was all frozen. What could be the role of an artist, I wondered. I focused on the expressions of refugees, their suffering. My work on abandoned houses shows it all. Silence speaks volumes sometimes. When you paint the pain, you don’t see which community it belongs to. I continued the political language through various mediums — paintings, videos, photographs, sculptures, installations. I have addressed a range of subjects in the course of my artistic career, but exile remains my most fundamental preoccupation. I consistently used art to reflect my anguish at the situation in my home state. Making a human rights statement rather than a political one, I sought to highlight the turmoil that comes with separation from heritage, and to highlight the increasingly narrow space that exists for culture and art in the Valley. I am convinced that art, because of its universal nature, can play a significant role in the resolution of the Kashmir situation. Unlike other contemporary artists, though, viewing pleasure is no motivator for me in the creation of art; rather, it is about sharing personally-felt experiences as a ‘refugee’. I returned 15 years later to my home, which was burnt down in 1994, so I felt like scribbling my memories and started documenting these familiar abandoned houses.Another series, Shrapnel, was a result of being caught up between security forces and stone-pelters way back in 2010 in downtown Srinagar.There are a lot of references of art reflecting the uncertain times. Visual artists have expressed their concerns, experiences, engagements with such situations — it may be war, epidemic, nature’s fury, conflict or any such issue.A number of Kashmiri artists, writers, theatre activists and musicians have expressed their concerns through their respective languages on the subject of exile and the Kashmir problem, in general, but somehow, not much discourse took place, nor any intent to solve the problem.I believe an artist can work as a catalyst between communities for building the nation. Art practices can archive the reality of time, change the mood, and drive the attention to build consciousness towards the right path. Films remain a powerful medium and much can be achieved if used sensibly, yet I feel Bollywood needs to have more films on such realities of time. Issues like Partition, migration, displacement need to be addressed in a way that these can lead to solutions, and not widen the divide. Garam Hawa and Tamas were powerful depictions, but never triggered much debate, I guess.I tried to go back to connect with the new generation of Kashmiris born post-1990s from both communities. They may not have known what the past was, but got engaged through various felt expressions. The works were displayed at Kochi Biennale’s Srinagar Biennale Pavilion.There were a few films centred around Kashmir like Roja, Mission Kashmir and Haider. I recently watched two films, Shikara and The Kashmir Files, both based on certain facts, though the treatment of language differs. The latter is more hard-hitting. Art, I hope, should continue to inspire and give perspective to the human condition in times of disaster.— The writer is an acclaimed artist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-art-can-lend-perspective-in-times-of-disaster-378988
20-03-2022||THE family tradition of joining the military ranks runs deep in the region||Generational connect with the Army||The Chahal family belongs to Mazari village near Banga in Nawanshahr, now SBS Nagar. Sudh Singh served as a cavalier in the army of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The fierce battle of Mudki was fought between the East India Company and a part of the Sikh Khalsa Army during the time of Rani Jindan, widow of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Both the armies suffered heavy casualties. The battle was in no way a win for either side. Treachery and inaction by Sikh Generals Lal Singh and Tej Singh saved the day for the British. Sudh Singh, along with the son of his brother Budh Singh, died fighting on December 18, 1845 in the battle.Sudh Singh’s son Uttam Singh was a toddler when his father passed away. Twenty years later, he joined Number 1 Troop of XIX Bengal Lancers (Fanes Horse). XIX Bengal Lancers was raised by Captain Walter Fane at Cawnpore (Kanpur) in 1860 for service in the Second Opium War in China in 1861. Sowar Uttam Singh took part in the battle of Ahmed Khel (Second Afghan War).Uttam Singh’s son Jiwa Singh served in 31 Duke of Connaught’s Own (DCO) Lancers, from where he retired in the rank of Naib Risaldar. In the September 1923 reorganisation, 31 DCO Lancers and 32 DCO Lancers were amalgamated to form 13 DCO Lancers.Jiwa Singh’s son Gursaran Singh, my father, got enrolled as a Sowar in his father’s regiment, 13 DCO Lancers, on December 27, 1932. He, as Dafadar and later as Naib Risaldar, was an instructor in the Driving and Maintenance Regiment, Armoured Corps Centre and School, Ahmednagar, for nine years. While in Ahmednagar, he got commissioned as Second Lieutenant in 13 DCO Lancers in January 1944.In September 1947, Maj Gursaran Singh changed his arm from Armoured Corps to Indian Electrical and Mechanical Engineers (IEME, later designated as EME). He served as Chief Electrical and Mechanical Engineer (CEME) in a number of formations.During the 1962 India-China war, an armoured regiment equipped with AMX tanks was tasked to airlift two troops (six tanks) to Ladakh. There was some problem in loading the tanks into the aircraft. Lt Col Gursaran Singh had served as CEME in Second Independent Armoured Brigade, then commanded by Brig Daulat Singh. In 1962, Lt Gen Daulat Singh was the Army Commander and was aware of the technical knowledge of Gursaran Singh, commanding the base workshop in Pathankot.He was flown overnight to Ambala Cantt and given the responsibility to load the AMX tanks, which he did, earning him the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM), a rare honour for a Colonel-ranked officer. My father was also Mentioned in Despatches during the 1965 Indo-Pak War. My grandmother was awarded a lifetime war jagir (pension) by the Punjab government.The eldest among three brothers, I, in 1962, got commissioned into Scinde Horse, the armoured regiment which played a memorable and decisive role in the 1965 and 1971 Indo-Pak wars. My brothers Tarlochan Singh got commissioned into EME in December 1962 and Harjit Singh Chahal into Scinde Horse in November 1971.My two elder sisters, too, got married to Army officers, and though our children have chosen different careers, the sense of pride and connect with the Army remains intact.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/generational-connect-with-the-army-378987
20-03-2022||AS we celebrate our 75th year of Independence||Need for national strategy||Similarly, the history of northern India will show you glimpses of Rajputana, the Sikh Empire, Dogra and Pahari kingdoms, the fall of the Mughals and the coming of the British. The North and the old region of Punjab have historically been a route for the armies crossing the Khyber Pass and Hindukush mountains during their invasions of India. It has also been the region from where defeated armies exited after their misplaced adventures. The objective of this article is not to give a history lesson, but a sober reminder that ours (like the history of mankind) is a history of war and the coming and going of empires, of being oppressed and subjugated and finding that occasional breath of freedom. Freedom which we have enjoyed for 75 years but which sits on a fragile peace — borne not out of the weakness of our enemies, but our strength built on the struggle of our forefathers. Peace maintained by the quiet men and women who stand fast on our long borders. Peace which will last only as long as our vigil and strength, which cannot just be measured by the size of a nation’s army. If that were the case, Babur would have never won at Panipat where he was outnumbered probably three to one. Nor for that matter could a tiny island nation called Great Britain have conquered most of the then known world.However, in the last two years, Covid and its attendant problems have kept the focus on internal affairs, and rightly so. The other major focus has been the spate of elections. The national and regional parties have been engaged in the pursuit of power. The focus of our main party seems to be on ‘conquering’ Bharat with a ruthless, well-oiled election machinery. Again, to an extent, this is right because elections must be fought and power obtained to exercise for the common good.However, somewhat lost in this maze is the required focus on relations with our neighbours and other important players in the international field. The world is in turmoil and a great churning is taking place. The epidemic forced all nations to first combat the disease and its immediate destructive economic impact. Having dealt with it, now they are dealing with the aftermath. Central banks are trying to rectify the impact of the massive Quantitative Easing (printing money, in laymen terms) and the resultant inflation. The modern global economy was a fragile beast even before the epidemic struck, governed by complex treaties, supply routes and trade pacts. The epidemic has put this entire fragile network to a major stress test. Most nations have become more closed and protective. They have also realised their dependence for critical supplies which they were denied during the epidemic. The rush for self-sustainability is on — this loosely translates as securing access to raw materials, trade routes and resources critical to the economy. Whether the war in Ukraine has been a direct result of this or part of a larger game, time will tell. But, what in all this apparent chaos are we doing to strengthen our vigil? The only apparent major initiative has been to bring back our students from Ukraine and that too was a belated response.Let us have a look at our neighbourhood and our policy towards it. The ideal way is to live in peace and evolve policies of trade and economy for mutual benefit. We have mostly smaller nations in our neighbourhood with the exception of China and Pakistan. Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Bhutan and Maldives are smaller, but we must treat them equally and not behave like a ‘Big Brother’ or a bully. Over the years, we have tended to treat them without the requisite amount of respect. In the case of Bangladesh, we behave as if we had bestowed freedom upon them and they thereby owe us eternal gratitude. We thought nothing of them till we realised that their economy was doing better than ours. Today, we have a more or less friendly government in Bangladesh, but we must nurture people-to-people ties and not depend on a single political figure or party.The story with Sri Lanka is the same and we even sent our armed forces there and, in the process, succeeded in alienating both the Sinhalese and the Tamils. Today, we have a strong Chinese presence in Sri Lanka, as also in Nepal and Myanmar. We thought that Nepal was a Hindu state and as such a part of our jagir. Today, there is much turmoil in Nepal but neither the left nor the right appear to be with us. In Myanmar, we keep on hedging our bets between the people and the army dictator. A traditional partner in trade with our North-East, today it is a sanctuary for insurgents. It is clear that we have not evolved a strategic long-term policy for our neighbourhood that would envision common and special features for each country. This strategy should have included measures for defence, trade, tourism, cultural exchange, etc; long-term policies can always be tweaked if contingencies demand. We are not part of any major defence arrangements. The question arises as to whether we are isolated in our own neighbourhood and even our one firm ally Bhutan seems to be slipping away under Chinese pressure. It is noteworthy that during the Chinese aggression in Ladakh, none of our neighbours spoke for us.Coming to Pakistan, it is clear that no government since 1947 has seriously tried to engage in an effort to bridge the chasm, though the Pakistan army and its Generals have made this well-nigh impossible,. Things have become even more complicated with the arrival of the Chinese on the scene.From Nehru’s ‘Hindi Chini Bhai Bhai’ to Vajpayee’s Lahore visit, to Modi’s unannounced visit to Pakistan, to Manmohan Singh’s initiative — all have been in vain. We have believed in photo-ops and not substantial engagement. We fought the Chinese in ’62 and thereafter they sliced off large tracts of land in Ladakh or the N-E with impunity, and we are told that these areas were already under Chinese occupation. If so, what have you done to take them back? Talks between Generals can only lead to a temporary ceasefire at best, not political solutions. Such affairs are the result of painstaking work by diplomats and talks between statesmen. Again, in the case of China, we have a one-sided economic relationship: minimum exports from our side, maximum imports from China. We have not paid the requisite attention to our economy and the battle still rages between the public and private sectors and now a third player, ‘crony capitalism’. And what did China do? I remember talking to a senior communist leader a long time ago about the chances of China going to war against the West or us. His answer was emphatic — not for three or four decades till they have an economy matching that of the US, and also the armed forces. He was spot-on. As a result of this long-term strategic policy, their economy and military might almost rivals that of the Americans.Over the last few years, we have tried to cosy up to the Americans to counter the Chinese in the Indian Ocean areas. We became a member of Quad, neither a military nor economic grouping. Again, the absence of any significant condemnation of the Chinese aggression in Ladakh is notable. In the meantime, China and Russia have sealed a historic alliance. Pakistan is already a very close partner with the Chinese — where does that leave us? To begin with, after Independence, our voice was heard in international forums, and we were among the founders of the Non-Aligned Movement and Panchsheel. With the passage of time, we lost our way. We were making our armed forces almost fully dependent on the Russians, and trying to cosy up to the Americans. We had a long-standing relationship with Iran but one call from the Americans, and the cheapest oil available to us and a port giving us access to Central Asia was gone. Did this serve our interests, was our strategic goal overlooked, did we even have one?Where do we stand with Ukraine? We neither support nor oppose either the West or Russia. The Russian bear-hug in the form of military equipment and the American embrace in military and economic terms both render us helpless. Why has our foreign policy made us blind, deaf and dumb? Why are we unable to stand up on our legs and defend and promote our legitimate interests? This is so because we are in the habit of standing between two stools. We have for long depended on aid for both our armed forces and the economy. We do not have an industrial base for our armed forces.Countries are run by men of vision who lay strong foundations for the build-up of infrastructure. It will take years and years to become self-sufficient and till then, we must have a strategy to sustain us and friends to help us — do we have either?— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/need-for-national-strategy-378986
