21-03-2022||---||A blueprint for cost-effective defence management||As a follow-up to the presentation of the annual Budget, the standing committees of Parliament are now tabling their reports before the two Houses, which is a precursor to detailed discussions piloted by the respective ministries. The Standing Committee on Defence has, accordingly, considered the Demands for Grants of the Ministry of Defence. The panel submitted its reports to Parliament on March 16, covering the entire gamut of the defence budget.While this is an annual exercise, with an indifferent track record of informed discussions, the reports tabled this year are of special significance due to a number of reasons. The security situation in the neighbourhood as well as globally remains unstable and volatile. In sync with the ground realities, the thrust is on indigenisation and corporatisation in defence production while also encouraging private players.While the reports are quite exhaustive in their content, a look at the major issues covered gives an adequate flavour of the concerns expressed and the recommendations made. Giving an overview of the budgetary grants, the committee observed that during the year 2021-22, the allocation made to the Ministry of Defence was Rs 3,68,418.13 as crore, as against the projections of Rs 3,47,088.29 crore, while the actual utilisation was only Rs 2,66,558.69 crore up to December 2021. Further, it expected the ministry to take appropriate measures to expend the unutilised funds in order to enhance the acquisition of the latest state-of-the-art weapon systems and other capital-intensive projects, including infrastructure, and ensure that no funds are surrendered at the end of the year.The committee has recommended that the ministry should seek additional grants at the supplementary grants/revised estimates (RE) stage if the schemes/projects get affected by the curtailment of funds at the budgetary estimates stage, as capital budget is utilised for developing capabilities which are most essential in the current security environment on our northern and western borders. The committee has rightly observed that the modernisation of the defence forces involves the acquisition of new weapon platforms, technologies and systems to upgrade and augment defence capabilities and is a continuous process, based on the threat perception, operational necessities and technological changes, to keep the armed forces in a state of readiness to meet the entire spectrum of security challenges.In its previous reports, the committee had recommended making the capital budget ‘non-lapsable’ and ‘roll-on’ in nature. On being apprised that a draft Cabinet note for non-lapsable defence modernisation fund was under consideration, the committee urged the ministry that approval may be accorded expeditiously so as to fructify its creation at the earliest.Taking note of the fact that capital procurement of defence equipment is undertaken from various domestic and foreign vendors, the committee emphasised that with the increasing focus on self-reliance and promotion of indigenous industries, the import of defence equipment should decrease. Ways and means should be devised so that the newly created defence public sector units (replacing the earlier Ordnance Factory Board), DRDO and private industries worked in tandem to not only produce import substitute products but also expand their export potential so that the country becomes a net exporter of defence equipment.The committee observed that there was relatively lesser spending for the modernisation activities of the Army. Taking into account the reason given as indigenisation thrust, the committee reiterated that while modern weapon systems manufactured by Indian companies should be procured, decisions should be based on the current threat perception and any compromises were not desirable.While examining the demand in respect of the Air Force for 2022-23, the committee has mentioned that due to the two-front threat perception, an enhancement of air power was of paramount importance. The procurements of the Air Force being largely capital-intensive, the committee recommended additional allocation under the capital head at RE or supplementary grants stage. The firepower of the Air Force is proportionate to the fighter squadrons in its orbat (order of battle). However, the fighter squadron strength cannot be counted merely on the number of aircraft but also their weapon-carrying ability, lethality and range to fly and strike. Therefore, no compromises in terms of firepower and technology should be made while inducting fighter jets into the Air Force.The Indian Ocean Region (IOR) throws up multiple security challenges as nearly 1,70,000 ships transit through various choke points and almost 13,000 ships are in the IOR at any given point of time. The committee was of the considered view that continued endeavour for modernisation is the quintessence of modern warfare and newer technologies have to replace existing conventional war-fighting capabilities. Therefore, capital funding has to be adequate for ensuring that the Navy embarks on an unhindered modernisation drive.The panel also observed that the revenue budget is used for operations, training, maintenance, repairs and day-to-day functioning of the Navy and any inadequacies on this account may lead to accidents and casualties.The committee noted that the Department of Military Affairs has been entrusted with the onerous responsibility of spearheading reforms within the military establishment towards enhancing synergy and jointness among the services and ensuring optimum utilisation of resources. In this context, a renewed impetus has been provided to the establishment of integrated theatre/joint commands to complete the process in a time-bound manner. The gaps and interstices in the creation of integrated joint commands need to be resolved expeditiously so that the services adopted a concerted approach in the event of any threat perception/war and resources and infrastructure were synergised.The Standing Committee on Defence has entered into a fairly exhaustive exercise which needs to inform the subsequent debates in Parliament. But, more importantly, it should serve as a guide for the Ministry of Defence and the Department of Military Affairs in the execution of policy and expenditure of funds allowed to be appropriated for this by the Parliament. The committee has the advantage of considering a subject in detail in a non-partisan manner and being able to discuss issues with senior representatives of the armed forces and the ministry.The US Congress has committees that have acquired a great degree of expertise in areas of defence, foreign policy etc. and serve as valuable aids in the execution of policy. The reports of the Standing Committee on Defence can serve a similar purpose in the defence management of the country.Mid-course corrections at the RE stage are of vital importance to prevent any slippages in the capacity-building of the forces. It is imperative that these reports remain a reference benchmark during the entire financial year and are not filed away for posterity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-blueprint-for-cost-effective-defence-management-379261
21-03-2022||---||Time for India, China to mend their ties||After remaining in deep freeze for nearly two years, India-China relations are showing signs of a long-awaited thaw. The military standoff at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, following the clash at the Galwan Valley in June 2020, may become a thing of the past. And 2022 could open the doors for a significant rapprochement between the two Asian giants. It may take time for the return of status-quo ante, but the general trajectory of developments promises a cessation of hostility.China's foreign minister Wang Yi is reported to visit India this month. His counterpart S Jaishankar will then pay a reciprocal visit to Beijing. Undoubtedly, the main purpose of this resumption of ministerial visits is to prepare the ground for Narendra Modi to travel to China for the BRICS summit scheduled later this year. A BRICS summit without the participation of the Indian PM would be a non-event. And it is unthinkable for Modi to visit China and have a face-to-face meeting with President Xi Jinping without a considerable easing of bilateral tensions along the LAC.What has led to this apparent readiness on the part of both sides to mend the disturbed ties? First, the growing realisation in Beijing as well as in New Delhi that mutual muscle-flexing was becoming unsustainable. Surprisingly, it is the Chinese side that gave vent to this view when its foreign minister said on March 7: “We need to help each other accomplish goals instead of draining each other’s energies.” The ‘drain’ on each other’s energies was apparent after both sides deployed nearly 50,000 troops and moved heavy weaponry on either side of the LAC. Complete disengagement and de-escalation has proved to be elusive even after 15 rounds of talks at the Corps Commander level. In the absence of a political resolution, a continued standoff of this kind has an escalatory military logic of its own, whose unintended consequences could complicate the matters for both sides.Second, both China and India appear to have concluded that their bilateral relations cannot be reduced to, or held hostage by, a single LAC episode. As two major nations in the world, they must not lose sight of the big picture, which offers opportunities to engage in mutually beneficial ways over a wide spectrum of issues — economic cooperation; trade and investment; climate action; new energy and digital technologies; regional peace, stability and connectivity; socio-cultural exchanges; and shaping a new and better world order in the age of multilateralism.Whereas the perspectives and interests of the two countries diverge in some matters, they also converge in many others. The fruits of this convergence cannot be reaped and divergence of interests cannot be effectively managed without political dialogue at the highest level, which, sadly, has been halted by the LAC fracas. In the last two years, there has been no direct contact between Modi and Xi, who had previously met 18 times and had held two informal summits. This stalemate had also become unsustainable.A third factor urging the restart of India-China cooperation is the rapidly changing regional and global situation. Both have a stake in peace, stability, inclusive politics and national reconstruction in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan after the final pullout of the US troops. Both want the region to be free of terrorism, religious extremism and forces of separatism.These objectives cannot be achieved without dialogue among regional players, including Pakistan, over which China has considerable influence.Russia’s war in Ukraine has also created a situation requiring India and China to coordinate their perspectives and actions since both have friendly relations with Moscow. India’s independent foreign policy and exercise of its ‘strategic autonomy’, as seen in its refusal to be wooed by the US administration to take an anti-Russia stand, have certainly not gone unnoticed by China. Beijing has always argued that “some forces have tried to create division between the two Asian countries.”Therefore, India and China have an opportunity and a responsibility to take a common initiative to end the war in Ukraine. If that happens, Asia, for the first time, will have played a peace-promoting role in Europe.China is also signalling in other ways it recognises India’s importance in shaping the new world order. This is evident from Wang Yi’s recent refreshingly friendly pronouncements. “China and India should become partners and friends,” he said, adding that “we should not be a threat to each other, but an opportunity for each other’s development. China and India are two ancient civilisations, two emerging economies, and neighbours that cannot be moved. When we build mutual trust, even the Himalayas cannot stop us from friendly exchanges.”One of the major ice-breaking initiatives China has proposed in 2022 is the convening of an ‘India-China Civilisation Dialogue’ to be held in both countries. This is significant. In May 2019, Xi had hosted a Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilisations in Beijing, which this writer attended. Though India did not officially participate in it, ostensibly because of the Lok Sabha elections then, Xi paid glowing tributes to India’s contribution to the richness of Asian civilisations by mentioning the Rigveda, Ganga and Indus rivers, and the priceless gift of Buddhism. The Great Buddha had said: “The best dispute resolution is one in which there are no losers and both sides are winners.” Isn’t it high time for both India and China to heed these wise words?The border dispute between our two countries, of which the LAC standoff has been an avoidable outcome, can be resolved only through mutual compromise. This requires each side to walk half the distance to meet the other in the spirit of mutual respect, mutual sensitivity, mutual interests and mutual reconciliation. Rather than imitate the selfish and violent ways of the West, India and China should rediscover and practise the wisdom of their own 5,000-year-old civilisational heritage. A failure to do so would surely result in more Galwan Valley-like conflicts, and worse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-for-india-china-to-mend-their-ties-379259
21-03-2022||---||Dissecting Ukraine imbroglio||A successful war is invariably a popular one. The paradox is, to be a success, the war has to be popular, but not necessarily vice versa. This is where American policymakers, especially in the state department, and a big chunk of political elite, find themselves carousing in some fantasyland pinning hopes on a colour revolution in Russia due to the leadership’s decision to go to war in Ukraine. It must have come as a surprise and huge disappointment to them that according to even independent (rather, unfriendly) polls conducted in Poland, President Vladimir Putin’s rating has only soared to over 70 per cent during these past three weeks.The unusual form of Russian action is because of its focus on restoring security of Donbass region and its boundaries. For Putin himself, it is nonetheless a double challenge, as the statesman in him is defending Russia’s national security from the predatory mindset of the US and NATO while the politician in him is not only sensing and responding to the expectations of the people regarding the war but getting them to adjust to a painful (but historic) economic transition in the country due to its decoupling from the western economies. That involves switching attention from one planet to another on a sustainable 24X7 basis.These nuances also explain the anatomy of Russia’s war in Ukraine — its ponderous progress, interspersed with lulls like a slowcoach of a provincial passenger train from time immemorial. In reality, though, in about half the time that the Pentagon took to seize control of Iraq during the 2003 invasion (with all the advantages that it was fighting an emaciated enemy degraded through a decade), Russia’s special operation appears to have more or less achieved its core military objective, which is to secure the Donbass region that has a big Russian population with extensive family kinships within Russia — an emotive issue, no doubt, given the genocide that followed the CIA-backed coup in Ukraine in 2014.New kids on the block wouldn’t know that unspeakable atrocities were perpetrated by extreme nationalist and fascist groups against the Russian population through the past 8-year period. Over 14,000 civilians were killed, albeit in the American eyes, that didn’t qualify as “war crimes” because those fascist, neo-Nazi groups were largely mentored by them. Most of the 3.6 million people living in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions who survived the genocide speak Russian and one-fifth of them are Russian citizens. Arguably, the security of Donbass region and the restoration of its original administrative boundaries (as of 2014 before Ukrainian forces attacked pro-Russian separatists) is a salience of the Russian operation. That explains why the operation took an unusual form with the Russian forces avoiding fighting as far as possible and instead surrounding the Ukrainian forces and encouraging them to surrender. An estimated 60,000 Ukrainian troops are under siege and the effort is to make them surrender rather than take the easy route to vanquish them.This has been the pattern of the Russian operation elsewhere too, which confused most Western analysts who expected sound and fury like General MacArthur’s in Japan — amphibious landings, frontal assaults on towns and cities and outright occupation. If we look at the map from northern Belarus border, clockwise, major cities — Chernihiv, Sumy and Kharkiv — have been surrounded. While Russian columns from Chernihiv and Sumy advanced toward the outskirts of Kyiv, those from east of Kharkiv moved south to link up with the forces in Luhansk and are currently engaged in taking control of the strategic Izium-Severodonetsk axis, which would establish Russian control of entire eastern region and virtually secure the Donbass region — that is, except for Mariupol port city on the Sea of Azov (which was originally part of Donetsk).Mariupol will give the two independent Donbass republics a major port head that would provide them access to the world market, which is hugely significant for future development of that entire resource-rich region, straddling Ukraine’s rust belt. Mariupol is not only a centre for grain trade, metallurgy and heavy engineering but also higher education and business. Sensing Mariupol’s centrality to Russian strategy, the neo-Nazi Azov Brigade has been deployed to the port city. That explains the residual resistance.The other focal point of the Russian operation currently is Kyiv, which is now surrounded on the west, north and east. On the face of it, Russian forces are not planning to launch a frontal assault on the capital city but that option remains. Again, Odessa, jewel in the crown of Black Sea and the legacy of Catherine the Great to Mother Russia, could be in Russian sights.Clearly, the operation is limited to the eastern side of Dnieper river. The tactic is to target convoys of western arms with missile strikes. Lviv in western Ukraine witnessed an attack on Friday. Two days earlier, a large base 20 km from the Polish border and a major depot for weapons and training ground for mercenaries were also targeted. But the operations are not targeting Ukrainian cities and Moscow has no intentions of occupying the country, but is concentrating on limited surgical strikes to incapacitate Ukrainian military infrastructure.Moscow seeks a peace agreement. But the catch is, the incumbent leadership of Volodymyr Zelenskyy is highly unstable and the ex-comedian himself is manipulated by folks in Washington who are wedded to the notion that the longer the conflict lasts, the more Russia ‘bleeds’. The global information field, which is traditionally dominated by American and British media — and the Anglo-Saxon countries in general — is creating self-serving narratives. Even in America, only Fox News presents some alternative point of view. To borrow from the Prussian General and strategist Clausewitz, the Ukraine war is veritably ‘a continuation of policy with other means’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/dissecting-ukraine-imbroglio-379257
