23-03-2022||---||Make military training compulsory for youth||The war in Europe has shown us some graphic images of footballers, boxers and beauty queens donning the military gear. It is not merely romanticising and mythologising the concept of war between nations. These are clear markers to drive home some lessons for students of military history. If there is one thing that the Ukraine-Russia war should teach our policymakers, it is the incomparable value of the ‘citizen soldier’.Nations have traditionally adopted different approaches to conscription, mainly dictated by their geostrategic compulsions and historical lineage. Pure democracies have tended to opt for purely voluntary military service, which definitely has its advantages of a more committed military cadre. But when one looks at the larger context, there appear definite pros to considering a compulsory tenure for the young people in our country.While it was heartening to read reports of a politician and his volunteering daughter in Ukraine, traditionally our politicians and bureaucrats have fought shy of giving their offspring military exposure.There are differing formats in military conscription that one sees. We have the Singapore/Turkey model, wherein young boys are made to do two years of military service after school, with some kind of refresher every year. Then you have the Israel model where both boys and girls are exposed to compulsory military service. India has had the National Cadet Corps (NCC) in place for eons now and that has had a positive contribution to the psyche of the overall national discipline in our citizenry. But then, the NCC is not compulsory, especially in private schools, though the existing format does give a limited avenue for youngsters to pursue a military career later in life.While what one sees in Ukraine could be attributed to Zelenskyy’s leadership style to an extent, there appear to be clear advantages in having a cadre of national reservists to augment a standing military, come war.But then, again, this depends on the mental and nationalistic make-up of citizens and we may not measure up very high on that scale, though the contributions of the average citizen during war have been commendable, no doubt. Some nations, such as the US, during the Vietnam war, or even in times of peace, have had a system where the military service offers certain perquisites, such as higher education or even citizenship for immigrants.We, in our country, have toyed with short service commissioning, and making permanency an incentive, of late. But this by itself may not suffice to make up the required numbers to constitute a viable auxiliary force. There is no gainsaying that it is a two-way street here and the boy or girl benefits substantially from such an exposure, more so with compatible government incentives and policies.One issue with the military service at the post-high-school stage has been the handicap the children willingly imbibe when compared to those who are excused the stint for any consideration. Countries like Turkey even have a payment option to escape the tenure, but that’s an individual country’s choice and may not sit well in most nations.The fact remains that the advantages of a compulsory military service far outweigh the disadvantages and India ought to legislate the provision in our constitutional fabric. The duration of training or refreshers is another matter to be considered, as some flying related vocations would need to call for an extended duration under training. But there are ways around any impediment, if at all, and studying the experiences of other progressive nations would, no doubt, help in refining the optimal scheme for our country.From one’s experience, one has seen a considerable boost in discipline in youngsters who undergo military service. While the sense of civic responsibilities and adherence to law is a gainer, one even sees an added respect for the uniform amongst those who wear it and the citizenry that benefits from this measure. One even sees young people opting to get married with their uniform on, which, to my mind, is a highly desirable thing.Once the powers that be are convinced about the overwhelming plus points in compulsory military service, any number of incentivised government policies could be put in place to promote the scheme — from monetary to promotional aspects.Some naysayers may argue that with a huge population base that we have, a voluntary military stands us in good stead. But while that may be true to an extent, we need to consider the bigger aim of inculcating the national spirit and a citizen-specific esprit de corps. After the horrors of the two World Wars and the advent of nuclear weapons, it was believed that all-out wars had become passé.But Ukraine has shown otherwise. While the sub-continental situation has some cause for cheer in terms of not over-reacting in unplanned hair-trigger situations (such as the recent BrahMos episode), it is not without reason that developed modern nations spend wisely on their defence capabilities. What better example than the quantum jump in the defence expenditure by the Germans, post the war situation in Europe.Likewise, our planners need to heed to the age-old clarion calls for a substantive defence outlay in our national budget and compulsory military training ought to be a mandatory proviso for a resurgent India. Along with international military exercises and peace-keeping missions, India’s aspirations to shine as a viable Indo-Pacific entity would only be realised with a viable military capability in place. And the advent of Quad is another important development for us to girdle our loins in keeping with our international footprint.Having not opted for this route hitherto, policy changes by the government would necessarily be buttressed by a strong information campaign and national debates to make compulsory military training for tomorrow’s generation a viable proposition. #indian army #indian defence #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis #zelenskyy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/make-military-training-compulsory-for-youth-379861
23-03-2022||---||Healthcare in Punjab faces fresh challenges||Historically, Punjab has contributed significantly to the growth of the country. It has given several soldiers, sportspersons and intellectuals who brought laurels to the country. Following Independence, Punjab was at the centre of the Green Revolution and became the food bowl of the country. Over the years, Punjab has been going through various difficulties — terrorism in the 1980s, lack of growth subsequently, increasing unemployment and substance abuse. The neighbour across the border has been creating problems and of course narco terrorism seems to be a continuous threat.The present political change raises the huge hope of bringing an end to these problems and providing better education, healthcare and employment security to the public.‘Health is wealth’ is a popular saying. Scientifically, a healthy body has a healthy mind. Optimum and affordable healthcare to each individual should be the prime responsibility of the state government. In Punjab, efforts to improve healthcare delivery have been going on for some years, but there has been a lack of hard decisions because of political compulsions to achieve these objectives.An honest analysis of the state of our public healthcare system should begin by asking ourselves why the PHCs/CHCs/district hospitals (DHs) and state medical colleges don’t have the confidence of the public. The reasons are not far to seek and include: a) lack of adequate staff and manpower; (b) lack of infrastructure facilities, including routine, high-end investigation facilities, essential drugs and consumables; (c) lack of, of course, desired work and service culture.Thus, the main focus should be to address these issues and ensure effective manpower management and monitoring of performance. Medical colleges also need special attention as these colleges establish and guide the standard of care in the state. There should be networking of PHCs/CHCs/DHs/medical colleges for referral facility as a routine norm.At present, in the state, the private sector is playing a major role in healthcare in Punjab, whether it be primary, secondary or tertiary care. Even under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, operational for over two years, nearly 68% of the money spent has gone to private sector hospitals. During the Covid-19 crisis, private hospitals played an important role. While these hospitals must continue to perform, we must ensure that the public healthcare system is also improved, so that good quality healthcare is available to all sections of society and to prevent out-of-pocket expenditure on healthcare. The government should also support charitable organisations which provide good and affordable healthcare services.Of course, there is need to regulate private entities to ensure evidence-based care and prevent any exploitation. Checks and balances must be built in to ensure that clinical care, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures are carried out as per the evidence-based guidelines. The government should consider to adopt The Clinical Establishments Bill after due discussions with the private sector, of course, to avoid an inspector raj approach.It is important to remember that the role of the government in the field of public healthcare is not limited to the healthcare infrastructure alone, but requires a coordinated and multi-pronged strategy covering other sectors as well. For instance, the social determinants of health like living conditions, safe drinking water, unadulterated food, clean and unpolluted air, sanitation, sports facilities and social security increasingly contribute to the occurrence or prevention of diseases. Adopting a multi-sectoral approach is, therefore, also the need of the hour.We must also recognise some positive steps taken in the state in the past which has and will further help to strengthen our healthcare facilities. The WHO appreciated the novel initiative by the Punjab Chief Minister Free Hepatitis Programme started in December 2016 and then adopted by the Centre in 2019 as a national programme. The performance of the state during the Covid-19 pandemic has been praised at the national level. Punjab is the first state in the country to initiate vaccine for preventing cervical cancer. New facilities which were conceived by the state leadership, raise hope of better healthcare and research in the state and also for the adjoining states. These include the Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre at Mohali, built with support of the Government of India on the pattern of Tata Cancer Centre, Mumbai, and the recently approved Regional Institute of Virology to be built on the lines of the National Institute of Virology, Pune, by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The AIIMS in Bathinda and the PGI satellite centres in Sangrur and Ferozepur will add significantly to our healthcare infrastructure.Thus, the health system in Punjab has its strengths and weaknesses. Importantly, it faces fresh challenges which also create new opportunities for growth and betterment. Some measures of reform are quite essential if we are to satisfy the healthcare needs of our growing population and meet the basic objectives of being able to provide an affordable primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare facilities to all sections of society. Of course, it is important to initiate steps to attract bright professionals to public sector facilities by offering attractive, deserving remuneration and other facilities. You need good doctors to take care of the health needs of society. Society can ill-afford to put their health needs in the hands of low and mediocre professionals.Let me conclude on an optimistic note since I believe that we have good reason to be hopeful for our future. I am confident that the new leadership is committed to making every effort to fulfil the healthcare needs of our great state in the years to come. Let us, therefore, resolve to adopt all necessary measures so that our healthcare system becomes a model for the other states in the country to emulate. Though the state needs to allocate more resources to achieve this, but in doing so, it must ensure to maximise the impact of the funds that are spent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/healthcare-in-punjab-faces-fresh-challenges-379860
23-03-2022||---||India losing naval edge||The importance of a strong Navy for India has been acknowledged since Independence but this has not been translated into practice. India is a peninsula jutting out into the Indian Ocean and has a coastline of 7,000 km. It lies astride the main sea lines of communication, westwards towards the Arabian Sea and eastwards towards the Bay of Bengal and South China Sea. It lies at the centre of the new strategic ocean space of the Indo-Pacific, dominating the maritime routes which connect the Indian Ocean with the Pacific Ocean. But this locational advantage can only be sustained and expanded upon through the maintenance of a strong Navy relative to the naval forces deployed in the Indian Ocean by other major powers.India should leverage its close ties with Japan and South Korea to establish a modern shipbuilding industry. Currently, there is renewed focus on India’s land frontiers due to the heightened military threat from China. However, in terms of overall strategy, India needs to hold the line at its contested land borders, while it expands its presence in the maritime domain, where it has the locational advantage which it lacks on its land borders. China is attempting to tie us down on land so that it can prevent, or at least slow down India’s expansion in a domain that favours the latter. Our response should be to double down on expanding our Navy because we enjoy an edge over China but this is a diminishing asset.A few years back, the Indian Navy planned a fleet of 200 ships by 2027, which would include three aircraft carriers. Its current strength is 137 vessels, with only one aircraft carrier in service. This figure has been revised downwards to 170 by that date. China has a 355-vessel fleet. In the last decade, its navy has added as many vessels as India’s total naval strength. It is already larger than the US navy. While the Chinese navy’s focus is on the western Pacific Ocean, its objective is to deploy a navy which will have a dominating presence globally. Maintaining a strong naval presence in the Indian Ocean is an integral component of this global strategy. Towards that end, China has also established naval port facilities at a number of Indian Ocean locations. These include Gwadar in Pakistan, Hambantota and Colombo in Sri Lanka. It is developing the deep-water port at Kyaukphyu on Myanmar’s Bay of Bengal coast. While these are billed as commercial facilities, they can easily be put to military uses. It has established a military base, including naval facilities, at Djibouti in Africa.In 2015, I came across an interesting 16-character mission statement for the Chinese navy: ‘Select locations meticulously, make deployments discreetly, give priority to cooperative activities and penetrate gradually.’If we observe the Chinese naval developments over the past few years, one can see how seriously and methodically this overall directive is being implemented.The resources allocated to the Indian Navy have been increasing over the past several years but have never been anywhere near the allocations to the Army and the Air Force. The maximum percentage of the annual defence budgets allocated to the Navy has ranged between 14% and 17%. The National Security Advisory Board, which I had the privilege of chairing between 2013-15, had recommended that this percentage should rise to at least 30% by 2030. This now seems unlikely. There is a view that without a major shift in our national security strategy, our Navy is likely to lose even its current, but slender edge, in a decade. We will end up constrained by China, both on land and at sea.While India may still possess a significant naval capability, its overall maritime capability is abysmal. There has been a complete neglect of shipbuilding. The few existing shipyards cater almost entirely to the Navy. China has the world’s largest shipbuilding industry, constituting 40% of the world total. The output of Indian shipyards in global terms is a miniscule 0.045%. Only 10% of Indian-flagged ships have been built in Indian shipyards. Some of the world’s largest ports are located in China. The port of Shanghai is the largest in the world and handles 514 million tonnes of general cargo and 43.3 million units of container traffic yearly. India’s largest port — Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust at Nhava Sheva — handles only 68.5 million tonnes of general cargo and 5.5 million units of container traffic annually. The contrast is glaring. It should also be noted that despite years of effort, 25% of India’s containerised ocean-going cargo must be trans-shipped through international ports of Colombo (48%), Singapore (22%) and Port of Klang in Malaysia (10%). India may be a naval power; it certainly does not qualify as a maritime power.India must be a credible power, both vis-à-vis its adversaries and its friends and partners. It should synergise its maritime development plans with its naval expansion plans. For example, it should build its shipbuilding industry to cater to both civilian and military requirements. It should leverage its close and friendly relations with Japan and South Korea, each commands 25% of the global shipbuilding and possesses cutting-edge technologies, to establish a modern shipbuilding industry in India. This should be a priority in the Prime Minister’s atmanirbharta mission and should be supported with the kind of incentives included in the PLI scheme.It ought to be announced that by 2030, 30% of defence allocations will go to the Navy and the target of a 200-ship fleet will be achieved by that date, if not by 2027. Among the armed forces, the Navy is unique in having a well-respected Design Bureau. This should be given a bigger role in fleet planning and technology development. The US had offered to collaborate with India in the design and construction of its planned aircraft carrier. This offer should be taken up in earnest as a contribution to capacity building.India must not lose its edge in the Indian Ocean. Its value as a Quad partner would also be enhanced by its ability to maintain this edge. #China #indian defence #indian navy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-losing-naval-edge-379859
23-03-2022||---||2022 Assembly polls sound death knell for BSP||The decimation of the Mayawati-led BSP in Uttar Pradesh could signify the end of the subaltern stream of Dalit Bahujan politics. For all the criticism of recent actions (or inaction) of the BSP chief and four-time Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister, there is a tragic element to the disempowerment of a political force that had raised Dalit consciousness and played a transformative role in the social justice politics of the Mandal era. In the 2022 Assembly elections, the BSP won just one seat in the UP House of 403, its vote share crashed to 12.9 per cent and 290 party candidates lost their deposits, which happens when they fail to get one-sixth of the votes.There are other contours to the result. Mayawati’s principal deputy is a Brahmin, Satish Chandra Mishra, and the sole candidate who won on a BSP ticket, Uma Shankar Singh, is a Thakur, who was elected on his own local standing. The party founded by the late Kanshi Ram must now live with the ignominy of failing to get even a single Dalit elected in Uttar Pradesh. It is left with a small rump of Dalit votes, and CSDS data shows that no other social group has chosen BSP, even as 21 per cent of the party’s core Jatav voters migrated to the BJP in this election. Dalits constitute 21 per cent of the state’s population, of whom 54 per cent belong to the Jatav sub-caste of Mayawati. CSDS data shows that among non-Jatav Dalits, 41 per cent chose BJP, 23 per cent SP and 27 per cent BSP.It seems that the elephant (the BSP symbol) is no longer in the room. Simultaneously, the other young force, touted as representing young Dalit aspiration, has crashed and burned in the 2022 elections. Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan, chief of the Bhim Army, tested himself in what he must have hoped would be a high-profile campaign against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in Gorakhpur Urban and came fourth, losing his deposit and getting only 7,640 votes. So, as the nascent Dalit force has not taken off even as the traditional power house collapsed, we have to conclude that subaltern parties that describe themselves as Ambedkarites have failed spectacularly in Uttar Pradesh.Zoom out of Uttar Pradesh and the BSP’s decline has actually been happening across states where the party had built small incremental vote-shares since its foundation in 1984. In Delhi, for instance, the BSP would get over 10 per cent of votes till AAP arrived and in the 2015 election claimed the entire Bahujan section of society; the BSP’s vote dropped to just over 1 per cent from which it has never recovered. In Punjab, where BSP’s founder Kanshi Ram was born and where SCs make up 32 per cent of the population, the BSP was the junior partner in an alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) that performed very poorly. If we go by the Delhi experience, the emphatic arrival of AAP in Punjab could suggest the BSP henceforth sinking deeper in the mire. The more striking feature of the Punjab result is that the Congress choice of a Dalit CM for the first time in the state’s history failed and the victor AAP, according to CSDS data, got greater support from SCs. This reveals that other factors besides caste identification often determine voter choices.This certainly happened in Uttar Pradesh as Dalits in large numbers abandoned Mayawati. The question now is whether increased Dalit support for the BJP is due to Hindutva consciousness or welfare consciousness, as they were beneficiaries of several welfare schemes that involved direct cash transfers, ration and in some instances, free housing. The ‘welfare consciousness’ seems to be decisive and it would be a mistake to see Dalits, except for the tiny Valmiki sub-caste, as foot soldiers of Hindutva due to their voting in larger numbers for the BJP. The transfer of Dalit votes to the BJP in pockets where the dominant peasant communities were Yadavs and Jats also bears this out. The SP-led front’s performance fell below expectations in these areas, which suggests a counter-polarisation among Dalits against aggressive agrarian communities. The shift of Dalit votes to the BJP can therefore be due to a very practical assessment of gain and loss such as avoiding potential future disempowerment.Because the SP got a very healthy vote share of 32.6 per cent and with allies, the front touched over 36 per cent, one cannot write off Mandal era politics per se, but note its limitations when the BJP is building a rainbow. But all movement to the SP-led front took place among the middle castes and Muslims, while those at the top or bottom of the caste ladder remained with the BJP that recorded a vote-share of 41.3 per cent. The BJP’s social base now extends like a bridge, top to bottom, from an overwhelming allegiance of the upper castes, to divided loyalties among OBCs and now, increased acceptance among Dalits. From the Bahujan or Ambedkarite perspective, this also places Dalits in a hegemonic and hierarchical structure and that is problematic. More so, as shrinking of reservation through the privatisation of PSUs, not filling quotas and transferring government jobs to private contractors, was widely discussed among educated Dalits.The responsibility for her decline must lie with Mayawati. She had created a template of a transferable vote bank but barely campaigned in this poll. No groundwork, no mobilisation through rallies, just some tweeting followed by ticket distribution. Even her signalling indicated greater comfort with the BJP than with an expanding SP. There is speculation about whether she did so deliberately or she’s just a leader who is losing her touch and along with it, her voting bloc. She understands transactional politics, right from ticket distribution to government formation. Currently, many of her voters are simply striking a better bargain with the BJP.As Mayawati is a metaphor for Dalit resurgence and power, there is a great tragedy in her dissolution. There is wild speculation about her being considered by the BJP as a candidate for the President’s post, but it’s hard to see the party trusting her. If that happens, it would actually be a ceremonial end. #BSP #Mayawati||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/2022-assembly-polls-sound-death-knell-for-bsp-379541
23-03-2022||---||Missing political education||Are we destined to equate democracy solely with the ritualisation of periodic elections? Or, for that matter, is it that we are never tired of congratulating ourselves by saying that as voters, we apply our free will, exercise our voting rights intelligently and responsibly, and choose our representatives? And especially after the recent elections in five states, this narrative of ‘popular mandate’ or ‘people’s power’ has acquired added significance.As the market colonises every sphere of life, politics too is sold through all sorts of advertisements and imageries. However, we should acquire the courage to ask some uncomfortable questions. For instance, if as voters, we are truly alert and endowed with the power of free will, why is it that we continue to reproduce a decadent political culture? Smell this decadence as you see the cult of narcissism in the personality-centric politics. It seems to be everywhere. Can you imagine the BJP without the cult of Modi? Is there anybody in the Trinamool Congress who does not begin his day by praising Mamata Banerjee for everything? Arvind Kejriwal is on every billboard that reminds you of the achievement of the Delhi government. And who can dare to imagine the BSP without the whims and desires of Mayawati? This personality cult, or the culture of narcissism is inherently against the spirit of democracy. Are we then destined to move from one mode of narcissism to another?Smell this decadence in the normalisation of opportunism and instrumental reasoning in politics. Are we getting used to the phenomenon called defection — the way IPL cricketers are auctioned, and change their sides? Yesterday’s Congress MLA becomes today’s Modi bhakt; or, yesterday’s BJP leader becomes today’s Mamata worshipper! As MLAs or MPs are bought and sold, and every political party encourages this trade with intense enthusiasm, we see the massive devaluation of political principles. Is it, therefore, surprising that nearly 50 per cent of MPs in the Lok Sabha have criminal records? What else can you expect from them except ethical dumbness and intellectual impoverishment? As voters, are we then giving our consent to this decadence?Yes, we must ask ourselves: Do we really think creatively and critically while we exercise our voting rights? We should not forget that in the age of media simulations and huge propaganda machinery, it is not always easy to distinguish the real from the hyper-real, or the ground reality from the inflated claims of achievement by a party or a government. As the market colonises every sphere of life, politics too is sold, the way consumable products are sold through all sorts of advertisements and imageries. Yes, Modi is a ‘brand’; and this ‘brand’ has to be sold by an industry that would make us believe that he is almost like an avatar with magical qualities. The ‘nationalist’ Modi, the ‘streetfighter’ Mamata, the aam aadmi Kejriwal, or the ‘subaltern’ Mayawati — these brands are in constant circulation with their own mythologies. In the age of ‘brand consciousness’, is it really possible to choose freely and independently? As voters, are we really sovereign subjects, or mere consumers silenced by the mythology of the ‘brand’? Otherwise, how does one explain the ‘Modi magic’ in Uttar Pradesh, despite the barbarism associated with Unnao, Hathras and Lakhimpur Kheri?It is impossible to deny the fact that our visions often get blurred because of our obsessive preoccupation with caste and religion, or ‘Mandal’ and ‘Mandir’. Well, this time the UP election results might give the impression that the totalitarian discourse of hyper-nationalism in the BJP-RSS-centric Hindutva has undermined the fragmentation of the Akhilesh Yadav or Mayawati-centric caste politics. The problem with this sort of political behaviour is that we often lose our critical faculty. We fail to ask a question like this: Is the ‘Hindu messiah’ I am voting for working for me, or serving the interests of the Adani-Ambani empire? Or, for that matter, is there any guarantee that the bahujan leader I am voting for is not corrupt and morally bankrupt? Are we then taken for granted by these politicians who stimulate our caste or religious identities for their own greed?It is also important to enquire whether we no longer expect the politics of radical social transformation, and are lured by diverse packages of instant gratification — say, the act of distributing smartphones and bicycles to schoolchildren, depositing a token amount in the bank accounts of widows and farmers, or initiating a free pilgrimage scheme for senior citizens. Be it Mamata’s ‘Lakshmi Bhandar Scheme’ for providing financial assistance to poor women, or Yogi Adityanath’s ‘free ration scheme’ for the poor — this sort of ‘welfarism’, despite its immediate appeal, remains altogether indifferent to the structural questions relating to social hierarchy and uneven distribution of resources. Even the ‘alternative’ Aam Aadmi Party is not free from this sort of piecemeal social engineering. While it has worked on school education and mohalla clinics, one really doesn’t know the party’s ideological position relating to, say, the discourse of militant nationalism. Instead, as its Delhi mode of governance indicates, it is over-enthusiastic about diverse packages of deshbhakti. Despite its appeal to the sanitised urban middle class, it ought to realise that a truly transformative politics needs to have a long-term vision relating to economy, social and cultural formation, development and environment.Is it then the trap of the prevalent form of electoral politics — the ultimate tragedy of ‘representative democracy’, or the rationale of choosing the ‘lesser evil’? Is it possible for critical pedagogues and organic intellectuals to rediscover the likes of Gandhi and Marx, spread the liberating power of a new practice of political education, and inspire people to resist the prevalent decadence? #arvind kejriwal #democracy #hathras #lakhimpur kheri #mamata banerjee #Mayawati #narendra modi #unnao||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/missing-political-education-379534
