24-03-2022||---||Turning the spotlight on unemployment crisis||The foremost goals of the government’s economic policy have been to maintain fiscal balance, thereby keeping a tight rein on inflation, and investment in infrastructure. The logic is that if the economy is held on to a steady course, future robust growth will be assured by the wherewithal and momentum created by a growing infrastructure.No one expects FDI to be a large-scale creator of jobs but it helps build hard currency reserves, giving decision-makers freedom to access what is considered useful across the world. The contending view lays foremost store by protecting here and now the income of those at the bottom of the pyramid, rendered jobless by the Covid-induced economic slowdown, so that widespread destitution is kept at bay. The way to ensure this is through direct benefit transfer plus assistance to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) so that they can keep their doors open and their workers continue to earn a living. The resources for this can be accessed, if need be, by printing money. The process will be non-inflationary as the resources passed onto businesses will keep them running and thus prevent supply chain disruption. The benefits transferred will take up a part of the substantial food stocks with the government (already paid for) and create demand, particularly in the countryside, for FMCG (fast-moving consumer goods) companies.The opposition viewpoint has just been endorsed by none other than the ideological mentor of the government, the RSS. According to a spokesman, the burden of the discussion that led to a resolution being passed by the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha, the highest decision-making body of the RSS, was that “the young generation is suffering from unemployment and the pandemic has made things even grim... We cannot turn a blind eye to unemployment. It is a crisis and it needs to be addressed.”The RSS is clear that the country cannot wait for foreign direct investment to come in and create jobs. ‘Make in India’ is a good idea of the Modi government “but it needs to be sharpened even more and get more investment.” The resolution is titled, ‘The need to promote work opportunities to make Bharat self-reliant’. The resolution outlines a key solution — take agro-based local initiatives to promote rural areas and create jobs, according to Ram Madhav, a member of the RSS executive committee.He adds that RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch has been doing this for a long time and we need more enterprising individuals. Now, the manch is one of the lesser affiliates of the RSS andits total focus on things national sets it apart from government think tanks like Niti Aayog and the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, which do not want the country to shut itself up from everything foreign but pick up ideas and agendas on merit. The manch has been at the periphery of the BJP’s public policy thought process and in fact ignored up to a point, treated as a minor voice harping on its own on the sidelines.As far as foreign direct investment is concerned, no one expects it to be a large-scale creator of jobs. It is a source of funds and sometimes technology which comes with it. It helps build the country’s hard currency reserves which give the decision-makers freedom to access what is considered useful across the world.While there will be few takers for the manch’s one-point domestic agenda, the issue of jobs is another matter. Here, we come back to the basic difference between the ruling and contending viewpoints. The government does not put the loss of jobs and resultant deprivation right at the top of its concerns. There are schemes for direct benefit transfer to the poor and loans for smaller businesses but not at the cost of taking a calculated risk with fiscal stability and prices.If economics and economic policy ultimately boil down to a matter of choice, then the alternative choices have to be framed clearly and precisely. Noted economist Lionel Robbins, almost a century ago, compressed the core concern of economics to a single assertion —“the science which studies human behaviour as a relationship between ends and scarce means which have alternative uses.”If the Government of India had only one rupee to spend, where would that go today? To fund a power plant or a railway line on the one hand or to a small business which can thereby operate and be a source of life-saving livelihood to its handful of employees? The government, currently concerned about losing its control on prices, would spend the rupee on the railway line or the power plant as that would create a tangible asset which would in turn create a stream of income over decades or more. On the other hand, the small business could go bankrupt and close down, thus failing to play its role in the supply chain and failing to be a source of livelihood to its handful of employees.The contending viewpoint would hold that fighting destitution by ensuring that jobs do not disappear must be the primary concern. Particularly so because funding benefits and supporting small businesses would stimulate economic activity and in the ultimate analysis be non-inflationary.In this debate, the RSS comes out on the side of the impoverished worker and considers ensuring employment for such people the foremost concern of the government. Ram Madhav has said, “We need to focus on MSMEs. This (RSS) resolution is not about government policies, but about cumulative efforts of all Indians to sail through the unemployment challenge fuelled by the Covid pandemic.”It is significant that the views of the RSS have emerged from pre-election ground-level surveys in Uttar Pradesh which revealed annual migration from rural to semi-urban areas in search of jobs. Hence, the categorical assertion by the RSS functionary that unemployment is a crisis and it needs to be addressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/turning-the-spotlight-on-unemployment-crisis-380149
24-03-2022||---||Delink the Rajya Sabha seat from privilege||The Aam Aadmi Party has nominated five candidates for the Rajya Sabha elections to be held on March 31 — Delhi AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, IIT associate professor Sandeep Pathak, former cricketer Harbhajan Singh, educationist Ashok Mittal and industrialist Sanjeev Arora. These nominations from Punjab have been received with a barrage of criticism. The nominees are said to have been rewarded by the party for their contribution, whatever it might be. This is precisely the problem that plagues Rajya Sabha nominations from across the country.The Upper House of the Indian Parliament has become a parking lot for discredited politicians, millionaires who have funded ‘this’ or ‘that’ party, sportspersons and filmstars who hardly attend sessions, let alone make earth-shattering speeches to better the fortunes of their own industry, random academics faithful to the ruling party and all kinds of ambition-driven men and women who yearn to be a part of the ‘New Lutyens’ Delhi Gang’.They have reason to do so. The rewards extended to a Rajya Sabha member are scandalously disproportionate to the contribution he or she makes to the deliberative domain.Some members are, of course, excellent parliamentarians, even if they never win an election in their life. That is not the issue; the Upper House of Parliament is not expected to be a representative body. Its functions in a parliamentary democracy are different. On June 30, 1949, Shibban Lal Saxena pointed out in the Constituent Assembly that the only proper function of the second chamber is to revise what the Lower Chamber has done, and to give the latter expert advice on problems and powers. The Upper Chamber, he continued, “must be composed of the intelligentsia… professions containing learned men who can think how a particular measure will affect the interests of the state.”The first function of an Upper House, it is generally agreed by experts, is to bring calm reflection, reasoned debate and moderation to bear upon core issues that trouble the body politic. If this means a delay in the passing of a Bill, so be it. Any legislation that affects the lives of millions of citizens, often adversely, must be thought through. Members of the Upper House should carve out a slice of time between the passage of a Bill and its transformation into law in order to permit second thoughts.The other function of the Rajya Sabha is to represent the interests of the states of the Union, and to bring to fore the needs and interests of the state and its unique problems.Both these functions of the Rajya Sabha have been compromised whenever a dominant party rules India. Sociologist Rajni Kothari had spoken of the one-party dominant system to describe the monopoly of the Congress. Today, the same terminology can be used for the monopoly of the BJP over the Lok Sabha, and increasingly, over the Rajya Sabha.In recent years, we have seen Bills rushed through both Houses with unseemly haste, we have listened to, with some despair, uncivil speeches that are unworthy of politicians who hold public office, we have seen cynical bargains struck between political parties and between political parties and aspirants to a Rajya Sabha seat, and we are deafened by ‘the politics of din’.In November 2021, at a meeting with Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, floor leaders of various parties in the Upper House expressed concern about the comments made on the Parliament by Chief Justice NV Ramana. The CJI had described the lack of debate in the two Houses as a ‘sorry state of affairs’. The comment is bang on. There have been some notable speeches delivered in the House of Elders, but to largely empty benches. Our ‘learned’ parliamentarians not only do not know, they do not even care to know.George Bernard Shaw had once remarked that “he knows nothing; and he thinks he knows everything. That points clearly to a political career.” This damning comment sums up the state of affairs in Parliament. The House has been further rendered irrelevant by the ruling party, intent on furthering its debatable agenda of ‘One India’. This has marginalised the specificity of problems, issues and identities faced by the states.It is in this context that the criticism of the Rajya Sabha nominations by the AAP in Punjab makes sense. Raghav Chadha is one of the few politicians that the Delhi-wallahs are fond of: hardworking, modest, charming. Let him represent Delhi in the Rajya Sabha, as can Pathak. Why must people from a city be foisted on to a state that is primarily agrarian?And that brings us to the main point. Punjab — and the point can hardly be understated — is in serious trouble: a cash-strapped economy, government debt, unemployment, environmental degradation, use of harmful substances and wholesale migration out of the country. Above all, it is wracked by an agrarian crisis.Punjab should be nominating knowledgeable candidates who can fight out these issues in the Rajya Sabha and instruct ministers from the Central Government. Punjab’s universities and research centres have a number of distinguished economists; let them go and speak forcefully in the Rajya Sabha on the problems of the state, on the need to generate employment, on environmental issues, on climate change and on MSP. Let them represent Punjab.It is time that a Rajya Sabha seat is delinked from privilege and linked to political commitment, hard work and moderation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/delink-the-rajya-sabha-seat-from-privilege-380144
24-03-2022||---||Global treaty on pandemic||The Covid-19 pandemic is on the decline in India, with the number of cases falling in all regions. Globally, a consistent decrease in cases was reported in January, but there has been a slight increase in the numbers this month. The number of deaths, however, has continued a decreasing trend all over. According to the WHO, over 468 million confirmed cases and over 6 million deaths have been reported globally as of March 20, 2022. Vaccination has shown a consistent rise in many countries, but the coverage remains low in some of the poorer countries in Africa and other regions. Given that the pandemic has disrupted the world in unprecedented ways and crippled livelihoods and the economies in the past two years, international bodies have been talking about ways to deal with future pandemics. Among the steps proposed is a new global treaty under the aegis of the WHO. The process to frame such a treaty has been kicked off. Like any other treaty, the success of this exercise, which is supposed to be completed in two years, would depend on several factors.Without equity as a core principle of health, the treaty could meet the same fate as climate change.From the very beginning of the pandemic, it became clear that cooperation among countries is necessary to address it. The WHO, being a technical and scientific agency, provided the guidance on various public health and biomedical measures needed to address the challenge. The agency is also a clearing house of global pandemic data. National governments had to take a call on various measures, such as masking, lockdowns and travel restrictions, based on technical advice and local situation. The WHO was accused of being lax when it came to investigations about the origin of the virus in China. Some administrations criticised the agency for being soft on China. The overall role of the international body in handling the crisis also came under the scanner, with calls for widespread reforms. On the other hand, as an organ of the UN, the WHO felt handicapped concerning its powers to independently investigate outbreaks in countries. The biggest hurdle is WHO’s dependence on member countries on disease-related information and data.The present system of dealing with health emergencies of international nature is focused on a set of legally-binding rules, International Health Regulations (IHR), adopted in 2005 after the experience of SARS outbreaks in 2002-2003. China suppressed information about SARS outbreaks for months, leading to its spread to other countries. IHR rules set out obligations and responsibilities of countries in the event of ‘public health events’ of cross-border nature. They also empower the WHO to initiate health emergency measures, including travel restriction advisories. It was the IHR Emergency Committee that recommended that Covid-19 be declared a ‘public health emergency of international concern’ in its meeting on January 30, 2020. Since then, it has been meeting regularly and making recommendations about new ‘variants of concern’ and other developments. However, the experience so far shows that the IHR is a weak framework and its implementation has been lax in areas such as capacity building, monitoring, surveillance etc. In May 2020, the World Health Assembly asked the WHO to review the functioning of the IHR system and its implementation, in the wake of the pandemic. In December 2021, the health assembly approved the work on a new global treaty for pandemic preparedness.The negotiations on the proposed treaty have just been initiated. The first question is the form it should take – a convention, legally binding instrument or something else. The WHO constitution empowers the health assembly to adopt conventions on health issues. The only available example is that of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control which came into force in 2005. Under the convention, the Protocol to Eliminate Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products was adopted. Some countries are suggesting a similar approach for the pandemic treaty – an umbrella framework convention on health emergencies and specific protocols under it. For instance, the EU is talking about a protocol to ban trade in wild animals to prevent the spread of zoonotic diseases. There are demands for mandatory sharing of genome sequencing data on new and emerging viruses and access to diagnostics and vaccines. It is also unclear if the new instrument or treaty will replace the IHR or play a complementary role. The negotiating committee will have to grapple with all these contentious issues.Even as the process to develop a new rule book for global health has begun, let’s not ignore the biggest lessons so far. The pandemic has only exacerbated existing inequities in health. Despite vaccines having been developed in record time, the vaccination coverage has remained low in many poor countries. People in rich countries have got booster doses and have stockpiles of vaccines. On the other hand, the vaccine pool facilitated by the WHO has failed in ensuring vaccines for the poor. Equity, affordability and access to diagnostics, vaccines and treatment remain a challenge. The pandemic has not made countries to budge from their hard positions in geopolitics as well as trade negotiations. All intellectual property barriers have remained intact. At the same time, there are attempts to undermine the WHO role and promote certain private initiatives like the Global Health Security Agenda, promoted by the US to address health emergencies. The very idea of multilateralism is under attack.Under these circumstances, it is not prudent to pin hopes of a new health treaty capable of delivering. For decades, the world has been negotiating a climate change treaty and all that it could deliver was failed mechanisms like Kyoto Protocol and carbon credits while emissions continue to grow. The rich have consistently rejected the principle of historical emissions and ‘common but differentiated responsibility’. The promises of transfer of technology and finance for the poor countries have remained on paper. Without acknowledging access and equity as core principles of health, the pandemic treaty could also meet the same fate as climate change.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/global-treaty-on-pandemic-380139
