25-03-2022||---||Changing dynamics of Sri Lanka’s fiscal woes||The Covid-19 shock faced by Sri Lanka, a country spoilt by living beyond its means under the Rajapaksas, forced it to sound the IMF bugle last week amidst unprecedented hardships faced by the common Lankan. Equally unprecedented were protests calling for President Gotabaya Rajapaksa to resign: ‘Go Gota go’. This was the second shock for the Rajapaksa clan which has ruled Sri Lanka for the last four decades with one spell of a disastrous National Unity Government (NUG). Two brothers as President and Prime Minister is a rarity, but the elder Mahinda as President and Gotabaya as Defence Secretary won the 30-year-long war in 2009, defeating Prabhakaran’s legendary LTTE. From then on, the Rajapaksas could do no wrong till Mahinda from his four Ds replaced ‘Democracy’ with ‘Development’ in the North. But the focus of development was in his home constituency in the South where in the words of Foreign Minister S Jaishankar, ports were built where no ships berthed and an international airport where no aircraft landed, driving the country into China’s debt trap — debt into equity.The West-India-plotted experiment of an NUG ensured the Rajapaksas were dethroned but only just. The mishandling of the Easter Sunday terrorist attack in April 2019, which resulted in the death of 270 people, paved the way for the return of the Rajapaksas with a two-thirds majority. With the country facing its worst economic meltdown in history, India-China see-saw diplomacy has turned to India’s advantage. Sri Lanka is also facing its worst humanitarian crisis and last August declared an emergency in face of an acute foreign exchange crunch which led to food and fuel price rise as well as crippling power cuts. Last week, protesters jammed the iconic Galle Road, demanding Gotabaya’s resignation. Gotabaya was once a national hero as the chief architect of the war victory. India’s erratic behaviour during the war deprived it of the credit it deserved in shaping the Rajapaksa victory. Instead, China and Pakistan stole the limelight.Last week, Gotabaya dispatched another brother, Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa on his third visit in 12 months to India to salvage the domestic crisis. India agreed to provide another line of credit worth $1 billion. This year, India has extended loans worth $1.4 billion of which $400 million is currency swap; $400 million deferral line of credit and another$500 million as credit for fuel imports. Sri Lanka’s devalued currency is worth SL Rs 265 to a USD. New Delhi hailed its Neighbourhood First policy and pledged to stand with Colombo. Strategic Indian projects on hold by Sri Lanka were revived — the solar power plant in Sampur, south of Trincomalee harbour, refurbishing Trincomalee Oil Tank Farm and upgrade of Palaly airport and Kankesanthurai (KKS) harbour in Jaffna. The Sri Lankan opposition is accusing the Adani group of ‘back-door entry’ into energy sector as pampering ‘PM Modi’s notorious friends’.The question on everyone’s lips was will Colombo seek IMF help or not. The inveterate Governor of Sri Lanka’s Central Bank, Ajith Nivard Cabraal was in a public tussle with Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa, arguing that better times were around the corner. But credit rating agencies and financial pundits had declared Sri Lanka bankrupt as it owed more foreign exchange than it had. Finally, Gotabaya succumbed to public pressure and announced that negotiations with the IMF would start in April.The financial balance sheet is distressing. Colombo’s debt is amounting to $22 billion whereas projected earnings from exports are $12 billion. Its earnings are $3 billion from tourism, $2 billion from remittances and another $2.5 billion from grants and assistance. The government has to pay $7 billion for loans and repayment of sovereign bonds. The treasury’s net deficit is $9.4 billion in foreign exchange, money it just does not have. Gotabaya is a soldier with little knowhow of economics. Retired military Generals and equivalent in other services are commanders of several task forces and two are defence and foreign secretaries. Two Generals are accused of war crimes and have notices issued against them. Still, Gotabaya stands tall among his military constituency. He has appointed a National Economic Council and an Advisory Committee to tide over the national crisis. But the country’s fate is being regulated by external factors, including the war in Ukraine. Tourists from Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Poland constituted 30 per cent of inflow and Russia was one of the biggest buyers of Sri Lankan tea. These would all be affected by sanctions.China, Sri Lanka’s other brother (India is a blood relative), has been mealy-mouthed in extending help. Foreign Minister Wang Yi was in Colombo earlier this year to mark the 65th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries. Sri Lanka requested China to restructure debt repayment and a concessionary credit facility for imports. But Beijing, fearing it might set a precedent for other debt-distressed countries, has not acted. But it is considering an LOC of $2.4 billion, its Colombo embassy announced on Monday.Colombo is scheduled to host the BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) on March 30 which both Jaishankar, an old Sri Lanka hand, and Prime Minister Modi are likely to attend or address. Colombo will be keen to show its business as usual despite its financial woes. New Delhi has recovered much ground in the island-nation that it had conceded to Beijing. The power game is unending.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/changing-dynamics-of-sri-lankas-fiscal-woes-380441
25-03-2022||---||Military platforms that keep the war going||Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has entered the second month; the military campaign has reached a stalemate. Many observers had expected it to last about a fortnight. Evidently, the biggest impediment for Putin and his top commanders has been the determined defence put up by the Ukrainians led by President Zelenskyy. This has certainly gladdened the hearts of his backers in America and western Europe, who have offered — apart from platitudes — varying levels of financial and military support, but no boots on the ground.And just as well. Contrary to the stated wisdom, the deployment of NATO forces wasn’t required because NATO (without the US) is relatively toothless and by stepping in, it would only enlarge the conflict into a war across Europe. Moreover, the Ukrainians were provided massive arms supplies by NATO countries that allowed them to muster up a strong national resistance to back their regular forces —initially of 1,10,000 soldiers — with a well-armed territorial army of paramilitary soldiers. This swelled their number to over thrice their size and double of what Russia has reportedly deployed — with over 1,50,000 soldiers.But Russia has the kind of military platforms that only America could counter. However, Russia’s weakness was that many of its army’s frontline units — unlike India’s — have several conscripted soldiers, who were happy to throw in the towel at the first chance they got. It’s clear that they did not believe in the ambitions of Putin and his hangers-on. Only Russia’s specialised units are made up of volunteers who would fight to the finish.On the other hand, the defence of Ukraine by its determined citizens has perplexed Moscow, who had assumed that their old Slav ties would give their soldiers a cakewalk, as they had in the Donbass region. But the people of western Ukraine, in particular, saw a better future in the EU and have shown that they are willing to die for their freedom.This is precisely the sentiment that the US and many of its allies were hoping to exploit. Not only would Moscow find it hard to defeat a people who are willing to die, but also those who are armed to their teeth to resist Russia’s immense firepower. Over the past year, the US had pumped in military equipment worth at least $1 billion before the Russian invasion and after the invasion, the US announced an arms package worth $350 million, and more recently, Biden has pledged $800 million of security assistance for Ukraine. Additionally, the EU is financing the delivery of weapons to Kiev worth $520 million and Canada a financial grant of $394 million.But it’s the list of top-of-the-line military platforms — stinger and javelin missiles, anti-tank weapons, mortars, hand-held weapons like rifles and machine guns with millions of bullets — that’ll be the envy of any guerrilla force anywhere. If the cost of all these is added up, it would run into billions of dollars. All this is clearly what the merchants of war — the arms’ manufacturers — want from America, that is and has remained essentially a ‘military industrial complex’, as their post-war President Dwight D Eisenhower had once stated.Thus, as long as the battles in Ukraine drag on, Russia’s frustrations will grow and America’s arms industry will prosper! Furthermore, the US has now unveiled a $13.6-billion emergency aid package for Ukraine, and by some accounts, nearly $13 billion will go into America’s arms industry to keep its factories running.But what’s happening in Ukraine isn’t a new phenomenon. Americans have always made a profit out of wars. For the second Gulf War (2003-2010) in Iraq, the George Bush Jr government had first put the cost at $80 billion along with $20 billion for the two years being shared by Baghdad. Then, the US Department of Defence first projected the cost at $757 billion and, eventually, a Brown University study put it at $1.1 trillion! And then a Congressional Budget Office of 2007 had put the cost of the Iraq and Afghanistan interventions at $2.4 trillion. Add a lot more to this estimate in 2021, when the US withdrew from Afghanistan.Joseph Stiglist, former chief economist at the World Bank and Nobel Prize winner, along with Linda Blimes of Harvard University, says the cost of America’s intervention in Iraq to remove Saddam Hussein was a ‘Three Trillion Dollar War’. Apparently, this was a conservative estimate, and it did not reflect the costs to Iraq and the world. In the first Gulf War (1990-91), the Bush administration had initially expected the cost to be remarkably low, both in dollars and American lives — $77 billion was the administration’s initial estimates of the cost of the war.Pledges of financial support from America’s coalition allies were expected to cover most of the costs. America made Saudi Arabia pay up to $60 billion and Kuwait $32 billion for that war. As we have seen in Ukraine, the US is very good at getting its allies to pick up the tab. Though, to be fair to the US, it had paid the lion’s share of the cost of the Korean War and World Wars I and II. Americans are, thus, unable to see why the world still criticises Washington’s role, even though they destroy and rebuild countries.But in Ukraine, eminent US political scientists such as John Mearsheimer say: “The West, and especially America, is principally responsible for the crisis which began in February 2014.” He further adds: “The trouble over Ukraine actually started at NATO’s Bucharest summit in April 2008, when George W Bush’s administration pushed the alliance to announce that Ukraine and Georgia ‘will become members’. Russian leaders responded immediately with outrage, characterising this decision as an existential threat to Russia and vowing to thwart it.”Now, Zelenskyy says that he (Ukraine) has cooled down, regarding NATO. Had he said that a month ago, there would, perhaps, have been no Russian invasion. But his statement on ABC News recently has been overshadowed by talk about Putin’s madness and the efficacy of America’s missiles. It’s clear that America wants the war to continue!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/military-platforms-that-keep-the-war-going-380436
25-03-2022||When I opined in an earlier article that the hijab has no Koranic sanction and that a ban on wearing it to college is something that the girls who wear it should not defy||Don’t manipulate change||The covering of head for Muslim girls should be allowed, like turbans for Sikhs or the habit for nuns. Going beyond school and college to the world of legislators, the BJP MP from Bhopal wears a ‘yogini’s’ saffron robes to Parliament and Yogi Adityanath, the CM of UP, wears saffron robes that mark him out as a Hindu monk. Asaduddin Owaisi of the AIMM wears his trademark sherwani and sports a trimmed beard that distinguishes him as a devout Muslim.It is almost impossible to discriminate between India’s multitude of religions, castes and communities on how they should dress without singling themselves as belonging to a certain religious denomination. The hijab, for instance, has ceased to be a symbol of modesty or religiosity. It has metamorphosed into a political statement. In my state of Goa, we had never seen a Muslim woman enveloped from head to toe in a burqa. It is only very recently that local women have started donning that garb!As I had said in my previous article, the hijab sends a message of subjugation of women. The garb worn by Christian clergy and religious sisters do not arouse thoughts of domination. So also with the Sikh turban and beard. But, unfortunately, the hijab gives the non-Muslim the uncomfortable feeling that the wearer is the ‘property’ of a man, to be admired only by the lord and master.I agree that the hijab cannot be ousted from usage by law or by school or college decrees. It will need internal reforms within Islam. Compulsory conversion to Catholicism of a spouse in an interfaith marriage was an old requirement that was done away with by the church decades ago. Islam has not yet got round to burying that rule when nikahs are performed. In a multi-religious society like ours, inter-faith marriages are bound to pop up once in a while. The wise would wish to leave the lovers alone to sort out the religion angle.After much introspection, I have come round to agreeing with my daughters that I had been hasty in voicing my hostility to the hijab. Give it time to resolve itself. As the community advances economically and socially, attitudes and rules will change and the girls will be content to cover their hair with a veil like orthodox women in many religious denominations, including the Hindus.The Karnataka imbroglio was started with the intention of needling the minority community. The best counter to this mischief is to not get needled! The issue is now before the Supreme Court. The court will approach the matter with the judges donning their thinking caps.My view is that covering of the entire face should not be permitted. It should be banned not only in centres of learning, but also in public places on security concerns. But covering of hair on the head should be allowed, like turbans for Sikhs or the habit for nuns. Orthodox Rajput ladies cover their heads with the sari in public. So, if Muslim girls wish to make a statement and the alternative is giving up on education altogether, the choice is to plump for education.Any community that keeps its women uneducated is bound to remain backward. The BJP gloated over its anti-triple talaq law! It even claimed that Muslim women voted for the party in the recent UP elections. It should now support the girls who want to pursue their education in college. If permission to cover their hair is the price to pay for that primary benefit, so be it. These young educated women may bless the party by voting for its candidates.Modi today rides like a Colossus on the national stage. The BJP’s 80:20 strategy of splitting the population on communal lines has worked. It won four of the five elections it fought this year. Even though people have seen through the promises and statements of politicians, they have been mesmerised by Modi. He has the glibbest tongue I have come across in the political arena. People hang on to every word that he utters.And now he has Yogi to drive the double-engine. Yogi, too, has a large and committed following. He can stake his claim to the PM’s gaddi if and when Modi retires at 75. The difference between them is subtle. Modi is an astute politician who talks of ‘sabka vikas’, even if he does not expect Hindus and Muslims to be treated equally. Yogi makes no bones of his visceral dislike of the other. He proclaims it loudly, especially during electioneering.Such dislikes are contagious. The South, which was comparatively free of communal bias, has been bitten by the bug! Karnataka, where Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan once ruled, has shown the way. It was a BJP MLA who started the dispute in the girls’ college in Koppa tehsil of Chikmagalur district. He was the chairman of the governing council of the college!The controversy has spread to other regions of Karnataka, and has the potential of crossing state borders. When an election comes up, it is likely to be resurrected to split votes on the 80:20 formula that succeeded so well in UP and possibly in Uttarakhand. The hijab is just one more red flag that has been raised after the lynchings, ‘love jihad’ and the CAA/NRC, where the BJP met unexpected resistance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/dont-manipulate-change-380431
