26-03-2022||---||Indian diplomacy not overcome by Ukraine crisis||The Ides of March have brought a vigorous period for Indian diplomacy. Despite the Ukraine crisis in Europe, and efforts to show it as a global crisis, Indian diplomacy is holding steady. The inopportune timing and impact of the crisis could detract from several of India’s core interests.In order to put the focus clearly on India’s interests, several diplomatic efforts outside the direct Ukraine-Russia crisis occurred. The annual India-Japan summit was restored with PM Kishida visiting Delhi on March 19-20. Immediately thereafter was a virtual bilateral India-Australia summit, the second within a year. So far, India has annual bilateral summits with Russia and Japan. Now another with Australia has been introduced. The Israeli Prime Minister will visit India in early April.Interaction with the visiting foreign ministers of Greece and Austria, who despite the Ukraine crisis, found the time to make their maiden visits to India, took place between March 19 and 23. The Oman FM was here as well, which is important for our Indo-Pacific policy.The leaders of Japan and Australia appreciated the increasing strategic convergence with India as fellow democracies with shared values and interests, including a free, open, inclusive and prosperous Indo-Pacific.They are seriously concerned with the conflict and humanitarian crisis in Ukraine. They sought an immediate cessation of hostilities, emphasising that the contemporary global order is constructed on the UN Charter, international law and respect for sovereignty and the territorial integrity of states. They agreed to remain engaged on the broader implications for the Indo-Pacific.Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and US Under-Secretary of State for Political Affairs Victoria Nuland co-chaired India-US Foreign Office Consultations (FOC) on March 21. The FOC discussed contemporary regional issues pertaining to South Asia, the Indo-Pacific, West Asia and Ukraine, among others. The US would like India to be vocal against Russia but India keeps its counsel.This completed the Quad engagement bilaterally in March and prepared for the next Quad summit soon.There are four important outcomes of these diplomatic efforts. The first is that India along with its Quad partners is keen not to lose focus on the Indo-Pacific. The joint statements with Japan and Australia have robust sections dealing with the Indo-Pacific and the Quad decisions taken to deal with the situation.India’s clear focus is on China. For that reason, the Indo-Pacific is important. India made it amply clear to Japan and Australia at the summit level and to the US at the FOC, that China was the primary problem and we should not lose sight of it. There is some doubt that the US is pushing Japan and Australia to be loud on Russia and is taking its eyes off China. India is wary of a growing Russia-China axis which the US pressure may solidify, to India’s detriment.Secondly, there is speculation that India is under pressure to alter its position on the Ukraine crisis. However, there were no apparent difficulties in negotiating the paragraphs on Ukraine with either Japan or Australia, both of whom understood the Indian position and engagement with Russia. In the US establishment, there is a dichotomy and some speak loudly about India’s position while others show an understanding.From the Japanese and Australian sides, both have made outspoken remarks criticising Russia for its action in Ukraine in their summits with India. The Indian response was mainly in the joint statements or in responses to media questions. Essentially, what India says is the same as what Japan and Australia say except that our manner of saying it is different.In the past, Japan has been anxious not to criticise China too much because of its own interests there. The previous Australian government, which could return to power in Canberra, was ambivalent about China. India has clarity about its relationship with Russia. It is not happy with the way Russia has dealt with Ukraine, but is not going to be loudly critical. Indian pronouncements show adequate appreciation of the common values which bind India, the Quad and the EU. The repeated votes in the UN do stretch Indian efforts but they are managed well.A third outcome is that dealing with post-Covid phenomena is not to be lost sight of. India, Japan and Australia agreed to continue to implement the decisions taken at the last Quad summit, which will be reviewed when the summit meets again soon.The fourth important outcome is the tremendous outreach by Japan and Australia for strategic economic cooperation with India. Japan’s high ODA (Official Development Assistance) of almost $3 billion and investments projected at $42 billion over the next five years, manifest steady and incremental economic engagement with India.Similarly, Australia which finds it difficult to conclude an FTA (Free Trade Agreement) with India due to lack of appropriate complementarities, is nevertheless increasing its economic interest, investment and market access for India. These all point in the right direction. Sooner rather than later, the India-Australia FTA will come about and India and Japan are committed to review the CEPA as well. Japan and Australia believe that India should join the RCEP (Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership) but this is not going to happen in a hurry. Therefore, their commitment to supply chain development and resilience effectively means that China +1 policies are emanating in the economic arena.In a period of intense diplomatic activity, where Europe tried to snatch the baton of attention from the Indo-Pacific, India’s steady course is now bearing fruit. Japan looked to India to talk to Russia about Ukraine. All those who were loud in their criticism of Russia are not often in a position to do so.It is notable that NATO members like Germany, Turkey and France are in touch with Russia and Ukraine. Therefore, the balanced approach to diplomacy is now better recognised, at least in national capitals. Indian diplomacy is showing an able dexterity in a situation where it could be impacted adversely. Having successfully conducted Operation Ganga and extricated over 20,000 Indians from Ukraine, India is now looking at diplomatic reassertion to ensure that its view of the regional and international order is not overwhelmed by the Ukraine crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/indian-diplomacy-not-overcome-by-ukraine-crisis-380756
26-03-2022||---||The problem of building trust with China||No single barometer exists to judge Indian feelings towards China, but negative views of the northern neighbour have visibly increased sharply since 2019, although not so much against the Chinese people as directed against the CCP-run government and its policies. Its leadership cannot be trusted and, as such, it is harder in every way.The negative perception of China among Indians has largely developed due to some historical reasons in the 20th century, partly also an outcome of the West-driven narrative. India and China are not ancient enemies. The two shared a common spiritual destiny and trust was inbuilt.In contrast, westerners coming from an individualistic ‘low-context culture’ amplified their need for going through the quanxi (personalised relationship) process — vital for negotiating trust with the Chinese. It is the complex art of managing cultural contradictions that can override even legally binding contracts.The westerners find the Chinese indirect, subtle and implicit in their views and Chinese envoys are often viewed as wily. The Chinese find their western counterparts as aggressive and impersonal. Those who have learned to navigate the differences do a thriving business in China. For example, despite the recent rhetorical and tense ties, no major uptick is seen in US companies shifting their supply chains out of China.In comparison, the Indian and Chinese attitudes towards each other differed markedly. They were culture-driven rather than transaction-or diplomatic-driven ties. Both valued the means more than seeking the end; finding the way, not the truth, was important to them. The Chinese still follow the non-legalistic means and notably use the phrase “mutual understanding and mutual respect.”“Saving face” is important to both the Indians and Chinese; maybe more to the latter, as they seek informal openings to manage differences and avoid direct conflict. In the Indian context, protecting status becomes critical. For example, India’s grandiose reception to a visiting dignitary is not as much about whether it can push through a deal but to convey the message of the return that the prospective investor can get in ‘soft power’ terms — an alibi not just in terms of investment, but also to fulfilling India’s demand for joint production.The westerners resort to applying assertion in the backdrop of their diplomacy against the Chinese statecraft that revolves around three cardinal principles: seek a hierarchical relationship as defined by the Confucian ethical codes, look for a middle ground based on the Taoist notion, and build a harmonious relationship based on the Buddhist equanimity concept.Foreigners not fully aware of the Indian thinking can also get flustered. For instance, when affronted by the US on the Indian human right issues or over India’s recent decision to buy discounted crude oil from Russia, the blunt Indian responses — “we don’t seek an approval from self-appointed custodians of the world” and “don't politicise India’s legitimate energy transaction especially by those themselves importing from Russia” — were sufficient for flattening out the western morality.The grandeur of India’s “independent foreign policy” is on full display. The world is still aghast at how India employs its most powerful unallied wisdom of striving for mutuality and realises goal interdependence on the spectre of the unfolding global geopolitics. In fact, we are currently witnessing probably something spectacular in Indian diplomacy that has emerged in the wake of the Ukraine crisis and Quad, and even being praised by our adversaries Pakistan and China.In fact, despite all the hype created over India aligning with the high-pitched US ideological agenda of Quad, India seems brilliantly succeeding in preventing it from taking a militaristic shape so as not to repeat the Cold War spectre. When China and Russia are challenging the already fractured world order of the West, India’s approach to setting unity with all things is bound to surprise China, Russia and the rest of the world.It isn’t that India and China share no congruencies, but they prefer not to build concurrences. The key issue is about the perception gap. If the Indians find the Chinese to be ‘unreliable’ and ‘deceitful’, the Chinese perceive the Indians as ‘inflexible’. For instance, during the 13th round of the India-China military talks, Chinese interlocutors termed India’s “constructive suggestions” as “unreasonable and unrealistic” that led to a stalemate in the Ladakh standoff.China then opts for the haggling approach — a quid pro quo settlement for both sides holding equally valid positions (mutual gains), which it describes as a ‘win-win’ outcome. But the Indian experience is that signing a pact holds no sanctity to China unless the trust is built — often on its term.Interestingly, China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi, in his farewell meeting with Indian envoy Vikram Misri, had raised both the perception and trust factors, as he also put forward the “three dos and three don’ts” for China-India relations: need to understand and not misjudge each other; need to take a long-term view and not be disturbed by one moment; build each other up and don’t wear each other out. He said, “With mutual trust, even the Himalayas cannot stop us from friendly exchanges. Otherwise, it is difficult even if there are no mountains in the way.”But, the Indian experience shows that building trust with China is a euphemism for submission, à la Pakistan kowtowing to Beijing. Developing quanxi, therefore, carries little meaning when the Chinese wouldn’t walk the talk.It isn’t that India and China never tried to reset their terms of engagement. But matching the two different aspirations has been found challenging. So far, attempts at harmonising them may have faltered over differing perceptions and political signals about each other’s geopolitical concerns.This has rather drawn out meaninglessly for too long, which has led them to fall into the sticky trap that they are now unable to extricate themselves from — neither side is able to compromise with the other.Clearly, both the countries are experiencing extreme anxiety in their relationships. It is time to discuss the underlying causes of the long-festering perceptual differences and lack of object constancy in their ties. Trust-building, in any case, is sequential that one need not nurture it. China needs to restore peace along the LAC before the ties can be improved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-problem-of-building-trust-with-china-380752
26-03-2022||As Yogi Adityanath gets sworn in for the second term||Rage against privilege||The BJP has dodged the trend as Modi has succeeded in portraying himself as an outsider trying to change things for the better, and the Opposition as the entitled establishment.For a casual or even a serious observer, PM Modi’s obsession with Nehru and the BJP’s proclivity to blame Nehru for everything that still goes wrong with governance would seem absurd, bordering on the hilarious. Blaming the past for the present is a deeply thought-out ruse to absolve contemporary politicians or rulers of accountability. Just as blaming invaders for the greed and cowardice of our ancestors offers a fig leaf of respectability to their defeat, the shifting of the blame for all that still goes wrong on a person who died 58 years ago offers a national amnesty to our current leadership. But why is this blame game an essential — or rather, the central — prop of our political theatre? The answer could only be found in the simmering, sub-optimal wrath that offers huge political returns to the reaper.The Indian anger against injustice never reaches the boiling point, to rise and flow over into an all-consuming revolution. Even when it seemingly did so during the Gandhian national movement, it was successful only because it was not an eruption, as in 1857, but a painfully protracted process of non-violent transfer of power. Yet, it was possible because of the anger reaching its criticality, though definitely not comparable with the French, Bolshevik or Chinese revolutions. The patient, long-suffering Indian is deceptive because he wants change and is always in search of a credible alternative. In the last century, the pace of political change was slower and the credibility of the establishment was greater in an era of slow-moving media cycles. Both have changed and those who have not caught on to this transformation are the ones getting dumped.Arvind Kejriwal, Kisan Baburao Hazare and others tapped this discontent against the establishment, starting in 2011 and culminating in the overthrow of the Congress-led UPA government in 2014. The beneficiaries might have been Modi and the BJP, but the process was a people’s movement against political privilege. And Kejriwal’s AAP winning 92 seats in the 117-member Punjab Assembly proves that the impact of that 10-year-old agitation continues. Indians have had enough of the entitled, privileged establishment; they want change and they want it now. In fact, not merely change but also punishment for the privileged. Alternating with two parties or two fronts was one way of ensuring change, but even that is not enough now.This process has scalded not just the Congress; it was this punishment of the elite that resulted in the demise of the CPI(M) in West Bengal, and now the decimation of the BSP in UP and the Akali Dal in Punjab. Dalit voters defeating their own party in an attempt to punish the elite might sound like a contradiction, but it is not. It was with great faith and hope that Dalits had been endorsing Mayawati’s leadership for three decades. Unfortunately, her lasting impact on governance was her own statues in Lucknow and her palatial mansions in Lutyens’ Delhi. Even her core voters, her fellow Jatavs, wanted to punish her for turning their political conviction into her privilege. According to the 2022 CSDS-Lokniti post-poll survey, 22 per cent Jatavs moved away from the BSP and voted primarily for the BJP, which increased its Jatav votes from 8 to 21 per cent.There cannot a greater example of voters punishing a leader’s sense of entitlement than the poor and hopeful Jatavs abandoning Mayawati and shifting toward Adityanath. Non-Jatav scheduled castes have considerably reposed their confidence in the Samajwadi Party, while marginally increasing their share in the BJP’s votes. Similar is the punishment for the SAD in Punjab. According to the same post-poll survey results, the SAD lost considerable votes from all four major sections of the Sikh populace — 12, 6, 17 and 15 percentage points from Jat, Khatri, Dalit and OBC Sikh sections, respectively (the BSP hardly contributed to the alliance). The gainer is the AAP.The question that remains is this: Why does the fury of the enraged people leave the BJP unscathed? The BJP’s campaign against political dynasties has been successful in diverting the voters’ ire towards the Congress, Samajwadi Party and others, thereby transforming anti-incumbency into an anti-establishment wrath. Modi has been successful in continuously portraying himself as an outsider trying to change things for the better while tarring the Opposition as the elitist, entitled, permanent establishment.Even Navjot Singh Sidhu had almost succeeded in turning anti-incumbency into anti-establishment sentiments against the SAD; but when he lost the chief ministership to Charanjit Singh Channi, he turned against his own party, thereby destroying the Congress’ opportunity to become a credible alternative. This forced the voters to choose the AAP. Yet, the Congress became the number two party. Similarly, Adityanath in comparison to Akhilesh Yadav is a man with no entitlement, patrimony or privilege.Even what is being talked about as corruption in regular political parlance has now become a signalling towards privilege. And people are constantly revolting against privilege. Earlier, this revolt was simple and identity-driven — lower caste versus entitled caste or oppressed community against oppressor community. In fact, caste was an all-encompassing political universe that subsumed class, but no longer. Now, the Jat Sikhs of Punjab are willing to vote for Kejriwal’s party and Jatavs of UP can choose even Adityanath over Mayawati because the poor have stopped identifying with the rich, even though they belong to the same caste or community grouping.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rage-against-privilege-380749
