27-03-2022||In April||After the first quarter of 2022, a time to reset the year||I read all the time anyway, so what is it that I am going to teach myself to do differently in April 2022. I will read from books, not devices. I will read long form, not tweets. I will read chapters, not updates and captions on social media posts. I will read long e-mails to friends and fellow writers after I drafted them and I will re-read them after I have sent them off.Won’t I get left behind if I get off the wheel of constant rolling information and news breaks on our various media accounts? Am I not a social media consultant sought after for my advice on how to get engagement, grow followers and influence minds online? Yes, but the internal hard drive of my brain is full and can barely process data when required to recall or analyse it. It is time to spring clean my internal digital storage. Empty the trash, uninstall apps never used and clean up the cache.The first quarter of the year is over. The arrival of the third wave of Covid, with the Omicron variant, made it feel more like the extension of the last year. Before we knew it, the newness of 2022 waned and we found ourselves wading through the same fears and fatigue. Too numb to even feel the anxiety anymore.I know I am not alone when I look at the date and wonder where did the months go? Yet, the years seem to be racing past as if on an express train. The days seem to be the longest to get through.As spring rapidly makes way for yet another Indian summer, this is a time to recover and recuperate. To admire the flowers in other people’s lawns as we go for aimless walks. To pluck soft, dark, juicy shahtoot from the tree in the neighbourhood and remember the taste of childhood once again. To organise excess food in our homes and feed animals who share our streets as their home. To notice that one’s knees are hurting less than they used to and make a note that the body recovers when the mind calms down. Just like the body lets us know when we are stressed, but we have disassociated and cannot recognise our own distress.A book that arrived by courier as I was typing this column is described on its back cover as a truly comic novel about love and the despair of depression. The author will break your heart with humour, promises the blurb of Sorrow and Bliss by Meg Mason. Another book waiting on my desk for April to start is a letter from a son to a mother who cannot read. Ocean Vuong’s book title is a full sentence, laden with promise and longing — On Earth We’re Briefly Gorgeous. A third book is described as a book of magic. “When you have finished, you will want to hug a tree,” writes Jerry Pinto about Bijal Vachharajani’s Savi and the Memory Keeper.Maybe I will write about these books and essays that I read in April when I file a column in May. After a month of reading, I can schedule a month of keeping promises.On my Twitter timeline, the Delhi-based poet Michael Creighton tweets, “Advice for those worrying about nuclear war: spend less time on Twitter and more time in books.”I stare at the tweet and then copy it here to share with you. How is he arriving at the same solution as I seem to have decided for myself? The answer is obvious to me as soon as I frame the question. When our anxieties are shared, the solutions are universal too.We are no good for anyone else when we don’t feel grounded within ourselves first. After the relentless onslaught of the pandemic and the ongoing disintegration of democracies and social decencies as we knew them, I need time off to rejuvenate my strengths all over again. I want my calm back. I will practise patience all over again.Both calm and patience will return effortlessly like homing birds when I lessen my participation in doom-scrolling and refuse to be contaminated by disinformation and hate.“When you finish writing, send me a copy of the column too,” my husband said to me on the phone, when I told him that today is the morning when I write for The Tribune. It means something to him to read what I write here. We want to be influenced by each other in quiet ways. We appreciate interludes that offer a chance to be thoughtful and speak deliberately. Let the summer of 2022 be that time and space for you too.—The writer is a filmmaker & author. natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/after-the-first-quarter-of-2022-a-time-to-reset-the-year-381057
27-03-2022||Field Marshal Sam Hormusji Framji Jamshedji Manekshaw would have turned 108 on April 3. A national hero after the epochal victory in 1971||In the Field Marshal's company||Much before I had the honour of interacting with him in person, I had browsed several books about him, focusing on his stellar leadership qualities. However, it was only in 2002, while I was posted as Staff Officer to the Commandant, Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, that I was privileged to meet him in Coonoor, where he had settled down. On many an occasion, I had the opportunity to accompany the Commandant to the Field Marshal’s residence during the courtesy visits.The Field Marshal’s sprawling house was perched atop a hill near Coonoor, close to the Staff College. He had appropriately named it Stavka, Russian for high command of the armed forces. During one such visit, the Field Marshal advised me in private: “Son, you should always speak your mind to your seniors and never ever try to please them by telling what they like to hear.” I took it as my Bible and stuck to it during all my command and staff appointments.He had a hard exterior but his heart always used to beat for the soldiers’ welfare. During that tenure, my wife, Nidhi, taught in Army Public School, Wellington, and was the class teacher of sixth standard. During one of the Parent-Teacher Meetings, a sturdy Gurkha, Naik Thapa, requested permission to take his daughter’s report card home after having closely scrutinised it. He added, “Hamare Sahabji ne mangaya hai. Woh meri bachhi ka report card dekhna chahate hain. Unki tabiyat theek nahin hai, nahin to woh khud aana chahate the (Sahab wants to see my daughter’s report card. He is not well, otherwise he wanted to come himself).”My wife asked as to who his Sahab was, and was surprised to know that it was none else than the Field Marshal himself. She walked up to the principal to seek permission to send the report card home. After a few days of the PTM, my wife was on her weekly visit to the famous Staff College bakery to buy goodies, and in walked the Field Marshal, flamboyant and amenable as ever, with a swagger that belied his age (84 at the time). He was ramrod-straight, sported an elegant moustache and wore a double-breasted blazer. He wished my wife, “Good morning, sweetheart”, and introduced himself.Nidhi displayed quick presence of mind. She mentioned about the Field Marshal’s buddy, Naik Thapa, and his daughter. On this, he rattled out all her strengths and weaknesses in the recently concluded class tests. Nidhi was dumbstruck with the profound knowledge he had about the girl’s school performance.The Field Marshal also had a great sense of humour. Once, he was visiting a military station where the local club was being renovated and was requested to give some financial help. He magnanimously approved a hefty amount from the Chief’s welfare fund. He remarked to the station commander, “You see, the problem with me is that I can never say no. Sometimes I thank God for making me a man and not a woman, otherwise I would have always been pregnant.”He was perhaps the only person who addressed Indira Gandhi as ‘Prime Minister’ instead of ‘Madam’. Some bureaucrats were shocked and complained to the Cabinet Secretary. When the Cabinet Secretary mentioned this in Sam’s presence at a meeting, he replied, “I hope you know that the term ‘Madam’ is reserved for certain ladies who are in charge of houses of ill-fame.” India owes him a lot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/in-the-field-marshals-company-381053
27-03-2022||It’s instructive to study the Harsha Bhogle ‘intruder’ episode||Harsha Bhogle act: How camera manipulates us||It seemed that his home had been broken into and he was attacked by a stranger. The news spread like wildfire online, and netizens were suitably alarmed.More than half-an-hour later, his wife, Anita Bhogle, tweeted that all was well, and that it was just ‘a promo that went viral and unfortunately got everyone worried’. Bhogle, seemingly embarrassed, apologised and tweeted that ‘It became more viral than I anticipated’.Bhogle is known for his charm, gravitas, cricket acumen and the ability to gently elicit insightful responses from his famous subjects. With this ‘cry wolf’ act, he has now shown that even at 60 years of age, he’s not averse to performing an alarming act for a marketing gimmick — attracting eyeballs, making money, in other words.A stageThe world’s a stage and we’re all actors, noted Shakespeare. He was right about this, as about many other things. We’re now living in an age when everyone seems to have a camera at all times — India, for instance, had 1.2 billion mobile phone subscribers in 2021, and of these around 750 million were smartphone users, noted a Deloitte report.With man, woman and child always carrying a camera, and always linked to the world with a fast Internet connection, nautanki and histrionics have gone extremely mainstream. You don’t need a stage or an audience — the camera’s eye sees your performance, the Internet distributes it instantly to your audience. They could be just a handful — maybe just immediate family — for life’s minor actors, but thousands for relatively major actors like Bhogle, and millions for life’s super-actors like Virat Kohli or Mahendra Singh Dhoni.The camera regulates us. The CCTV system works on us to improve our behaviour — when they’re around, we operate with the assumption that someone is watching us all the time. But visuals from CCTV footage aren’t necessarily representative of all of one’s life and personality. We act and behave differently when we’re being observed than when we are not being observed.Conversely, people in public life and celebrities use the camera to project the best possible image of themselves. This is quite natural, for we all want to be liked for being nice and kind.I told a cricket journalist from Pakistan that it’s gratifying that Pakistani YouTubers speak so positively and enthusiastically about Indian cricket and cricketers and, often, even India in general. His reply was a dampener — ‘It’s so because they can get so many subscribers from India!’His opinion might explain why Shoaib Akhtar, the former Pakistan fast bowler, speaks well about India — even though he also seems to have visions of a bloody conquest of ‘Hind’ in the future through a ‘Ghazwa-e-Hind’.In a recent video of Akhtar and Harbhajan Singh, the Indian cricketer talks about how the IPL has changed the finances of Indian cricketers, and Akhtar responds: ‘You’ve bought six houses, I know!’When the IPL was launched in 2008, current India captain Rohit Sharma was only 20, and he was bought at the auction for $750,000. He needed guidance and mentorship at that stage, but he didn’t get it — the IPL party culture sucked him in. Herschelle Gibbs wrote in his biography that though Indian cricketers were not big drinkers, he noted Sharma’s ability to ‘put a couple away when he puts his mind to it’. Sharma put on weight and his career suffered and he was not part of India’s 2011 World Cup-winning team. Such a monumental waste of such monumental talent, people said. Sharma, however, with an effort that must inspire all of us, resurrected his career and is now an all-time great in white-ball cricket.Stories such as his instruct and inspire. You can’t blame him for his inability to keep his focus in the face of fame and riches when he was just 20 — as the Bhogle episode shows, when it’s fame and riches, it’s difficult to think straight even at 60.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-fame-trap-381051
27-03-2022||In the early 20th century||The stark irony of it all||My father, Harsharn Singh, got his share in Chakk (village) Number 65/4R, Montgomery district (now Sahiwal). It was not convenient to assign names to thousands of these settlements and hence the numbers and the letter L or R were added, depending upon whether that village was located along the left or right bank of a canal.I was born in 1939, one among the four sons of my parents. I was enrolled in the local government middle school when I was old enough to be able to walk 3 km to the school. Another boy in the neighbourhood named Abdul was in the same class and soon became my best friend. We would spend most of our time together.Now fast forward to July 1947. The Tribune, published at Lahore, would reach us a day late. We got to know about sporadic incidents of stabbing in the cities, which slowly turned into communal riots. It was a portent of the events to follow. My father and his two brothers planned to defend their homes with their licensed shotguns and some ammunition they had collected. Like most others, they considered this to be a passing phase, after which life would soon return to normal. On August 14, the lines were drawn dividing India into two separate dominions.My father’s youngest brother was a police officer posted at Amritsar. He had a wider perspective of the overall situation. He reached our village with two police trucks to rescue the families of his three brothers. My father went to his two friends in the village to come along, with their families. They only taunted him for abandoning the plan of forming a common defence. We learnt that a few days later, all the village folk decided to move eastward with their bullock carts, an odd camel or a horse. They had hardly travelled about 7 km when a large armed mob fell upon them, and indulged in murder, loot and rape. A handful among the young men managed to run and swim after jumping into the large Lower Bari Doab Canal. We learnt about this a few days later from one among these survivors.Our own family, after about a week of wandering, occupied a house in Moga, which had been abandoned by a well-to-do Muslim family. The house had been stripped bare of everything. Not satisfied with the loot, the wild lot had set fire to one of the rooms used for storing toori (dried hay). The roof had come down, burying the contents, that kept smouldering for a long time to come. We, the young lot, found it useful for burying fresh corn cobs, to be pulled out after a while to enjoy the nicely roasted ones.One morning, I was playing in an open ground near the house when I saw a small crowd gathering nearby. I pushed my way in and saw a man squatting on the ground in a small opening in the middle. A Nihang Singh was holding a spear over him in a menacing way. The intended victim was muttering parts of Hindu-Sikh scriptures and also names of some prominent persons whom he knew. Among these were also the names of my father and uncles. I went running to describe this to my father. He rushed there, but could not recognise the poor chap. After listening to his story, he understood that he was married to a girl from our village and managed a shop in the adjoining village — Khan Kamal. That village was inhabited by a Muslim tribe. Being the only Hindu there, he had completely adopted their ways. Attired in their fashion, his hair parted in the middle and dyed in henna colour, he made a perfect picture for the Nihang to consider him legitimate prey. We managed to save him, brought him home, fed him and lodged him in the refugee camp established in the local high school.Even at that tender age, I saw the irony of that situation. After losing his family and all that he owned, he had managed to escape to the region where he thought he would be safe, to be almost killed by his own.For another bit of irony, I have to go back to my childhood friend Abdul. His elder brother, Yaqub, had enlisted in the army as per tradition; he and Abdul too would surely have joined the Pakistan army. I grew up to join the Indian Air Force, to be trained as a bomber pilot. During the Indo-Pak War of 1971, I was considered very proficient in dispatching a large number of the opposing forces with my bombs, and was awarded the Vir Chakra. Among my unfortunate victims could have been my dear friend Abdul. On the other hand, Abdul could have been manning an anti-aircraft gun, trying to shoot me down.— The writer is based in Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-stark-irony-of-it-all-381048
