28-03-2022||---||Gulf opens door to Assad||Syria’s President Bashar Al Assad took one short flight to Abu Dhabi 10 days ago, but it was a giant leap in regional politics and diplomacy in the Arab world in the context of the Russia-Ukraine war, to paraphrase the first voyager to the moon, Neil Armstrong.The war in Ukraine has changed strategic equations, posing the biggest diplomatic challenge to the US since the Cold War ended.Assad arrived in Abu Dhabi on March 18, then travelled to Dubai and went back home that same night after whirlwind meetings in both cities. His visit was not made public until Assad, whom many of his enemies would like to shoot down in mid-air or capture alive by forcing his flight down somewhere, had returned to the safety of his presidential palace in Damascus.Even by the traditional standards of warm hospitality which the Gulf is famous for, the welcome which the Syrian President received on his whistle-stop tour of the UAE was effusive. The Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan – who is credited in India as the leader who set India-UAE relations on a new trajectory – saw off Assad at the airport. This was a rare gesture by the Crown Prince’s normal yardsticks of protocol.Given the extreme risks associated with the visit, Assad’s meetings in Dubai did not take place in a palace, which is the usual venue. They were held in a rest house. Such summits with heads of state are seldom held in a rest house. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, UAE’s Vice-President, PM and Ruler of Dubai, held extensive talks with the Syrians, aided by an impressively long list of who-is-who in the country’s federal government.Predictably, the UAE’s accommodation of Assad drew the ire of Washington, which said it was ‘profoundly disappointed and troubled’ that one of its closest friends in the Arab world had legitimised a regime, which successive US Presidents had tried to overthrow. Since the ‘Arab Spring’ movement for democratic change briefly blossomed in Syria a decade ago this month, Assad had been confined to his country, fighting for his survival. His political demise was repeatedly predicted during this decade like that of Cuba’s Fidel Castro, who defied those predictions for over half a century.Assad had visited Russia, of course, since the Arab Spring nearly drove him out of office. And Iran too. Russia has been the guarantor of Syria’s security ever since former US President Barack Obama called the Assad government’s alleged used of chemical weapons on civilians in 2013 a ‘red line’ and threatened to bomb the regime in Damascus out of existence. When Russia subsequently intervened militarily on Assad’s side, Washington had to hold its hands or risk a Third World War.For Iran and Syria, the US is a common enemy. Both countries will now be emboldened to take advantage that the Biden administration is overstretched on account of the war in Ukraine and cannot spread itself thinner than it already is in military terms. Any Arab country seeking the diplomatic rehabilitation of Syria is sending a message to Washington that it cannot be business as before.Through the UAE’s official media, the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince conveyed his country’s view that ‘Syria is a fundamental pillar of Arab security, and that the UAE is keen to strengthen cooperation with it to achieve the aspirations of the brotherly Syrian people towards stability and development.’ The UAE once supported the anti-Assad rebels, who were armed and trained mainly by the US. A change of heart in favour of Assad in an important Arab capital means that the US has to rethink any plans it had for regime change in Damascus.Not all of the visits by foreign ministers of Qatar, Turkey, Iran and the UAE to Moscow during the crucial one week before the start of Russia’s military operations in Ukraine have been confirmed by all the parties involved. But one thing is clear: Russian President Vladimir Putin is not isolated or universally ostracised, as it has been made out to be. And the war in Ukraine has changed strategic equations in the Gulf – and perhaps in the broader Arab world — posing the biggest diplomatic challenge to Washington since the Cold War ended.Consider this: The US Navy’s Fifth Fleet is based in Bahrain. The kingdom is also home to the US Naval Forces Central Command. By any stretch, Bahrain has been among the closest of US allies in the Arab world. Yet, last fortnight, Bahrain’s King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa spoke on the phone to Putin amid persistent reports — reliable enough, but never officially confirmed — that the King refused to take a phone call from Biden.Saudi Arabia has been equally close to the US for centuries. Yet, its King, Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, resisted taking a call from Biden seeking support after the Ukraine war began. It is a big change in a matter of weeks. Only on February 9, the King had readily taken Biden’s call. At that time, the Saudi Crown Prince, Mohammed bin Salman, had cancelled his Winter Olympics-related China trip to be present when Biden phoned the King.As recently as last week, US Secretary of State of Antony Blinken wanted to visit the giant oil-producing kingdom, but the Saudis refused to receive him. A foreign ministry statement explaining this polite refusal must rank in the annals of Arab diplomacy as a classic in diplomatic drafting.The Americans want Saudi Arabia and the UAE to increase oil production to reduce prices worldwide. They also want help from both these oil-rich monarchies to dismantle cooperation between the Saudi-dominated OPEC and the Russian-led OPEC Plus to isolate Russia in the global energy market. But neither Gulf state is willing to toe Biden’s plan.When the going gets bad for a superpower, even worms turn against it. That is the developing American state-of-play in the Arab world, as demonstrated by Iraq, whose government itself is dependent on Washington’s political and financial generosity. Iraq has sided with the UAE and Saudi Arabia in rejecting Biden’s request to pump more oil. Through State Oil Marketing Organisation, Iraq also endorsed OPEC’s continuing cooperation with OPEC Plus giving Putin a much-needed shot in the arm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/gulf-opens-door-to-assad-381302
28-03-2022||---||Europe crisis test of India’s foreign policy||New Delhi owes its neutrality to its friendship with both Russia and Ukraine. Despite this, India is constantly pushed to play partisan in a conflict in which both belligerents, till 1991, constituted one country. Surely, it goes to Delhi’s credit to resist the pressure to toe the one-way line in the UN. Understandably, Indian neutrality stands for national self-interest which can’t be served by playing partisan. To remain non-aligned in Europe’s fratricidal dispute is the sole, sane and pragmatic way.To India, isn’t it history’s repeat formula story, the traditional and familiar way to deal with and dominate the “Third World”? Mutually, Europeans had savagely fought on European land and beyond for hundreds of years. And a trend started with the 20th century’s First and Second World Wars, drawing surplus manpower as soldiers from non-belligerent, non-European states of the Orient to replenish the depleting combatants of the Occident.At the diplomatic table too, the stronger wanted the economically weaker to follow the former. In this unabated endeavour, even in February-March 2022, a distant India is being nudged, pressured and persuaded, from all around, with a “behave yourself” advisory: Don’t be neutral; you ought to take someone’s side; pitch for the West-led camp and eschew the holier-than-thou, non-aligned diplomacy of past prime ministers; why don’t you condemn Moscow in the UN General Assembly and Security Council? Why don’t you speak up for a weak Ukraine? Will you be on the right side of history?The US has advised India to distance itself from Russia. UK Trade Minister Anne-Marie Trevelyan declared that her government was “very disappointed with India”. Visiting Japan Prime Minister Fumio Kishida asked his host in New Delhi to adopt a tougher line and take action over Russia’s Ukraine invasion. A British MP urged PM Johnson to halt aid to India over her abstention from the UN Security Council over vote on Ukraine. It is a blistering chorus for “not following” the rules.Nevertheless, there are some soothing words too: Australian Prime Minister Morrison’s “understanding of India’s position on the Ukraine crisis”. US President Biden too had second thoughts: Indian response to the Ukraine war is ‘somewhat shaky’ and an exception among the West’s allies.Biden, belatedly though, has pressed the right button on India’s pragmatism and compulsion. Yes, India has been “shaky” since long and “shaky” even now. Not without reason though. For India, it’s usually pressure-cooker time. Turn the voluminous documents and pages of history of prolonged, ceaseless gunboat diplomacy of the West (Britain) to the East (Beijing) to get an answer.India faces problems on many fronts, the main being from China, not Russia. For the last seven decades, Chinese aggression has been ceaseless. Invasion, grabbing of territory, trade imbalance, border blackmail and the latest being Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s jibe from behind Pakistan’s OIC shield. The West must realise that India cannot run away from the reality of Communist Party of China’s (CPC) aggression which the West now is aware of, after cultivating it for three decades. Hence, India can’t be seen to be in either the Washington or Moscow camp. A non-aligned India has to have neutrality and mutual cordiality with both, principally owing to the CPC threat and unprovoked invasion. If India is friendly with both Ukraine and Russia, it can be replicated with Moscow and the US-led Quad in the Indo-Pacific too. The West must realise the reality.Historically, India bore ample testimony to the sugar-coated language of European merchants petitioning the Delhi Durbar in the 17th century, and the subsequent fire and fury of gun-toting Anglo-French military fighting their Europe-origin Seven Years’ War (1756-1763) on Indian soil. This long, tortuous and violent conquest of 65 per cent Indian land and crushing of all local rulers happened with widespread assistance of the local recruits/soldiers, fortune seekers and hereditary traders of the soil.Regrettably, the West is still used to basking under the “glorious past” of inglorious performance. Especially, on India, it conveniently forgets, or selectively ignores the truth. Hence, it’s time to recall India’s subjugation of centuries by the West — all rulers came from the west of India’s Makran coast.Hence, can the West really converge India’s 1.37 billion people’s national interest with that of 770 million people of Europe’s local conflict? The whole of the Americas’ 1 billion people are less than those of India.Clearly, India’s needs are uninterrupted progress on at least six fronts — food, finance, factory, fuel, firepower and foreign fraternity. As known, except for two hostile neighbours China and Pakistan, India’s cordiality with others is stable and steady. Nevertheless, these two together keep Delhi perpetually unstable and rocky. Hence, India’s main focus is a China-led threat and not Russia. There’s little sense opening another remote front in a fiery field, taking partisan position, resulting in pleasing one and incurring the wrath and fury of the other.Indeed, India is “shaky” because of the soft wicket of “globalisation”, conceived and created for the West’s polar position. Though not 100 per cent integrated, the interlocking of financial, banking, commercial, economic and security systems has limited New Delhi’s diplomatic and national choices on crises such as the one on the European mainland. Too much is at stake and it’s too hard to extricate oneself from the diplomatic cobweb woven around the United Nations, which appears to be losing its sheen and the ability to appear fair, except in cases of weaker nations.War in a poverty-afflicted Afghanistan was fought by 42 invading armies under the aegis of the UN, which however was conspicuous by its absence in Libya, Syria, Iraq and Yemen despite witnessing enormous human tragedy and mass killing? Is the UN becoming malleable and a service outlet at the beck and call of the rich and powerful, like a few Third World countries’ judiciary, which allegedly serves the high and mighty, but remains blissfully unaware and ignorant of and unresponsive, indifferent to petitions of people living in penury?So, let’s take a “somewhat shaky” India seriously, and not wish away her neutrality on Europe. Let’s not give credence to the West’s English daily, ridiculing Delhi’s diplomacy: “India undermines effort to isolate Russia” or “India explores rupee-rouble” pact to “circumvent sanctions”. Why should India try to “isolate” Russia, a “friend-in-need”, especially when the others ignored an India-in-need? Why on earth one thinks that India won’t look after the welfare, safety, security and economics of its people? One has got to be real. Instead of ignoring or denigrating India’s China threat, give respect to Delhi’s sovereignty and exemplary neutrality. Respecting sovereignty cannot be a one-way traffic to eternity and perpetual privilege of princes of antiquity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/europe-crisis-test-of-indias-foreign-policy-381303
28-03-2022||---||Criminal justice system should ensure dignity||THE association of stigma is at once an intended and unintended outcome of the operation of our criminal justice processes. It is intended because the criminal law performs a retributive function in exclaiming a person as ‘offender’. In doing so, the law proclaims the individual as deviant, unfit to function in a civil society. It is also unintended because in reality, the stigma attaches itself to the accused much before his conviction. In either case, those accused or convicted of any offence, in a way, face ostracisation, the impact of which has enormous implications for them and their families.An arrest by the police in India is a grand spectacle. Take, for example, the arrest of Amitabh Thakur, a retired IPS officer, by the UP police. With the neighbourhood alerted by a sudden appearance of men in uniform, the arrest was effected by a team of a dozen police officers. Thakur was pushed and shoved into a police jeep. Without any prejudice to his case, it can be said that as the video clips made the rounds on social media, Thakur was robbed of his dignity. If such treatment was meted out to a high-ranking officer, one can only imagine the plight of lesser mortals.Right to Dignity is now established as a key facet of the Right to Equality and the Right to Life and Personal Liberty. Yet, the operation of criminal processes continues to have a chilling effect on the dignity of individuals. It’s quite common to see people being summoned casually to the police stations and made to sit for hours and even detained informally. This itself is an affront to dignity. Wrongful convictions, prosecutions and incarcerations stigmatise many innocent persons. Such stigmatisation flies in the face of the principle of presumption of innocence.Though it is argued that the threat of stigmatisation is a deterrent against crime, such argument finds little empirical evidence. To the contrary, such stigmatisation has adverse consequences. As those stigmatised increasingly come to view themselves from the lenses of those who stigmatise, they start believing these notions. In fact, the labelling theory in criminology states that being formally labelled as an offender or anything even remotely associated to such a label causes one to internalise stigmatising attitudes, withdraw from conventional society, and conform to a deviant identity. The formal ‘offender’ labelling becomes immaterial at this point.Recent policy approaches have focused on increasing the number and stringency of identity-related requirements for access to welfare benefits. These can include high levels of documentation, disclosure of personal information, intrusive investigations and even subjection to surveillance measures. An accused is subjugated to further scrutiny, pushing him to a lower level of self-esteem; his dignity, which our constitutional system seeks to protect as a core fundamental right, comes under attack.Stigmatisation undermines the autonomy and personal independence of the offenders, real or suspected. They are rendered vulnerable to abuse and harassment. Such adverse effects include the proliferation of legal and societal barriers that make it more difficult to find gainful employment, secure a consistent source of housing, and generally function as a contributing member in society.Another relevant instance here is that of a sex offender’s registry. While the same may enjoy public and political support, there is little evidence to demonstrate its efficacy in reducing sexual crimes. In the Indian context, the registry will do little for the immense number of cases of sexual violence that go unreported. The criminal justice system is already under-staffed and under-resourced. Diverting resources to the sex offender registry implies less allocation for other measures to increase public safety, including chances of reform.The problem is magnified in case of an offender who has served time. Former prisoners face challenges at every level. Ann Jacobs, director of the Prisoner Re-entry Institute at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, explains that “a person’s successful re-entry into society can be viewed through how adequately they are able to meet six basic life needs: livelihood, residence, family, health, criminal justice compliance, and social connections.” Attaining each need presents unique challenges, many of which may be interconnected.Criminal records are much more readily and publicly available than ever before. This was not the case in previous decades where there were many strategies to avoid the negative consequences associated with past criminal justice contact. Despite much information that is available on the criminal records, there is hardly any knowledge about how accused/convicts/ex-offenders seek to overcome the negative consequences associated with a visible criminal record as they apply for jobs, housing and financial aid.Most prisoners have limited education and work experience, which makes it difficult for them to secure employment after they are released. As per the Prison Statistics India 2020, nearly 35.4 per cent of convicts and 41.4 per cent of undertrials were illiterate. At the same time, nearly 41.4 per cent of convictions and 36.5 per cent of undertrials has less than secondary level education. This combined with limited professional network and a conspicuous résumé gap can make it very difficult for ex-prisoners to even get an interview with a prospective employer.Moreover, many job applications require disclosure of previous criminal record which brings with itself an inevitable sense of bias on part of the employer. There are certain legal restrictions on ex-offenders on applying to certain places of employment. These problems negatively impact their basic rights including right to equality, right of equal opportunities and even right to work within the ambit of dignity.There are many consequences of an application of criminal justice processes which are completely unrelated to the original crime. Therefore, it is high time that we start thinking about major policy changes in not only rehabilitating ex-offenders but also purporting to nationwide campaigns to prevent stigmatisation and discriminatory practices against an arrested person, a convict or even an ex-offender.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/criminal-justice-system-should-ensure-dignity-381304
