29-03-2022||---||This way or that||Us President Joe Biden’s impromptu comment on his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin has sent shockwaves around the world. ‘For God’s sake, this man cannot remain in power,’ Biden said after a carefully crafted speech read out of a teleprompter in Warsaw.Consistency in staying our course is running counter to that of the G-7 and large sections of the international community, and could isolate us. Was this as yet another gaffe by Biden, or a deliberate provocation? Or was it an inadvertent expression of his true feelings for Putin. Earlier in the day, he had termed Putin a ‘butcher’ for the devastation he had wrought on Ukraine, and even termed him ‘war criminal’. Whatever be the case, and the post-facto explanations, they make it difficult for the two Presidents to have a normal or near-normal relationship again. The Russians have probably made worst-case assumptions here, including that the remarks could be a signal to Russian elites to get rid of Putin.The situation in Europe has now taken the dimensions of what a former US official has called a ‘geopolitical earthquake’. Importantly,  it has created unprecedented unity in Europe against Russia, the country that supplies the region 40 per cent of its gas supplies. But Russia has engulfed Europe in its biggest war since World War II with its attendant humanitarian crisis. The Americans now see themselves not just fighting, but leading the indirect war against Russia. This has been a remarkable turnaround from a situation where former President Donald Trump, who was on friendly terms with Putin,  had questioned the relevance of NATO and pushed an America First agenda.Given their size and strength, the Russians will prevail if the war continues. They now say that they are mainly focusing on the Donbas region. But this could be a feint and on the ground the war grinds on creating more death, destruction and refugees.By calling for the removal of Putin, the Americans may have made it harder to reach a negotiated settlement.Just how long can India escape being singed by the rising flames? New Delhi has laid out a policy that claims to take the middle ground. It wants an end to hostilities without acknowledging that one side is doing the attacking, it calls for respecting sovereignty and integrity of all, even when the issue is really about how the Russians have violated both in Ukraine.   The ‘balance’ was visible last week when India abstained on two separate resolutions relating to the humanitarian situation arising out of the war. On Wednesday, a Russian-sponsored resolution in the UN Security Council  got just Russia and China’s vote, while 13 other members, including India, abstained. On Thursday, a Ukraine-sponsored resolution in the UN General Assembly got 140 votes, while 38 states, including India abstained. On paper this looked balanced, but the reality is that the international community backed Ukraine’s resolution at the UNGA overwhelmingly and attacked Russia for creating a ‘dire’ humanitarian situation by its invasion.  Speaking in the Rajya Sabha last Thursday, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said the Indian position was based on six principles — an immediate end to violence, a return to dialogue and diplomacy, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states and the anchoring of the global order on international law and the UN Charter, support for humanitarian assistance and New Delhi’s continuing contact with the leadership of the Ukraine and Russia.Jaishankar termed the Indian position ‘steadfast and consistent’, but the tremors of the geopolitical earthquake could become a tsunami, and New Delhi would be well advised to take cover. As it is, consistency and steadfastness in staying our course is running counter to that of the G-7 and large sections of the international community and could lead us to get isolated, along with Russia and China, on the issue.  India may have the satisfaction of insisting that its position is based on its national interest, which is a bold statement of fact since India is hugely dependent on Russia for its armament. But the problem begins when our national interest begins to collide with that of our good friend and global hegemon, the US. New Delhi lives in the hope that it will continue to get a pass from Washington on account of the US’ need to confront China in the Indo-Pacific. But the Ukraine conflict has stirred a deep emotional chord in the US and Europe, besides generating unprecedented unity in the world’s most important politico-economic bloc. This is steeling their determination to first punish and contain Moscow and in this mood, they may not be too accommodative of New Delhi’s over-subtle policy.The Covid pandemic and the US trade war with China had initiated the process of near-shoring and reshoring critical supply chains. Europe, which was somewhat late on this score,  has now redoubled its efforts to seek strategic autonomy in sectors like semiconductors and reduce its dependence on Russian fossil fuels.On Friday, during Biden’s European tour, the US and EU agreed to create a task force to wean Europe from its dependence. To underscore their seriousness, they signed a deal for the supply of 15 billion cubic metres of LNG. While this is a fraction of the 150 billion cubic metres of gas, and another 14-18 billion cubic metres of LNG, of what Russia supplies to Europe, it does mark the beginning of a process. What is aspirational today could become the reality tomorrow.In turn, this could underscore a geopolitical and geoeconomic shift that could upset Indian calculations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/this-way-or-that-381586
29-03-2022||---||Putting positive export figures in perspective||The good news on the export front is that India is set to cross the targeted $400 billion in 2021-22 and the Modi government has something to smile about. Of course, the exports must be seen in the context of imports. The import bill for 2021-22 is $589 billion, with a trade deficit of $189 billion. Of course, the positive story is when export earnings are more than import payments. And, there is the further complication that many of the export earnings are through imports. For example, a significant part of the export earnings is through petroleum products, which in turn, depend on the import of petroleum crude.There is, of course, no need for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal to place things in perspective. The increase in the export earnings is a good thing because it shows that the domestic economy is looking outward. Indian exports constitute 20.1 per cent of the GDP, while imports comprise 23.1 per cent.The countrywise import-export statistics for April-January 2021-22 reveal an interesting profile of India’s global trade. India exported 18.73 per cent of its petroleum products to the United Arab Emirates (UAE), while its crude import from the UAE was 9.98 per cent and petroleum product import 20.16 per cent. India’s petroleum product export shows that 53.95 per cent is to Singapore and 40.29 per cent to the Netherlands, while its crude imports are majorly from Iraq (24.34 per cent) and Saudi Arabia (18.27 per cent), and its imports of petroleum products are from Qatar (24.86 per cent), the UAE (17.8 per cent) and Saudi Arabia (11.38 per cent).The import of electronics components, telecom instruments and computer hardware peripherals reveals interesting facts. India imports 46.02 per cent of electronics components from China, 19.89 per cent from Hong Kong and 7.84 per cent from Singapore. In telecom instruments, the imports are from China (45.62 per cent), Hong Kong (15.92 per cent) and Vietnam (11.08 per cent). For computer hardware and peripherals, India’s imports from China are 53.99 per cent, Hong Kong (13.25 per cent), and Singapore (12.3 per cent).India exports 10.09 per cent of its gold and other metal jewellery to the UAE while it imports 13.07 per cent gold from there, apart from the imports of 45.04 per cent of gold from Switzerland and 7.45 per cent from South Africa. It also imports 31.39 per cent of the precious and semi-precious stones, and exports 21.33 per cent to the UAE. India exports 65.05 per cent of the precious and semi-precious stones to Hong Kong and 19.06 per cent of gold and other metallic jewellery.The big picture is not too simple and it shows that big and small countries, at least in terms of the market economies, depend on one another to boost their export growth.In political messaging, these statistics cannot be given any play. What matters most is the total figure, and it is much better to foreground the exports figure more than those of the imports. The government cannot be faulted for it. Prime Minister Modi’s pep talk during the 87th edition of Mann Ki Baat on Sunday noted that from being vocal about local, India could go from local to global.But various trade segments show that it is not as simple as that. Much of what goes for local cannot go global through exports if there are no imports and if there is no demand in the world. Goyal had assured the export councils that the government would handhold the exporters and improve the ease-of-doing-business facilities much more. India has not yet tapped its traditional strengths. It should be doing much better in the textiles sector. But we seem to export cotton ($2.013.48 million) more than textiles, T-shirts etc of cotton ($1,402.55 million). But these discrepancies will sort themselves out.We need to, however, check the details because as we all know, the devil is in the detail. The fact that nearly a quarter of the GDP is from exports is a good sign. But unlike the smaller countries, India will not be able to make it good on the economic front on the strength of exports alone. The domestic economy is larger, and it must do well too.With an inflation rate of a little over the mandated limit of 6 per cent, the home front is under stress. The general wisdom is that if the growth rate keeps ahead of the inflation rate, then you need not worry too much. The thinking behind the assumption is that growth incidentally fuels inflation and, therefore, the inflation rate in a growing economy is not a worrying factor. But India’s growth rate is yet to gather momentum though it is more than the pre-pandemic year of 2019-20.If the Prime Minister and his ministers loudly proclaim the good part of the news, it is a good thing. But we need to keep a check on the other aspects. For example, employment figures are important signs of the health of the economy. The Centre for the Monitoring of Indian Economy (CMIE) shows that the unemployment rate on March 26 is 7.6 per cent. The figures show the stress points in the economy, and it would not be safe to ignore them.Of course, there is the grand paradox: the tax collections are buoyant through the stressful Covid interregnum and its aftermath. The direct tax collection stands at Rs 13.63 lakh crore and the GST collection at the end of February was Rs 15.50 lakh crore. So, when 900 million people pay taxes, direct and indirect, the government can sit back and boast.The economic stresses of the people do not matter. So, we must grin and bear the insensitivity of the government as it announces that free ration would be extended by another six months. A distressed population accepts the generosity of the proud government with gratitude. The State marches on as the people lie low and think of nothing beyond survival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/putting-positive-export-figures-in-perspective-381587
29-03-2022||---||Public Health Bill aims to be extensive in scope||Anew National Public Health Bill is reportedly being drafted and finalised by the Union government, and is being contemplated to be introduced in Parliament’s Monsoon Session. It is supposed to replace the antiquated Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The new Public Health Bill is a sequel to the Public Health (Prevention, Control and Management of Epidemics, Bio-terrorism and Disasters) Bill, which was released for public consultation in February 2017 but couldn’t successfully get through then. While the new Bill and its provisions are yet to be officially promulgated, there is merit in examining those enshrined in the previous iteration, keeping in mind the sea change in attitudes caused by the coronavirus pandemic.The need for revisiting the 125-year-old Epidemic Diseases Act is axiomatic. For obvious reasons, it fails to accord well with contemporary needs and demands and lacks in clarity on multiple crucial areas. The 2017 iteration of the Public Health Bill attempted to step up strongly on these. It accorded explicit powers to the local administration in addition to the state and Central governments, while prescribing clearer terms for division and supersession of power in case of conflict. It lists down epidemic-prone diseases and potential bio-terrorism agents; lays out clearer, more elaborate definitions that are contemporarily relevant; and makes provisions for appeals against orders passed under the Act. The proposed 2022 iteration would likely carry additional provisions for state and national-level public health cadres. The most stand-out difference, however, is the expansion of scope from merely epidemic diseases to public health (encompassing epidemics, bio-terrorism and disasters).The 2017 iteration was heavily criticised by the experts for placing little emphasis on the rights of patients and people in general, while giving sweeping powers to the state. In this respect, it is hardly different from the old Act. It was also reproached with being unrealistically aspirational, given the then lacking institutional and technical capacity to counter high-order public health threats. Felicitously, the 2022 iteration shall follow a range of recent initiatives directed at strengthening public health capacity, namely, those announced under the Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission and also the 15th Finance Commission grants for health. These include health and wellness centres, district and block level public health units and laboratories, critical care hospital blocks, new National Institutes of Virology and Biosafety labs, and others. It is only warranted that the new Public Health Bill brings in an explicit mandate for the creation and maintenance of such crucial public health infrastructure around which all public health response revolves.Certain caveats accompany an attempt to be comprehensive in scope. The 2017 Public Health Bill embraces three different elements, viz. epidemics, disasters and bio-terrorism, all of which have differential scopes and cannot be straight-jacketed into a single response paradigm. For instance, the response strategy for bio-terrorism shall greatly contrast with that of an epidemic or disaster, and concomitantly, the roles and responsibilities of different state organs and departments shall change. Much foresight and definition will be called for in such areas. Also, multiple provisions of the potential Public Health Act would come to overlap with the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and it would be important to ensure complementarity and avoid conflict among these.Furthermore, it is important to consider as to how comprehensive the new Public Health Bill would and should really be. Public health encompasses a diverse set of inter-related sub-domains, including medical-care provisioning, health financing, and so on. Despite being rechristened from an epidemic Act to a Public Health Act, the primary emphasis will likely continue to be on epidemics. This may suggest that it belies its name, but being overly comprehensive in scope, isn’t practical and wise either. It is important to know where to draw the line, and while the prime focus of the new Bill should continue to be public health emergencies, it must invariably appreciate the holistic nature of emergency responses and broaden its scope to embrace other closely-related topics. For instance, an integrated public health cadre created under the new Act would not only consist of public health professionals but also a clinical cadre which is not directly involved in public health work. Similarly, a true Public Health Act would be incomplete without provisions and mandates for regular disease surveillance, one health, and so on.That infodemics can be as menacing as the epidemics themselves is one of the biggest learnings from the Covid-19 pandemic. Misinformation that spreads like wildfire can be one of the biggest impediments to the fruition of crucial public health measures. The new Public Health Bill should indispensably include provisions not just for investigations and penalties in cases of manifest misinformation but also suitable arrangements to prevent and deter them. Similar treatment is merited for sale and promotion of unproven, spurious therapies and drugs which opportunistically abound during public health emergencies. This is regardless of any legal provisions that might already be in place.Distinct penal provisions for negligent and deliberate contravention of orders were rightly laid out in the 2017 iteration of the Bill. However, these are suited mainly for individual level transgressions, and are out of sync with the plethora of opportunistic malpractices that organisations and establishments can indulge in during public health emergencies. For instance, malpractices ranging from treatment denied in hospitals to unholy alliances between public and private entities have been commonplace, particularly during the peak days of the Covid-19 pandemic. Appropriate penal provisions for such transgressions, apart from a thorough apparatus for investigation and grievance redress must characterise the new Public Health Bill.Last but not least, balancing provisions that impose restrictions and those that uphold rights during public health emergencies would be crucial. Disregard for rights and a very limited room for appeals drew sharp criticism for the 2017 iteration of the Public Health Bill. The same has not just a strong moral connotation, but is integral to the very success of public health responses. There cannot be a bigger testimony to this than the Covid-19 pandemic which still continues to linger.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/public-health-bill-aims-to-be-extensive-in-scope-381589
