30-03-2022||---||Integrated model for Punjab’s development||Punjab’s economy thrived for three decades on the basis of an agriculture-led growth model, which has reached saturation. For rejuvenating the state’s economy, the new government should adopt an integrated triple engine-led growth model. Punjab lost its economic supremacy during the market-driven reforms of the early 1990s. Economic atrocities of the market forces on Punjab became more pronounced due to the tax holiday policy for the neighbouring hill states. To offset the negative effects of this policy, it is recommended that the state government should play the role of an entrepreneur.The much-celebrated Punjab model needs fundamental changes. Historically, the march of Punjab’s economy started in the mid-1960s as it held the top position in terms of growth rate and per capita income. The growth model was essentially a single-sector model with a thrust on a national programme of agricultural development. Unfortunately, neither the Central nor the state government came up with a policy to envision Punjab beyond agriculture. The lack of policy foresightedness for non-agricultural sectors and timely developing their linkages with thriving agricultural sector resulted in the ‘growth reversal’ syndrome. Punjab, at present, has a deadly sectoral combination comprising a stagnating and crisis-ridden agricultural sector; weakening industrial sector; and slow-growing service sector. Decent jobs for Punjabi youth are not available. The fiscal health of the state has deteriorated over time. The outcomes of the model, thus, suggest to adopt altogether a new model of development interwoven across three drivers — the rural economy, industry and services. The strengthening of intersectoral linkages would stimulate growth, create jobs and enhance the revenue buoyancy of the state.The work on the model should start with an ‘approach paper’ suggesting an overall rate of growth of the economy based on traditional and new drivers of growth, including knowledge and digital technology. The Punjab State Planning Board, chaired by the Chief Minister, is a suitable institution for the ‘approach paper’. For building a research-based tri-sector model, the board should set up sector-wise working groups.The first engine of growth led by agriculture can be improved upon by diversifying the rural economy. Development of rural economy in the state is lopsided. It has mainly confined to agricultural sector. Diversification of rural economy in the form of promotion of allied activities like animal husbandry, forestry, mining and quarrying can be the new source of growth and employment. Further, though the agriculture sector would not be a major source of growth, however, the diversification of crops; promotion of niche farming; water management techniques; and, marketing facilities for new crops can make handsome value addition to farm economy.The Fourth Industrial Revolution (Industry 4.0) is unfolding rapidly across the globe. Industry 4.0 is led by the smart technologies, particularly by applying advanced digital technologies like artificial intelligence; the Internet of Things; 3D printing; robotics; cloud computing; mobile devices; smart sensors; quantum computing etc., in the manufacturing processes. Most of the industries thriving as part of Industry 4.0 have locational advantages in Punjab. These use very light raw material and hence are cost-effective to transport. Another advantage to Punjab is that these industries are not land-intensive.These industries are basically digital technology and knowledge-driven and hence would offer decent jobs to the educated youth. Punjab has huge potential for start-ups, provided conducive policies are put in place. Industry 4.0 can fruitfully be developed jointly by higher education institutions and industry. In Punjab, however, both are working in silos. The new government should evolve an institutional mechanism for these two partners to work together for seamless transfer of technology from lab to industry, and undertaking industry relevant research. Based on location of the universities and research institutions, the new government should set up technology parks. The experiences of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh would be useful.Punjab has very fertile social and economic environment for technology-driven rural industrialisation. The farmers’ agitation against three farm laws has demonstrated strong organisational skills; use of social media; cooperation and networking of farm unions from global to local. A number of farmers are in business related to agriculture like commission agents (arhtiyas). This social capital, entrepreneurial and technological skills constitute the threshold for Punjab to develop agri-business and create jobs. The government should harness this potential to transform the landscape of economy. Policy lessons for rural industrialisation can be drawn from the Chinese model of ‘Township and village enterprises’.The service sector is the backbone of Punjab’s economy. It is contributing the maximum (47 per cent) to the state income and offering two-fifth of the total employment. Service sectors, barring few sub-sectors, are using traditional technologies. The sector is not fully aligned with other sectors. The service sector can become the third fast engine of growth by developing sunrise services like information technology-enabled services (ITES), including BPO, online education, social media and entertainment; cyber security; environmental services; Fintech (Financial technology business) services; quaternary/knowledge services like scientific research, bio-technology, education, consultancy, IPRs; quinary services delivered by top decision-makers relating to new ideas/policies, data interpretation, and application, evaluation of new technologies. Developing linkages with agriculture and industry would add to the power of the third engine. Application of digital technologies holds the key for making the tertiary sector the fountainhead of quality services and decent jobs.Punjab’s economy excelled between the mid-1960s and early 1990s. This was the phase of state-led development. The economy, however, suffered hugely due to the market-led model. In the post-reform period, due to locational disadvantages, investment reluctance was observed. The theory of market failure suggests that where the market fails, it is the responsibility of the government to step in. For developing Punjab on a faster track, the new government should play an entrepreneurial role. The state has a number of public corporations relating to industry, finance and agriculture. The government should restructure them on business lines by granting professional autonomy and enforcing accountability. These corporations should directly participate in industrialisation by setting up large-scale units. Around large industries, the ancillary units, preferably in the cooperative sector, should be incentivised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/integrated-model-for-punjabs-development-381864
30-03-2022||---||Mandal vs ‘kamandal’ in UP pollscape||The outcome of the Uttar Pradesh election has generated an intense debate over the centrality of ‘Mandal’ or ‘kamandal’ in shaping the electorate’s sensibility and determining the results, as though the reservation policy in government-run educational institutions and government jobs, recommended by the Mandal Commission, was pitted in a face-off against Hindutva. ‘Kamandal’ (a water pot used by ascetics) became a metaphor for Hindutva politics primarily because it rhymed with Mandal.However, the two terms which evoke contrary images—Mandal is remembered for the violent backlash it provoked among upper caste youths against their backward caste peers when VP Singh announced the implementation of reservation, while ‘kamandal’ is identified with the divisive Ayodhya rath yatra steered by BJP leader LK Advani—are, in fact, mutually compatible and constitute a workable electoral formula which the BJP effectively deployed. The BJP used UP as a laboratory to test the efficacy of these constructs because unlike, say, Tamil Nadu, which dissociated faith from electoral politics, despite having a deeply religious and superstitious population, UP’s commonplace discourse is laden with allusions to faith and metaphors drawn from Hinduism. Religion has permeated the popular sensibility profoundly enough to inform, influence and mould politics.From its inception, in the heartland the Congress had a stream that subscribed to the primacy of faith in everyday life and believed it could not divorce politics from religion even if this militated against the secular precept. Kanshi Ram, the BSP founder and ideologue, and the BJP recognised the significance of religion but assigned its place in politics through different prisms. For him, Hinduism was synonymous with Brahmanism. He believed that unless Brahminical hegemony over the heartland was demolished, the non-Brahmin castes and sub-castes would never rise. The RSS and BJP tapped into the wellspring of Hinduism to fashion a doctrine which sought to create a pan-Hindu identity rising above caste. It believed that its version of Hindutva was supreme in the pantheon of religions.The BJP tried to fuse religion and caste into a cohesive whole that worked, at times, and fell apart on occasions, depending on how its adversaries crafted and propagated their narratives. The BJP’s success since 1989, with periodic reversals, achieved one end: its interpretation of Hinduism, simplistic and bigoted as it is, ran like an undercurrent through politics. Its opponents were forced to incorporate the BJP’s idiom, configuration and substance in their discourse, albeit in a watered-down form, so that they would not be accused of being ‘unfaithful’ to Hinduism.The 1991 General Election marked the BJP’s first tryst with Mandal and ‘kamandal’ in UP. It won a huge number of Lok Sabha seats and registered its first victory in the Assembly. Doubtless, the upper castes, comprising Brahmins, Rajputs, Kayasthas and Banias (its core voters) went en masse for it because in their minds, these communities saw the BJP as their only insurance against the backward caste ‘threat’, brought about by reservation. However, conversely, even certain castes which already benefited from statutory quotas, like the Dalits and the backward castes which stood on the cusp of empowerment, voted for the BJP. Why?Take the Jats, an intermediate caste. The Jats were never fully assimilated with the ‘savarnas’ (popular lore has it that even Chaudhary Charan Singh, a former PM, was reluctantly offered a seat whenever he visited a Brahmin home in villages) but they fancied themselves as a cut above the backward castes, not to speak of the Dalits. Because many of them had adopted the Arya Samaj sect of Hinduism, they warmed up to the RSS and the BJP. For decades, the Sangh tried to ally with the Arya Samaj with which it shared common convictions, the most important being cow protection. The Arya Samaj was increasingly drawn towards the RSS’s ideology. Since 1991, the Jats went largely for the BJP, although they had their own leaders, first in Chaudhary Ajit Singh and then his son, Chaudhary Jayant Singh. The choice of the BJP fell into a larger process of Sanskritisation to enable upward mobility in the caste hierarchy on par with wearing the ceremonial ‘janeu’ (sacred thread traditionally worn only by Brahmins), sporting a red ‘tikka’ and turning vegetarian.If the Arya Samaj was the RSS-BJP’s passageway to woo the Jats, no less successful was their endeavour to work on the different Dalit and backward sub-castes by combining ‘history’ (largely undocumented), mythology and religion. For instance, in several elections, the Passis went for the BJP because it enhanced their sense of self by disseminating the story that Passis originated from the sweat of Parashuram, an incarnation of Vishnu. The BJP went a step further by telling Passis that under King Bijli Passi, they ruled UP and Bihar in the 11th century.Raja Suheldev, a 10th-century ruler of Shravasti in eastern UP, was resurrected by the BJP as a ‘saviour of the Hindu religion’ because he was supposed to have vanquished Salar Masood Ghazi, purportedly a nephew of Mahmud of Ghazni. The backward caste Rajbhar community has iconised Suheldev. Therefore, when Om Prakash Rajbhar, a former BJP ally who went along with the SP in the recent election, claimed that the Rajbhars would desert the BJP, the BJP was unfazed. A leader said the Rajbhars would never go with a coalition which had Muslims as an integral constituent. ‘They remember Suheldev and his battle with the Muslim invaders,’ he said.The BJP’s engagements with Mandal politics did not begin and end with just historical personages. It identified and nurtured a phalanx of backward caste and Dalit leaders from the grassroots, starting with Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti and culminating in Narendra Modi. That contains clues to its success in managing two seemingly contradictory political strands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/mandal-vs-kamandal-in-up-pollscape-381863
30-03-2022||In strategic security||Quad as ineffectual bloc||AUKUS only reinforces yet another Anglo-American accord in which non-Whites, including Indians, are excluded.Consecutively, some of these Quads are also projected at securing common but nebulously defined economic or humanitarian goals, like swiftly disseminating Covid-19 vaccines, or in some cases, securing both objectives. But in reality, their aims remain high on rhetoric but low on substance, striving hard to tangibly amplify their tenuous strategic and operational goals.In short, these Quads are more about grandstanding and hype, but abysmally low on delivery, especially with regard to achieving even prosaic military objectives.The oldest and best known amongst these Quads — officially known as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue — was founded in 2007 with Australia, India, Japan and the US as members with the inchoate aim of maintaining international rules and values in the Indo-Pacific region. It originated following the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, providing disaster relief to numerous littoral states that collectively registered over 227,000 fatalities. Having operated seamlessly during the disaster, this grouping of maritime democracies opted thereafter to band together, ostensibly to contain China’s maritime hegemonic ambitions in the Pacific and the Indian Ocean Region or IOR. The Quad’s emergence followed joint naval exercises the same year in the Bay of Bengal in which Singapore also participated.Beijing responded aggressively. Its strong protestations to India resulted in it being summarily disbanded but a decade later, in response to growing People’s Liberation Army Navy’s (PLANs) belligerence and rising force levels concurrently in the IOR and the South China Sea, the Quad diffidently revived itself. And with late-comer Australia that had, under Chinese pressure abruptly withdrawn from the consortium in 2008, the Quad conducted the joint ‘Malabar’ exercises in November 2020 in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea.Indian security officials, then ensnared by the ongoing military face-off with China’s PLA in eastern Ladakh over their mutually disputed border, looked upon this multilateral alliance of maritime democracies as a possible overt tactic to scare Beijing off, but to no avail. They perhaps believed that collectively, the Quad could spook Beijing by signalling the possibility of it ‘throttling’ the funnel-shaped Malacca Strait, through which over 80% of China’s oil and hydrocarbon imports from West Asia transit. By blockading the Strait, in what is termed China’s Malacca Dilemma, India and other Quad members estimated they could thus contain Beijing’s hegemonic ambitions by inhibiting its Belt and Road Initiative and the Maritime Silk Road enterprise to economically and strategically dominate Asia, and later other parts of the world to fulfil its medieval ‘Middle Kingdom’ aspirations.Indian strategists also believed that other regional navies from Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam too could support the Quad in containing an expansionist Beijing, by impeding China’s Malacca lifeline. Most of these countries had unresolved maritime, trade or territorial disputes with China and good defence, security and diplomatic relations with India.But this ambitious hypothesis ignores one fundamental reality: that all such motivations could come a cropper over the certitude of how many of these navies — including that of the US — would be willing to militarily thwart China at India’s behest to alleviate its faceoff in Ladakh? Besides, it also ignored the reality of the US being unable to deter or prevent China from illegally seizing and militarily fortifying forcibly seized and newly constructed islands in the South China Sea in open defiance of UN decrees with surface-to-air missiles and combat aircraft.Moreover, there is an inherent dichotomy in all such calculations.All Quad members, especially India and the US, had repeatedly reiterated that their coalition was by no means a security grouping. In July 2021, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, for instance, had categorically but feebly declared that the Quad was not a military union but an ‘arrangement to spearhead regional co-operation and security, while maintaining international rules and values’. And more recently, India’s Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had defined the Quad somewhat indistinctly as a ‘plurilateral grouping of countries with a shared vision of their attributes and values’.In late 2020, however, India pressed on further with the voguish Quad concept and alongside Israel, the United Arab Emirates and the US announced the establishment of yet another four-member formation for enhanced economic cooperation. Subsequently, in July 2021, the US State Department agreed in principle to constitute an additional Quadrilateral diplomatic platform involving Afghanistan, Pakistan and Uzbekistan to enhance regional connectivity.On the other side of the divide, an adversarial and highly potent China-led Quad is in the making with Russia, Iran and Pakistan as members, and with Turkey as a possible fifth constituent to principally counter the previously listed groupings. Notably, three of its incipient members — China, Russia and Pakistan — are nuclear-weapon states.Meanwhile, looming portentously in the background is AUKUS, the relatively more robust trilateral security pact between Australia, the UK and the US announced in September 2021 for the Indo-Pacific region that directly challenges China. Under AUKUS, variously dubbed in security and diplomatic circles as an ‘Anglophonic’ federation or a ‘Whites only club’, the US and the UK will help augment Australia’s long-range offensive military potential by providing it nuclear-powered submarines and upgrading its cyber and artificial intelligence capabilities to counter the PLAN’s burgeoning presence in the area. This militarily meaningful pact will further supplement Canberra’s 80-year-old ‘Five Eyes’ intelligence-sharing alliance that includes Canada, New Zealand and the US, only reinforcing yet another Anglo-American accord in which non-Whites, including Indians, are excluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/quad-as-ineffectual-bloc-381862
