31-03-2022||---||What stirred the pot||Ever since the disintegration of the Soviet Union in 1988, relations between Russia and some of its neighbouring European republics have been uneasy or strained. While Russia’s relations with the former Soviet Islamic republics, to its East, have remained cooperative, former Soviet European republics like Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovenia joined NATO. They have since progressed economically, as newly elected members of the EU. Ukraine, which was an important industrial centre, retained close economic, linguistic and cultural ties with Russia. It was also strategically located, securing Russia’s access to the warm waters of the seas of Azov, Baltic and Mediterranean. Driven by suspicions of possible inimical takeovers of its exits to the sea, Russia seized control of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014, while also securing  control of the Russian-majority Donbas region. This accelerated the downslide in ties and the election of the dynamic, and some would say impetuous, Volodymyr Zelenskyy as Ukraine’s President didn’t help matters. He soon invited the wrath of the Russians with his rhetoric and proximity to the US. The US was within its rights to expand military ties with Ukraine, but it was not wise to adopt a belligerent posture on Russia’s crucial access to the Black Sea. Matters came to a head in 2021, when US Secretary of State Blinken and his Ukrainian counterpart Dmytro Kuleba signed a declaration in Washington, provoking a strong response from Moscow. The declaration called for ‘substantive measures, to prevent direct and hybrid aggression against Ukraine, and hold Russia responsible for such aggression’. It added that the US intended to cooperate with Ukraine in implementing defence industry reforms, and deepening cooperation in areas, such as Black Sea security. While the US was within its rights to expand military cooperation with Ukraine, it  was not wise diplomatically to adopt a belligerent posture on an issue of grave concern to Russia, which involves its crucial access to the Black Sea. It should have been obvious that given its historical interest in securing access to the sea, Russia would spare no effort to ensure full and free access to these seas. Russia is now in the process of taking control of maritime centres in Ukraine, like Luhansk and Donetsk, to get unhindered access to the Sea of Azov and the Black Sea. Securing control of the Port of Odessa will, however, remain another, but more difficult, objective to achieve. Luhansk and Donetsk have majority Russian populations. In the meantime, the US and Ukraine had jointly proclaimed that ‘the United States intends to support Ukraine’s efforts to counter armed aggression, economic and energy disruptions, and malicious cyber activity by Russia, including by maintaining sanctions against, or related to Russia, and applying other relevant measures, until restoration of the territorial integrity of Ukraine, within its internationally recognized borders.’ The language of such threats will have to be replaced by serious dialogue between the two most militarily powerful countries, with the largest nuclear arsenals. There is, however, a growing feeling that after the fiasco that marked the US withdrawal from Afghanistan, the Biden administration wants to be seen domestically and internationally as being firm and tough in its dealings with Russia.The US policies in Ukraine’s neighbourhood were spelt out explicitly in the 2021 joint statement, which also asserts that the US ‘intends to support Ukraine in its efforts to counter armed aggression, economic and energy and violations, and malicious cyber activity by Russia,  including by maintaining sanctions against, or related to Russia, and by applying other relevant measures, until restoration of the territorial integrity  of Ukraine.’ Russia was declared a ‘potential aggressor’ and these aims were spelt out two-three months prior to the start of the current military hostilities. The Russians, however, erred by getting into a wide-ranging conflict with Ukraine, instead of concentrating on smaller areas of maritime strategic interest. The provocative provisions of the statement were, however, the trigger. The close US-Ukraine ties also stirred concerns about Ukraine becoming yet another NATO-like partner of the US, with its ports being made available for use by the US military. Moscow has, therefore, confined its territorial ambitions to areas near its borders with Ukraine, like Donetsk and Luhansk. Given the presence of the US Fifth Fleet across the Black Sea, Russia has little choice but to keep control of its south-eastern borders with Ukraine. These are issues which can only be resolved constructively in a direct dialogue between Russia and Ukraine. In the meantime, the entire issue of India’s relations with Russia was raised by US assertions, notably by President Biden, that like other members of Quad, India should have fallen in line with US policy on Russia. The activities of Quad are confined to the Indian and Pacific Oceans. India has made an active contribution to Quad’s moves to resist Chinese expansionism across its land and maritime boundaries, where Beijing has used, or threatened to use force against a number of countries, ranging from Japan and the Philippines to Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia. India has worked in Quad, together with the US, Japan and Australia to deal with such challenges. India is, however, under no obligation to do likewise for differences the US has with Russia, in Ukraine or elsewhere. India firmly believes that such issues should be resolved peacefully, bilaterally or regionally, through direct negotiations between those involved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/what-stirred-the-pot-382194
31-03-2022||---||Ukraine war & India’s dependency on Russia||India has acquired a visible relevance in the tragic Ukraine war that has entered its second month, with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov scheduled to meet his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar in New Delhi on April 1. This follows the ‘unannounced’ visit of Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi last week. It is instructive to note that the Lavrov visit will be preceded by that of US Deputy National Security Adviser Daleep Singh and UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss.The Russian announcement on March 29 that it will “fundamentally” scale back military operations near Kyiv is a slender sign of hope that there may be a cessation of the current level of hostilities and this is to be cautiously welcomed. This is a war that will be consequential at multiple levels over an extended temporal and spatial canvas. While central Europe and Eurasia are directly affected by both the destruction in Ukraine and the humanitarian crisis it has triggered, the regional and global implications are varied and complex, given the US/NATO versus Russia context of this war. Among those nations most affected by the Ukraine war, India’s relevance and predicament are distinctive.The US and its allies have framed this war as one of democracy and freedom pitted against a rapacious and reckless Russia and the global community has been urged to take a united stand against President Putin. However, this US call for solidarity has not elicited the kind of unequivocal global support that the enormity of 9/11 did in September 2001. Among the major powers, both China and India have been ambivalent in different ways and have not joined the US-led call to denounce Russia and its leadership.However, the Indian position on the Ukraine war has been evolving since February 24 and the nuanced voting pattern in the UN is indicative of Delhi’s discomfiture at the indefensible Putin decision to invade Ukraine.The Indian dilemma over Moscow’s impulsive military actions is a familiar one and the 1979 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan during the Cold War is a case in point. There is dismay and muted anger in the global liberal spectrum that the world’s largest democracy is not unequivocally standing up for the normative principles of defending freedom and territorial integrity and US President Joe Biden has described the Indian position as ‘somewhat shaky’.India, as in the past, has weighed the pros and cons of upholding normative principles versus nurturing national interest and chosen the path of abstaining from joining the anti-Russia cluster. The fact that the world’s two most populous nations — India and China — have remained circumspect provides Russia with some diplomatic space and may have encouraged Moscow to join the negotiations in Istanbul.Apropos of Delhi’s relevance, it is evident that Moscow would be keen to ensure that both India and China remain muted in their public statements and not join the US denouncement of President Putin’s military adventurism. If the forthcoming BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa) summit scheduled for later this year in Beijing is attended by all the five leaders in person — despite the Ukraine blunder — it will be a diplomatic victory for Moscow. Concurrently, the Sino-Russian relationship will acquire buoyancy with complex implications for India.India and Russia have had a robust bilateral relationship over the last 75 years — since Indian independence —and over the decades, much of India’s tangible military and strategic capabilities have been acquired in close partnership and cooperation with Moscow. The Lavrov visit will allow for a review of the broad spectrum of issues that will range from Afghanistan to bilateral trade against the backdrop of the US-led economic sanctions. It is pertinent to add that the Russian visitor will arrive in Delhi from China, which had convened a conference on Afghanistan that has predictably excluded India.Kabul is a test case for regional geopolitics and the ability of China to demonstrate its credibility as an alternate node of power and efficacy to repair the damage that both the USA and former Soviet Union have visited on that country (perhaps, the original Ukraine?) and India as a proximate neighbour is in a less-than-favourable position. Whether China will succeed in Afghanistan remains moot, but the profile and prowess of China in a post-Ukraine war (dis)order and Beijing’s orientation towards globalisation and the USA will be critical for both Moscow and Delhi.Thus, the Lavrov visit could be the beginning of the review and rearrangement of India-Russian relations against the backdrop of the Ukraine detritus and this brings into focus the ‘dependency’ factor in this relationship. The received wisdom is that India, for all its claim to maintaining strategic autonomy, 75 years after attaining independence remains a vulnerable power that is largely dependent on Russia for its military inventory. This supplier status of Moscow began in the mid-1960s and acquired high salience for Delhi that was then recovering from the trauma of the Chinese military attack of October 1962. Is Galwan 2020 a case of déjà vu?However, over the decades, the India-Russia relationship has become both symbiotic and synergistic. It is symbiotic in the sense that in the latter part of the Cold War, two very different political systems (communist and democratic) entered into a partnership to counter the US-China dyad. And this partnership is synergistic by way of the outcomes it has enabled over the last four decades.India is cognisant that in the yet to emerge post-Ukraine world order, the moral compass must swing towards the global democratic cluster with all its warts, even as the China-Russia combine coheres around the authoritarian template. The geo-economic numbers are stark. Collectively, the combined GDP of the US-EU and allies is just under $50 trillion and the China-Russia combine is $18.5 trillion. And the per capita ranking of China, Russia and India is 64, 68 and 150, respectively.Post the Lavrov visit, in early April, India will engage with the USA for the first 2 plus 2 dialogue (which brings foreign and defence ministers together) since President Joe Biden assumed office in Washington. The outcome of all these deliberations will define the composite framework for India to protect its core interests and advance its abiding aspirations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ukraine-war-indias-dependency-on-russia-382195
31-03-2022||---||Growth in exports needs consistency||Alandmark has been reached with the country having crossed $400 billion worth of merchandise exports for the first time in the 2021-22 fiscal. Surely a time for jubilation but also a time to reflect over the reasons for this spurt in trade flows and whether it can be sustained in the medium and long term. India has been struggling for decades to increase its presence in world markets and it looks as if it is now poised to make a mark as an exporting nation. It could soon break into the top 15 global exporters, though it should have been on this list much earlier, given the size of its economy.In recent years, it was beginning to be felt that there was little hope of India becoming a major merchandise trade exporter and the focus should instead shift to the burgeoning segment of services exports. These have been growing steadily over the years and are now likely to touch $250 billion in the current fiscal. The surge in merchandise trade has taken place during what has been viewed as a rather dismal phase of the economy. The uneven revival of 2021-22, following the unprecedented contraction in the pandemic year, did not seem to augur well but it has been precisely during this period that exports have taken off in a big way.One of the reasons is the revival of pent-up global demand following the pandemic. Combined with logistical difficulties in getting supplies from usual sources, including China, the situation proved beneficial for Indian exporters who could fill the gaps in many areas. Growth has not been high merely compared to $290-billion exports recorded in the 2020-21 fiscal but also relative to $313 billion of the pre-pandemic fiscal of 2019-20. The rise has been both in value and volume terms over this period.What is even more significant is that manufactured goods have contributed in a big way to the rising trade outflows. Engineering products, including electronics, comprise the largest segment of the export basket, having grown by as much as 50 per cent. Petroleum products, which are among the top export commodities, are also value-added goods from the country’s oil refineries. Agricultural exports are another major segment which expanded vastly over the past few years. Rice and marine products have shown the biggest increases. The outlook for higher wheat and corn exports has also improved with the Ukraine conflict having the potential to curtail supplies from Russia. Gems and jewellery exports, which had dipped during the pandemic, have revived and become the third largest segment, along with chemicals and pharmaceuticals. Ready-made garments, where India has been facing stiff competition from its Asian neighbours, is also one of the biggest growth areas.As for whether the rising graph of exports will persist, the outlook is bright right now. The reasons are multifarious. First, the resurgence in exports has not come about overnight. It is a culmination of policy initiatives taken over several years. One of these is the launch of production linked incentive (PLI) schemes in industries like electronics. This prompted the creation of an entire ecosystem of electronics manufacturers, including many who had set up assembly units or components units in countries like China. The domestic production of smart-phones as a result of the PLI scheme has ultimately reflected in much higher exports.The second is the introduction of policies putting an emphasis on identifying export products even at the district level. This has led to a greater push towards setting up of agro-processing export-oriented industries. The introduction of incentives that are compatible with WTO guidelines has helped exporters as well. And finally, recent efforts to tie up several bilateral free trade agreements (FTAs) augurs well for the future. India stayed away from the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) on the grounds that the rules of origin were not stringent enough to prevent a flood of imports from China. Some had criticised this protective approach towards domestic industry but it was wise to take a cautious attitude towards merging with a trade grouping heavily dominated by China.The current flurry of activity aimed at finalising bilateral FTAs is certainly in the right direction. The latest agreement concluded with the UAE is the first after over a decade with a major trading partner. The UAE is the second largest export destination and the pact should help to dispel the image of India as a protectionist economy. What is even more encouraging is that other bilateral FTAs are in the pipeline with the UK, Australia, Canada and the Gulf Cooperation Council, comprising six countries in that region. A dialogue on the long-pending trade agreement with the European Union has resumed but it is clear that the one with the UK will be moving more rapidly than others. Areas that have stalled the talks with EU including spirits and automobiles are not likely to bog down the discussions with the UK where both sides are keen to reach an early resolution.In case India is able to tie up bilateral agreements with key trading partners over the next six months, export efforts will get a boost after a period of successive setbacks. These include the withdrawal of trade concessions worth $5.6 billion under the Generalised System of Preferences by the US in 2019. The inability of this country to become a member of any major regional trade grouping has also handicapped exporters who face a competitive disadvantage in many markets. With these agreements, the situation is set to look up especially as the UAE, the UK and Australia are leading export destinations.It has to be cautioned, however, that there is still a long way to go before India becomes a major trading nation. Exports as a percentage of GDP are still only about 11 per cent, much lower than the peak of 18 per cent achieved about a decade ago. Rising world prices have also contributed to the steep increase in exports in value terms during 2021-22. At the same time, it is clear that the greater support being given to export industries has given an impetus to outward trade flows. If this is sustained along with the drive to finalise more trade pacts, it could ensure that India finally gets a place at the global high table of exporters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/growth-in-exports-needs-consistency-382199
