03-09-2021||Ludhiana||School bus crushes 2-yr-old girl to death in Ludhiana||A two-and-a-half-year-old girl was crushed to death by a school bus near Matharu Chowk this morning. The girl, Aaradhana, a resident of New Shimlapuri, and her father were going to drop her brother at school on a motorcycle when the incident took place. ASI Rakesh Kumar of the Shimlapuri police station said the motorcycle was hit by a speeding school bus from behind. The girl fell in front of the bus and got crushed under it. The girl’s father and her brother suffered minor injuries in the accident. The bus driver fled after the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/school-bus-crushes-2-yr-old-girl-to-death-in-ludhiana-305828
03-09-2021||---||7 mobile phones seized from Ludhiana jail inmates||Ludhiana, September 2 A surprise raid conducted by staff of the Central Jail here led to the recovery of seven mobile phones and six tobacco sachets from jail inmates. The inmates have been identified as Amankha, Munna Paswan, Hashrat Mohammad Arshad, Haidar Ali, Sukhbir Singh, Ajmal Ajlam and Mohammad Osama. Binny Taak, assistant jail superintendent, said the surprise search operation was carried out in jail premises which led to the recovery of mobile phones and chewable tobacco.  Taak said probe would be conducted to inquire how these banned items reached the prison.  A fresh case under the Prison Act has been registered against the jail inmates. Earlier also such banned items were seized from the jail inmates but probe of jail and police department had failed to yield any result.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/7-mobile-phones-seized-from-ludhiana-jail-inmates-305829
03-09-2021||---||Nine test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, September 2Nine Covid positive cases, including one from the Police Department, were reported in the district, today. No death was reported in the district. One patient is undergoing treatment for Covid at a hospital in the district and is on ventilator support.Today 12 patients were sent for home isolation and there were 22 active patients in the district.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.58 per cent and 85,360 patients have recovered so far in the district.Till date, a total of 22,95,393 samples have been taken, of which 21,96,254 samples were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,479, while 11,660 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives is 2,097 from Ludhiana and 1,049 from other districts.Samples of 6,199 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nine-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-305830
03-09-2021||Tribune Reporters||Sahnewal: Head teacher ‘insulted’ by Dy DEO, suffers panic attack||Sahnewal/Ludhiana, Sept 2The “insulting and abusive language” used by a Deputy DEO and his clerk allegedly led to deterioration in the health of the head teacher of Government Primary School, Sahnewal. While the teacher is stated to be in a serious condition, her kin are seeking immediate termination of service or transfer of the Deputy District Education Officer (DEO) and the clerk.Sukhpreet Kaur, sister-in-law of head teacher Swapandeep Kaur, said the latter was an award-winning teacher. Yesterday, DEO Rajwinder Kaur came to the school while a vaccination drive was on and blamed the head teacher for not supporting the medical staff. She demanded more rooms for them to function. Swapandeep, in turn, complained of not being informed about the camp earlier. She stated that the school had a strength of 650 students and it was very difficult to stuff them all in four rooms. The school has just five rooms while two are under construction. “As the DEO went away, Deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh Saini and one of his clerks, Harwinder Singh Romy, began to threaten the head teacher and used abusive language against her,” Sukhpreet said.Swapandeep found their words very insulting and suffered a panic attack and fell unconscious.She was taken to a private hospital at Doraha where she was in a critical state till the filing of the report. “No one has the right to use such abusive language for anyone. She is in a critical condition. If anything goes wrong, these two would be responsible. We seek immediate termination or transfer of the Deputy DEO and the clerk,” Sukhpreet added.As per the orders of the DEO and Deputy DEO to vacate rooms for the vaccination staff, the children at the primary school were made to sit in the scorching heat.One of the teachers at the school said, “The students spent the whole day out in the hot weather to accommodate the vaccination staff, who had dropped in without any written intimation. One of the children even received injuries in the stampede a day before, as the sudden rush of those interested in getting vaccinated proved too much to handle”.Another teacher, on the condition of anonymity, said the Deputy DEO had threatened to transfer the head teacher and she got terrified. “We had no written orders for this vaccination camp. On top of it, we have the huge responsibility of 600-plus students. Instead of listening to our problems, the Deputy DEO started behaving rudely with the head teacher and she suffered an attack,” the teacher said.Meanwhile, the principal of another government school has complained about Saini’s rudeness. She said around 15 days ago, during a zoom meeting, she was targeted by him but things got sorted out with the intervention of the DEO.On the other hand, Deputy DEO Saini said “These are mere allegations to settle scores with me. I did not say anything to the teacher and she suffered the attack after an hour or so. If I had said anything, she could have suffered attack then itself. I never spoke rudely with her and these are tactics to tarnish my image”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sahnewal-head-teacher-insulted-by-dy-deo-suffers-panic-attack-305831
03-09-2021||---||Minor kidnapped, kin allege police inaction||Ludhiana, September 2Kin of an 11-year-old girl, who was allegedly kidnapped by her neighbour about 10 days ago, today went to the Police Commissioner’s office alleging police inaction in the case.They submitted a complaint to the ADCP (Headquarters), who assured them of the justice. The family members were accompanied by state Samajwadi Party senior leader Dr RK Yadav.Yadav said the victim, a resident of Mundian Khurd, was kidnapped by her 24-year-old neighbour, Suraj, about 10-days ago. On August 24, the Mundian police had registered a case of kidnapping against Suraj.“Now even after 10 days of the incident the police have failed to trace the girl. Kin of the girl have been making rounds of the police station but they have failed to trace the girl,” Yadav said.He said today the kidnapper called the mother of the victim and informed that he had already solemnised marriage with the girl at his native place in UP.He said the ADCP had assured the victim’s family that a police officer would be sent to recover the girl.The complainant has forwarded a copy of the complaint to the Chief Minister of Punjab, DGP Punjab and the National Women Commission for immediate action, Yadav said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minor-kidnapped-kin-allege-police-inaction-305832
03-09-2021||Ludhiana||Cash awards given to sports achievers||Seven players were given cash awards worth Rs 49,000 for their outstanding achievements in different sports disciplines, at a function organised by the local office of the Punjab Sports Department at Guru Nanak Stadium here today. Surinder Dawar, MLA, Ludhiana Central, handed over cheques to the players in the presence of district sports officials, under the Punjab Government scheme to encourage the sportspersons.  These players were honoured for their achievements during the sports session 2017-18.They include Sapna Thapar (gymnastics), Rajan and Kamalpreet Singh (softball), Tanish Malhotra (shooting), Manav Gautam, Prabal Gautam and Mandeep Singh (all handball). —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cash-awards-given-to-sports-achievers-305834
03-09-2021||Nitin Jain||278 more beds for Ludhiana hospitals||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 2Learning lessons from the past and preparing to deal with any health emergency, especially Covid, in future, each district in the state will augment 25 per cent beds in both the government and private hospitals, the government has said.With this, the Level-2 beds in the state will go up from existing 10,872 to 13,728, while 546 additional beds will take the number of Level-3 beds from present 2,935 to 3,481, the officials have said.The development assumes significance as a large number of critical and serious patients in dire need of hospitalisation and life support were not able to get the hospital beds during the devastating second Covid wave as the health infrastructure was completely hard pressed and unbearably full with both government and private hospitals left with no vacant beds, mainly in May.Confirming the development, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told The Tribune here on Thursday that Ludhiana has proposed to add 226 Level-2 beds — 165 in private hospitals and 61 in government facilities — to take their number to 2,472 from the existing 2,246, while 52 Level-3 beds are proposed to be added to the private facilities, which will take the total number to 742 from currently available 690 emergency beds.Presently, Ludhiana has a total of 3,386 hospital beds — 450 in government hospitals and 2,936 in private facilities.Ludhiana’s proposed addition is, however, less than the mandate of 25 per cent capacity building. While there is a shortfall of adding 202 Level-2 beds, 88 less Level-3 beds have been proposed to be added to the district due to certain reasons.Among other districts, Amritsar will be adding 330 Level-2 and 81 Level-3 beds, Barnala 40 L2 beds, Bathinda 285 L2 and 86 L3 beds, Faridkot 120 L2 and 32 L3 beds, Fatehgarh Sahib 60 L2 and 1 L3 bed, Fazilka 205 L2 beds, Ferozepur 39 L2 and 1 L3 beds, Gurdaspur 654 L2 beds, Hoshiarpur 45 L2 and 4 L3 beds, Jalandhar 293 L2 and 88 L3 beds, Kapurthala 20 L2 beds, Mansa 88 L2 and 7 L3 beds, Moga 162 L2 and 15 L3 beds, Muktsar 100 L2 beds, Pathankot 34 L2 beds and 21 L3 beds, Patiala 283 L2 and 49 L3 beds, Ropar 42 L2 and 9 L3 beds, Mohali 241 L2 and 84 L3 beds, Sangrur 42 L2 and 5 L3 beds, Nawanshahr 6 each L2 and L3 beds, Tarn Taran 100 L2 and 5 L3 beds, and Malerkotla will augment 30 L2 beds in its health facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/278-more-beds-for-ludhiana-hospitals-305836
03-09-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Farm unions prepare for mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar||Farmers of the region have started preparing for the Muzaffarnagar kisan mahapanchayat on September 5. Union leaders are mobilising support from all sections of the society, including small and marginal farmers, farm labourers and trade unions.Bhartiya Kisan Union-Ekta Ugrahan leaders Jagmit Singh Kalahar and Saudagar Singh Ghudani said office-bearers of various constituents of Samyukt Kisan Morcha were making all out efforts to organise village and block-level meetings of farmers and activists so that maximum people could join the mega event, which is expected to boost the stir launched over nine months ago to get the three farm laws withdrawn.All-India Kisan Sabha leader Baldev Singh Latala appreciated that leaders of various factions had decided to bury their differences to fight against the Union Government for withdrawal of the three farm laws. “Though various regional leaders have their differences and maintain a distance from each other, they are fully united under the umbrella of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha,” said Latala. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farm-unions-prepare-for-mahapanchayat-in-muzaffarnagar-305839
03-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||DLSA vax camp for physically challenged||Ludhiana, September 2The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) today organised a Covid-19 vaccination camp for physically challenged persons, under the supervision of CJM-cum-DLSA secretary PS Kaleka.He said vaccination was the only way to break the transmission chain of the virus and appealed to people to come forward and get inoculated at the earliest in view of the impending third wave. He also asked people to strictly adhere to Covid protocols.Deepti Saluja, a DLSA panel lawyer, said with the help of doctors, special arrangements were made to vaccinate those who are bed-ridden or unable to reach the camp site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dlsa-vax-camp-for-physically-challenged-305840
03-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Nephew held for killing 70-year-old migrant||Raikot, September 2The city police claimed to have solved the murder case of a 70-year-old migrant, Tula Ram, who worked as a gardener and was living with his nephew in Prem Nagar on Guga Mari Road.The accused, identified as Sher Singh of Asuha in Firozabad district, UP, was arrested by a police team, led by City SHO Ajaib Singh, while trying to leave the area today.Senior Superintendent of Police (Rural) Gurdial Singh said the Raikot circle police had solved the blind murder case under the supervision of SP (PBI) Rajbir Singh Boparai, Raikot DSP Gurbachan Singh and DSP (D) Rajan Sharma. The murder was committed on theintervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.Investigations revealed that Tula Ram had been running a nursery at Prem Nagar and lived with one of his nephews, Parveen Kumar. His body was found lying in a hut near the nursery yesterday. Sher Singh, another nephew of Tula Ram, had an old rivalry with the deceased and Parveen. The accused confessed to have killed Tula Ram by hitting him on head with bricks and flower pots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nephew-held-for-killing-70-year-old-migrant-305842
03-09-2021||Sports Correspondent||Ludhiana players bag 32 medals||Ludhiana, September 2Trainees of Ashok Karate School, Dugri, performed extremely well and reaped a rich haul of medals in the Kyo Rin North India Karate-Do Championship held at SN College, Banga, in Nawanshahr district.Representing Punjab in this championship wherein around 300 participants from North India competed, karatekas from the school bagged 32 medals, including nine gold medals. Besides, they also secured seven silver and 16 bronze medals.Shihan Ashok Chohan, general secretary, Ludhiana District Karate Association and director of the school, appreciated the outstanding achievements in the championship and wished them more success in future tournaments.Chohan advised the children to take part in karate game which would make them self-protective and physically fit.The gold medal winners are Kabir Malhotra,Kunwar Partap Singh, Ritvik Chauhan, Nikhil, Arhaan Malhotra, Harkaran, Saakaar, Anuushka Antwal and Harman Veer Singh, while Jannat, Milavika, Chuninda Chauhan, Vidhi Gulai, Simran, Sahil Kumarand Soham Chohan won silver medals.The bronze medal winners are Crystal, Alyeska, Neha Arora, Abhay Kapoor, Ran Nandni Rana, Ayansh Kataria, Tanush Lekhi, Dilraj Singh Sekhon, Arth Antwal, Shatakshi Singh, Rishit Bhatia, Natasha, Sanvi Aggarwal, Hunar Goswami and Nahar Kapoor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-players-bag-32-medals-305845
03-09-2021||Ludhiana||45 POs booked||The Ludhiana police have initiated a drive against proclaimed offenders (POs) and started registering fresh cases against them. The police have registered 45 cases against the proclaimed absconders under Section 229 A (failure of person released on bond to appear in the court) of the IPC on Wednesday. As per the details, some of the proclaimed offenders have been absconding even for 40 years and the police have failed to trace them. Sources said the Police Commissioner have asked the police to scan the entire record of absconders and register cases. The purpose of registering such cases is to pressurise the other absconders to surrender else similar cases will be registered against them. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/45-pos-booked-305847
03-09-2021||---||Police challan four for drunk driving, impound 11 vehicles in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 2Sameer Verma, Additional DCP 3, led a special drive on Wednesday night to conduct checks at Sarabha Nagar market, Hero Bakery road, Baba Chicken, Canal road, South City and other areas where residents consume liquor while sitting in their cars.The ADCP said when drunk people drive cars, they are more prone to road mishaps. This way, they put their as well as others’ lives in danger.“During this late night drive, we challaned four people for drunken driving and impounded 11 cars in which occupants were found consuming liquor. Medical examination of 25 persons was conducted as liquor was found in their cars. If their reports confirm liquor consumption, action will be taken against them,” Verma stated.The ADCP said the drive would continue and the police would keep conducting surprise checks.After the police put a warning message on its Facebook page and Twitter handle, residents appreciated the action and also named some areas where drinking in public places was common.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-challan-four-for-drunk-driving-impound-11-vehicles-in-ludhiana-305849
03-09-2021||Ludhiana||Meet targets under welfare schemes: Ludhiana MC chief||Against the target of 27,105 applications, the MC has uploaded 20,364 requests from the street vendors for loans under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme. The Central Government had earlier launched the PM SVANidhi scheme to provide a loan of Rs 10,000 to street vendors. In a meeting with the officials held here today, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said it had come to light that 1,625 loan applications in 57 banks were  pending. He directed the Additional Commissioner concerned to conduct a meeting with the bank officials to end the pendency and meet the target.  Meanwhile, the Commissioner also reviewed the works related to  Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) and Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/meet-targets-under-welfare-schemes-ludhiana-mc-chief-305851
03-09-2021||Our Correspondent||I-T case: Court junks Capt Amarinder’s plea against ED inspection||Ludhiana, September 2The Court of Additional Sessions Judge Raj Kumar Garg today dismissed the revision petitions moved by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh challenging the order of the trial court, which allowed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to inspect the pending income tax case files and the documents attached with these.The ED intended to inspect the files in relation to an investigation pending with it under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). The department’s complaints with the allegations of tax evasion and concealment of facts were pending against the CM and his son before the court of CJM Sumit Makkar.Last year, the ED had got an order in its favour from the court of Duty Magistrate Jasbeer Singh to inspect the files. Before the ED could inspect them, the Chief Minister and his son challenged the order and got stay in their favour.In its petitions, it was asserted the ED was having no jurisdiction to investigate the matter, which is the subject matter of the complaint pending before the trial court moved by the department against them.Moreover, the Enforcement Directorate was not even a party in the case. So, it had no right to inspect the files. The Duty Magistrate failed to appreciate the fact that the law did not provide inspection by a stranger in a pending case, claimed the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/i-t-case-court-junks-capt-amarinders-plea-against-ed-inspection-305633
