06-09-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Install CCTV cameras, increase patrolling to curb incidents||The free run of criminals in various colonies of the city can be checked by the residents themselves, besides the local police. The residents must get together and devise a plan to keep an eye on anti-social elements. Various groups may be formed and each group can be assigned definite hours to watch over people visiting the colony, like the "Thikri Pehra" in the state villages. Also, residents can pool funds and appoint watchmen. This will also create jobs for unemployed youth. Gates of colonies must be kept closed. Further, the MC must ensure that CCTV cameras are installed in all colonies to watch the movement of outsiders and to keep a record of their visit.Gautam DevMore patrolling neededAs Ludhiana has a huge population, despite the best efforts of the local police, crime incidents are increasing day by day. It is time to deploy more police patrolling vans and motorbikes, which should go around the city from dusk to dawn. Also, if more CCTV cameras are installed at sensitive points, it would be very beneficial is discouraging snatching of chains, handbags and cell phones. Once nabbed, the culprits should be given an exemplary punishment. The residents should also become more serious and conscious about parking their vehicles. This would considerably reduce the incidents of carjacking.Dr Sunil ChopraResidents must be vigilantThe spurt in crime incidents in Ludhiana is worrisome. We, the residents, need to understand that the police alone cannot control all crime in the city. The residents also have to be vigilant. If possible, we should install CCTV cameras around our houses so that notorious activity, if any, can be captured by one or the other camera. Wherever we notice suspicious movement, we must immediately report it. Our cooperation is must to tackle crime in the city.Bir Devinder Singh BediCops must be on toesThefts and burglaries are taking place at a very fast pace in the city. With the festival season approaching, residents as well as the Police Department need to be on their toes to stop crime. Night patrolling must be made compulsory in the festival season. CCTV cameras must be installed in every nook and corner of the city. Stolen articles must be returned to the general public in a responsible manner.Ritu PriyaSituation alarmingDay by day, the incidents of crime such as burglary and theft are increasing. Some of the main reasons for this are lack of jobs for youth and lack of guidance. It is an alarming situation for the residents as no one is secure and the government cannot provide security to each and every person. But we can take some simple steps to protect ourselves by remaining vigilant. CCTV cameras and search lights must be installed at prime places. We must fence our homes and shops, cars and scooters must be locked before parking. Also, we must not advertise if we are going out of station. Above all, we must assist and cooperate with each other and the government to curb crime.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiBeef up security in cityReducing the risk and fear of crime is a task for the police and the community together. Each one of us can do our bit to protect ourselves. Know your neighbourhood, check out the locations of police, hospitals etc, keep to well-used roads if driving alone at night and don't use alley ways and avoid deserted areas. The police must ensure that convicted criminals are strictly punished. Security must be beefed up around the city.RS SEMBHIEquip cops with latest techDue to Covid, mask is compulsory for everyone but it acts as a guard for robbers. CCTV cameras help the police in identifying criminals but it is not sufficient to stop such incidents completely. The police should install advanced authentication system and increase fast-track investigations. Patrolling by PCR vehicles must be increased ahead of the festival season. Cops must be equipped with the latest technology to nab criminals and those doing so should be rewarded suitably.Adish SoodFollow police guidelinesPolice personnel are always on duty to prevent crime, but it is our responsibility also to follow their guidelines and protect ourselves from loss. If leaving home unattended, we should have a proper security arrangement in place. Moreover, gold and cash should not be kept at home in large amounts. Women must not wear heavy gold during the festive season to avoid chain snatchings.Akshar Kumar SinglaCitizens’ safety top priorityThe crime rate in the city is increasing day by day. The safety of the citizens must be top priority. There are many ways in which the local police can reduce the crime rate, especially during the festive season. Installation of CCTV cameras at isolated places is a must. Residents should cooperate with the authorities and agencies concerned to fight crime in the city. Awareness programmes should be organised regularly to make society safe for everyone.Manpriya KaurStrict action should be takenIn order to check the free run of criminals, strict action should be taken against those nabbed. Installation of CCTV cameras in different areas would help obstruct these crimes. If somebody is found attempting a crime, he/she should be charged with heavy penalty, which will be a lesson and a deterrent for other criminals.KAMALDEEP KAURInfuse confidence in copsThe local police needs to take harsh steps to ensure peace and security in the city. The fear of law rests with compliance of law. Therefore, the conviction rate of criminals should be very high. Infusion of self-confidence in the force is also essential. Also, cops should obey the rule book, not their political bosses. Ground intelligence of thieves, snatchers, and other criminals is a must. The police force must be provided state-of-the-art electronic gadgets to track and catch criminals.Dr Sukhdev SharmaTargeted surveillanceDedicated teams must be established in all regions to investigate robberies by conducting forensic investigation and interviewing witnesses. Introducing targeted police surveillance and searches at places where many robberies occur and preventive measures by private parties, such as the use of surveillance cameras, are other ways to stop crime. During festival season, the police should take adequate precautions to avoid recurrence of crime.Anu JoshiDeal strictly with offendersIn the festival season, crowded places must be on high alert and entry and exit points must not be without checking. Everyone's safety is in their own hands, so rather than blaming the police entirely, people must stay alert and if possible, avoid visiting such crowed places where there is risk of theft and snatching. One must be conscious while visiting public places and the government also should deal strictly with even those who commit petty crimes.Simarjot KaurGet tenants verifiedThe administration should install CCTV cameras whereever possible so that culprits can be caught. Police patrolling should be increased and people should avoid visiting odd and lonely places alone. Self-defence training should be provided to children at schools so that they can face challenges head on. Instead of dealing in cash, people should use electronic mode of payment to avoid snatchings and thefts. At the time of hiring domestic helps or tenants, we must get them verified from the police.Vikas SharmaOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONThe poor condition of city roads has not only been causing great hardships to commuters but also leading to accidents on a daily basis. The authorities have turned a blind eye to the inconvenience faced by the public. What should be done to improve the condition of roads? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/install-cctv-cameras-increase-patrolling-to-curb-incidents-307278
06-09-2021||The Department of Food and Nutrition||PAU NOTES: National Nutrition Month||15 attend skill trainingPunjab Agricultural Management and Extension Training Institute (PAMETI) organised a six-day training programme under the Skill Training for Rural Youth Scheme from August 23-28. The programme was attended by 15 trainees. Dr HS Dhaliwal, Director, PAMETI, discussed the role and importance of urban agriculture. Experts from PAMETI and PAU explained nursery raising techniques for annual flowering, farm and household waste management, use of bio-products and bio-stimulants and cultivation of commercial fruits in Punjab to the participants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-notes-national-nutrition-month-307264
06-09-2021||Ludhiana||Trident  Foundation to sponsor cricket teams in Punjab||Trident Foundation has bagged sponsorship rights for the promotion of cricket in the state.Deepak Sharma, chief executive officer (CEO), Punjab Cricket Association (PCA), said the foundation had offered to sponsor Punjab men and women cricket teams in all formats of the game in the senior and junior sections, besides the PCA official website, regional coaching centres (RCC) for all 20 district members after calling of expression of interest (EOI) by the association for an initial period of two years.The foundation initially would spend nearly Rs 2 crore per year on promotion of cricket in the state, he said.He said the foundation would also sponsor teams of three districts — Barnala, Mansa and Sangrur.Sharma said it had also offered special sponsorship for 50 best cricketers (25 boys and 25 girls). — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/trident-foundation-to-sponsor-cricket-teams-in-punjab-307265
06-09-2021||Sports Correspondent||Ludhiana District Badminton Championship: Gurleen Kaur, Shenaya Chadha to vie for title||Ludhiana, September 5Gurleen Kaur and Shenaya Chadha outwitted their opponents in the semifinals to set up a title clash in the girls U-13 section on the second day of the Ludhiana District Badminton Championship being organised by the District Badminton Association at Shastri Hall near Guru Nanak Stadium here on Sunday.In the first semifinal, Gurleen Kaur faced a little challenge from Upneet Kaur and stitched up victory easily 21-8, 21-12 whereas the second match between Shenaya Chadha and Prabhnoor Kaur turned out to be a battle of nerves in which the former came out triumphant 14-21, 21-14 and 23-21 to advance into the summit clash.Meanwhile, in the girls’ U-17 category, Arunima Pal, Saanvi Nutiyal, Tarishi Singla and Tia Mahajan won their respective matches to make it to the semifinals.ResultsGirls’ singles U-17 (quarter-finals): Arunima Pal bt Vaasvi Singal 21-14, 21-17; Saanvi Nautiyal bt Tarisha Mahajan 21-9, 18-21, 21-14; Tarishi Singla bt Anupama 21-18, 18-21, 21-9 and Tia Mahajan bt Alisha Pathania 22-20, 21-15.Boys’ singles (U-17): Akshat Maithani bt Arham Kochhar 21-3, 21-3; Ranveer Singh got walk against Bismaad Singh; Jasraj Singh bt Jatin Arora 21-10, 21-6; Udit Chugh bt Ryan Sood 21-14, 26-24; Krish Chadha bt Keshav 21-6, 21-8; Awtar Singhj bt Hargun Singh 21-16, 19-21, 22-20; Pratham Soob bt Aryan Soi 21-16, 21-9; Vaibhav Goswami bt Naman Narang 21-16, 21-9; Shriyas Takkar bt Gurkirat Singh 21-8, 21-13; Rajveer Singh Yadav bt Vansh Sharma 21-14, 21-6; Prabhjot Singh bt Varinderjeet Singh 21-9, 21-3; Milan Malhotra bt Gursharan Singh 21-9, 21-9; Jaskaran Singh bt Anshdeep Singh 21-3, 21-2; Tanmay Tomar bt Aditya Jaiswal 21-8, 21-9; Dhiren Sharma bt Suparn Saini 21-8, 21-8 and Yogeshwar Narang bt Samrath Goel 21-8, 21-8.Men’s doubles: Mitaksh Gandhi and Lakshay Singal b Vineet and Aneet 21-12, 21-10; Anuj Dhand and Ankit Goel bt Arshveer Singh and Ravinder Singh 21-5, 21-8; Anand Tiwari and Lakshay Sharma bt Sanjeev Vohra and Raghav Aggarwal 21-23, 21-12, 21-13; Sachin Maurya and Gurpreet Singh bt Onkarjeet Birdi and Suresh Sood 21-15, 21-12; Naveen Sharma and Gurjot Singh bt Sahil and Jaswinder 21-19, 21-19; Vakul Sharma and Hakam Singh bt Nishit and Rajat Budhiraja 21-15, 212-23, 21-16; Rawel Singh and Harshdeep Singh bt Yuvraj and Pritish 21-14, 21-7; and Sannidhya Nautiyal and Vishwas Suri bt Sadik and Mehar 21-2, 21-10.Boys’ singles U-13: Stavan Jain bt Kanishk Chauhan 21-8, 21-6; Madhav bt Kovit Arora 21-8, 21-7; Kartik Kalra bt Kesar Singh 21-18, 14-21, 24-22; Abhijot bt Yashveer Nagpal 21-7, 21-12; Aditya Sharma beat Waryam Singh 21-16, 21-13; Wazir Singh beat Nipun 21-3, 21-8; Arnav Negi bt Suryavansh 21-7, 21-10; and Raghav Bhatia bt Dhaiya Sharma 21-4, 21-6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-badminton-championship-gurleen-kaur-shenaya-chadha-to-vie-for-title-307266
06-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Sahnewal: Youth electrocuted, kin seek relief||Sahnewal, September 5A 20-year-old boy, Abhishek, was allegedly electrocuted while lifting a container at a factory in Dhandhari on Friday. His family has refused to hand over his body for post-mortem examination till they are adequately compensated. The father of the deceased is paralysed and his sister is admitted to a hospital for surgery.RK Yadav, general secretary of Samajwadi Party local unit, said the family had been running from pillar to post since day before yesterday. “It seems that the Police Department as well as the administration has become inhumane. Even since the boy died, the Police Department has shown no concern at all. We met the chowki in charge of Kanganwal, who told us that the Investigating Officer Karnail Singh shall work on it. Similar was the reply of Sahnewal SHO Balwinder Singh. Yesterday, I took along the IO to the factory where the incident had taken place but nothing substantial came out of it. As our pleas were going unheard, we staged a dharna before the Kanganwal police chowki today, after which an FIR was registered and assurance was given that the factory owner and the driver involved in the case would be nabbed”.“The body shall not be handed over for post-mortem examination till the owner of the factory where the incident took place and the one where the deceased was engaged in loading and unloading of containers, compensate the family for the loss. The family has no money even for his last rites,” he added.Lal Dhari, the father of the deceased, said, “I have lost my son. I do not have money to cremate him. Moreover, I am paralysed and he was the only breadwinner of the family. My daughter is in the hospital and has to undergo a surgery,” he added.Investigating Officer Karnail Singh said an FIR was being registered against the factory owner and the driver who had engaged Abhishek for loading and unloading of containers. “The culprits shall soon be arrested and further investigation initiated in the case,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sahnewal-youth-electrocuted-kin-seek-relief-307267
06-09-2021||Ludhiana||Drunken driving: Nine vehicles impounded in Ludhiana||Continuing their campaign against drunken driving, the police raided city’s posh areas and caught hold of violators. ADCP 3 Sameer Verma led the drive on Saturday night.He said several cars parked on roads were checked and liquor was recovered from some while in others, occupants were caught consuming liquor.“We have impounded nine vehicles,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drunken-driving-nine-vehicles-impounded-in-ludhiana-307268
06-09-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Teachers honoured for their services amid pandemic||Teachers of various schools were felicitated during separate functions in the region to celebrate Teacher’s Day. The main function was organised by the local unit of Rotary Club at Jain Samadh, where the teachers felicitated vowed to dedicate their lives to the cause of reformation of the society, in view of the ever-changing social-economic portfolio.Excise and Taxation Officer Moti Khan was the chief guest. Additional Superintending Engineer, PSPCL, Amandeep Khangura; Surinder Kuradchhappa, president of Arhtia Association; and Jai Gopal Goyal, a social activist, distributed awards among the teachers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-honoured-for-their-services-amid-pandemic-307269
06-09-2021||---||Thieves target 2 houses, decamp with valuables in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 5Thieves targeted two houses in the industrial hub and decamped with cash and valuables worth lakhs of rupees.The thieves barged into the house of Seema Aggarwal, a resident of Naseeb Enclave. Seema told the police that on September 3, she left the house along with her children and next day when she returned home, they were shocked to see broken locks of the main door.Thieves had ransacked the entire house and decamped with one laptop, mobile phone, LED screen, gas cylinder, inverter and gold ornaments worth lakhs of rupees.Investigating officer ASI Dilbarg Singh said that a case of theft was registered against unknown persons and the police were scrutinising CCTV cameras installed in the area to get clue about the thieves.Another complainant, Makhandeen of Meharban, told the police that thieves entered the house through a hole in the wall. He said on September 3, the family members were sleeping in the courtyard and the next morning, they were shocked to see a big hole in the room’s wall.Thieves had ransacked the entire room and after breaking open the almirah’s lock they decamped with Rs 3.5 lakh and gold jewellery worth lakhs of rupees.ASI Gurmit Singh said after registering a case, the police had launched a probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-target-2-houses-decamp-with-valuables-in-ludhiana-307270
06-09-2021||---||Teacher’s Day: 6 Ludhiana district teachers bag state awards||Ludhiana, September 5On the occasion of Teacher’s Day, educators from Ludhiana were honoured by the state government for their contribution to the field of teaching.As many as four teachers and two Block Primary Education Officers (BPEOs) from the district were conferred with state awards at Suvidha Kendra hall here today.The state-level award ceremony was organised at Patiala, where Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla was the chief guest. A virtual award ceremony was organised at all district headquarters, where the district education officers (DEOs) honoured teachers of their respective districts.The four state awardees of Ludhiana are Amritpal Singh Pali, computer faculty, GSSS-Chhapaar; Navjot Sharma, SST teacher, GMS-Gosal; Varindera Parveen, science mistress, Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Sekhewal; and Balwinder Singh Jodhan, primary teacher, GMS-Narangwal.The two BPEOs who were awarded are Bhupinder Kaur from Block Mangat 1 and Tripta Devi from Block Ludhiana 1.Lakhvir Singh, DEO (secondary), while congratulating the teachers, said “These teachers and BPEOs have made immense contributions for quality improvement of education in their schools and the region and they would certainly act as role models and source of inspiration for others in the times to come”.Meanwhile, to felicitate the hard work and dedication of teachers, especially during the testing times of the pandemic, Teacher’s Day was celebrated with enthusiasm at Sat Paul Mittal School. The students sent gratitude messages and expressed their love and respect for their teachers through texts. A function was held where Bipin Gupta, vice-chairman of the school governing council, was the chief guest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-day-6-ludhiana-district-teachers-bag-state-awards-307271
06-09-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Teaching underprivileged kids his passion||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 5On the occasion of Teacher’s Day, he does not expect to be honoured or recognised for his work.His lone aim is to make children of slum dwellers self-reliant and provide them education so that they can decide for themselves what is right or wrong and become independent to feed themselves and their families in the best possible manner.An advocate by profession, Hari Om Jindal has been able to teach over 500 children so far from deprived and neglecting backgrounds of collecting trash or cow-dung.“When I met some of these children in 2013, it was not an easy task to motivate them for getting education as they were doing the work of collecting trash. Hard, sincere and dedicated efforts are required for bringing transformation in their thinking. Unlike regular schools, delivery of education had to be made interesting to attract them and their parents. It was also important to provide them relevant education which would help them connect with the country, its problems and progress. It has to be stressed that they should also lead a life of dignity,” he said.Jindal used to visit various slum areas, gets data of children who could be provided education, motivates them and their parents and take classes in the open wherever little space is available.His students simply love him. The day when he is not able to meet his students, they look restless.Jyoti, one of his students, said: “It is because of him that I will be appearing for Class V exams and now, I can add, subtract, multiply easily. I do understand that the country needs educated youth for progress and I will definitely try to motivate others to join us and become responsible and self-reliant citizens.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teaching-underprivileged-kids-his-passion-307273
06-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali airport to have modern cargo complex||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 5Industrialists have a reason to cheer as an integrated cargo complex is coming up at the Chandigarh International Airport here which would handle domestic as well as international cargo, including perishable items. It is likely to become functional in November.The cargo complex would have five sheds with a covered area of about 2,500 sq mt for storing perishable and non-perishable items. The Chandigarh International Airport would become the only airport in North India after Delhi to have 2,500-metric tonne cargo facility.Ajay Bhardwaj, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh International Airport Ltd., said a total of five sheds had been constructed and of these, one pre-fabricated shed with a capacity of 450 sq mt would be for perishable items. He said the cargo complex would be equipped with the latest facilities, including a cold room, reefer van, fork lifts, scissors lift, pallets, user-friendly weighing scales, for a smooth functioning. The cargo would also be equipped with high-security equipment such as CCTV cameras and X-ray machines.Ajay Bhardwaj said the total cost of the project was Rs11.5 crore. Civil work had been completed. The paved area is about 7,500 sq mt while the green area would be about 4,500 sq mt. The airport is at present handling predominantly belly cargo in the domestic sector only, he added.Various airlines, including Air India, Indigo, Vistara and Go Air, are doing self-handling of cargo. Only domestic facility for common screening is available and other functions are done by the airlines themselves.Yogesh Sagar, president, Mohali Industries Association, said this would boost the industrial growth in the region. Earlier, the industrialists had to transport their goods to Delhi and Mumbai airports for sending these abroad. But with the cargo facility coming up at the local airport, not only the industries of Mohali but also Dera Bassi, Ludhiana and Jalandhar would benefit.'Will boost industrial growth in region'Yogesh Sagar, president, Mohali Industries Association, said it will boost industrial growth in the region. Earlier, industrialists had to transport their goods to Delhi and Mumbai airports for sending these abroad. But with the cargo facility coming up at the local airport, not only the industries of Mohali but also Dera Bassi, Ludhiana and Jalandhar would benefit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mohali-airport-to-have-modern-cargo-complex-307275
06-09-2021||---||At 1.31 lakh doses, Ludhiana distroct achieves highest single-day vaccination||Ludhiana, September 5In a momentous feat, Ludhiana has achieved the highest ever vaccination in a single day with 1,31,993 lakh doses given across district on Sunday.Lauding the untiring and determined efforts of the healthcare workers in recording highest single day vaccination, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that this would further strengthen the fight against the deadly coronavirus.He said the milestone of administering more than 1.31 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine was not possible without the fulsome support of Ludhiana people who took part wholeheartedly in the inoculation drive which has so far covered 22,54,619 people that started on January 16.The DC said it was the need of the hour to vaccinate people on a war footing to build herd immunity to combat the third wave by sending teams in every nook and corner of the district.He said vaccination was being done on a large scale in Ludhiana and the administration was in an action mode to further boost the protection system against Covid-19.The Deputy Commissioner said: “Vaccination was the most effective weapon against this invisible enemy and now, it was our responsibility to come forward for taking the jab.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/at-1-31-lakh-doses-ludhiana-distroct-achieves-highest-single-day-vaccination-307276
06-09-2021||---||Covid-19: One more tests positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 5One person tested positive for Covid-19 while no death was reported in the district on Sunday. Now, there are 23 active patients in Ludhiana district and no patient is undergoing treatment at any hospital.Today, 8,957 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly. Till date, a total of 23,21,472 samples have been taken, of which 22,22,328 tested negative. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,483, while 11,661 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who succumbed to the virus includes 2,097 from Ludhiana and 1,049 patients from other districts.Meanwhile, an ayurvedic immunisation camp was held yesterday at Government Ayurvedic Hospital, Model Gram, here. An ancient health tonic, known as ‘Swarn Prashan’, given to children in the age group 0-12 years, was administered. The dosage is repeated after 28 days. The camp was organised by District Ayurvedic and Unani Officer Dr Pankaj Gupta and was sponsored by city-based Dr Gurbhajan Singh Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-one-more-tests-positive-in-ludhiana-307262
06-09-2021||Harshraj Singh||Pitiable condition of roads makes commuters suffer in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 5Badly broken city roads have become a nightmare for commuters but the civic body has failed to take any action so far to provide a sigh of relief to them.Road works (bitumen based) that were supposed to be started after the rainy season are also likely to get affected amid a row between contractors associated with the Ludhiana Hotmix Plant Welfare Association and MC officials.At present, potholes on Elevated Road, Jagraon Bridge, Hambran Road, Gill Road, Buddha Nullah stretch, Ishmeet Singh Road, Noorwala Road, Bahadurke Road, Tibba Road, Model Town roads, Dugri area roads, Focal Point roads and other stretches are crying for attention.AAP leader Ahbaab Singh Grewal said city roads were in a pitiable condition, giving an invitation to mishaps. “Even the roads in good condition are often dug up. There is no proper planning for recarpeting or reconstruction of the roads in the city,” he said.Leader of the Opposition in the MC House Harbhajan Singh Dang said various roads in the city had badly broken but the civic body had not even conducted patchwork in the past three years.Dang said: “When we raised the matter that the patchwork was not being conducted, the authorities said the roads will be recarpeted soon. But, a group of contractors have announced to boycott MC works. The civic body should resolve the issue with contractors so that the road works be carried out timely in the city.”While levelling allegations of corruption against MC officials, the contractors had announced to boycott the MC road works.Meanwhile, elected representatives are waiting for beginning of road works in their respective wards as the Assembly elections are likely to be held in early 2022.Notably, the bitumen-based road works were not conducted by the MC in winters.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said: “We have already started the patchwork from the Dugriarea recently. However, it was later stalled after rainfall. It will be resumed once the weather conditions are improved.”Sandhu said: “No road works would get affected or delayed if the contractors refused to do the works. We will floatfresh tenders on a short-term basis and ensure timely completion of the works in the city.”In a meeting held recently, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has given directions to Superintending Engineer Parveen Singla to make the hot-mix plant operational and ensure patchwork on roads, wherever it is required. He asked the officials concerned to get the patchworks done on the road connecting Dholewal Chowk with Sherpur Chowk too.Row between contractors, officials adds to woesRoad works (bitumen based) that were supposed to be started after the rainy season are also likely to get affected amid a row between contractors associated with the Ludhiana Hotmix Plant Welfare Association and civic body officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pitiable-condition-of-roads-makes-commuters-suffer-in-ludhiana-307277
06-09-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Budget estimates remain beyond Ludhiana civic body’s reach||Ludhiana, September 5As the first half of the current financial year (2021-22) is approaching fast, the Municipal Corporation has found itself way behind in achieving the Budget target of around 50 per cent of the Rs 1,000 annual Budget. It was learnt that recovery from local taxes, user charges and other sources of income was at present hovering between 25 and 30 per cent or even less and making up the deficit in next three weeks seemed to be a herculean task.Concerned over deficient recovery and its adverse affect on development and infrastructure projects in the city, MC Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Sabharwal is said to have given a dressing down to all departmental heads for poor recovery. At the same time, officials and field staff have been given targets with explicit instructions that failure to meet the targets would be taken seriously and erring persons would have to face action.Highly placed sources indicated that building branch (composition fee), advertisement branch, rent and tehbazari, operations and maintenance (O&M) branch (from water and sewerage charges) and sale of property and development charges (from CLU and OTS) were the main laggards. The sole exception was income from house tax and property tax where recovery was almost close to the estimated income.It was also learnt that all four Zonal Commissioners as well as heads of the O&M branch were specifically told to ensure that the house/property tax branch and the O&M branches made recovery of at least Rs 20 crore and Rs 11 crore, respectively, by the end of this month so that the estimated Budget targets could be achieved.Officials of the O&M branch said the recovery from user charges (water and sewerage bills) was showing an upward trend with the introduction of one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for regularisation of illegal water and sewerage connections which was notified by the state government on August 16, 2021.The scheme also provided for one-time waiver of interest and penalty on payment of arrears of water and sewerage bills for the payment of principal amount in lump sum during the three-month window of the OTS scheme.Building, O&M branches among laggardsHighly placed sources indicated that building branch (composition fee), advertisement branch, rent and tehbazari, operations and maintenance (O&M) branch (from water and sewerage charges) and sale of property and development charges (from CLU and OTS) were the main laggards. The sole exception was income from house tax and property tax where recovery was almost close to the estimated income.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/budget-estimates-remain-beyond-ludhiana-civic-bodys-reach-307261
