08-09-2021||---||Online campaign seeks health warnings on ‘bad air’ days||Ludhiana, September 7In a first-of-its-kind campaign, citizens concerned and social organisations across Punjab have demanded that Urban Local Bodies (ULB) mandatorily issue timely health advisories publicly to alert citizens on ‘bad air’ days, which will help save vulnerable groups from severe health impacts of air pollution.The joint call comes from non-attainment cities, including Ludhiana, Amritsar, Khanna and Patiala, reeling under poor air quality.Bad air days are when the air quality index (AQI) — pollutant measuring indicator — rises beyond the safe limit for any location falling either under the poor, very poor or hazardous AQI levels.The online campaign was launched on Tuesday to mark the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies. In its second year since its inception, the theme for 2021 is ‘Healthy Air, Healthy Planet’, which emphasises the health aspects of air pollution, especially considering the Covid pandemic.Punjab has a total of nine non-attainment/ million-plus cities under the National Clean Air Action Plan (NCAP). A non-attainment city is one that does not meet the prescribed air quality standards set by the Union Environment Ministry.Supreet Kaur, president of the EcoSikh India and member of the Punjab Clean Air Collective, a collaborative network of citizens’ organisations, institutions working towards the common objective of clean air, said this was a pan India citizen-led online campaign. “Breathing in pollution-free air is a fundamental right for all. Through this campaign, we want to intensify the need to breathe clean air. We want the citizens to be well informed so as to take necessary actions to safeguard the lives of all. We urge everyone, be it children, youth or elders, to support this cause,” she said.She added that as part of the campaign, citizen groups across all non-attainment cities in Punjab will also plan and meet their respective Municipal Commissioners and submit a letter stating the demand of health advisory when air quality deteriorates,” said Supreet.The online petition is also being shared widely on social media and WhatsApp groups across Punjab and is evoking positive response.Ludhiana-based senior scientist Dr Prabhjot Kaur, who is the Head of the Climate Change Department of Punjab Agricultural University, said, “Punjab with nearly 83 per cent area under crop cultivation is predominantly a green state. “Despite this fact, the AQI of Punjab in May 2021 ranged from 68 to 220, which indicates that the air quality ranged in the poor to very poor category. This continued even during the lockdown period despite reduced vehicular and industrial pollution, which highlights that we need to explore the possible reasons for the poor AQI in Punjab,” she added.KS Pannu, former IAS and Adviser, NHAI, Punjab, said, “Ludhiana is home to 30 lakh people who unfortunately have to constantly suffer from pollution in the air. One of the measures that were decided by the Centre and state was to introduce cleaner fuel of CNG, which Ludhiana missed due to some nagging litigation with the supplier company. “The state government should take proactive steps to bring in CNG at the earliest. State, society and NGOs should work in tandem to encourage electric three-wheelers in the city. Moreover, the issue of burning paddy straw in the winter months must be solved to ensure cleaner air for citizens,” he asserted.Divya Narayanan, who has created a portal for the citizens’ campaign, said the pandemic had forced all to seek out as much information as possible to safeguard health against the virus. “In the same manner, we must realise that we need to demand more information to be made widely available about the air we breathe, and its effects on our health. It’s all the more important now in light of Covid that we have information widely made available to us so we can make learned choices for our health on bad air days,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/online-campaign-seeks-health-warnings-on-bad-air-days-308274
08-09-2021||Ludhiana||Man booked for molesting girl||Chand, a resident of Subhash Nagar, has been booked under Sections 352 and 354, IPC, and 10 and 12 of the POCSO Act for an allegedly molesting his stepdaughter (12) when the girl was alone in the house.A paternal uncle of the girl, accompanied by the victim, lodged a report with the police that according to the victim, the accused had touched her private part. The girl told her family that her stepfather used to peep into the bathroom and see her taking bath.Man held for rape bidIn another incident of sexual assault on a minor girl, the police have arrested Krishna Ram of Basant Nagar, under various sections of the IPC, and the POCSO Act for attempting to rape a 16-year old girl of Dhillon Nagar. She said on Saturday night, the accused entered her house when she was alone. He kissed the girl and made an attempt to undress her. When the victim raised an alarm, the accused managed to escape. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-molesting-girl-308275
08-09-2021||Lovleen Bains
||Teachers stage sit-in to seek UGC pay scales||Doraha, September 7 On the call of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFCUTO), teachers from the district sat on a dharna on their campuses and showed solidarity with those participating in the chain fast. University and college teachers from all over Punjab have begun a chain fast against the unwarranted delay in the implementation of the UGC grades in Punjab and Chandigarh by the state government. District president of PCCTU Kuldeep Batta said, “Twenty-three states have already implemented the UGC pay scales. Punjab has been left behind, this despite the fact that 50 per cent of the share has to be contributed by the Central Government. The state government has literally ruined the future of the teaching community. The new contractual staff, despite being doctorates in their subjects, are forced to work on meagre salary for three years. It is shameful for the government to target the teachers every time. Nothing can be more unfortunate than this.” Dr Sanjeev Kumar, president, Khanna unit of the PCCTU, said the government had never kept the promises and hence the teachers were frustrated and disgruntled over the anti-teacher attitude of the government. The government has forced us to resort to such a measure by backing away from its words, he said.  President Doraha unit of the PCCTU, Dr Amandeep Kullar, said, “The Employees’ Affiliated Colleges Security of Service Act-1974 should be brought in line with the judgments of the Supreme Court of India. Further, regularisation of assistant professors appointed against 1,925 posts and filling up of vacant positions in the higher education system should be accomplished on the basis of priority.”   Dr Vinay Sophat, president, PCCTU, said there was no looking back for us now. The UGC pay scales, announced with the Pay Commission Award, were nowhere in sight. The teachers were the only ones now whose pay-scales were yet to be revised. They had been impressing upon the Punjab Government and the Chandigarh Administration to do the needful but to no avail. Dr. Jagwant Singh, general scretary, PFUCTO, said, “ The Punjab Government decision to delink the UGC pay scales is an assault on the young teachers that will eventually marginalise teachers of Punjab from the national mainstream. All constituents of the PFUCTO will participate in the chain fast on rotation basis till all demands are met by the state government.  The Government of Punjab and UT Administration is thrusting the protest on them at a time when they want to rectify the situation emerging out of Covid, which has impacted the quality of instruction as well as the academic calendars of the universities and colleges,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-stage-sit-in-to-seek-ugc-pay-scales-308276
08-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Two nabbed for assault, bid to snatch mobile phone||Ludhiana, September 7In a daylight incident, two scooter-borne snatchers attacked 18-year old Shivam when he resisted the attempt of the duo to snatch his mobile phone on Monday morning on Bahadarke Road here. When the injured victim raised an alarm, the accused fled the scene. Shivam was later admitted to the CMCH where he was undergoing treatment. On a report lodged by the father of the victim, Ashok Yadav, a resident of Gagandeep Colony, Bhattian Bet, the police registered a case under Sections 379-B(2), 511 and 34 of the IPC and in the course of investigation, the accused were arrested. They have been identified as Daljit Singh, a resident of Amantran Colony and Vikas Kumar of Shimla Colony.Man robbed of Rs5,000, mobile phoneIn another incident in the city, Rajesh Giri, a resident of Dhandari Khurd, was robbed of money and a cell phone at knifepoint by two unidentified persons. They fled the spot after snatching Rs 5,000 and a mobile phone from the victim. A case has been registered.Three two-wheelers stolenTwo Honda Activa scooters and a Hero Splendour motorcycle were reportedly stolen from different parts of the city during the past 48 hours. One of the scooters (bearing registration no. PB 7BR 4565) parked outside Vanjali Hotel in Shivpuri was stolen on Sunday while the other scooter (bearing registration no. PB 10EL 4616) was stolen from outside Silver Arc Mall on Ferozepur Road. The Hero Splendor motorcycle parked outside a shop in Purana Bazaar was reportedly stolen on Monday by Sujal Pandey, a resident of Jaspal Colony. The police have registered cases under Section 379, IPC.3 cell phones snatchedThe police have arrested Aniket Kumar, a resident of Shimlapuri, while his accomplice Lucky, a resident of Subhash Nagar, has been booked under various sections of the IPC for alleged assault on Suman Kumar of 33-Feet Road, Mundian Kalan. During a scuffle, the accused were alleged to have snatched two mobile phones from nephews of Suman, Vishesh Kumar and Krishan Kumar, who were accompanying him on motorcycles. The complainant, Suman, told the police that he had some old enmity with the accused that led to the attack with sharp weapons. Meanwhile, Lalit Kumar, a migrant worker and resident of Shakti Nagar, lost his mobile phone to three motorcycle-borne snatchers on Monday on Tibba Road. The police have registered a case under Section 379-B, IPC.Woman loses cash, jewellery to thievesA woman, Rupinderjit Bassi, a resident of Amloh Road in Khanna, lost Rs 40,000, 250 Canadian Dollars and jewellery to miscreants at a place of worship in Kot Gangu Rai village on Monday. In her complaint, the victim said when she came out after paying obeisance, she found that her purse was lying open and cash and jewellery were missing. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-nabbed-for-assault-bid-to-snatch-mobile-phone-308277
08-09-2021||---||Passengers suffer as PRTC, PUNBUS employees’ strike enters Day 2||Ludhiana, September 7Passengers were a harried lot once again on Tuesday as the majority of state government-run buses did not ply on roads due to the strike of contractual employees of PRTC and PUNBUS.Meanwhile, many passengers rushed to board private buses that were operational. However, some government buses being operated by the regular staff were also plying on the roads.The contractual employees had gone on an indefinite strike on Monday. The contractual employees associated with the Punjab Roadways and PUNBUS Contract Workers Union Punjab staged a protest at the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Stand, Ludhiana, demanding regularisation of their services and adding a new fleet of at least 10,000 buses to the service. The union members have also demanded that private buses should not be allowed to ply on the routes designated for government buses.Speaking at the gate of the bus stand today, state vice-president of the union Satnam Singh and union leader Jaspal Sharma said the Punjab Government has failed to fulfil the demands of contractual workers for a long time and hence they were forced to go on an indefinite strike. “Before coming into power, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh used to make tall claims of eliminating the transport mafia from Punjab but he is now making efforts to eliminate government-run buses. The state government has failed to add new buses to its fleet and regularising our services. The Chief Minister had earlier claimed that the services of the contractual staff would be regularised but nothing has been done till date while the tenure of the government is going to finish soon.”The members said a delegation of the union will meet a Principal Secretary of the Punjab Government in Chandigarh tomorrow and if their demands are not met, they will be forced to intensify the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/passengers-suffer-as-prtc-punbus-employees-strike-enters-day-2-308278
08-09-2021||---||Councillor of Ward 49 dies||Ludhiana, September 7 Congress councillor from Ward 49, Rajinder Kaur (63), passed away on Monday night. She was ill for the past some time as per the information. Her last rites were performed at the Dugri cremation ground today. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, leader of Opposition in MC House Harbhajan Singh Dang, Congress leader Kamaljit Karwal among others were present at the cremation ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/councillor-of-ward-49-dies-308279
08-09-2021||---||Encroachments removed from forest: Minister||Ludhiana, September 7Punjab Forest Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said today that the department had got success in clearing encroachments from over 853 acres of forest land in Ludhiana in the past four and a half years and the vacated land was being developed into a forest area. Dharamsot also visited Kot Umra and Gorsian Khan Forest areas and planted saplings today.The minister said the state government had initiated a drive against the illegal possession of land to clear the encroachments from the forest land since 2017. A mass plantation was being carried out on the entire vacant land. He claimed that according to the latest report of the Forest Survey of India, Ludhiana has 1.65 per cent forest area and it has witnessed an enhancement of 3.92 sq km forest area since 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/encroachments-removed-from-forest-minister-308280
08-09-2021||---||Cancel power pacts: AAP to Punjab govt||Ludhiana, September 7 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders and workers staged a protest outside the DC’s office here against the state government, led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, for failing to cancel power agreements in the state. The protesters said people were forced to suffer due to the hiked power supply tariff in the state. They demanded from the government to cancel the agreements related to power tariff with private firms without any further delay. AAP leader Amandeep Singh Mohi alleged that Captain Amarinder had promised before the 2017 Assembly elections that agreements related to expensive power tariffs would be cancelled if they form the government in the state but nothing was done in this regard. AAP rural president Harbhupinder Singh Dharor said: “Captain Amarinder was repeatedly making excuses and running away from cancelling the power deals wrongly initiated by the Badals during the tenure of the previous SAD-BJP government. However, private thermal plants with which agreements had been made have never been able to provide power supply in a proper manner.” AAP Ludhiana president Suresh Goyal also flayed the government. AAP state spokesperson Ahbaab Singh Grewal said the power agreements would be cancelled if AAP forms the government in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cancel-power-pacts-aap-to-punjab-govt-308281
08-09-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Daun cricket club lift trophy||Cricket teams of Daun Sahib Cricket Club and Balongi Cricket Eleven emerged winners and runner-up, respectively, in the Bahadur Singh and Yuvraj Ghaie Memorial Day-Night Cricket Tournament that concluded at MGMN Senior Secondary School here on Monday.Tarun Bishat, Ali Akbar, Sunny Arora and Wasim Ahmed distributed prizes to winners of the tournament organised by the Sheller Cricket Club.Binny Verma, convener of the event, said 48 teams from various parts of Punjab and neighbouring states participated in the tournament.Besides felicitating outstanding batsmen and bowlers with mementoes, the organisers presented cash prizes worth Rs 41,000 and Rs 21,000 to the winner and runner-up teams, respectively. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/daun-cricket-club-lift-trophy-308282
08-09-2021||Ludhiana||Triple delight for Krish, Arunima in Ludhiana District Badminton Championship||Krish Chadha and Arunima Pal hogged limelight winning three titles each on the fourth day of the Ludhiana District Badminton Championship being held at Shastri Hall here on Tuesday. Krish wrapped up titles in the boys singles, doubles and mixed doubles categories (U-17), while Arunima Pal clinched titles in the girls’ singles and mixed doubles (U-17) in addition to the women doubles section.Results (all finals)Boys singles U-13: Madhav bt Aditya Sharma 24-26, 21-18, 21-13. Boys doubles U-13: Arnav Negi and Aditya Sharma b Stavan Jain and Raghav Bhatia 21-18, 21-14. Boys singles U-17: Krish Chadha bt Tanmay Tommar 21-11, 21-19. Boys doubles U-17: Tanmay Tomar and Krish Chadha bt Akshit Maithani and Milan Malhotra 21-10, 21-12.Men’s singles: Hakam Singh conceded to Vakul Sharma at 7 all. Men’s doubles: Vakul Sharma and Hakam Singh bt Mitaksh Gandhi and Lakshay Singal 21-7, 21-18.Girls singles U-13: Gurleen Kaur bt Shenaya Chadha 21-9, 21-5. Girls doubles U-13: Upneet Kaur and Amelia Bhakoo bt Janya Maggo and Manya Dang 21-23, 21-12, 21-10. Girls singles U-17: Arunima Pal bt Tarishi Singla 21-12, 21-13. Girls doubles U-17: Tarishi Singla and Anshika Batra bt Tarisha Mahajan and Tia Mahajan 23-25, 21-18, 21-19.Women singles: Prerna Dawar bt Surinder Kaur 21-23, 22-20, 21-11. Women doubles: Prerna Dawar and Arunima Pal b Trisha Mahajan and Tia Mahajan 21-11, 21-12. Mixed double U-17: Krish Chadha and Arunima Pal bt Jatin Arora and Aarya Negi 21-2, 21-12. Mixed double U-17: Vakul Sharma and Arunima Pal bt Sannidhya Nautiyal and Saanvi Nautiyal 21-8, 21-13. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/triple-delight-for-krish-arunima-in-ludhiana-district-badminton-championship-308283
08-09-2021||---||Three test +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 7Three fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district on Tuesday. Of them, two patients with influenza-like illness visited Flu Corner and one visited OPD. Meanwhile, one patient from the outside the district also tested positive for the virus.There are 30 active cases in the district at present. The Health Department has confirmed 87,491 positive cases from Ludhiana and 11,663 cases from other districts or states till date. Besides, a total of 2,098 patients from Ludhiana and 1,049 from other districts or states have died of the virus, Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said.According to the Health Department, 85,363 patients have recovered from the disease.Samples of 7,801 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-test-ve-in-ludhiana-308284
08-09-2021||Our Correspondent
||Gang of snatchers busted,  6 nabbed||Ludhiana, September 7 A team of of the CIA-2 police today claimed to have busted a gang of snatchers and looters with the arrest of six of its members from an uninhabited house near a garbage dump in Shankar Colony while they were plotting to commit some other crime. In addition to the recovery of two countrymade pistols (.315 and .12 bore) and other lethal weapons, two stolen motorcycles and two snatched mobile phones were also seized from the accused. The arrested persons have been identified as Salman Ansari (18), a resident of Mohalla Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Tibba Road, Mohammed Farid Ashiq (17) of New Shakti Nagar, Tibba Road, Shaqib Malik (20) of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Tibba Road, Sohail Malik (23), a resident of Shakti Nagar, Mohammed Shavez (19) of Sarpanch Colony, Kakka, and Mohammed Amir (21) of Mahadev Colony, Kakka. Preliminary interrogation of the gangsters revealed that all of them were migrants from Uttar Pradesh with four hailing from Saharanpur district and one each from Kairana and Bijnor districts. Ansari and Ashiq had come out on bail together about 10 months ago. The members of the gang had confessed to have committed at least 25 snatchings, loots, thefts of two-wheelers, mobile phones, yarn, cash and other valuables in Tibba, Moti Nagar, Basti Jodhewal, Meharban, Daresi and Salem Tabri. The police said the accused were being taken on police remand for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-snatchers-busted-6-nabbed-308285
08-09-2021||Kuldip Bhatia
||Khanna police bust 2 gangs of ATM fraudsters, 7 held||Ludhiana, September 7 The Khanna police claimed to have unearthed two interstate gangs of ATM fraudsters with the arrest of seven persons who used to operate in Punjab, Haryana, NCR Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Giving information, SSP, Khanna, Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said acting on a tip-off, the police set up a checkpoint on Malerkotla Chowk and stopped a Baleno car (HR-28J-4278) coming from the Lalheri Chowk side.  Three occupants of the car, identified as Mohammad Wazid of Raneala Khurd in Palwal district (Haryana), Abbas, a resident of Rithora in Nuh district (Haryana), Altaf, a resident of Kherdla village in Nuh (Haryana), were arrested and charged under Sections 420 and 380 of the IPC. Eleven ATM cards of various banks and two steel hook type tools were seized from them.  Initial interrogation revealed that the accused used to insert the specially-made hook in the cash dispensing tray of the ATM once money was dispensed while withdrawing money from ATMs. Then they used to switch off the power supply of the ATM and take out the money and also remove the hook from the tray. Later, they used to lodge online compliant to the bank for refunding their money, which was allegedly stuck in the ATM. It was learnt that they had committed such frauds worth over Rs 6 crore at the ATMs located in Goa, Kerala, West Bengal, Delhi NCR, UP, Maharashtra and some other states.  In a separate operation, the Khanna police nabbed four members of another gang which was involved in duping people by cloning their ATM cards. The accused were intercepted from near Pristine Mall on GT Road on the basis of reliable tip that they were coming in a Swift car (HR-64A-7443).  According to the SSP, the accused persons were identified as Gulshan Kumar, alias Sunny, a resident of Sector 41-B, Butrela, Chandigarh, (now residing at village Dau (Ramgarh), SAS Nagar, Ranvir Singh, alias Manu, a resident of Noor City Society, Sector 48-C, Phase-II, Mohali, Sachin, alias Chandi, a resident of Garhi Multan village in Karnal district (now residing at Rishi Apartment, near Lohgar Road, Zirakpur, and Har Singh, a resident of Dabra Soral village in Almora district,  Uttarakhand. A case under Sections 420, 467,468, 471, 380 and120-B of the IPC has been registered against the fraudsters and police recovered 30 ATM cards of various banks and two ATM card cloning machines from the possession of the accused. The modus operandi of the gang was to clone or swipe the ATM cards of elderly or illiterate persons and then sell the ATM data.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/khanna-police-bust-2-gangs-of-atm-fraudsters-7-held-308286
08-09-2021||Ludhiana||Property tax: Ludhiana MC zonal offices to remain open on Saturdays, last Sunday this month||As September 30 is the last date to submit the property tax with 10 per cent rebate for the current financial year 2021-22, the MC has decided to keep all zonal offices and Suvidha Centres open on coming Saturdays (September 11, 18 and 25) and last Sunday of the month (September 26).Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal today conducted a meeting with officials of all branches and directed them to carry out the drive for the recovery of pending dues of water supply and sewer charges, property tax and others from people.Recently, the state government has issued a notification offering a one-time settlement policy for regularisation of unauthorised connections of water supply and sewerage, and also for recovery of arrears from users of existing approved connections in urban local bodies in the state.The Mayor said the people concerned should avail the benefit of one-time settlement scheme. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/property-tax-ludhiana-mc-zonal-offices-to-remain-open-on-saturdays-last-sunday-this-month-308287
08-09-2021||---||Defamation suit: AAP MP Sanjay Singh surrenders in Ludhiana court, granted bail||Legal CorrespondentLudhiana, September 7Aam Aadmi Party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh today surrendered in a local court, a day after it ordered issuance of an arrest warrant over his non-appearance in a defamation case filed by former minister and SAD leader Bikram Majithia.While surrendering in the court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Harsimranjit Singh, the AAP leader moved a fresh bail application, explaining the reasons for his non-appearance.Accepting his plea, the court granted him bail with directions to furnish new surety bonds amounting to Rs 1 lakh. After furnishing bail bonds, the court recalled the order of issuance of arrest warrants against him. The case will now come up for hearing on September 17.On September 6, former SAD minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal, a witness from Majithia’s side, was present in court for cross-examination. Besides, a newspaper official had come with records summoned by Sanjay Singh’s lawyer for confronting the witness with a news item content.However, neither the accused nor his lawyer was present for the cross-examination of the witness. Majithia’s counsel DS Sobti had opposed the exemption application saying he was taking the court proceedings lightly and intentionally delaying the proceedings by filing exemption applications time and again. The court subsequently dismissed the exemption application.Sanjay Singh was summoned in February 2016. In his criminal complaint, Majithia had alleged the AAP leader made a false and defamatory statement that had role in the drugs trade. The statement was made at a Moga rally on September 9, 2015.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/defamation-suit-aap-mp-sanjay-singh-surrenders-in-ludhiana-court-granted-bail-308014
