11-09-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana: Gun house owner held for illegal sale of bullets||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 10The district police today arrested a gun house owner of the city on the charges of selling bullets to a person not having arms licence.The arrested gun house owner has been identified as Gurcharan Singh Babli, owner of Verma Gun House, Nirankari market, near Bharat Nagar chowk.Police Commissioner Naunihal Singh said on September 2 a political rally of the Shiromani Akali Dal was held at Sahnewal where a special checking was conducted at the VIP gate. During checking, a man, Kashish Adiya, was stopped for checking and his frisking led to the recovery of .32-bore (made in USA) loaded pistol having six cartridges. Kashish Adiya was then asked to produce weapon licence but he couldn’t, following which he was arrested by the Sahnewal police. A case under the Arms Act was registered against him.16 gun houses raided in JulyDuring preliminary questioning, Kashish Adiya revealed that he had bought bullets from Verma Gun House and on the basis of the statement, owner of the gun house Gurcharan was also named in the case.Naunihal said the gun house owner committed a crime by selling the cartridges to a person who had no arms licence and by doing this, the owner had violated the terms of the gun house licence.Now the police have also started auditing of the gun house in which the entire record will be scanned and if any discrepancy in record is found, action will be taken accordingly.The police have also named Manrpeet Singh Manni, who is related to Kashish, in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-gun-house-owner-held-for-illegal-sale-of-bullets-309622
11-09-2021||Harshraj Singh||Dhandari Khurd: Resolve sewage issue or face protests, residents tell MC||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 10Even after passing of many years, it seems to be a Herculean task for the Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities and elected representatives to get the overflowing sewage problem resolved at Dhandari Khurd in Ward 28 under the Sahnewal constituency.Now, residents and members of a youth club have given an ultimatum to the authorities concerned to resolve the problem or be ready for facing protests in the days to come. They are also questioning the role of elected representatives.The residents said complaints that were made to the MC authorities concerned have fallen on deaf ears. They want the MC Commissioner and the Mayor along with the officials concerned to visit the area and stay there for a few days to realise the problem being faced by them for years.The residents said road works, including installation of the interlocking tiles, were being carried out but without resolving the issue of overflowing sewage that has made the lives of thousands of people miserable. They want the problem of overflowing sewage must be resolved on a priority basis.Sukhwinder Singh of ‘Guru Ravidas Ji Youth Sports and Welfare Club, Dhandari Khurd’, said: “The civic body has failed to resolve the problem of overflowing sewage in the area. Every morning and evening, sewers overflow badly resulting in water accumulation on streets. People are forced to walk through accumulated sewage outside their houses. The residents are susceptible to skin infections and diseases. We want the MC authorities must visit the area and live there to realise how we are forced to live under hell-like conditions due to the defunct sewer system for long.”“We also want road works must be carried out only after correcting the defunct sewerage system in the area. If sewer-related issues are not resolved, we will be forced to stage massive protests,” he said.Another resident said: “Earlier, our area was ignored during the tenure of the SAD-BJP government and then the Congress government failed to provide us any relief. We had staged protests in the past too but to no avail. Now, we would hold more protests to awake the government from slumber.”Notably, the area falls under the Sahnewal constituency from where SAD leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon is the MLA. Ward councillor Parmajit Singh could not be contacted for comments. MC’s Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said: “If the problem has not been resolved till date, I will discuss the matter with the Executive Engineer.”‘Top officials should stay in area to know problem’Residents said complaints that were made to the MC authorities have fallen on deaf ears. They want the MC Commissioner, Mayor and other officials concerned to visit the area and stay there for a few days to realise the problem being faced by them for years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dhandari-khurd-resolve-sewage-issue-or-face-protests-residents-tell-mc-309624
11-09-2021||---||Ludhiana: Hold special fogging drive in slum areas, officials told||Ludhiana, September 10Amid rising dengue cases, the Municipal Corporation Commissioner has conducted a meeting with officials and given directions to the MC's health branch to carry out a special fogging drive in slum areas and high-risk areas in the city for the prevention of dengue and other vector-borne diseases.He also directed the MC and the Health Department's joint team to check larvae by visiting door to door and issue challan against defaulters if the same was found at any residence. The MC's health branch has also been asked to distribute chlorine tablets in slum areas.Officials have been told to check rainwater accumulation in city areas. The Commissioner has asked the MC officials concerned to take steps to drain out the accumulated rainwater, if found anywhere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-hold-special-fogging-drive-in-slum-areas-officials-told-309625
11-09-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS, PRTC staff to protest outside ministers’ residences tomorrow||As demands of contractual employees have not been accepted by the state government so far, members of Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS and the PRTC Contract Workers Union, Punjab, have decided to continue their strike.The contractual employees had gone to participate in a state-level protest to gherao the Siswan farmhouse of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today, on the fifth day of their strike.Meanwhile, government buses being operated by the contractual staff did not ply on roads even today. A union leader, Satnam Singh, said they would meet Chief Minister on September 14 as a meeting had been fixed in this regard after today’s protest.However, he said, the strike would be continued.Shamsher Singh, another leader, said: “Our protest remained peaceful today. Now, we will stage protests for two hours outside the residences of the Cabinet ministers on Sunday. We will beat dhols to mark our protest on Monday. If our demands were not met in the upcoming meeting on September 14, we will intensify the agitation and block highways on September 15.”Demanding regularisation of their services and adding a new fleet of buses to the service, the contractual staff had gone on an indefinite strike on Monday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-roadways-punbus-prtc-staff-to-protest-outside-ministers-residences-tomorrow-309627
11-09-2021||Manav Mander||Punjab Shahi Imam’s death mourned||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 10The void created by the death of Shahi Imam, Punjab, Hazrat Maulana Habib Ur Rehman Sa-ani Ludhianvi, cannot be filled. He had made a place in the hearts of people belonging to every religion and was equally loved and respected by all.Shahi Imam passed away at the age of 63 at a private hospital late on Thursday night after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife, a daughter and two sons.Eid at Jama Masjid was incomplete for the Shahi Imam without hugging the heads of the local gurdwara, mandir and church. He is fondly remembered today by all for his love and generosity.The bond between president of Gurdwara Dukh Nivaran Sahib Pritpal Singh and Shahi Imam was known to all. Pritpal Singh said he had lost a younger brother today.“He was honest and fearless and had earned huge respect not only in his community but also among other communities. We used to invite him on special occasions and on every Eid, I used to be his guest. Eid will never be the same again for me. The sewaiyaan used to taste the sweetest in his company. The void created by him can never be filled. May God give his family the strength to bear the loss,” he said.Pritpal Singh said: “Every person is going to the same village but takes different roads. Destiny of everyone is the same and I pray, may god grant him place near him,” he says.Parveen Bajaj, president of Gyan Sathal Mandir, said he had heard a lot about him from his father, Jagdish Bajaj.“I assumed the charge of the mandir last year after my father’s death and both Shahi Imam and my father had a long association. He always used to invite him for the Eid celebrations and the glee on his face after returning from the celebrations was something different,” Bajaj said.Priest of Kalvary Church Father Ram Lal said he used to be a part of special occasions at Jama Masjid. “A void has been created with the death of Shahi Imam which cannot be filled,” he said.Mustkeem, nephew of Shahi Imam, said he loved all religions and was always enthusiastic about celebrating Eid and would always extend invitations to people from other religions.“We have lost our world today and nobody can take his place in our heart,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-shahi-imams-death-mourned-309628
11-09-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district to augment medical oxygen storage capacity||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 10The district will augment its capacity to store the medical oxygen, the administration has said.Against the existing capacity of 65.1 metric tonnes (MT), the district has proposed to raise the storage volume to 82.1 MT, the officials have said.The district-wise figures of current and projected oxygen storage through liquid medical oxygen (LMO) tanks at hospitals, compiled by the state government, which are available with The Tribune, revealed that Ludhiana has no LMO tank in its government hospitals and the district administration has proposed to install a LMO tank with a capacity to store 11.4 MT life-saving gas. At private hospitals in the district, existing eight LMO plants have storage capacity of 65.1 MT oxygen, which will be further augmented to 70.7 MT by setting up four more LMO plants.In the entire state, there are only eight LMO tanks in the government hospitals with a storage capacity of 37.3 MT, while 27 additional LMO tanks have been proposed to be set up, which will further add 248.5 MT storage capacity for the life-saving gas. In the private sector, 52 LMO tanks have storage capacity of 315.48 MT, while 20 more such tanks are proposed to be set up to add 121.91 MT storage volume.With this, the total LMO tanks in the government sector will go up to 35 and private sector to 72 with a storage capacity of 285.9 MT in government and 437.39 MT in private hospitals.The district-wise break-up showed that Amritsar has four LMO plants, proposed to install four more, Bathinda has 15 and proposed nine, Faridkot one existing, Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Mansa, Moga, Ropar, Tarn Taran, Malerkotla proposed one each, Hoshiarpur existing two and proposed one, Jalandhar existing six and proposed two, Muktsar existing one and proposed one, Pathankot existing one and proposed one, Patiala existing three and proposed three, Mohali existing 14 and proposed four, Sangrur existing two and proposed two and Nawnashahr existing three and proposed three. Besides, the state has 41 LMO tanks at the refilling stations with a storage capacity of 676.1 MT of medical oxygen.These included maximum 10 in Ludhiana with highest capacity of 129.9 MT of storing life-saving gas, followed by Amritsar and Fatehgarh Sahib five each with 96 MT and 30 MT storage capacity, respectively, Bathinda and Jalandhar four each with 40 MT and 88 MT each, respectively, Mohali, Patiala and Sangrur two each with 76 MT, 55 MT and 41 MT each, respectively, Fazilka, Hoshiarpur, Moga, Pathankot, Muktsar, Mansa and Faridkot have one LMO tank each with capacity to store 18 MT, 18 MT, 20 MT, 14 MT, 20 MT, 20 MT and 11 MT each, respectively.However, Ropar and newly created Malerkotla districts have no LMO tanks at the refilling units.OfficialspeakWe will be adding five more LMO tanks — one in government and four in private hospitals — to add 82.1 MT storage capacity for medical oxygen in the district. —Varinder Kumar Sharma, Deputy Commissioner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-to-augment-medical-oxygen-storage-capacity-309630
11-09-2021||Ludhiana||‘Fit India Freedom Run’||Duchenne Awareness Day observed at CMCHLudhiana: World Duchenne Awareness Day-2021 was celebrated at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). The theme for this year is “Adult life and Duchennes”. The session was inaugurated by Dr William Bhatti, director of CMC, and Dr Jeyaraj Pandian, principal of CMC. Dr Bhatti said Duchenne muscular dystrophy was a devastating genetic disease which affected young boys. Dr Vineeth Jaison, associate professor and in charge, neuromuscular clinic, said the average life expectancy of these children in India was 15 years, whereas in developed nations they could live up to 40 years. The event was attended by all members of the multidisciplinary team and was followed by an educational session for parents and children.DMCH professor honouredDr Sarit Sharma, professor of community medicine at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) was awarded the 37th Dr S Radhakrishnan Memorial National Teachers Award-2021 by Union Minister Ramdas Athawale, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment. Dr Sharma has been teaching both undergraduate and postgraduate medical students for approximately 21 years. In addition, he is also actively involved in public health activities, providing health education in community and research. He has published many research papers in national and international medical journals and presented his research work in many conferences. Recently, he was also conferred with the Fellowship of Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine (FIAPSM). — TNSCT varsity, law firm ink pactLudhiana: CT University has signed an MoU with RS Law Associates, a Chandigarh-based law firm, to provide internships and future placement options to CTU law graduates. The VC said: “Besides, the university has also signed an MoU with advocate GBS Dhillon, current president of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association for providing better exposure to students at the HC level.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fit-india-freedom-run-309631
11-09-2021||---||Two gangs of snatchers, thieves busted, five held||Ludhiana, September 10The Daba police claimed to have busted two gangs of snatchers and thieves. Five members of the gangs were arrested.The ADCP, Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, at a press conference said the two arrested members of the gang of snatchers are Pawan Kumar, resident of Satguru Nagar, and Mintu Kumar, resident of Kila Raipur.The ADCP added that on a tip-off a police party laid a naka at a strategic place and arrested the duo. During their interrogation, 137 mobile phones, snatched by them in the recent months, were recovered.The ADCP said the gang had also sold mobile phones to some shopkeepers and probe was on to identify them adding. The shopkeepers will also face action as per law. The police also nabbed three members of a gang of thieves, namely Sunny of Giaspura flats, Vishal Kumar of Basant Nagar and Malkit Singh Malli of Dhillon Nagar. The ADCP said the gang had been stealing vehicles in the city and one motorcycle was recovered from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-gangs-of-snatchers-thieves-busted-five-held-309632
11-09-2021||---||Covid led to spike in suicide cases: Experts||Ludhiana, September 10The Covid pandemic has disturbed the mental health of people and cast a devastating impact on their minds. It has caused profound psychological and social effects and also led to increase in suicides.Every year September 10 is observed as “World Suicide Prevention Day” to raise awareness about suicide and promote preventive measures to reduce the number of such cases.How one can helpThis year, the theme of the day is “Creating hope through action” to give a new sense of purpose and empower and people with skills and confidence to connect with someone they think may be struggling to stay alive.Dr Rupesh Chaudhary, Professor at Department of Psychiatry, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), said, “It is the most common cause of death for people aged between 15-38 years and the rate of suicide attempts tend to be two-three times higher in women than in men.”Dr Chaudhary highlighted that suicide prevention becomes utmost important in today’s context as the last couple of years had shown an increased suicide rate due to sequelae of Covid-19 worldwide. During the pandemic and lockdown, the suicidal tendency among schoolchildren had risen significantly. As per the Indian Journal of Psychological Medicine 2021, a student dies by suicide every hour in India.“They experience emotional trauma due to prolonged confinement in a hostile home environment, lack of communication and interaction with friends and teachers, study-related pressure, apprehensions about attending online classes, lack of facility to attend online classes, financial crisis in family, overuse of social media, fear of contagion, parental pressure, domestic violence and substance abuse,” Dr Chaudhary added.Another city-based psychiatrist said chronic stress could have harmful effects on physical and mental health and can contribute to or worsen serious health problems, like heart disease and diabetes, and increase risk of mental health issues, like depression and anxiety disorders. “Ask for help from your primary care doctor, family and friends who can provide support and empathise”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-led-to-spike-in-suicide-cases-experts-309633
11-09-2021||---||One tests positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, September 10One person tested positive for Covid, while no person lost his life to the disease in the district today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.57 per cent. There are 31 active patients in the district at present. Two patients are admitted to hospitals for Covid treatment at present.Till date, a total of 23,62,466 samples have been taken, of which 22,63,305 samples were found negative. A total of three patients — one from Ludhiana and two from other states/districts — tested positive in the last 24 hours.The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,495, while 11,666 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of patients who lost their lives to the disease is 2,098 from Ludhiana and 1,049 from other districts.Samples of 8,075 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-tests-positive-in-ludhiana-district-309634
