12-09-2021||Ludhiana||Chairman of Nova cycles Harmohinder Pahwa dies of cardiac arrest in Ludhiana||Noted industrialist Harmohinder Singh Pahwa, the chairman and managing director of Nova cycles, died of cardiac arrest here on Sunday at the age of 76.He is survived by his son and two daughters.Pahwa had gone to a local club where he suffered a heart attack. He was immediately taken to a private hospital where he breathed his last.D S Chawla, the president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association said, “All his life he (Pahwa) worked for the growth of the cycle industry. He was a gentleman industrialist.”His cremation will take place after one of his daughters return from London. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/chairman-of-nova-cycles-harmohinder-pahwa-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-in-ludhiana-310177
12-09-2021||Harshraj Singh||Auction of LIT’s prime site at Model Town Ext cancelled||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 11Amid row over the Ludhiana Improvement Trust’s prime land’s auction at “throwaway prices”, the department of Local Government has cancelled the auction of the site measuring 16,344 sq yards located at Model Town Extension.Take a decision on selling site, trust toldThe Department of Local Government has also directed the Ludhiana Improvement Trust to take a decision whether it will have to sell the site at Model Town Extension as a chunk of land or SCOs. After taking the decision, the LIT will have to get the rate fixed again from the district-level price and rate fixation committee, according to the orders.As per the orders issued by the Local Government on Saturday, the auction of the land site at Model Town Extension land has been cancelled and the amount submitted by the successful bidder would be returned.The Department of Local Government has also directed the Ludhiana Improvement Trust to make a decision whether it will have to sell the site at Model Town Extension as a chunk of land or SCOs. After taking the decision, the LIT will have to get the rate fixed again from the district level price and rate fixation committee, according to the orders.The BJP and some SAD leaders had earlier raised questions over the role of LIT Chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and some others for allegedly auctioning the prime land in Model Town Extension at throwaway prices to benefit their close associate.Demanding CBI probe and registration of FIR against those involved in the auction of the land, Advocate Bikram Singh Sidhu, a BJP leader, had alleged that the land auction was a scam of Rs 250 crore. Sidhu had claimed that “the prime land was earlier earmarked for SCOs under the proposal of making a food street with an estimated Rs 400 crore revenue generation, but the land was auctioned merely for Rs 98.38 crore.”After the cancellation of the auction, Bikram Singh Sidhu said, “It is a big win of the public of Ludhiana that the land auction has been cancelled. The land auction was a big scam.”The LIT Chairman, Raman Balasubramaniam, had earlier claimed that the reserve price for the auction of the land was fixed by the committee, headed by the Ludhiana DC. Refuting the claims of the LIT Chairman, Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar Sharma had then made it clear that no reserve price was fixed by the committee for auction of the land measuring 16,344 sq yards at Model Town Extension.On Friday, Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu commented on his Twitter account, “In a bid to come clean on the baseless, frivolous and motivated allegations of opposition regarding the e-auction of a piece of land by Improvement Trust Ludhiana. I request the @PunjabGovtIndia to cancel the e-auction of the said land and issue fresh dates for the new e-auction, so that any person who is willing to offer more money is able to participate.”Meanwhile, the Department of Local Government has also asked the LIT to follow the rules for fixing the residential and commercial rates of the Gian Singh Rarewala market. Sources said that the LIT is also planning to sell the built-up commercial complex on Rani Jhansi Road by reducing the reserve price.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/auction-of-lits-prime-site-at-model-town-ext-cancelled-310013
12-09-2021||---||Govts not taking pollution of Buddha Nullah seriously: PAC||Ludhiana, September 11 Members of the Public Action Committee (PAC) for Sutlej and Mattewara Forest staged a protest at the Buddha Nullah bridge near Dairy Complex on Tajpur Road here, blaming the governments for not taking the issue of pollution seriously. The protesters alleged that the governments are non-serious on the issue of pollution and degrading quality of river waters as the Sutlej and Buddha Darya are a proof of that. They raised questions as to why the waste from dairies is still being dumped into the Buddha Nullah. A member of the PAC, Col (retd) CM Lakhanpal, said it was the third protest under the “Freedom from Pollution” series. “Dairies contribute a lot to the pollution load of the Buddha Nullah. The NGT had ordered the CPCB to frame guidelines for dairies which the CPCB had published in July 2020. As per those, no dairy is allowed within any city limits. Secondly dairy farms cannot be located in flood-prone areas. Thirdly they cannot be within 500 metres of a river. Ludhiana dairy complexes of Tajpur and Haibowal violate all of these guidelines and therefore it is no longer legally tenable to keep them within the city limits. Therefore the government has no choice but to shift them out of the city,” he said. Jaskirat Singh of the Naroa Punjab Manch said, “Senior officers, who have worked on the Buddha Darya problem for years, have clearly said in the meetings of the Buddha Darya Task Force that the problem of the Buddha Darya cannot be solved without shifting dairies out of the city and Effluent Treatment Plants are not going to be enough to solve it.” Dr Amandeep Bains of the RBS Roots said, “On the one hand the Rs 650-crore Buddha Darya rejuvenation project that concerns health of millions is not having a single eminent environment scientist or a health scientist on the team despite the fact that the project concerns drinking water pollution of millions, on the other hand, the govt is not even answering questions that citizens and civil society have been asking. This shows that the government neither has sincerity to solve the problem nor any answers to such questions that are being asked.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/govts-not-taking-pollution-of-buddha-nullah-seriously-pac-310014
12-09-2021||---||Two test positive in district||Ludhiana, September 11 Two persons tested positive for Covid, while no person lost his/her life to the disease today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.57 per cent. There are 27 active patients in the district and two patients are admitted to hospitals for Covid treatment at present. Till date, a total of 23,70,902 samples have been taken, of which 22,71,737 samples were found negative. A total of four patients — two from Ludhiana and two from other states/districts — have tested positive in the last 24 hours. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,497, while 11,668 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of persons who lost their lives to the disease is 2,098 from Ludhiana and 1,049 from other districts.  Samples of 8,436 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols of the stateg government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-test-positive-in-district-310015
12-09-2021||---||Transfer order of MC Secy revoked||Ludhiana, September 11 Transfer order of MC Secretary Jasdev Singh Sekhon has been revoked by the Department of Local Government. Sekhon, who was earlier transferred to the Abohar MC, has been transferred back to the Ludhiana MC. Questions were raised over the transfer of Sekhon amid drive against plastic carry bags in the city last month. During the drive, a team, led by Sekhon, had seized over 1,200-kg plastic carry bags from different locations in the city. A number of city residents, including social activists, members of various NGOs and MC employees, had gathered outside Nehru Rose Garden on August 9, demanding cancellation of the transfer order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/transfer-order-of-mc-secy-revoked-310016
12-09-2021||---||11 hot mix plant contractors ready to start road projects||Ludhiana, September 11Amid row between the Municipal Corporation and contractors of the Ludhiana Hot Mix Plant Contractors Welfare Association, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said a total of 11 hot mix plant contractors had given their nod to start road works in the city.The Mayor said he conducted a meeting with nine contractors yesterday and also talked to two more contractors over the phone.Sandhu said: “The contractors had assured us that they will participate in the tendering process for road works in the city.”Accusing some of the MC’s B&R officials of charging commission and being involved in corrupt practices, Ludhiana Hot Mix Plant Welfare Association president Vinod Jain had earlier announced to boycott road construction works (bitumen based) in the city.Jain on Saturday conducted a press conference and raised the issue of alleged corruption in the MC again.Jain said: “We will keep fighting against corruption. We have to make a corruption-free environment. There are some contractors being favoured by the MC. They claimed that there is no corruption in the civic body. But we demand from the Mayor and the Commissioner to get an inspection of any 10 roads constructed/ carpeted by such contractors in the presence of the public and the media. The testing of road samples would bring the truth in front of all.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/11-hot-mix-plant-contractors-ready-to-start-road-projects-310017
12-09-2021||Ludhiana||3 arrested for throwing man into canal||The Jagraon police arrested three persons on the charge of throwing a man into a canal yesterday.They have been identified as Inderjit Singh, Akashdeep Singh and Mandeep Singh, all residents of Sohia village. An attempt to murder case was registered against them at the Sadar Jagraon police station on Friday.Complainant Tajinder Singh, a resident of Patti Gill, told the police that on September 8 Inderjit called him and invited for a party.“When I came out of house Inderjit, along with Akashdeep, was standing on the road. They took me to the house of Mandeep where the accused offered me drink laced with some sedatives,” alleged the complainant.They took him to the canal and pushed him into the water. He somehow managed to swim and came out of the water. “When Inderjit saw me, he again came close to me and tried to strangulate. The accused then fled from the spot,” he alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-arrested-for-throwing-man-into-canal-310018
12-09-2021||---||Nepalese youth ends life||Ludhiana, September 11A Nepalese youth committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan at his house in Vishwakarma colony, Moti Nagar, yesterday late evening.The deceased has been identified as Anup. He was living with his parents and sister.As per information, Anup was unemployed for a long period of time. The police said at the time of incident he was alone at the home. When Anup’s family members returned at around 9 pm on Friday, they found his room locked.Family members repeatedly knocked the door but to no avail. When they broke open the door they found Anup’s body hanging from the ceiling fan. Family members then raised the alarm and called the police.Investigating officer ASI Rakesh Kumar said Anup was reportedly in depression due to unemployment and this could be the reason for taking the extreme step. The ASI said no suicide note was recovered from the spot. The police have initiated the inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nepalese-youth-ends-life-310019
12-09-2021||Legal Correspondent||13,482 traffic challans settled at Lok Adalat, Rs22.3L recovered||Ludhiana, September 11In the National Lok Adalat held here at the District Courts Complex, youngsters were given the concessions on fine amount of traffic challans with counselling & commitment for not indulging in violation of the traffic norms in future.As many as 13,482 traffic challans were settled with recovery of Rs 22,32,150. As per information, the general trend to settle traffic challan was half of the fixed fine amount and in several cases where the litigants were unable to pay, they were charged even less than half of the prescribed fine amount. But the authorities suggested that if anyone indulges in violating traffic norms in future, he/she would not be entitled for any concession.Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Munish Singal along with DLSA Secretary-cum-CJM PS Kaleka also interacted with the parents of underage drivers, who came to the Lok Adalat to settle their traffic challans. They asked them to encourage their wards to obey the law in letter and spirit.Showing concern over the rising trend of vehicles driven by teenagers, he said the school authorities should also sensitise students to desist from violating traffic rules.The Lok Adalat succeeded in settling 16,939 cases out of 24,123 involving passing of awards to the tune of Rs 1,02,03,69,867 crore in cases including civil, compoundable criminal cases, cheque bounce cases, revenue cases, traffic challans, motor accident claim cases, bank recovery matters, rent cases and service matter.The Lok Adalat Benches were headed by different judges, including Additional District and Sessions Judge Raj Kumar Garg, ADJ Bishan Saroop, ADJ Mohit Bansal, ADJ Monika Goyal, ADJ Sanjiv Joshi , ADJ Vijay Kumar, Principal Judge, Family Court, Ajaib Singh, Additional Principal Judges of Family Court ADJ Rakesh Kumar, ADJ RK Sharma, Permanent Lok Adalat Chairman BS Sandhu and CJM Sumit Makkar.The DLSA secretary-cum-CJM, PS Kaleka, exhorted the litigants to resolve their disputes through Lok Adalats as it would save their valuable time and money. Once a dispute is settled through Lok Adalat, then the court fee already paid by a party at the time of filing of a case is refunded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/13-482-traffic-challans-settled-at-lok-adalat-rs22-3l-recovered-310020
12-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Pensioners take out rally in Chandigarh||Doraha, September 11The Government Pensioners’ Association of Doraha participated in a rally organised by the Punjab, UT Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front in Chandigarh today.The president of the association said the government had fixed a meeting for September 20. If the demands remained unheard, the joint front would be forced to intensify its struggle from October 2. He condemned the state government’s policy of evading the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission for employees and pensioners with pro-employee and pro-pensioner amendments.Gurdial Singh Dalal, secretary, Government Pensioners Association, Doraha, said the report of the commission and the terminology adopted by the cabinet subcommittee, set up for its implementation, had confused the employees and pensioners.He said the Punjab, UT Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front was forced to organise a protest rally and march towards the CM’s official residence, only after the stubborn attitude of the Cabinet subcommittee and unsuccessful meetings with the subcommittee.The association fully supports the formula put forth and multiples suggested by joint front leaders sharing that the government had cunningly put up a formula with 113 per cent dearness allowance and 15 per cent increase in pay. The leaders while rejecting the fraudulent formula put forth by the Cabinet- subcommittee and demanded 125 per cent DA as it was on January 1, 2016, and 20 per cent increase in the pay with multiples 2.72, 2.89 and 3.06 (w.e.f from January 1, 2016).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pensioners-take-out-rally-in-chandigarh-310021
12-09-2021||Our Correspondent||300 jabbed at Gurdwara Somasar Sahib||Sahnewal, September 11As many as 300 persons were vaccinated in the sixth vaccination camp conducted by Guru Nanak National College, Doraha, in collaboration with the Punjab Youth Development Board and the CII Foundation at Gurdwara Somasar Sahib at Tibba village today.Chairman of the board Sukhwinder Bindra said the board was always ready to help and assist the youth of the state. It provided Guru Nanak National College with 300 vaccine doses today. We will keep on providing more doses as as per demand.Secretary of the college management committee Harpratap Brar extended special thanks to the Bindra with whose efforts the college had been able to provide vaccination to the youth of villages, including Tibba, Umedpur, Paddi, Majara, Dharaur, Natt, Jugiana, Gobindgarh, Dhandhari and Sahnewal.“A good number of students were able to take vaccine due to the efforts of the board. It will enable them to begin their regular classes without any further delay,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/300-jabbed-at-gurdwara-somasar-sahib-310022
12-09-2021||---||Smart City Mission: Hi-tech firefighting equipment worth Rs3.28 crore purchased||Ludhiana, September 11Under the Smart City Mission, new firefighting equipment worth Rs 3.28 crore have been purchased for strengthening the fire services in Ludhiana.Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu dedicated the modernised and advanced firefighting and rescue infrastructure here today. The minister said the state government had spent Rs 3.28 crore on purchasing hi-tech equipment, including new mini-fire tenders, materials and emergency lights under the Smart City scheme.He said four fabricated Tata Yodha fire tenders with a cost of Rs 88.64 lakh had been purchased to cover interior and narrow areas of the city.Ashu said water and foam would be used in the mini-tenders to douse the flames. Hi-tech pumping system had been installed in the four vehicles. Two Royal Enfield bullet motorcycles equipped with advanced firefighting technology had also been purchased, especially for congested lanes of the city.He said three life detectors of Rs 66.02 lakh had also made available which would play a crucial role in rescuing living beings during disasters. The detectors had a sensor that would sense human beings buried under debris in collapsed buildings and help save precious lives.The minister said 10 battery-operated combi tools of Rs 69.50 lakh had also been provided to the Fire Brigade Department which would help carry out rescue operations smoothly.Five portable and inflatable emergency lights had also been bought at a cost of Rs 11.74 lakh, he said, adding that these lights were based on the petrol engine system.The minister said five thermal imaging cameras of Rs 41.79 lakh had also been provided to the fire brigade. The cameras would help to see through smoke and monitor the fire’s spread and would assist in making better planning to control the fire, especially major hotspots. Hence, precious lives would be saved with these vital tools.He stated that five aluminum firefighting suits of Rs 51 lakh had also been purchased for firemen to handle any incident easily with more stay near high temperature.Congratulating the Smart City team of the city, he said Ludhiana had been ranked 37th on the list of Smart City rankings in the country from 54th ranking earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/smart-city-mission-hi-tech-firefighting-equipment-worth-rs3-28-crore-purchased-310023
12-09-2021||Mahesh Sharma
||Decision on Chhapar Mela pending, stalls already set up||Mandi Ahmedgarh, Sept 11 About a week before the scheduled commencement of Chhapar Mela, vendors have started setting up stalls at the venue of the famous rural fair, without receiving any permission from the administration. Regional leaders of various political parties have also hired land for organising conferences of their respective parties, even as the Ludhiana administration is yet to declare whether large congregations or arrival of devotees would be allowed or not. So much so that some farmers have already cut unripe paddy crop from their fields and rented their land for establishment of stalls. However, organisers, including priests at the Guga Marhi, the venue of the event, said lakhs of devotees would be visiting the shrine to worship the snake, the embodiment of Guga Peer. According to them, regional leaders of various political parties and office-bearers of social and religious organisations had already started preparing for the mega event, scheduled to commence on September 18. As some cautious devotees, to avoid rush, have already started visiting the shrine to worship the snake, certain vendors and shopkeepers have started transacting business too. Jatinder Sharma Happy Baba, chief patron, Sidh Sulakhan Sewa Society, said followers and volunteers of various social and religious organisations had started preparations for langar and other arrangements. “We have already started preparing for the langar, which will be run from September 18 to the conclusion of the fair,” the Baba said. Jagdeep Sehgal, SDM Ludhiana (West), said the decision regarding organising the fair would be taken within a couple of days and enough arrangements would be made to prevent spread of Covid and ensure safety of visitors. “Nobody will be allowed to install stalls or transact business without taking permission from the administration and we will take affidavits from managers or owners of stalls that guidelines on prevention of spread of coronavirus would be followed in letter and spirit,” Sehgal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/decision-on-chhapar-mela-pending-stalls-already-set-up-310024
12-09-2021||---||Live-in partner among 4 booked on rape charge||Ludhiana, September 11The Sadar police have registered a rape case against four persons, including a live-in partner of the complainant.The accused have been identified as Rohit (live-in partner of the victim), Rohit’s brother-in-law, a resident of Delhi, and two unknown persons.The complainant told the police that she had an affair with Rohit and after the consent of his family, she started living with him at his house. Although Rohit’s wife and children were also living in the same house.Last week, Rohit’s brother-in-law came from Delhi and after consuming some drugs he forcibly developed sexual relationship with her in the same house. “When I apprised my live-in partner about the sexual assault by his brother-in-law, my live-in partner instead of asking his brother-in-law had badly abused and beaten me up,” alleged the victim.The victim further alleged that about a month back, two friends of Rohit had also come to the house and developed physical relations with her against her wishes. Despite Rohit was aware about this, he didn’t bother to ask his friends.Investigating officer ASI Ranjit Singh said a case of rape and attack was registered against the four accused and raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/live-in-partner-among-4-booked-on-rape-charge-310025
12-09-2021||Ludhiana||Saragarhi martyrs remembered||Ramgarhia College students excelStudents of MA fine arts (4th semester) of Ramgarhia Girls College excelled in examinations. Principal Rajeshwarpal Kaur said: “Gurpreet Kaur got the eighth position in Panjab University by scoring 92 per cent (1,472/1,600) and stood first in the college. Anupreet secured the second position in the college as she attained 85 per cent (1,356/1,600) followed by Inderpreet who bagged the third position by achieving 81 per cent (1,304/1,600 ).” She congratulated all students and staff for the achievements. TNSSchool notesWorld Literacy Day celebratedStudents of Class VII-B of Green Grove Public School, Doraha, celebrated World Literacy Day. The event was graced by school president JPS Jolly and principal Suzy George. Avneet, Ishmeet, Bismeet, Harsheen, Jasmeet, Komaldeep and Mehakpreet prepared speeches and PowerPoint presentation to mark the day. This day is celebrated to make students aware of the importance of education and so that poor and needy children get educated.Maths club startedSacred Heart Convent Senior Secondary School, Sahnewal, has started a maths club, associated with VIPNET. The club was named “The Philomath Club’’ and has been affiliated with Vigyan Prasar. It aims to stimulate the spirit of curiosity, enquiry, innovation and creativity through activities which would supplement conventional education and make maths an enjoyable and interesting pursuit. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/saragarhi-martyrs-remembered-310033
12-09-2021||---||Congress, BJP men clash in Ludhiana; 15 hurt||Ludhiana, September 11As many as 15 persons were injured when Youth Congress (YC) and BJP workers today clashed near the Clock Tower, hurling stones and shoes at each other. The injured were admitted to various city hospitals.The clash occurred after Youth Congress workers staged a protest and tried to lock the BJP office to protest price rise and three farm laws.The BJP office was barricaded by the police to prevent Congress workers from entering the premises. However, the situation got out of hand after workers from both sides started pelting stones. Heavy police force deployed at the venue tried to contain the situation by resorting to a lathicharge.Centre to blameThe Centre has not acceded to the genuine demands of farmers. That’s why it was decided to lock the local BJP office. —Yogesh Handa, YC district presidentwhat about scamsIt is a bid to divert the attention from alleged swindling of crores of rupees from the sale of property by the Improvement Trust. Ashwani Sharma, Punjab BJP chiefYogesh Handa, YC district president, said: “Our plan was to lock the local BJP office to protest rising prices and show solidarity with farmers. For nearly a year, the Centre has not acceded to the genuine demands of farmers. That’s why it was decided to lock the local BJP office.”District BJP president Pushpinder Singhal claimed Congress workers started pelting them with stones, injuring party workers. “One of them even lost his eyesight. We are not frightened. We will give an apt reply,” said Singhal.District Congress president Ashwani Sharma said their protest was peaceful. “In the past too, protests have been held over inflation, but today BJP workers pelted our workers with stones in which four party men got injured. What has happened is uncalled for as holding peaceful protest is our right,” he said after enquiring about the health of party workers at the hospital.Later, Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma reached Ludhiana to check on the injured party workers. Sharma said there was no law and order in the state. “It is bid to divert the attention from alleged swindling of crores of rupees from the sale of public property by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust through e-auction. We won’t be silenced by such acts,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/congress-bjp-men-clash-in-ludhiana-15-hurt-309817
