13-09-2021||---||Ludhiana man arrested for smoking at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib||Anandpur Sahib, September 13A resident of Ludhaina was on Monday arrested for allegedly smoking at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee security guards deployed on the spot overpowered Paramjit Singh, a Jatt Sikh, and handed him over to the local police.The relatives of the accused informed the police that for last one year he was under treatment for schizophrenia, a disorder that affects a person’s ability to think, feel and behave clearly.SGPC security guard Swaran Singh informed the police that it was around 4.30 am when Paramjit Singh after taking a puff threw his cigarette behind the ragis sitting in darbar sahib and blew the smoke towards them.Ropar SSP Vivek Sheel Soni, who reached the spot, said the accused had been arrested after registering a case under Section 295-A of the IPC against him.He said the investigation would be held by a high-powered police team in coordination with a five-member committee appointed by the Takht Jathedar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-man-arrested-for-smoking-at-takht-sri-kesgarh-sahib-310556
13-09-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Open house: Repair roads on time, penalise firms for using low-quality material||A high percentage of poor condition of roads is the result of corruption in the MC. Leaving aside a few posh areas in the city, roads are needed an early repair. Every year funds are allotted but due to unethical ways money is not spent. This money is divided among unscrupulous individuals and roads remain the same. This becomes the main cause of accidents in the city. Due to intriguing carelessness of the district administration some roads have become prone to accidents. To improve the condition of roads stringent punishment is needed, more public participation is required, honest officials need to be honoured.JBS NandaPoor road maintenance main cause of accidentsMany accidents occur every day due to poor maintenance of roads in the smart city and as a result, some citizens lose their lives. All-out efforts are required to draw the attention of the Municipal Corporation to the maintenance of all roads in the city. One effective way is that some affected individuals take the matter to the court and file a suit against the erring body to teach its officers concerned a lesson by getting them fined for negligence, as is happening in many advanced countries in the world. The courts decide the cases on merit and impose heavy penalties on the agency concerned. This practice must start in the country at the earliest.Gautam DevAuthorities should be held responsible for mishapsMany residents lost their lives due to potholed roads. And these deaths should not be termed as accidents because they were not accidents but offences done by authorities and people who were responsible for the poor conditions of these roads. Hence, they need to held accountable towards their responsibilities and should be punished if they failed to do so as their negligence costs thousands of innocent lives. The government also needs to be serious towards road safety and conditions of roads. They should conduct regular surveys so that they can repair the roads which need utmost attention. Efforts should be made to aware the residents about the details of upcoming and ongoing road projects, the name of the contractor and his company to evolve a sense of liability. The government should strive to develop a website dedicated to the redressal of grievances against poor condition of roads where residents can upload pictures to bring speedy action. It should be mandatory for the contractors to mention the lifeline of the road they intended to construct in their submitted tenders and should be penalised if the road get fractured or damaged before its due time.Rishika KritiCarpet roads every 5 yrsAmong all four types of transportation systems, roadways is considered to be the most important and useful system as it carries maximum transaction of goods and human passengers. A well organised network of roadways speaks to the nature and development of a particular region, city or state. But the shapes of our roads, particularly of Ludhiana city, are in dismal state. If we want to get rid of the problems of roads in our city then roads should be carpeted after every five years through proper planning and with proper execution of plans. Every facility such as sewerage, water supply or even telephone connections and electricity supply should be provided before carpeting the roads to avoid wastage of resources and other patch work.Farzana KhanCreate proper sewerage systemPoor road facilities make it more difficult for area residents to move out of their houses. Waterlogging is one of the major problems of the urban areas. Residents of Jamalpur Road in Ludhiana are facing real trouble. In rainy season, water gets accumulated on roads. The authorities need to look forward and rebuild the roads and create proper sewerage system that the water from potholes don’t create foul smell. Even sometimes when you cross that road many people are unaware of the potholes in the centre of the road and gets smashed into it. The potholes must be filled and security of residents must be assured.Simarjot KaurCivic body should make preparations before rainsIt is a bitter truth that many roads of Ludhiana are in bad shape. Their condition deteriorates during rainy days. Pothole-riddled roads lead to accidents. Well before this season all roads should be perfectly carpeted with the best concrete mixture after filling all pits and cracks so that no water stagnates over the roads and incidence of accidents comes down considerably. The side drains must also be cleaned as well as propery cleaned before the rainy season. The zebra crossing and edge lines should be very clear. Ideally all main roads must have pedestrian paths.Dr Sunil ChopraStop digging roads after recarpetingI think that we Indians have so much patience to tolerate each and every evil and problem prevalent in the society. It may be in the form of violation of rights, corruption, irregular supply of water and electricity, bad road conditions and the list is unending. Due to the bad conditions of roads, it is not only the public that face problems but it has a bad impact on the health of the economy. Every year residents face the problem of roads as the condition becomes worse after monsoon. In the majority of areas roads have big pot-holes and it becomes too difficult to move. There must be a concrete plan for carpeting roads. There must be one inspection team to inspect conditions of roads area wise and should report to councillors of that area. Then nobody should be allowed to dig the road after its carpeting. Proper drainage facilities on both sides of roads should be there. Stray animals should be prevented from moving on roads.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiPotholed roads pose risk to commutersThe pitiable condition of roads in the city is an open invitation to mishaps. Potholes on the roads are crying for attention. The roads are being constructed with substandard material that is why the roads break early. Strict action should be taken against the erring officials and contractors. The testing of the material should be done regularly.The firms should be accountable for maintaining the road for a period of 10 years. Road signs must be visible in the night, crash barriers should be in the right place and road edges and lanes should be well marked. The broken covers of sewer manholes should be immediately replaced.RS SEMBHIStart road work after monsoonThere are many areas in the city where the condition of roads is pathetic. At some places the roads have vanished and the paths look like kacha roads generally find in villages. The Municipal Corporation should get to some serious work and start road carpeting immediately after the monsoon season. This will not only save the precious lives but also streamline the vehicular movement. Already the city is reeling under the stress of poor traffic problem due to a number of construction works going on in the city and uncarpeted roads in the remaining part of the city add to the woes of the commuters. So something concrete must be done at the earliest to carpet the city roads.Bir Devinder Singh BediDesignate places for dumping garbageGood quality roads and infrastructure are very essential for the development of the city. No doubt, authorities are paying attention on infrastructure by constructing bridges and flyovers but there is a great negligence on their part as far as roads are concerned. In the rainy season, city faces worst condition. Even sewerage overflow is common in the city which adds dirt to the worst condition. Dumping garbage on roads also leads to the destruction of infrastructure because various animals surrounded the roads and accidents happen. Authorities must pay attention on the good quality roads. Contractors must be held responsible for the maintenance of roads for a particular period of time. Quality should not be compromised at any cost. Government should also fix a place for dumping the garbage.Ritu PriyaDepute officers to check condition of roadsThe authorities should depute an officer to keep a check on the condition of roads. The responsibility should be fixed and there should be a common communication channel to make that officer get the information about broken roads from city residents. The names of respective road contractors with contact details should be made public on website. The transparency will improve the system and weed out corrupt elements. Roads being soluble in rainwater is typically because of water stagnation as design and material are not verified at the time of construction. Water accumulates on uneven constructed roads leading to damages during rains.Dr Harpreet SinghPenalise firm for using low-quality road materialBad roads adversely affect the people in countless ways and thus make them poorer. Digging of roads from anywhere for cable and water connections without taking permission from municipal corporations is pitiable. Road contractor should be held responsible for the maintenance of the road for three years and then three years additional warranty. There should be online complaint registry for each road and contact details of the contractor. The construction company should be penalised for poor construction of roads.Anu JoshiTake steps for disposal of rainwaterThe main reason behind poor condition of roads is accumulation of rain water for a longer period of time due to improper disposal of rainwater. The depleted roads cause sheer inconvenience to commuters as well as city residents. The MC should take necessary steps for proper disposal of rainwater. This method might prove boon for commuters, local residents and also reduce the accidents on roads.Adish soodUse quality materialRegular cleaning of roadside nullahs and high quality of road material should be priority of the MC. Employees of the PWD should be motivated for early repair of roads and potholes. Allocation of road work should be allotted in a transparent way.Dr Sukhdev SharmaFollow traffic guidelinesRoads in India are in a miserable condition. The very first responsibility of officials concerned is to make need-based roads, pavements, humps, speed breakers and traffic lights. Ditches should be immediately filled. Moreover, citizens must try their best to keep the roads in favourable conditions and follow the traffic guidelines. properly.AMARPREET KAUROPEN HOUSE QUESTIONEven as the deadly Covid virus has almost died down, at least for now, the dreaded dengue fever has started spreading its tentacles. With no dedicated treatment arrangements for dengue patients at government facilities as yet and no fogging to check breeding of mosquitoes and flies, the patients are forced to fend for themselves and the situation may soon turn grim. What should be done to avoid the situation turning out of control? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-repair-roads-on-time-penalise-firms-for-using-low-quality-material-310268
13-09-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab Agricultural University bags award for its contribution in field of vegetable crop research||The Department of Vegetable Science, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), has been awarded with the ‘Best-All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP-Vegetable Crops) Centre’ for year 2020 for its contribution in the field of vegetable crop research.The prestigious award, carrying a plaque and citation, was conferred during the 39th Annual Group Meeting of AICRP (Vegetable Crops), held at the Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, from September 7 to 9, 2021, through virtual mode.Dr Tarsem Singh Dhillon, head, Department of Vegetable Science, said the PAU was among 63 centres of the All India Coordinated Research Project (Vegetable Crops) since 1971. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-agricultural-university-bags-award-for-its-contribution-in-field-of-vegetable-crop-research-310254
13-09-2021||---||Awareness camp for street food vendors in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 12Under mission “Eat Right Challenge and Eat Smart City Challenge”, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of Commissioner Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, and Food Team Ludhiana comprising Dr Rajesh Garg, designated officer food safety, Dr Tarun Bansal, food safety officer and Divyajot Kaur, food safety officer.In the meeting, discussions were made on initiatives such as camps to aware food business organisations about the license, registration, sanitary and hygiene practices, recycling of food waste, healthy habits and effective implementation of action plan.In continuation of the above action plan, an awareness camp was organised at the office of the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, in which about 120 street vendors participated. The street food vendors were made aware about the importance of food license and registrations.Food registrations were issued and delivered to vendors on the spot.The vendors were sensitised to follow the appropriate Covid-19 behaviour and sanitary practices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/awareness-camp-for-street-food-vendors-in-ludhiana-310258
13-09-2021||Ludhiana||‘Rude’ behaviour of Deputy DEO: Teachers to meet Education Minister tomorrow||Various teacher unions in the city have joined hands against Deputy DEO Kuldeep Saini’s alleged rude and arrogant behaviour, due to which teachers are allegedly traumatised.Representatives from various teaching unions met here today. They said a delegation of teachers would meet the Education Minister on September 14. The minister would be deliberated on the trauma being faced by teachers, especially females, due to the rude behaviour of the Deputy DEO.The teachers said in case the teachers’ demand of suspension of the deputy DEO and his clerk was not met immediately, they would intensify their agitation. They would not start with a state-level protest outside the DC office here but move court against the Deputy DEO and the clerk.Teachers are up in the arms against the official for being rude with the teachers during Zoom meetings and putting undue pressure on them to meet targets (Covid vaccination camps, enrolling of new students in government schools or visiting door to door for new admissions). While one of the teachers had sent a written complaint against the Deputy DEO and another teacher at Sahnewal suffered attack after the official spoke rude to her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rude-behaviour-of-deputy-deo-teachers-to-meet-education-minister-tomorrow-310259
13-09-2021||Harshraj Singh||Years on, wait for vending zones continues; Ludhiana Municipal Corporation least bothered||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 12Even after passing of many years, street vendors are still waiting for vending zones in the city.The Municipal Corporation (MC) had in May 2021 floated tenders for the construction of the first vending zone on Hambran Road at an estimated cost of Rs 1.21 crore but nothing has been done at the ground level. The tendering process had remained unsuccessful.In the absence of vending zones, the vendors are forced to sell their products on roadside in the city while their carts are often removed by the civic body. The MC has also been charging a composition fee from many of the vendors for the past few years but it failed to set up the vending zones for them.As per the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, the MC is supposed to ensure the provision of vending zones for the vendors. After repeated demands of a vendors’ union, then MC officials had in 2015 claimed that the Ludhiana MC became the first civic body in the state to prepare a draft of bylaws, rules and plan for the implementation of the Act.During the tenure of the previous SAD-BJP government in the state, assurances were given to the vendors that vending zones will be set up soon. After the Assembly elections in 2017, similar assurances were given to them during the tenure of the Congress government too. But, vending zones are yet to be set up.In December 2020, the Department of Local Government had issued a notification regarding the MC’s plan to set up 64 vending zones for 8,989 vendors in the city. A total of 21,725 vendors were earlier identified in a survey done by the MC, of which 5,925 vendors were in Zone A, 5,377 in Zone B, 3,654 in Zone C and 6,769 in Zone D.Some vendors associated with the Rehri Phari Federation had earlier also levelled allegations that the vendors were forced to pay bribe to the MC employees concerned for stationing their carts on roadsides. Questions are being raised to why the MC is delaying the process.Tiger Singh, president of federation, said: “Certificates with detailed information were not even issued to the vendors after the survey was done, long time ago. The meetings are being held to discuss the matter but the work is done on papers only. No vending zones have been set up in the city by the MC. In the absence of the vending zones, vendors face a lot of harassment. The MC often takes action against the vendors even after charging the composition fee from them. We want vending zones as per the Act.”MC Zonal Commissioner at Zone C Neeraj Jain said earlier, tenders to set up a vending zone on Hambran Road was floated but no firm showed any interest. A process was underway to set up the vending zones.Vendors forced to sell items on roadsideIn the absence of vending zones, street vendors are forced to sell their products on roadside in the city while their carts are often removed by the civic body. The MC has also been charging a composition fee from many vendors for the past few years but it has failed to set up the vending zones for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/years-on-wait-for-vending-zones-continues-ludhiana-municipal-corporation-least-bothered-310261
13-09-2021||Ludhiana||2,450 appear for NEET in Ludhiana||Airport direction boards blackenedMandi Ahmedgarh: The police have launched a hunt for activists of Inquilab Zindabad Lehar who have been booked under under Section (3) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act for allegedly blackening direction boards of the International Airport, Halwara, installed on Ludhiana- Bathinda Highway near Halwara drain on Sunday. The main accused have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh Halwara and Sukh Jagraon, frontline leaders of the outfit, who were demanding to name the airport after martyr Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-450-appear-for-neet-in-ludhiana-310262
13-09-2021||Ludhiana||Auto-rickshaw driver attempts to molest passenger in Ludhiana||An auto-rickshaw driver attempted to molest a woman in Jagraon but was caught by passers-by. He has been identified as Chanmkor Singh of Galib Khurd village near Jagraon.The complainant, a resident of Galib Kalan, told the police that last evening, she was waiting for an auto-rickshaw to reach home. An auto driver asked her to board his vehicle as he was heading towards Galib Kalan village.Instead of turning towards the village, the driver stopped the auto on the roadside. “The auto driver seemed to be drunk and he attempted to disrobe and molest me. When I raised the alarm, people from my village, including Avtar, Dharampreet and Rajinder, who were passing by, saved me from the driver,” added the woman.The driver tried to flee but was caught and thrashed by the passers-by. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/auto-rickshaw-driver-attempts-to-molest-passenger-in-ludhiana-310257
13-09-2021||---||Man held with 450-gm heroin in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 12Special Task Force of the police have nabbed a smuggler and recovered 450 gram of heroin from his possession. The suspect has been identified as Kaka Singh, alias K Deep, a resident of Janta Colony.Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge of the STF, said they received a tip-off that a person was on the way to deliver a consignment of drugs to his clients. A team of the STF set up a naka at Kot Mangal Singh where the suspect was signalled to stop. A search of his belongings yielded 450 gram of heroin.During preliminary questioning, the suspect admitted that he had been into the illegal trade of heroin smuggling for the past over five years and he was also a drug addict. He was already facing four cases of drug smuggling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-with-450-gm-heroin-in-ludhiana-310255
13-09-2021||---||Police bust gang of vehicle thieves in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 12The Kotwali police claimed to have busted a gang of vehicle thieves and recovered two stolen vehicles from them.The suspects have been identified as Deepak Kumar, alias Deepu, of Janta Nagar and Raju Kumar of Peeru Banda.The Kotwali SHO, SI Harjit Singh, said both accused were running a gang of thieves and they were on the way to the Clock Tower on a stolen Activa scooter.A police party set up a naka and caught the scooter-borne suspects. They had put up a fake number plate on the scooter.Both suspects confessed that they had recently stolen a motorcycle from Transport Nagar. The police recovered the two-wheeler.The SHO said in July, 2019, the suspects, along with members of the gang Taran Dhami and Sukhdev Singh (died recently), had took away an Activa scooter of person by force near Kaind bridge. They later found Rs3.12 lakh lying in the dicky which they distributed among themselves.Deepak is facing three criminal cases, including the one for attempt to murder. Raju, too, is named in two cases.The SHO said they would seek police remand of the suspects to recover more stolen vehicles from them and to arrest the other members of their gang.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-bust-gang-of-vehicle-thieves-in-ludhiana-310256
13-09-2021||---||Nine fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Ludhiana district, no death||Ludhiana, September 12Nine persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported in the district today. The recovery rate has reached 97.57 per cent.There were 27 active patients in the district. Seventeen persons were put under home isolation while one patient of Covid was admitted to the hospital.A total of 23,78,732 samples have been collected to date, of which 22,79,558 tested negative. Of the case tally of the district, the number of Covid patients belonging to Ludhiana district is 87,506 while 11,668 patients were from other districts/states.The number of persons who lost their lives due to Covid in the district is 2,098. As many as 1,049 patients who died of Covid in Ludhiana were from other districts of the state.Whenever the District Administration and the Health Department come to know about suspected Covid patients, their samples are immediately sent for testing. Similarly, 7,830 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nine-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-ludhiana-district-no-death-310263
13-09-2021||Nitin Jain||Covid-19: Ludhiana district positivity rate 3rd lowest in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 12The Covid situation in Ludhiana continues to remain well under control as the district’s daily positivity rate, a key indicator of virus surge, remained third lowest and the daily case count was recorded fourth highest in the state during the last week, the government has confirmed.Varinder Kumar Sharma, DC OFFICIALSPEAKWe continue to remain safe with the virus situation well under control. Still, we are aggressively following a five-pronged strategy involving test, trace, treat, vaccinate and strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.While Ludhiana recorded a daily average hit rate of 0.03 per cent, which was almost one-third than the state’s positivity of 0.1 per cent, the district recorded two fresh virus cases on an average every day between September 3 and 9, the official figures have revealed.The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is available with The Tribune, showed that Ludhiana’s hit rate was higher than seven districts, six of which recorded zero positivity, while the daily case count was lower than three districts.Mohali continues to be the worst-hit district in the state with the highest daily positivity rate of 0.4 per cent, four-times higher than the state average, and five new cases, which were maximum daily infections reported by any district.Patiala ranked the second worst district with a hit rate of 0.2 per cent, double than the state average and four daily fresh cases.Among other districts, Amritsar, Jalandhar, and Bathinda reported three new infections each daily, Pathankot and Hoshiarpur two each, Gurdaspur, Ropar, Fazilka, Kapurthala, Sangrur, Barnala, Nawanshahr, and Muktsar one each, while Faridkot, Tarn Taran, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Moga, and Mansa recorded no fresh cases in the past seven days when the state reported an average of 33 new infections daily.On the daily average positivity front, Bathinda and Pathankot reported 0.2 per cent hit rate each, Ropar, Amritsar, Fazilka, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, and Barnala 0.1 per cent each, Nawanshahr 0.05 per cent, Sangrur and Muktsar 0.04 per cent, Gurdapur 0.02 per cent, while Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Moga, Barnala, and Mansa recorded nil hit rate from September 3 to 9.When it comes to daily testing and positive cases, the state tested 44,185 persons on September 9 when 29 fresh cases were reported, 44,682 tests and 36 infections on September 8, 34,323 tests and 27 cases on September 7, 37,698 tests and 36 infections on September 6, 45,677 tests and 34 infections on September 5, 48,399 tests and 36 cases on September 4, and 45,308 tests and 32 fresh infections on September 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-ludhiana-district-positivity-rate-3rd-lowest-in-punjab-310253
13-09-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana administration fails to conduct fogging in areas outside Municipal Corporation limits||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 12Though dengue cases are increasing in the district, there are many colonies (approved and unapproved) and villages outside the Municipal Corporation limits wherein the government has not yet made any arrangement to conduct fogging for the prevention of dengue and other vector-borne diseases this year too.Residents of such areas outside the MC’s jurisdiction and villages have been demanding from the government to ensure timely fogging but nothing has been done. Even there is no proper check on breeding of mosquitoes in accumulated water in many of the areas outside the city.Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Basant City on Pakhowal Road, said: “No department conducts any fogging drive in our area. We have been demanding that fogging should be conducted here timely but to no avail.”Jaswinder, who is a former superintending engineer of the Department of Punjab Water Supply and Sanitation, said: “If fogging can be conducted in city areas, why not outside the city? Dengue cases were reported from outside city areas too. There is a dire need to take steps to conduct fogging in all areas for the prevention of dengue, chikungunya and other vector-borne diseases.”Lakhvir Singh, a resident of Baddowal village, said: “A number of dengue cases has been reported from the village in the past. Chances of fresh cases can’t be ignored too as no fogging or other steps are being taken for the prevention of the disease. We had raised the demand last year too but steps have not been taken in this regard by any government department. Also, there is no arrangement of fogging in many other villages of the district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-administration-fails-to-conduct-fogging-in-areas-outside-municipal-corporation-limits-310264
13-09-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: PUDA market SCO owners object to design of static compactor||Shop-cum-Office (SCO) owners in PUDA market on Old Jail Road here are up in arms against the Municipal Corporation over the under-construction structure of a static compactor adjoining the market as windows and projection of the structure have been set up towards the SCOs, which was likely to become a permanent nuisance for shopkeepers as well as customers visiting the market.In a complaint to the MC Commissioner, with copies to senior officials of PUDA/GLADA, the Jail Road SCOs and Property Owners Association has expressed objection to the design of the upcoming structure. The SCO owners said the two windows and projection of the structure towards PUDA land were illegal and these were most likely to affect the footfall in the market and business of the SCO owners.Vineet Pal Singh Monga, secretary of the association, has said the structure being raised in Pocket 2 of the market was illegal and undesirable as no opening in the form of windows or projection could be made into the PUDA land by the MC.The complaint alleged that the contractor had also damaged and broken the 120-feet long and seven-feet high wall constructed with concrete pillars along the PUDA land, adjoining the existing MC garbage dump. Besides, a water tank was also damaged/broken by the contractor.The affected SCO owners have fervently asked the MC authorities to stop the construction work and amend the design of the structure of the static compactor. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-puda-market-sco-owners-object-to-design-of-static-compactor-310269
13-09-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Ludhiana: Chief Vigilance Officer seeks report on bylaw violations||Ludhiana, September 12There is virtual scramble among field staff and supervisory officials of the building branch of the Municipal Corporation here as amidst widespread complaints of blatant violations of building bylaws, and especially connivance of the MC employees in proliferation of such buildings all across the city, the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) of the Local Government Department, Punjab, has sought a detailed report on violations of building bylaws.Sources in the MC indicated that the CVO had asked the MC Commissioner to submit details of all pending or unprocessed challans, pending recovery of composition fee and action taken, if any, for removal of non-compoundable violations in such illegal commercial buildings within a period of one week.While the CVO has taken up the matter of unending construction of illegal commercial buildings in the city, the violations of building norms continue unabated obviously with the connivance or tacit approval of MC employees and officials. In this regard, a spate of complaints have been lodged with the Additional Chief Secretary and other senior government functionaries about commercial buildings under construction.In two such complaints lodged with the state government, the secretary, Council of RTI Activists, Arvind Sharma, and a socil activist, Gajjan Singh Jassal, have alleged that illegal commercial buildings were being raised with impunity in areas such as Model Town, Model Town Extension, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Main Pakhowal Road without approved building plans and without change of land use.“Most of the under-construction commercial buildings are being raised in violation of buildings norms like excess coverage, no provision for parking spaces and and in some cases even by encroaching upon parts of public streets and roads,” said the complainant.While Sharma has attached photographic evidence of the illegal buildings with his complaint, Jassal has maintained that at least 24 commercial buildings were under construction in C-zone of the city alone. That no penal actions such as issuing challans, compounding the violations or demolition of non-compoundable violations had apparently been taken against the builders concerned was evidence of complicity of the field staff and their supervisory officials, said both complainants.Officials of the MC, however, claimed that directions had already been issued to all ATPs for issuing challans and taking date-bound action for composition of compoundable violations as well as demolition of all buildings or portions which were non-compoundable.What complainants sayIn two complaints lodged with the state government, the secretary, Council of RTI Activists, Arvind Sharma, and a socil activist, Gajjan Singh Jassal, have alleged that illegal commercial buildings are being raised with impunity in areas such as Model Town, Model Town Extension, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Main Pakhowal Road without approved building plans and without change of land use.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-chief-vigilance-officer-seeks-report-on-bylaw-violations-310260
