20-09-2021||Sonepat||Protesting farmer from Samrala dies at Singhu||A 74-year-old farmer, Jai Singh, of Dhinsa village of Samrala in Punjab was found dead in his tent under suspicious circumstances at the Singhu border this morning.Heart attack was suspected to be the reason behind the death. The farmer was an active member of the BKU (Lakhowal) and had come to participate in the farmers’ protest at here around six months ago and was staying in the tent. He reportedly had an acre of land.Jai Singh did not get up in the morning when his fellow farmers approached him. They called a doctor, who declared him dead. The body was sent for post-mortem, said inspector Ravi Kumar, SHO, Kundli. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protesting-farmer-from-samrala-dies-at-singhu-313583
20-09-2021||Nitin Jain||Urban-rural divide emerges in Covid-19 cases in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 19In what appears to be a new trend, an urban-rural divide has emerged wide and open in Covid cases reported in the state during the past 14 days, the government has confirmed.Highs & LowsWhile eight districts recorded more infections in towns, 13 districts saw higher count in villages, the official figures have revealed.The analysis of region-wise positive patients conducted by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, showed that Ludhiana recorded five virus cases from urban areas while 15 from villages during the past 14 days.While Mohali topped the state with the maximum count of 42 infections from urban areas, Ferozepur reported the maximum of 23 fresh cases from the villages.The district-wise comparison indicated that Mohali reported 42 cases from urban and 10 from rural areas, Jalandhar 32 urban and 12 rural, Bathinda 29 urban 11 rural, Amritsar 28 urban 21 rural, Ferozepur 13 urban 23 rural, Pathankot 23 urban six rural, Hoshiarpur 13 urban 22 rural, Muktsar three urban 19 rural, Patiala 17 urban 13 rural, Gurdaspur eight urban 16 rural, Faridkot nine urban 15 rural, Ludhiana five urban 15 rural, Fazilka five urban 13 rural, Ropar eight urban two rural, Tarn Taran three urban seven rural, Fatehgarh Sahib six urban five rural, Kapurthala five urban six rural, Nawanshahr one urban five rural, Moga one urban four rural, Barnala two urban three rural and Mansa recorded one case from urban areas and three from rural areas in the past fortnight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/urban-rural-divide-emerges-in-covid-19-cases-in-punjab-313622
20-09-2021||---||Four test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 19Four persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported due to the disease today. At present, there are 28 active patients in the district. Today, 23 persons were sent for home isolation and only one patient is admitted to hospital for Covid treatment.A total of six patients (four new patients from Ludhiana district and two from other state/district) have tested positive in the past 24 hours.Till date, a total of 24,34,758 samples have been taken, of which 23,35,561 were found negative. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,522 while 11,675 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,100 persons from Ludhiana and 1,049 from other districts.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid patients, their samples are sent for testing. As many as 7,254 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols of the state government to not only save themselves but keeping everyone around safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-test-positive-in-ludhiana-313623
20-09-2021||---||LIT, Ludhiana MC make mockery of e-tendering system||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana, September 19Extension of dates for opening of e-tenders for development works worth around Rs 22 crore twice by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT), from September 10 to 17 and then again from September 17 to 24, has raised many questions on the very system of e-tendering introduced by the government to bring about transparency in awarding contracts.The LIT authorities had to extend the last date for submission of bids after an uproar by contractors that estimates for several high-value development works were not uploaded on the e-tendering website.Though officials concerned of the LIT attribute this issue to procedural delay, in reality this fact has come to the fore that delay in uploading estimates simultaneously with floating e-tenders (a statutory requirement), has become a routine rather than an exception. And the delay was more often than not deliberate to create uncertainty and confusion among the intending bidders.Highly informed sources maintain that of late, the senior official of the engineering branch of he LIT have made it a practice to float tenders without uploading estimates on the website.“This is done to dissuade a large number of eligible contractors and construction agencies away from the bidding procedure and then award the work to politically-connected contractors on higher rates,” said the sources, adding that in this dubious game both LIT officials and political functionaries share the spoils.Sanjeev Jain, who has a long-standing connection with government contracts, has lodged a complaint with the Principal Secretary, Local Government Department, Punjab, to hold an inquiry into the ‘rigged’ e-tendering procedures being followed in the LIT, fix responsibility of guilty officials and take stern disciplinary action for making the whole tendering system a farce.Complaint against MCYet another complaint lodged with the government about state of affairs of e-tendering in Municipal Corporation indicates that the civic body is faring no better where following rules and regulations for e-tendering system is concerned. A city-based social activist, Ramesh Nayyar, has alleged in a complaint that certain contractors were submitting bogus/inflated turnover certificates for the past five years in complicity with MC officials for showing eligibility to offer bids for tenders worth over Rs 1 crore Fudged figures of pending works with civic bodies and other government departments were being produced by some contractors. Surprisingly, the MC officials did not care to cross-check the figures for obvious reasons.The complaint stated that due to these manipulations, many contractors were awarded works way beyond their capacity which often led to delay, financial loss to the MC and avoidable inconvenience to the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lit-ludhiana-mc-make-mockery-of-e-tendering-system-313624
20-09-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||After recent Ludhiana police action, gun houses set their records in order||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 19After the Ludhiana police tightened noose around gun house owners supplying ammunition illegally to criminal elements and tampering with the sale register, now, the Ludhiana Arms Dealers Association has started setting their records in order. The association has appealed to arms licence holders whose licence has expired to submit copies of renewed licence as soon as possible.Raid conducted at 16 gun houses in AugustLast month, the police had conducted a raid at all 16 gun houses in Ludhiana on the suspicion that owners of gun houses by tampering the records of sale register and by making forge enteries in the name of licence holders, were supplying ammunition to the criminal elements. After the raid, the police had also nabbed the owner of Verma Gun House, Gurcharan Singh, who had sold bullets to a notorious criminal.Notably, last month the police had conducted a raid at all 16 gun houses in Ludhiana on the suspicion that owners of gun houses by tampering the records of sale register and by making forge enteries in the name of licence holders, were supplying ammunition to the criminal elements. After the raid, the police had also nabbed the owner of Verma Gun House, Gurcharan Singh, who had sold bullets to a notorious criminal. Later, two more partners of the gun house were booked by the police for allegedly tampering with the sale register.The copy of the notice issued by the association states that: “The Ludhiana Arms Dealers Association appeal to all arms licence holders that if their licence has expired, they should get their licence renewed as soon as possible and submit copies with gun houses. If any arms licence holder has died and their weapon is lying at the gun houses, family members of such licence holders should start the process to dispose of their weapons.”Sources said the police had strictly told the gun house owners to prepare a list of all weapons whose owners have not submitted the renewed licence and also make a list of licence holders who had already died but their weapons are still lying at the gun houses.“We had received information that gun houses have a large number of weapons whose owners have already died but kin of the licence holders have not informed the police about the same. The gun houses could misuse such weapons, hence, the police have asked gun houses to dispose of such weapons,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/after-recent-ludhiana-police-action-gun-houses-set-their-records-in-order-313625
20-09-2021||---||Make info of all Smart City projects public, say NGOs||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 19As information and plan of a number of Smart City Mission projects are allegedly not being made public, questions are being raised over the role of the Municipal Corporation and Ludhiana Smart City Limited.Representatives of NGOs have been demanding for a long time that all information regarding every project should be made public on the official web portal. They are also demanding that project information boards with the date of starting, deadline and cost must be displayed at project sites.When Secretary of the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs Durga Shanker Mishra had visited the city on Friday, representatives of the PAC and the Council of Engineers had submitted separate complaints to official, raising questions over different projects.Jaskirat Singh of the Naroa Manch, Punjab, said: “When public money is used for projects, it is the responsibility of the department concerned to make sure that all projects’ plans and documents be made available on its official website to ensure transparency. Even, a link to the official website with a project code should be mentioned on boards at the project sites so that the public can easily get required information. ”Chairman, Indian Institute of Architects, Punjab chapter, and one of the directors of Ludhiana Smart City Limited Sanjay Goyal said: “The project starting date and deadline along with other important information should be displayed at project sites.”Notably, Ludhiana Smart City Limited has displayed an information board regarding the Retrofitting project of the Sarabha Nagar Market. However, the project cost has been displayed with names of officials and contractor but the starting date and the completion date were not mentioned on the board.“At every project site, a complete set of drawings as well as bar chart with information about starting and completion of respective items of the project should be made available for the public,” said Kapil Dev of the Council of Engineers.MC Superintending Engineer Rahul Gagneja, who looks after Smart City Mission projects, did not respond to phone calls. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said he would ask Ludhiana Smart City Limited to make documents related to all projects public on the official web portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/make-info-of-all-smart-city-projects-public-say-ngos-313627
20-09-2021||Harshraj Singh||Sekhowal village residents write to Punjab CM||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 19A group of residents belonging to the Dalit community from Sekhowal village has written to the Chief Minister, requesting him to issue an order to the government department concerned for not selling plots on 416 acres of land in the village for the proposed modern industrial park.An advertisement was issued by the department concerned to sell the plots on the panchayat land recently, the residents said.The land was earlier acquired for the industrial park, to be set up near Mattewara Forest and the Sutlej. But, the residents said their families had been dependent on the land for decades as they had been using it for agricultural purposes.Kashmir Singh of Sekhowal said the PUDA/GLADA had issued an advertisement to sell the plots that increased their woes.He said: “We are against the government decision to set up an industrial park on the land in Sekhowal village. We have already moved the court over the registration process of the land. We appeal to the CM to order the department concerned to revoke the advertisement and stop the process of selling plots on the land.”Kashmir said: “Many families of Sekhowal had been using the panchayat land for growing crops for the past 60-70 years. It is our third generation that is dependent on the land as we grow crops there. If the industrial park set up there, our lives would be ruined.”He said: “The village gram sabha had earlier passed a resolution, refusing to give the land to set up the industrial park. But, the panchayat had sold the land to the government department concerned despite our opposition. The proper process was not followed for the registry of the land.”Another resident Gurdev Singh said: “We don’t want to see any modern industrial park be set up on the village land. Moreover, Mattewara Forest and the Sutlej are located just near the land. If any industry is set up there, it would be harmful to the environment too.”Members of a public action committee (PAC) have also been opposing the site of the industrial park. They are demanding from the government not to set up the park at the eco-sensitive location.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sekhowal-village-residents-write-to-punjab-cm-313628
20-09-2021||---||Reckless driving claims biker’s life in Jagraon||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 19A motorcyclist lost his life in Jagraon after a Mahindra Bolero pick-up rammed into two motorcycles. Three bike-borne persons also suffered minor injuries in the accident.The deceased has been identified as Avtar Singh of Kular village.Complainant Sukhdev Singh, deceased’s father, told the police that yesterday his son Avtar along with his friend Sahibjot Singh were going towards his home on a motorcycle.“When my son reached GT Road near Aligarh village, a speeding and rashly driven Bolero Pik-Up first rammed into the motorcycle of Parabhjot and Gurjot and later hit my son’s motorcycle,” he said.Avtar and Sahibjot were rushed to a nearby hospital where the former succumbed to his injuries. Sahibjot suffered serious injuries and was still undergoing treatment.Investigating officer ASI Balraj Singh said a case of negligent driving under Section 304-A of the IPC was registered against the accused and CCTV cameras were being checked by the police to identify the accused driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/reckless-driving-claims-bikers-life-in-jagraon-313629
20-09-2021||Fogging done only in posh areas||Open House: What steps can be taken to check dengue, treat patients as threat of the disease looms large?||Like coronavirus, dengue is also a deadly disease, which is spreading fast in the city. The civic authorities are not even taking some basic steps to prevent the spread mosquito-borne disease. Fogging is done only in posh localities while other areas are always neglected. Dengue cases surface from these areas. The Municipal Corporation should start fogging in each and every area of the city. Besides, proper arrangements should be made at the Civil Hospital to treat dengue patients. Ritu PriyaSound mind is in a sound bodyIt’s said that a sound mind is in a sound body. Every year we face and suffer from various diseases such as dengue, chikungunya, malaria and swine flu. Each person shares a lot of information about such diseases on the social media. It’s duty of the Municipal Corporation to eradicate dengue. Residents should keep their surroundings clean and motivate others to do so. They should wear clothes that cover full body and use mosquito-repellent creams. There should no water stagnation at homes and in surroundings. Water in room coolers should be changed once a week. Awareness programmes on measures to prevent the spread of dengue can be initiated in educational institutions. Public should cooperate with the Municipal Corporation and follow directions issued from time to time eradicate the vector-borne disease.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiDispose of garbage properlyThe civic body authorities should regularly check water stagnation in streets. Garbage should be disposed of properly. Also, the administration should make arrangements at hospitals deal with the situation following the spread of the dengue. The MC should spray in insecticides in all areas of the city to prevent mosquito breeding. Besides, residents should keep their homes and surroundings clean.Shine RawalDon’t store water in bucketsThere has been a steady rise of dengue cases in the city. The main reason for the spread of the disease seems to be lack of sanitation. We should keep our surroundings clean to stop breeding of mosquito larvae. Residents must not let water stagnate in and around their houses. We need not store water in buckets in washrooms. Water should also be changed in room coolers regularly. Mosquito coils and repellents can be used in households. The Municipal Corporation (MC) should increase fogging in the infected areas. The MC must ensure removal of stagnant water in the city.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurWear full sleeve clothesThe Municipal Corporation should start fogging drive in the city. The civic body should depute officials to check water stagnation in the city. Immediate steps should be taken to pump out accumulated water to stop breeding of mosquitoes. Each resident should keep his/her home and surrounding areas clean. People should wear full sleeve clothes and apply mosquito repellent before going to bed.Farzana KhanOnus lies on health authoritiesDengue is spread by aedes aegypti mosquito that breeds in collected water. It’s responsibility of the local health authorities to generate awareness about the disease and take measures to prevent breeding of mosquito larvae. Health facilities need to be upgraded to deal with the surge in dengue cases. The Municipal Corporation should check mosquito breeding, conduct fogging and take other preventative measures. Hospitals and dispensaries should have trained staff and labs to conduct test of those persons suspected to be infected with the disease.Chahat khannaDistribute mosquito nets among publicRising dengue case pose a challenge for the health authorities. The government agencies are ill prepared to deal with the situation. The general public should be made aware about the vector-borne diseases. The Municipal Corporation should keep a check on places where there is high possibility of mosquito breeding, distribute mosquito nets, repellents and start intensive fogging in the city. Residents not adhering to dengue-prevention norms should be challaned. However, without the public support preventive measures are of no use.RV SinghMC should wake up from slumberDengue is a mosquito-borne viral disease. The Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities should wake up from slumber and start immediate fogging on a war-footing in all parts of the city. The MC must stop mosquito breeding. Residents should not allow water to stagnate in and around their houses. They should use insect repellent, wear long-sleeved shirts and trousers.Dr Sunil ChopraUse insect repellentsDengue can be prevented from spreading if residents sleep under mosquito net, using insect repellents and wear socks. Water should not stagnate in containers such as discarded tins, tyre, empty pots and broken bottles. Fogging should be done on priority by the MC. Testing should be enhanced for the detection of dengue patients. Medical advice can be sought immediately if dengue symptoms appear in any individual.RS SEMBHIMotivate Health Department staffThe Municipal Corporation should focus on the prevention of dengue in the city. Residents should not forget to clean pots or containers in which water is likely to get collected. Houses should be kept clean. People should wear long clothes and use effective repellents to keep mosquitoes away. They should add more fluids and fresh fruits in diet. The Health Department staff should be motivated to create awareness on the prevention of dengue.Dr Sukhdev SharmaUse mosquito repellent creamsThe most efficient way to prevent dengue is to use mosquito repellent creams. Such creams should not be applied more than three times a day. Other effective way to prevent dengue is using mosquito patches. These patches can be placed on the back of clothing. They are non toxic and can last up to three days. Anti- mosquito wipes are good option for kids.Anu JoshiChange water in room coolers regularlyPeople have barely recovered from the impact of the Covid 19 pandemic and the dengue has knocked on their doors. Residents should remove garbage lying at their places in the open to stop accumulation of water and prevent breeding of mosquitoes. Air cooler water should be changed daily without failing. People should use mosquito repellents all the time, wear full sleeve dresses and avoid shorts. The Municipal Corporation should start fogging drive on a war footing in the city. Camps should be organised to spread awareness on the prevention of dengue.Vikas SharmaQUESTIONA street dog, suspected to be rabid, attacked at least a dozen persons, including children, in a local locality last week. This has once again brought to the fore the seriousness of the stray dog menace. What should be done to check the problem in the industrial town?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-steps-can-be-taken-to-check-dengue-treat-patients-as-threat-of-the-disease-looms-large-313631
20-09-2021||---||Over 100 compete in martial arts championship||SPORTS CORRESPONDENTLudhiana, September 19Ujjwal Chaubey, Tarun Dhliwal and Aditya Mahatra were declared winners in the senior, junior and sub-junior sections, respectively, in the boys’ section in the one-day 29th edition of the District Veer-Kwon-Do Martial Arts Championship held at Samiti Kendra, near Mall Enclave, here on Sunday.Over 100 participants in different age and weight categories vied for top honours in this championship, which was organised by the International Veer-Kwon-Do Martial Arts Academy. Bharat Bhushan and Sunil Gurung, president and general secretary, respectively, of the organising committee, along with other office- bearers and members of the body, were present on the occasion.ResultsBoys (U-12) 18-20kg weight: Advit Jain 1st, Pulkit Kumar 2nd and Harshit 3rd.20-23 kg weight: Satnam Singh 1st, Ranveer Singh 2nd, Harish Dhaliwal and Bidaan 3rd.26-30kg weight: Krsihna 1st, Karan 2nd, Rajveer and Ridhwan 3rd.30-33kg weight: Ronit 1st and Md. Aifaz 2nd.33-36kg weight: Ayushpal Singh 1st, Armanjot 2nd and Gautam Bhalla 3rd.36-40kg weight: Aarush Verma 1st and Aroon 2nd.Plus 40kg weight: Aditya Mahatra 1st, Satyam 2nd, Atharv Sharma and Avyukt Sharma 3rd.Boys (U-17) 38-41kg weight: Shivam 1st and Manjinder Singh 2nd.41-44kg weight: Genial Dhaliwal 1st, Aashish 2nd, Rahul and Mohit 3rd.44-47kg weight: Gourav Sharma 1st, Ram Kishan 2nd and Sunny 3rd.47-50kg weight: Tarun Dhaliwal 1st and Jotsaroop Singh 2nd.50-53kg weight: Rahul Rana 1st, Bunty 2nd, Hamansh and Ajay Thakur 3rd.53-55kg weight: Hardik Kumar 1st, Hardial 2nd and Mohan Kumar 3rd.Boys (senior) below 45kg weight: Sanjay Kumar 1st and Raj Kumar 2nd.Below 50 kg weight: Azad 1st.Below 55kg weight: Ajay Kumar 1st, Mehmood 2nd, Razak and Shankar 3rd.Below 60kg weight: Ujjwal Chaubey.Below 65kg weight: Shensha 1st, Amrit 2nd and Farhan and Sahil Bhall 3rd.Below 70kg weight: Manoj Rai 1st and Shakib 2nd.Below 80kg weight: Gushan 1st.Girls (U-12) 14-16kg weight: Harshita 1st.20-23kg weight: Binsha 1st and Samroop 2nd.33-36kg weight: Yuvika 1st, Haizal 2nd and Tanya 3rd.Girls (U-17) 38-41kg weight: Amanjot Kaur 1st.41-44kg weight: Sanjana 1st.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/over-100-compete-in-martial-arts-championship-313633
20-09-2021||---||Table tennis: Jasmeen, Vihaan, Ishreen, Aryan wrap up titles||SPORTS CORRESPONDENTLudhiana, September 19Jasmeen along with Vihaan, Ishreen and Aryan, wrapped up titles in their respective age groups on the second day of the Ludhiana District Table Tennis Championship, being held at Shastri Hall, near Guru Nanak Stadium, here on Sunday.In the girls’ singles U-15 group, Jasmeen prevailed over Sanya 3-1 to clinch the title and in the boys’ section in the same age category, Vihaan proved too good for Aryan whom he beat in straight sets (3-0) to lift the title.However, in the boys’ singles U-17 section, Aryan came out triumphant as in the final he quelled a strong challenge from Bhayam before stitching it up 3-2 to annex the title.In the girls’ singles U-17 group, Ishreen faced a little resistance from Sehajpreet as the former emerged victorious 3-1 to lay her hands on the winners’ trophy.In the U-19 category, Ishreen and Sehajpreet in the girls’ section while Gautam and Vivek in the boys’ group, registered victories in their respective semifinals to secure berths in the final.In the girls’ section, Ishreen edged out Hargun 3-1 and Sehajpreet scored an identical win over Aishveer to advance into the final while in the boys’ group, Gautam defeated Gurpreet 3-1 and Vivek outwitted Vihaan 3-2 to set up the title clash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/table-tennis-jasmeen-vihaan-ishreen-aryan-wrap-up-titles-313634
20-09-2021||---||Change in govt might improve MSMEs condition, says FOPSIA chief||Tribune News serviceLudhiana, September 19The Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association (FOPSIA) has expressed “happiness” over present political scenario in Punjab and hopes that in next four to five months, the government may start thinking of improving the MSMEs too.Badish Jindal, president, FOPSIA, said the bureaucracy was hardly bothered about the MSMEs of the state, which were 98 per cent of the total industrial sector. Investment policies were framed to give benefit to large scale sectors only, Jindal added. The 8,000 large industries were given the power subsidy of Rs1600 crore where as 1.35 lakh small and medium industries were given only Rs375 crore benefit, Jindal said.“This is a jolt to the government. Now, we hope that new leaders will start focusing on providing benefits to the MSMEs too,” rued Jindal. The MSMEs were battling for their VAT and GST refunds since the formation of the government and the corruption in the industry related department was on the rise, said Jindal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/change-in-govt-might-improve-msmes-condition-says-fopsia-chief-313635
20-09-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Bike rally spreads awareness on prostate cancer||Uro-Oncology Institute of Aykai Hospital organised a motorcycle rally to observe September as prostate cancer month. A team of 100 bikers, including urologist and transplant surgeon and chairman, Aykai, Dr BS Aulakh and his team, the Punjab Police Academy, Phillaur, and Super Bikers from all over the state took in the 27-km rally, which went around the city.The rally started from Guru Nanak Stadium and culminated at Aykai Hospital. The aim of the rally was to spread awareness on prostate and uro cancers among the community.The rally was flagged of by NK Chand, Principal Commissioner, Income Tax, and Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu. The participants carried placards with information on prostate cancer.While sensitising residents, Dr Baldev Singh Aulakh said, “Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of death in men. Generally, people get worried when they are diagnosed with cancer. But, thanks to today’s technology as cancer patients have a high survival rate and the journey has become easier. Hence, there is tremendous need to create awareness about prostate cancer.”“The motive behind this rally is to enlighten more and more people of our city so that they must come forward and get themselves investigated to avoid future complications,” Dr Aulakh added.The rally was received by singer and artistes Amar Noorie, Feroz Khan, Kamal Khan and Masha Ali.The riders were felicitated by Noorie and her team. Noorie said, “Awareness plays an essential role in human life. Such activities will definitely make individuals live a safe and healthy life.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-bike-rally-spreads-awareness-on-prostate-cancer-313636
20-09-2021||Ludhiana||Protective clothing can enhance quality of  farmer’s life, says expert||The Department of Apparel and Textile Science of Punjab Agricultural University has been asking farmers to adopt protective clothing while doing farm operations.“Many occupational hazards are encountered by farmers and workers during farm activities. These include hazards of farm machinery, biological and chemical, social and environmental stresses. Reorganisation of these hazards and their remedial measures will help farmers and their families,” said Rajdeep Kaur, scientist from the Department of Apparel and Textile Science.“The sustainable use of protective clothing will enhance quality of life,” she added.“We have developed protective clothing for most problems. The research conducted by scientists is being disseminated among beneficiaries. Moreover, protective clothing was available at kisan melas and kisan clubs meetings before the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Manisha Sethi, research fellow, Department of Apparel and Textile Science.Protective two and three layered cotton masks, gloves for okra and sugarcane harvesters, kurta with hood for wheat harvesters, kurta pyjama for ber fruit harvesters and scarf/cap with masks are available from experiential unit of the apparel and textile science under College of Community Science and seed shop at gate No 1.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protective-clothing-can-enhance-quality-of-farmers-life-says-expert-313637
