26-09-2021||Ludhiana||Sports wings trials: 104 players turn up on Day 2||As many as 104 aspirants turned up on the second day to attend the selection trials held by the Punjab Sports Department at Guru Nanak Stadium here today taking their total number to 452.On Friday, 348 players appeared for the trials. The two-day trials were conducted in 18 sports disciplines to select players (boys and girls U-25) and register them with sports wings run by the department at different colleges, affiliated to the Panjab University, Chandigarh, across the state, for the 2021-22 session.Ravinder Singh, District Sports Officer, Ludhiana, under whose supervision, these trials were conducted, said some players could not attend trials due to examinations for the recruitment in the Police Department. Those, who missed trials, could appear on any day till September 29.The selected players would be provided facilities as per the Sports Department schemes under the residential and day scholar categories, he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sports-wings-trials-104-players-turn-up-on-day-2-316322
26-09-2021||Ludhiana||Basketball Championship: Guru Nanak Club, Khalsa Club eves register easy win||Guru Nanak Club and Khalsa Club recorded easy win in the girls’ section in the Ludhiana District Basketball Championship (U-19) that began at Guru Nanak Stadium today.Guru Nanak Club outplayed IPS Club 36-12 while Khalsa Club overpowered DAV Hawks 45-24 to commence their campaign on a positive note. In other matches in the girls’ section, Baba Isher Singh School outnumbered DAV Hawks 61-32 and International Public School routed Doraha Public School 39-16. In the boys’ category, one match was played in which DAV Hawks prevailed over Joy Brothers 62-50.Twelve teams in the boys’ section and eight teams in the girls’ section are taking part in this two-day championship. On the basis of their performance in this championship, the district boys and girls teams will finalised for the 72nd Punjab State Basketball Championship slated to be held from October 7 to 10 at Khanna in this district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/basketball-championship-guru-nanak-club-khalsa-club-eves-register-easy-win-316323
26-09-2021||Ahmedgarh||Stubble Burning: Programme to sensitise farmers launched||The Deputy Commissioner (DC), Malerkotla, Amrit Kaur Gill, called upon farmers to follow teachings of the Sikh Gurus in agricultural chores.While interacting with farmers of Jhuner, Kuthala, Mithewal and Dasaundha Singh Wala village during personal contact programme on sensitisation of paddy growers about causes and consequences of stubble burning today, the DC said, “When our Gurus have preached to treat air as their embodiment, why should we pollute it by burning agricultural waste.”The DC appreciated that office-bearers and activists of social and religious organisations had vowed to shun the practise. She advised Agricultural Development Officer Dr Kulbir Singh to ensure that no farmer or cooperative society faced harassment in procurement of equipment required for alternative disposal of agricultural waste. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/stubble-burning-programme-to-sensitise-farmers-launched-316325
26-09-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana doctor cracks UPSC Civil Services Exam, ranked 495||A medical officer posted at the Civil Hospital, Koom Kalan, Dr Rajdeep Singh Khaira, has bagged 495 rank in the UPSC Civil Services Exam, 2020. Dr Rajdeep (28) is a resident of Jamalpur, Ludhiana.His father, Late Manjit Singh Khaira was PNB Chief Manager in Ludhiana while mother Balwinder Kaur is a homemaker. Commenting on his achievement, Dr Rajdeep said, “I owe my success to my elder brother Amandeep Singh and my mentor Sarabjit Singh, teacher of Punjabi Literature.”Dr Rajdeep passed matriculation from Sacred Heart Convent School, Chandigarh Road, Ludhiana, and Class XII from Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana. He did his MBBS from the Government Medical College and Rajendra Hospital, Patiala. He has been working as medical officer at the Civil Hospital, Koom Kalan Ludhiana, since 2017.This was Dr Rajdeep’s fifth attempt and third interview for the UPSC Civil Services Exam. Sharing his study strategy, Dr Rajdeep said, “Receptivity of mind is critical for a comprehensive assessment of the subject. Clarity of concept with clear expression and writing practice ensures success in mains.” Regarding his success mantra, Dr Rajdeep said, “Never give up. Believe in yourself when nobody believes in you.”Meanwhile, another city candidate Satinder Kaur has bagged 563 rank in the UPSC Civil Services Exam. She belongs to Urban Estate, Phase I, Dugri, and is presently settled with her husband in Delhi. She did her BTech in Electronics and Communication from Ludhiana College of Engineering and Technology, Katani Kalan. After completing her MBA from Delhi, she did a job in Delhi for seven years.Satinder (36) said her husband Dhruv Sharma always supported and encouraged her at every step to clear exam. She left her job in 2017 and started preparing for the Civil Services Exam.Her father Harmail Singh is a retired ETO and mother Dalbir Kaur is a housewife. They reside in Ludhiana. She cleared the Civil Services Exam in her fourth attempt.Satinder said, “I have to work for the welfare of the people. I will help the needy and support aspirants, who want to clear the Civil Services Exam.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-doctor-cracks-upsc-civil-services-exam-ranked-495-316324
26-09-2021||Ludhiana||12,796 aspirants appear in exam for recruitment in Punjab Police||The Punjab Police today conducted exam for the recruitment of constables and armed cadre in the district and across the state in the morning and the afternoon shifts.Candidates appeared in 22 examination centres in the city. The police had made adequate security arrangements at all centres. Apart from installing jammers, the police frisked every candidate and allowed none to carry any electronic device. In Ludhiana, admit cards were issued to 14,325 candidates of which 12,796 appeared in the exam while 1,529 remained absent. Candidates from Ludhiana, other districts and even from neighbouring states appeared in the exam.Sandeep Kumar, a candidate from Rajasthan, said he completed his postgraduation two years ago, but couldn’t find a job. After seeing an advertisement for the recruitment of constable in the Punjab Police, he decided to try his luck.Raman Arora from Jagraon said after completing his graduation he started teaching in a private school, but due to meager salary he applied for the constable’s post. Cops were also deployed in civvies to keep a check on notorious elements, who could dupe candidates on the pretext helping them clear written exam. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/12-796-aspirants-appear-in-exam-for-recruitment-in-punjab-police-316326
26-09-2021||Our Correspondent||BKU holds rallies at villages to garner support for farmers’ sit-in||Doraha, September 25Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta) Ugrahan is regularly holding village and block-level rallies to garner maximum support for the Bharat bandh on Monday. Men, women and children of villages in the Doraha block have in turn promised full-fledged support to the Bharat bandh call.“The highly indifferent, uncaring and apathetic attitude of the Central Government towards the rollback of the three farm laws even after an year of their passing, has to be condemned and resented at all levels by each and every villager by extending support to the bandh call given by SKM,” shared villagers.The general secretary, BKU (Ekta) Ugrahan, Saudagar Singh Ghudani, district president Baldev Singh, and others said they would not allow anything to operate, leave aside emergency activities, on the day of the Bharat bandh. “However, the bandh will be peaceful,” they asserted.Covering villages of Doraha block the unionists today called for complete Bharat bandh on Monday and maximum participation in the Barnala Conference on Tuesday. The unionists also rallied in villages of the Pakhowal block.Farmers in villages said they were ready to fight against the dictatorial role of by the Central Government. “Nothing can be more unfortunate than the fact that thousands of farmers have died and thousands bereaved in the fight against three contentious laws. We have a strong will. Sitting on the Delhi borders for the past one year, we have coped with the inclement weather, diseases, ailments and even coronavirus,” added farmers.“There has to be complete Bharat bandh on Monday. Everyone has the right to put forth demands before the government and that too in a peaceful manner. The role played by the Central Government on the other hand is condemnable. There is still time to take back these farm laws and rebuild confidence in the farming community and the public in general,” said farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bku-holds-rallies-at-villages-to-garner-support-for-farmers-sit-in-316327
26-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Ahmedgarh Administration gears up to prevent any untoward incident during bandh||Ahmedgarh/Payal/Raikot, September 25The administration is all geared up to prevent any untoward incident during the scheduled Bharat Bandh on Monday, the call for which has been given by the Samyukat Kisan Morcha, struggling for repeal of the three farm bills passed by the Union Government.Residents have been asked to reschedule their travel plans on Monday to avoid hassles.Meanwhile, the rank and file of the administration has started taking proactive steps to maintain law and order on Monday, when almost all highways and link roads connecting the region with outer world would be blocked by activists of various outfits of the Samyukat Kisan Morcha and organisations supporting the protest.Perusal of a communication from the office of ADGP (Intelligence) addressed to DCs and SSPs of the region revealed that various outfits, including labour unions, student organisations and Sikh radical outfits had also decided to support the Bharat bandh call. This would increase number of protesters in protest marches and at spots identified for dharnas on highways and link roads.Lehra Toll Plaza, Main Chowk at Dehlon, Sidhwan Canal Road at Tibba, Hari Singh Nalwa Chowk at Raikot, Barnala Chowk at Raikot, Sugar Mill at Jagraon on Ludhiana-Moga Road, Kishanpura Chowk at Sidhwan Bet, Hissowal Toll Plaza, Jodhan Bazar, Toll Plaza near Gureh village, Bija Chowk, Main Chowk at Rara Sahib, Grain Market at Malaudh, Grewal Chowk in Malerkotla, Kalyan Pul at Sandaur, Bhogiwal at Ahmedgarh Sadar police station, Kup Kalan, Khanpur, Rurki Kalan, Mahorana Toll Plaza and Old Bus Stand at Ahmedgarh are the spots where traffic would be blocked according to a communique sent by the ADGP (Intelligence).Deputy Commissioner and police chiefs in Ludhiana, Ludhiana (Rural), Khanna and Malerkotla have been updated about need to review the security, traffic and law and order arrangements, besides keeping a close watch on developing situation so as to ensure that no untoward incident is reported in their respective areas.Meanwhile, a large number of residents of the region have decided to reschedule their journeys on Monday. A majority of commuters, including those travelling by public transport and private vehicles, have also chosen to reach and stay in the heir workplace areas on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ahmedgarh-administration-gears-up-to-prevent-any-untoward-incident-during-bandh-316328
26-09-2021||Ludhiana||Rs 1.3-cr property tax collected||Woman’s body found on roadLudhiana: Panic spread after the body of a woman was found on Hambran Road on Saturday morning. The woman was suspected to be murdered as her head had visible injury marks. Later, ACP (West) Talwinder Singh, PAU police station SHO reached the spot. The body was noticed by some passers-by who informed the police. The deceased seems to be about 50 years old. The police also checked CCTV cameras installed in the area and also questioned residents to get any clue about killers. The body was sent to the Civil Hospital for autopsy and medical report could reveal the cause of her death. TNSNutrition MonthLudhiana: National Nutrition Month is celebrated every year in September. This year’s theme of the nutrition month is ‘Converging towards healthy walk through life”. In the concluding week of the National Nutrition Month, the Department of Dietetics, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, distributed nutrition kits among underprivileged children. Dr Sandeep Puri, Principal, DMCH, said, “Malnutrition can be eradicated with nutritional policies and their proper implementation. It’s a small step. We have to go far to eradicate malnutrition.” The senior dietician and head, Dietetics, Shaveta Batta, spread the message among public to practice and teach healthy eating habits to beat under nutrition and over nutrition. TNSPharmacist DayLudhiana: World Pharmacist Day is celebrated every year on September 25. Dayanand Medical College and Hospital observed World Pharmacist Day by conducting an online session for its pharmacists to upgrade their knowledge. This year theme was “Pharmacy: Always trusted for your health”. During the session, Dr Sandeep Kaushal, Dean (Academics) highlighted good dispensing practices. Dr Kaushal said, “Every pharmacist should follow ethics and guidelines while dispensing medicine. A pharmacist should give right medicine to right patient and at the right time.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-1-3-cr-property-tax-collected-316329
26-09-2021||Ludhiana||Murder convict who jumped parole held||The Machhiwara police nabbed a murder convict, Pritam Singh of Shtabgarh village, who had jumped the parole.ASI Mukhtyar Singh said a Central Jail official had said he was convicted in a murder case in 2011. In May 2020, he went out on parole for 32 days.Though he had to return to jail in June after the decision of a high-powered committee, parole of the convict was increased till April 28, 2021.He said the convict had to surrender in jail on April 28 but he jumped the parole.Yesterday, a tip-off was received about the whereabouts of the convict. Accordingly, the police party conducted a raid and nabbed him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/murder-convict-who-jumped-parole-held-316330
26-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Thieves decamp with Rs 18L from ATM at village||Mandi Ahmedgarh, September 25Some unknown miscreants stole around Rs 18 lakh from an SBI ATM installed outside the bank’s branch at Bhutta village near here on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.After receiving information from bank officials, the Dehlon police, led by Sukhdev Singh Brar, have initiated a probe after registering an FIR against unidentified culprits under Sections 457, 380 and 34 of the IPC.Investigations revealed that the bank officials had replenished the ATM with Rs 20 lakh cash on Friday evening. The accused broke open the machine with the help of gas cutters to take out the cash which is estimated to be around Rs 18 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-decamp-with-rs-18l-from-atm-at-village-316331
26-09-2021||---||Property rights conferred on 35 families of slums||Ludhiana, September 25Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Sanjay Talwar and Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Saturday conferred property rights on 35 families living in slum areas of Bhola Colony and Baba Jiwan Singh Nagar.Presiding over an event, MLA termed the programme as a landmark step towards urban development by giving proprietary rights to every slum household occupying the state government land in a slum of any city area.He said Punjab was the first state in the country to launch such a programme that aims at transforming urban slum areas with basic civic amenities, including potable drinking water, street lights and roads for residents.MLA Sanjay Talwar said the survey was already underway in wards 12, 15, 16, 17 and 21 and eligible families would get the property rights soon in the coming days.The Deputy Commissioner said under the scheme, those living in slum areas, in houses of a maximum size of 30 sq yard, would be provided ownership of the house.He asked officials to ensure that every slum dweller gets the benefit of the scheme, which would help in making Ludhiana slum-free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/property-rights-conferred-on-35-families-of-slums-316332
26-09-2021||---||One tests +ve for Covid in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, September 25One person tested positive for Covid while no death was reported due to the virus in the district today.At present, there are 22 active patients in the district. Today, 18 persons were sent for home isolation and three patients were admitted to hospital for Covid treatment.Till date, a total of 24,78,565 samples have been taken, of which 23,79,355 were found negative. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,534 while 11,676 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,101 persons from Ludhiana and 1,050 from other districts.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid patient, their samples are sent for testing. As many as 7,203 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols frequently of the Punjab Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-tests-ve-for-covid-in-ludhiana-district-316333
26-09-2021||Harshraj Singh||Months after recarpeting, Jeevan Nagar road portions damaged again||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 25Months after recarpeting work, the Jeevan Nagar road (Which connects Chandigarh Road with Industrial Area) has damaged at different points in Ludhiana, raising eyebrows. Thousands of commuters have been facing inconvenience while passing through the stretch daily.Shopkeepers on the road said the road was recarpeted around 10 months ago by spending a huge amount of money and it had started getting damaged within days after the road work was completed. Now, big potholes have appeared at various points on the stretch, giving invitation to mishaps.Notably, residents and shopkeepers were forced to stage multiple protests as the dilapidated Jeevan Nagar road was earlier ignored for four years. Following the protests and repeated demands, the road recarpeting work was then carried out by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust.A businessman, Naresh Kumar, said, “When the road was being recarpeted, a small pothole had appeared near some shops but it was ignored at that time by the department concerned. Now, the commuters are forced to suffer due to big potholes on the stretch.” A shopkeeper said, “We suffer a lot due to poor condition of the road from different sites. No steps have been taken to repair the damaged road that was recarpeted just months ago. We want samples of the road material must be collected for testing to know the reason as to why the road has started getting damaged within a short period.”“Public money should not go waste by carrying out such poor road works. The responsibility of officials must be fixed and transparency be ensured,” he added.Naveen Kumar, Ludhiana Improvement Trust, executive engineer, said: “It has come to our notice that a 15-ft-long portion has been damaged on the road. The contractor concerned has been asked to ensure repair of the damaged portion on the road within 15 days.”LIT SDO Jaswinder Singh said the work was conducted in the winter season due to which potholes appeared at one or two sites and the damaged portion would be repaired at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/months-after-recarpeting-jeevan-nagar-road-portions-damaged-again-316318
26-09-2021||Nitin Jain||Only three mucormycosis cases in 10 days, lowest so far||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 25Only three cases of mucormycosis – commonly known as black fungus – were reported in the state during the first 10 days of this month, the lowest-ever 10-day count so far, the government has confirmed.The incidence of the serious but rare fungal infection caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes has touched a record low in the state in line with the downward trend of Covid cases, official figures have revealed.The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that the state recorded just three cases of black fungus among the post-Covid patients from August 31 to September 9, which was 1.93 per cent of the highest-ever 155 count reported in a week between May 25 and 31 after the government had notified mucormycosis disease.In Ludhiana, 162 cases and 19 deaths due to black fungus were reported till Saturday, of which 73 patients and 11 deaths were from other districts. On Saturday, only one active case was under hospitalisation in the district. Black fungus cases were on a constant decline since June 28.From 155 between May 25 and 31, cases of mucormycosis dropped to 103 between May 1 and 7 and further dipped to 57 between May 8 and 14.While the incidence rose to 84 between June 15 and 21, the cases again started declining to 46 between June 22 and 28, coming down to 39 between June 29 and July 5, and 22 each between July 6 and 12, July 13 and 19, dipping to 12 between July 20 and 26, slightly rising to 13 between July 27 and August 2, further dipping to seven between August 3 and 16, and touching a record low of eight between August 17 and September 9.The state-wise break-up of black fungus cases and deaths suggested that Punjab fared better than Chandigarh (13th), Haryana (11th), and ranked 14th in the country when it came to total cases, under treatment, cured and deaths.The state recorded 686 total cases so far, of which 115 were under treatment, 460 cured, and 52 have died at the case fatality rate (CFR) of 7.58 per cent.Maharashtra continues to top the country with the highest of 10,139 cases of black fungus, of which 1,252 were under treatment, 7,362 cured and 1,336 deaths, followed by Gujarat 7,109 total cases, 301 under treatment, 5,369 cured, and 708 deaths, Andhra Pradesh 4,773 cases, 575 under treatment, 3,720 cured, 399 deaths, Tamil Nadu 4,482 cases, 1,199 under treatment, 2,815 cured, 443 deaths, Karnataka 3,906 cases, 1,038 under treatment, 1,951 cured, 458 deaths, Rajasthan 3,621 cases, 2,085 under treatment, 1,154 cured, 209 deaths, Telangana 2,638 cases, 2,612 under treatment, 13 cured, four deaths, Uttar Pradesh 2,477 cases, 766 under treatment, 1,304 cured, 324 deaths, Madhya Pradesh 2,370 cases, 275 under treatment, 1,924 cured, 167 deaths, Delhi 1,947 cases, 564 under treatment, 977 cured, 351 deaths, Haryana 1,764 cases, 590 under treatment, 829 cured, 268 deaths, Bihar 825 cases, 18 under treatment, 615 cured, 150 deaths, and Chandigarh reported 708 cases, 115 under treatment, 460 cured, and 52 deaths.The situation of Punjab was much better than its neighbouring states and Union Territory of Chandigarh. While Punjab ranked 14th, Rajasthan stood at 6th, Delhi 10th, Haryana 11th, and Chandigarh 13th position in terms of total cases and deaths due to black fungus in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/only-three-mucormycosis-cases-in-10-days-lowest-so-far-316315
26-09-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Rs 35-lakh robbery cracked in 12 hours, three nabbed in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 25The Commissionerate Police have cracked the Friday’s sensational robbery of Rs 35 lakh at Kismat Complex near Miller Ganj Chowk within 12 hours by apprehending three accused, including the security guard-cum-bouncer of the gold-trading firm.The accused have been identified as Gagandeep Singh (34) of Halwara, a security guard-cum-bouncer working with the firm, who was present on the crime spot, his relative Satnam Singh (27) of Dhilwa, Barnala, and Sandeep Singh (24) of Raikot. The police have recovered Rs 25 lakh from Satnam and the remaining Rs 10 lakh from Sandeep. A bike and an air pistol used in the crime have also been seized.Addressing a press conference, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said Gagandeep and Prince, employees of Shankar Metals, complained to the police that two bike-borne persons looted a bag containing Rs 35 lakh from them at gunpoint on Friday evening at Kismat Complex near Miller Ganj Chowk.On receiving information, a team comprising DCP Simratpal Singh along with ADCP Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, ACP Mandeep Singh and CIA-1 head Harminder Singh reached the spot and started a probe.The team scanned all CCTV cameras of the area and found holes in the story revealed by Gagandeep who failed to show any resistance despite having .32 bore licensed revolver with himself at the time of the crime. The team zeroed in on him and during interrogation, he confessed the crime.The top cop said Gagandeep along with his relative Satnam and Sandeep had hatched the entire conspiracy of looting the cash. Gagandeep was working with the firm since February 2021 as security guard-cum-bouncer.He said Satnam was a master’s-degree holder and was unemployed. His brother Ranjeet Singh was lodged in jail for a murder case. Sandeep had studied till Class VIII and he became friends with Satnam in a gymPrince, who was also accompanying the conspirator Gagandeep, was not aware about the plan of the latter.CP Bhullar said since a huge transaction of Rs 35 lakh was involved, the police are also writing to the Income Tax-authorities for the verification of the gold transaction involving huge sum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-35-lakh-robbery-cracked-in-12-hours-three-nabbed-in-ludhiana-316316
