27-09-2021||---||Farmers block major roads in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 26In view of the Bharat Bandh call, the farmers and their supporters staged protests by blocking highways at various locations in Ludhiana district on Monday.The farmers blocked Ladhowal toll plaza on National Highway 44 in Ludhiana. The protests were also staged at major chowks and intersections on Ferozepur Road, Jalandhar Bypass, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Jagraon Bridge, Phullanwal Chowk and Jodhewal Basti. Raising slogans against the Modi government, the protesting farmers were demanding repealing of the farm laws at the earliest. Amid the protest, the shops and other commercial establishments remained closed in the city.Meanwhile, the buses remained off the roads while some trains were halted at Ludhiana railway station. Several passengers were stranded at Ludhiana railway station and bus stand. Also, commuters faced inconvenience.Various social organisations, employees, labourers and others unions have also extended their support to the bandh call given by the farmers' union. Extending their support to the farmers, the members of the contractual staff of PUNBUS and PRTC also participated in a protest at Bharat Nagar Chowk.Members of Majlis Ahrar Islam Hind burnt an effigy of the central government near the Jama Masjid here. The members said they stood with the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-block-major-roads-in-ludhiana-316898
27-09-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana: Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar for making canal road drive safe||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 26Taking the first initiative after joining here as Police Commissioner, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar took a round of the South City Canal road and decided to immediately step up day-night patrolling on the stretch. The entire stretch witnesses a huge traffic but a minimal presence of police, putting commuters at risk.Street lights non-functionalPolice Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, who visited the road during the night, noticed more than 90 per cent street lights were non-functional. The police will talk to the national highway officials concerned to immediately make these lights functional.CCTV cameras to be installed at vulnerable pointsBhullar said the police would install CCTV cameras at the vulnerable points. The live feed of CCTV cameras already installed on commercial and residential buildings would be monitored to keep a watch over criminal elements.Speed interceptorThe canal road had witnessed major road mishaps due to speeding in the past, and to curtail the violation, a speed interceptor would be installed on the stretch. On July 25, three of the four occupants of a car were killed when their vehicle fell into the Sidhwan Canal near Raghunath Enclave on the South City road.The canal road also have a few restaurants and liquor bars due to which chances of violations such as drunken driving on this road remain high. This stretch is also prone to accidents as most drivers are often seen indulging in speeding.Bhullar, along with Joint Commissioner of Police Deepak Pareek, Additional DCP Sameer Verma and the SHO of the area, visited the road and found many shortcomings in terms of security parameters.The South City road is a developing area having residential and commercial buildings. This road connects to various city roads and even the newly constructed overbridge. It also leads towards Ladhowal and then towards Jalandhar, said Bhullar.“Despite this road is vulnerable to crime and road mishaps, I didn’t see much police presence there. Now, we have devised a security plan under which permanent police nakas would be installed on this road where police personnel armed with sophisticated weapons will be deputed. The PCR teams will be formed which will patrol the stretch for 24 hours. Cops in civvies will also patrol on the road,” said Bhullar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-police-commissioner-gurpreet-singh-bhullar-for-making-canal-road-drive-safe-316740
27-09-2021||---||Gang of snatchers busted, 2 nabbed||Ludhiana, September 26The police today busted a gang of snatchers with the arrest of two of its members. They have been identified as Gurbir Singh (31) and Rahul Kumar (25), both residents of Maya Nagar.The ACP, Civil Lines, Harish Behal, said on September 24, snatchers targeted Pardeep Kumar near the DMC hospital and snatched a mobile phone from him. The police identified two suspects during investigation.Today,, a tip-off was received that the two snatchers were roaming in the city to sell off the stolen phones. A naka was set up and the two suspects, who were riding a motorcycle, were arrested.The police recovered five mobile phones and three motorcycles from the gang.The police said the criminal record, if any, of the suspects was being checked.Behal said they would seek police remand of the suspects from the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-snatchers-busted-2-nabbed-316742
27-09-2021||---||Ludhiana district logs two Covid cases||Ludhiana, September 26Two fresh cases of Covid-19 were confirmed in the district today. One case was reported from a flu corner and the other from an OPD.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said there were 20 active cases of Covid in the district at present. A total of 2,48,5,660 samples had been taken, of which 2,38,6,448 samples were found negative. The number of patients related to Ludhiana was 87,536 while 11,676 patients belong to other districts/states.He said the number of persons who lost their lives due to Covid in the district included 2,101 people from Ludhiana and 1,050 from other districts.A total of 7,095 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today.The Deputy Commissioner appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols, such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently, of the Punjab Government to not only save themselves but also everyone around them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-logs-two-covid-cases-316744
27-09-2021||---||72,747 administered polio drops on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 26Civil Surgeon Kiran Ahluwalia today launched a five-day sub-national Pulse Polio drive at the Civil Hospital. The drive would continue till September 30 wherein 3,56,918 children would be administered drops in the district.According to the Health Department, medical teams visited 1,90,065 houses and administered polio drops to 72,747 children on Day 1 of the drive. A total of 8,60,274 houses are to be visited by the teams during the five-day drive.Dr Ahluwalia said the polio drops would be administered to the children of 0-5 years of age in the city and all high-risk areas by visiting door to door.The department would lay a special focus on administering the drops to the children of migrants and labourers.District Immunisation Officer Raj Kumar said, “It is important that polio drops be given to all needy children.”During these five days, camps would be set up at railway station and bus stand to cover a maximum of beneficiaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/72-747-administered-polio-drops-on-day-1-316746
27-09-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana: Aggar Nagar Extension residents a harried lot||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 26Months after the installation of water supply and sewer lines, the road of Aggar Nagar Extension has not been reconstructed yet.The local residents faced a lot of inconvenience due to the poor condition of the stretch during the rainy days. They have urged the authorities concerned to take steps for the reconstruction of the stretch at the earliest.A resident said the MC had dug up the road for the installation of water supply and sewer lines around six months ago. “The work of installing pipes finished a few months ago but the road has not been reconstructed to date. The public faced a lot of problems during the rainy season. It was difficult to drive on the muddy road during the rains.”Another resident said, “It is a posh area but I don’t know why the poor condition of the stretch is being ignored. During the rains, it is difficult for us to pass through the stretch. The stretch is not even levelled, increasing the chances of mishaps. The department concerned should take immediate steps for the reconstruction of the road without any further delay.”Councillor from Ward No. 74 Pankaj Sharma (Kaka) said: “The area falls under the Municipal Corporation. Now, the road would be reconstructed by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust. It was a private colony and the existing sewer line was not functioning properly. Thus, a new sewer line had to be installed in the area to resolve the sewer-related problems. A new water supply line was also installed.”The councillor said the tenders had been floated for the reconstruction of the road. Once the tendering process is completed, the road work would be started by the contractor concerned, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-aggar-nagar-extension-residents-a-harried-lot-316747
27-09-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Roadside encroachments spell chaos in Ludhiana city||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 26Encroachments by roadside vendors and shopkeepers have again become the cause of traffic jams in the city.Top cop’s concernPolice Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, after assuming charge recently, had expressed concern over the traffic issues and said he would definitely devise some strategy to solve this problem.Last year, the police, under the supervision of then Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal, had made more than 100 roads of the city totally encroachment-free. All encroachments by rehriwalas and shopkeepers were removed from the roads.The police had also registered hundreds of cases against the erring shopkeepers and roadside vendors.Now, most of the city roads in areas, including Haibowal, Sarabha Nagar, Chandar Nagar, Clock Tower, Books Market, Basti Jodhewal, Gurh Mandi, police division 3 chowk, Hargobind Nagar and Field Ganj, besides the Gill road, PAU road, Ferozepur road and the Civil Hospital road are witnessing encroachments which hamper the traffic flow.At most of the places, the police can be seen issuing challans to traffic rules offenders instead of regulating traffic.Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, after assuming charge recently, had expressed concern over the traffic issues and said he would definitely devise some strategy to solve this problem in the industrial city.Sources said Bhullar had told the traffic police staff to pay more heed to regulate traffic than issuing challans.A senior police official, requesting anonymity, said now the police were in no mood to harass roadside vendors or shopkeepers as elections were round the corner and politicians did not want to upset voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/roadside-encroachments-spell-chaos-in-ludhiana-city-316748
27-09-2021||---||PSPCL holds ‘bijli panchayats’ in Ludhiana||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, September 26Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) organised series of ‘bijli panchayats’ (consumer grievances redressal camps) at Model Town Division, City West Division, CMC Division, Focal Point Division and Jagraon Division for the settlement of complaints and grievances of consumers on the spot.An initiative of Director (Distribution) DPS Grewal and Chief Engineers/Central Zone Bhupinder Khosla, these camps were attended by senior officials, including Sanjiv Parbhakar, Deputy Chief Engineer, City West Circle, and Jagdev Singh Hans, Deputy Chief Engineer, City East Circle.Along with consumers with their pending complains, public representatives, area councillors, representatives of trade and industrial bodies, consumer rights organisations and others were present at camps.Speaking at the ‘bijli panchayat’ in Model Town Divison, Sanjeev Parbhakar reiterated the commitment of the power utility for better customer service and to evolve a mechanism for resolving disputes of consumers with regard to power supply, billing and other supply-related issues. Interacting with consumers, Parbhakar said all pending works for qualitative improvement in power supply would be completed within stipulated time frame. Jagdev Singh Hans, along with other officials, listened to issues raised by consumers at the CMC Division and the Focal Point Division and many billing-related complaints were resolved on the spot.The PSPCL was committed to provide uninterrupted and quality supply to its consumers, said Hans. Such camps would be organised at regular intervals to provide instant solution for grievances of consumers, Hans added. Among others present at these camps were Sukhbir Dhiman, XEN, Jasbir Singh, Nirmal Singh, Mandeep Singh, all SDOs, and Yogesh Handa, Som Nath, Sunil Vij Lally, Simran Singh and Rajesh Jain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-holds-bijli-panchayats-in-ludhiana-316749
27-09-2021||Civic body responsible for menace escalation||Open House:  How to check the growing stray dog problem in Ludhiana||The Municipal Corporation should keep a check on stray dogs to prevent frightening incidents. The authorities concerned should build dog houses. The people, who usually feed strays, can donate food at dog houses. Regular vaccination of dogs should be done. The pet laws should be implemented.Gurneet SinghFree treatment of dog-bite victimsThe Municipal Corporation should initiate vaccination drive for stray dogs at regular intervals. The civic body can also start mercy killing of those dogs, which are rabid and pose danger to the public. Effective steps must be taken to control dog population. Free medical treatment should be provided to stray dog bit victims at Civil and private hospitals. Expenses for treatment must be reimbursed by the government.Ritu PriyaTrain stray dogsto keep a watchThe stray dog problem is a common in each locality of the city. The population of stray dogs is increasing at an alarming rate. One can often read reports of dog bites in newspapers. Stray dogs are threat for residents. It’s true that we have to live with strays, but their population should be kept under control by sterilisation or vaccination. NGOs can help in keeping strays at a specified place. These dogs can be trained to keep a watch in streets during night. People must cooperate with the local government to keep the population of strays under control.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiDon’t feed dogsThe city is facing problem of stray dogs and cattle. The first and the foremost duty of the Municipal Corporation is to curb this menace. From time to time the MC should catch stray dogs. Residents can inform the MC about the number of stray dogs in their area so that necessary action can be taken to control their population. Sterilisation of strays can control their population. People often feed stray dogs, which is a cause of their increasing population. It’s not bad, but this habit is proving fatal for society. So, we must stop feeding strays so that the MC can transfer them to dog houses. Some people knowingly feed strays so that they guard their houses. This is also a wrong practice.Bir Devinder Singh BediDifficult for kidsto play in parksStray dogs are nuisance for society. Their number is increasing with each passing day. It has become difficult for children to play in parks. Residents are scared to go out for morning walk in the morning as strays follow them. The main reason behind increasing population of stray dogs is garbage disposed of in the open. The Municipal Corporation has to come up with a solution to deal with the stray dog menace and keep residents safe.Khushboo Singlaabc centre mustbe proactiveWith the rising dog bite cases, it has become clear that the Municipal Corporation needs to up the ante with steps to control the population of strays. The MC with the help of Animal Husbandry Department should organise special vaccination camps for strays in different areas of the city. All stray dogs should be covered in the drive. Dog lovers, who take care of strays, should be exempted from pet registration fee. Officials of the Animal Birth Control Centre (ABC Centre) must be proactive and complete the target of sterilising dogs. Pet lovers, owners and NGOs concerned should get dogs sterilised at the ABC Centre. There is no relief for dog-bite victims. They are forced to purchase rabies injection. The government should pay compensation to dog-bite victims. The MC should set up shelters for stray dogs.RS SEMBHIalarm bell ringingin industrial townIn the past few days, there have been suspected cases of street dogs contracting rabies. Rabies is a virus that attacks nervous system and is commonly carried by dogs, cats, bats etc. The virus is passed on to humans through bites of infected animals. It is utmost responsibility of every individual to get treatment for such disease. The Health Department and the Municipal Corporation authorities should focus on keeping the city clean. Animals infected with rabies should be treated properly.Kamal SandhuStrays roam in nook and corner of cityThere are innumerable stray dogs in Ludhiana. Stray dogs are threat to residents, especially children. The authorities concerned should take some concrete steps to control population of strays. One can find stray dogs roaming in streets, on roads, in parks and at public places. Stray dogs should be sterilised. The civic body should construct dog shelters in various parts of the city.Dr Sunil ChopraWard-wise straydog sterilisationAccording to one report the Municipal Corporation claimed to have spent Rs4 crore on sterilisation of 50,000 stray dogs since 2015 when the project was started in Ludhiana. But the stray dog menace is on the rise. One can see four to five street dogs in every locality often running after vehicles and pedestrians resulting in accidents and injuries. Recent incident of dog biting around 12 persons has once again flared up the issue. Ward wise sterilisation of stray dogs should be undertaken with more manpower rather than going to different wards every day. More dog shelters should be constructed. Leftover food should not be thrown out as it attracts dogs.RV Singh24x7 helpline fordog-bite victimsTo curb the menace of dog bites in the industrial town, the Municipal Corporation should start sterilisation of stray canine. The civic body should ensure availability of anti-rabies vaccines at community healthcare centres. Shelters should be constructed in the city for keeping all stray dogs. Strays can be trained by officials concerned to help in catching criminals. A round-the-clock helpline number should be launched for stray dog-bite victims.Adish SoodPets can be neuteredThere is an urgent need to control population of stray dogs to protect city residents. Dogs can be neutered to check their rising population. It will make children and elderly safe in the city. Kids will be able to play in parks while elderly can go out for walk without any fear of stray dogs.Amarpreet KaurProblem is out of control in cityThe menace of stray dogs is now out of control in the city. In some areas one cannot count the number of stray dogs as their population is increasing. The Municipal Corporation can catch stray dogs and shift them to some designated place in the city. The civic body with the help of welfare societies must sterilise stray dogs. Residents must cooperate with local bodies to check the stray dog menace so that children can play in parks and outside houses without any fear.Farzana KhanFollow guidelinesof WHONowadays, the population of stray dogs is increasing with each passing day. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has made it clear that the sterilisation and vaccination are the only ways to control the stray dog population. The movement of stray dogs can be restricted. Secondly, garbage should not be disposed of in the open. Thirdly the Municipal Corporation must sterilise and vaccinate stray dogs.Dr Sukhdev SharmaCrores spent ondog sterilisationAlthough the Municipal Corporation has spent crores on stray dog sterilisation in the past few years, there is no respite from dog-bite cases in the city. The authorities should construct shelters for stray dogs. There should be space for dogs. They should not be allowed to roam freely. Stray dogs feed on leftovers of eatables thrown in the open. Garbage should disposed of properly. The animal birth control is the only way to control the stray dog population.Dr Jasdeep KaurCivic body’s effort can save residentsThe fatal dog bites can be stopped and residents saved by wholehearted efforts of the Municipal Corporation. The civic body must construct shelters in the city where arrangements can be made to keep, feed and sterilise canine. The corporation must recruit separate staff for catching stray dogs from streets and provide them all needed equipment, including trucks to shift and sterilise canine. The civic body can also take help of NGOs to make the dog sterilisation programme successful.Gautam DevDon’t feed straydogs in parksResidents should understand their responsibility and not feed stray dogs in parks. Stray dogs don’t leave the place where they are fed. This can compromise safety of the public. Residents can feed stray dogs in their localities. Children and adults are attacked by stray dogs as they play and go out for walk, respectively. Residents cannot leave their children in the open as they fear stray dogs might attack them.Anu Joshi  QUESTIONWith the two-time Ludhiana (West) MLA, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, managing to retain his Cabinet berth despite the change of Punjab Chief Minister, what should be his priority areas for the city in the run up to the Assembly elections?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-how-to-check-the-growing-stray-dog-problem-in-ludhiana-316751
27-09-2021||Sports Correspondent||Tokyo Olympian Kamalpreet Kaur felicitated with 65-kg cake||Ludhiana, September 26Kamalpreet Kaur, the first Indian woman athlete, who hogged limelight by breaching 65 metre barrier in discus throw event in the Tokyo Olympics recently, was felicitated by city-based Belfrance Bakers and Chocolatiers, Sarabha Nagar, here yesterday.Kamalpreet (25), a native of Kabarwala village, near Malout, in Muktsar district, was honoured by bakers Harjinder Singh Kukreja and Surinder Singh Kukreja with a cake weighing 65 kg, matching her stupendous feat in Tokyo.“The number 65 is significant because our Punjabi sister is the first discus thrower to create history by hurling the iron disc to 65 metre distance. That is why we have made this special cake to salute her achievement,” said Harjinder Singh. The 65 kg three tier cake was crafted with Olympic rings, a large discus and a fondant figurine of Kamalpreet Kaur in her team jersy with Kaur printed on it.“Cakes are what we excel in. This is the best tribute we could’ve given to daughter of Punjab, who made us proud with her performance in an international event,” said Satinder Singh. Elated Kamalpreet said, “It is a proud moment not just for me and my family, but also for Punjab and India. What is heartening is all love and respect my sport, discus throw, has been accorded because of my achievement in the Tokyo Olympics-2020.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tokyo-olympian-kamalpreet-kaur-felicitated-with-65-kg-cake-316752
27-09-2021||Ludhiana||KL Memorial Club, Guru Nanak Club emerge basketball champs||KL Memorial Club in the boys’ section and Guru Nanak Club in the girls’ category emerged champions in the Ludhiana District Basketball Championship (U-19) that concluded at Guru Nanak Stadium here today.In the boys’ final, Guru Nanak Club waged a spirited battle against KL Memorial Club before going down 43-60 to secure the second position. BIS Club finished at the third place.However, Guru Nanak Club romped home victorious in the girls’ section. In the final, they outwitted Khalsa Club 57-39 to clinch the title. Baba Isher Singh School secured third position.Jai Singh Sandhu, MD, SPS Hospital, was the chief guest at the prize distribution function. He was accompanied by Dev Singh Namdhari, a basketball player from New York. They congratulated participants and appreciated the team of the district basketball association for their efforts in promoting the game.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, Vijay Chopra, Somesh Chadha, Sukhbir Dhaliwal and Brij Bhushan Goyal, office-bearers of the Punjab Basketball Association and District Basketball Association, Ludhiana were present on the occasion. The district girls and boys teams will be selected on the basis of players’ performance in this championship for taking part in the Punjab State Basketball Tournament to be held at Khanna.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kl-memorial-club-guru-nanak-club-emerge-basketball-champs-316753
27-09-2021||Ludhiana||It’s time to upgrade industry in Punjab with new tech, say industrialists||The economy of Punjab is the 16th largest state economy in the country with 5.29 lakh crore (FY2020-21) in gross domestic product. Punjab ranks 19th among Indian state on the basis of per capita GDP of US$2,090.The same Punjab ranked first in per capita GDP amongst Indian states in 1981 and fourth in 2001, but has witnessed slower growth than the rest of country in recent years.Expressing concern over this, industrialists feel that now is the time to upgrade industry in Punjab by adopting new world technologies rather than depend on just entrepreneurship skills of Punjabis.Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU), said, “Being the border state and away from the sea port, there is always location disadvantage for Punjab.”“The government should focus on products, which don’t have just the volume, but more value addition rather than products, which have less value and more raw material cost. This is imperative because the freight cost of incoming raw material will be more and outgoing finished products from Punjab will be expensive thus making it difficult for the industry to survive in the state,” Sharma added.“In Punjab, Ludhiana is among the top 10 places/cities in ease of doing business in India. So, we should captlise on it. We have least bureaucratic hassles as well as labour union issues, which we can propagate to encourage investment in Punjab,” said Sharma.“The time has come for Punjab leaders cutting across all parties to rise above petty issues and sit together and do brainstorming to make a road map for the next 10 years,” Sharma added.Industrialists rue that the government has not focused on agri-based industry for which raw material is in abundance in the state. “Industry making packaged food for domestic as well as export market should be promoted in the similar manner as hosiery and bicycle parts. As the cost of land is high as compared to other states, the Punjab Government should earmark industrial zones at different undeveloped places in the state, which will not only promote our GDP, but also provide employment in abundance,” said Upkar Singh, president, CICU.Voicing similar views, Badish Jindal, president, FOPSIA, said, “Ample opportunities should be provided to the youth so that they drop the idea of going to Canada or overseas for greener pastures.”“Another vital issue is to create interest of bigger groups to invest in Punjab. To create their interest we need to have good business environment as well as government support,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/its-time-to-upgrade-industry-in-punjab-with-new-tech-say-industrialists-316754
27-09-2021||Ludhiana||Grandparents’ Day celebrated at Millennium World School, Ludhiana||Grandparents, like heroes, are as necessary for child’s growth. Grandparents are a family’s strong foundation. In order to honour grandparents and to give grandparents an opportunity to show love for their children, Millennium World School celebrated Grandparents Day.Dr Inderpal Singh, Director, Nankana Sahib Educational Trust, presided over the function as the chief guest.The day was fun-filled with activities including skits, dances and songs that highlighted the bond between grandparents and the children. School Principal Gurpreet Kaur, while addressing participants, said, “It is important to sensitise children about the role of grandparents in one’s life and teach them about respecting and taking care of them in the old age.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/grandparents-day-celebrated-at-millennium-world-school-ludhiana-316756
27-09-2021||Ludhiana||World Pharmacist Day observed||The School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, CT University, observed ‘World Pharmacist Day’ in association with the Punjab State Pharmacy Officers’ Association (PSPOA) and the Association of Pharmaceutical Teachers of India (APTI).Events began with a welcome address by Dr Harsh Kumar Sadawarti, Vice-Chancellor, CT University. He appreciated all pharmacists for their commendable work during pandemic. The chief guest for the day was Narinder Mohan Sharma, president, Punjab State Pharmacy Officers’ Association. Dr Saurabh Sharma, principal, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, emphasised on the year’s theme for the day “Pharmacy: Always trusted for your health”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/world-pharmacist-day-observed-316757
27-09-2021||Ludhiana||Khanna woman hurt in acid attack||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/khanna-woman-hurt-in-acid-attack-316758
27-09-2021||Ludhiana||Channi govt can’t fool people: SAD||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today charged the Congress government with taking the state towards chaos and mess and failing to fulfil the promises made during the last Assembly elections.Will probe ministersIf we come to power, we will set up an inquiry commission to probe several ministers. — Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD ChiefDuring his daylong tour of the city, he addressed nearly a dozen election meetings, covering Ludhiana Central, Ludhiana West and Atam Nagar Assembly segments and sought support for party candidates Pritpal Singh Pali, Mahesinder Singh Grewal and Harish Dhanda, respectively.Sukhbir said the previous Amarinder Cabinet stood exposed and if the new dispensation led by Charanjit Singh Channi had any notion that they would again fool the public, they were mistaken. He said a government remote-controlled from Delhi could do no good for the state. Only a regional party could deliver, he added, stressing all policy decisions taken by the government would be reviewed if his party came to power. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/channi-govt-cant-fool-people-sad-316561
