28-09-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Ludhiana: Shops remain shut till 4 pm, industry incurs huge losses||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 27On the call by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha for Bharat bandh, almost all main markets of the city remained shut in support of farmers’ demands. Till 4 pm, barring a handful, most of the shops/showrooms remained shut and the roads presented a deserted look in otherwise congested industrial city.The farmers had blocked the main entry and exit points in the city and there was hardly any traffic on the roads. The morning supply of vegetables/milk and other necessary items took place till 10 am, after which there was warm response to the bandh by the traders/shopkeepers.Hospitals remain open; few patients visit OPDsThere was complete bandh till around 4 pm. A shopkeeper in Ghumar Mandi said he had opened the shop for about half an hour so that milk and daily need products could be supplied to consumers. “Otherwise I totally support the farmers’ cause and concern,” he said.Even the managements of playway schools had shut the schools today due to the call. A principal of a playway school in interior part of the city said they felt bad to call parents not to send wards to school. “After much pressure, we had convinced the parents to send wards to the school after the pandemic and today again, we had to shut it and we felt bad,” the principal said.Meanwhile, industrialists in the city had to face inconvenience as their labour was not allowed to reach to workplaces in many areas. Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, CICU, and president, Association of Focal Point Industries, said, “In most parts of the city, the labour was not allowed to reach factories. With all commercial establishments and showrooms being shut, the business could not function smoothly. Almost all factories remained shut so as not to face the ire of protesters and a few to express solidarity with farmers.”He said there should be an open space or a ground to hold such protests outside the city. “Protesters can sit there, hold press conferences and mention the grievances in a record book. Government representatives should go there and receive their memorandum. Why disrupt the daily life which affects the economy?” Sharma said.He added that a lot many people blocking roads have nothing to do with agriculture or farm Laws. Some of them are factory workers who are allured with free food. “Although we support the cause for which farmers are protesting and appreciate their peaceful way of holding protests, But bandhs in any form affect the business and disrupt the life of a common man. Bandhs in all forms should be condemned by all. It is high time that politicians stop taking common man for a ride. The estimated loss of business and economy in Punjab by this bandh is around Rs 500 crore,” he claimed.Amit Thapar, MD, Ganga Acrylics, and vice-president, CII, Punjab, said, “For me it is not about the farm laws. I don’t support any cause which in form of protest denies me my right to livelihood. Disruption is not a solution and you cannot force people to close down workplaces. Anyone who wishes to be part of the protest can voluntarily close down his shop/factory and keep it closed for as long as he wants. But none has the right to ask me to close my premises,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-shops-remain-shut-till-4-pm-industry-incurs-huge-losses-317274
28-09-2021||Nitin Jain||Aug saw max vaccination, Sept heading for new record in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 27The ongoing Covid vaccination drive has been picking up pace as August saw maximum jabs during a month, while September was heading to set a new record, the government has confirmed.While 40,55,207 eligible beneficiaries were inoculated last month, which was the highest count since the vaccination took off in January, the state has set a target to cover another 41,63,150 persons aged above 18 years during this month, the official figures have revealed.Ludhiana, being the biggest and largest district in terms of area and population, has been leading the state with the maximum administration of 29,21,711 jabs till September 26. This was almost 80 per cent coverage of the eligible beneficiaries with at least single dose in the district. While almost 21 lakh people have taken a single shot, over 8 lakh recipients have got both the jabs so far.The month-wise vaccination coverage compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is available with The Tribune, revealed that as many as 36,10,009 doses of Covishield and 4,45,198 shots of Covaxin were given in the state during August, while 35,78,580 jabs of Covishield and 5,84,570 doses of Covaxin have been allocated to the state by the Centre for September.Earlier, the state administered 55,461 doses of Covishield and only 37 of Covaxin in January, 1,44,984 Covishield and 388 Covaxin in February, 7,91,570 Covishield and 77,057 Covaxin in March, 23,14,688 Covishield and 2,32,924 Covaxin in April, 12,73,475 Covishield and 1,45,236 Covaxin in May, 15,63,523 Covishield and 3,63,712 Covaxin in June, and 21,58,933 Covishield and 3,89,080 Covaxin in July.With this, the state will give 1,54,91,223 Covishield and 31,78,622 Covaxin doses to the eligible population till the end of September.The age-wise percentage of population vaccinated in the state so far includes 80 per cent persons aged 60 years and above with first dose and 39 per cent with second dose, 66 per cent 45 years and above with first and 27 per cent second jab, 43 per cent 18 years and above with first and 5 per cent with second shot.The overall coverage comprised 57 per cent with first dose and 18 per cent with second jab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aug-saw-max-vaccination-sept-heading-for-new-record-in-punjab-317275
28-09-2021||---||Ludhiana: Commuters a harried lot||Ludhiana, September 27Commuters and passengers faced inconveniences as farmers and supporters staged protests by blocking highways and major roads at various locations in the Ludhiana district on Monday.In view of the Bharat bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the three farm laws, farmers had started gathering at various major roads from 6 am to stage dharnas.Passengers suffered as the government and private buses remained off road amid the protest today. Several passengers waited for long hours for the resumption of bus service at the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal, Ludhiana today. The contractual staff of government buses also participated in the protest, extending their support to the farmers.Farmers had completely blocked the Ladhowal Toll Plaza on the National Highway 44 (Jalandhar-Panipat stretch) in Ludhiana. Protests were also staged at major chowks and intersections on Ferozepur Road, Jalandhar Bypass, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Jagraon Bridge, Phullanwal Chowk, Jodhewal Basti, Rahon Road and other areas.Stranded on the way, some of the commuters, who were travelling with family members, including kids, were also seen making requests to the protesters to allow them to go ahead. Some persons were also seen arguing with the protesters on the NH-44 in Ludhiana. The protesters, however, were allowing the ambulances and those who had an emergency to go attend.A commuter on the NH-44 said he had requested to the protesters to allow him to go ahead but he was asked to go back or wait. Some other commuters were also waiting near the toll plaza for resumption of traffic movement.A number of trucks were parked along the highways in Ludhiana due to the bandh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-commuters-a-harried-lot-317276
28-09-2021||---||Two test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, September 27Two persons tested positive for Covid, while no death due to the disease was reported in the district today.There are 21 active patients in the district at present. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.58 per cent. As many as 18 patients were sent for home isolation today and one patient is admitted to hospital for Covid treatment.Till date, a total of 24,91,164 samples have been taken, of which 23,91,950 were found negative. Now, the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,538, while 11,676 patients belong to other districts/states. The total number of patients who lost their lives to the disease is 2,101 from Ludhiana and 1,050 from other districts.Samples of 5,504 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-317277
28-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Several trains cancelled, rescheduled||Ludhiana, September 27Rail passengers remained a harried lot with several trains cancelled, rescheduled and stranded at intermediate stations due to blockade of rail tracks at several places by farmers as a part of their call for Bharat bandh today.Four trains — 02014 Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express, 02716 Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express, 03077 Dhanbad-Ferozepur Ganga Sutlej Express and Chandigarh-Firozepur Express — were stranded at the Ludhiana railway station.Railway officials said due to the farmers’ protest seven trains were cancelled for the day, one for tomorrow, seven others were rescheduled and two trains were short-terminated.According to information made available by the Railways, rail tracks were blocked on at least six places on the Ludhiana-Jalandhar, Ludhiana-Firozepur, Ludhiana-New Delhi and Ludhiana-Chandigarh sections due to which trains were stopped at intermediate stations.Among the cancelled trains were Amritsar-Haridwar Janshatabdi Express, 04489/90 Amritsar-Pathankot-Amritsar Express, 04537 Amritsar-Nangal Dam Express, 02030 Amritsar-New Delhi Swarn Shatabdi Express, 04032 Moga-New Delhi Intercity Express and 04068 Amritsar-New Delhi Shane-Punjab Express. The 04078 Pathankot-New Delhi Express would remain cancelled tomorrow (Sept 28) for want of rake.Railway officials said seven trains — 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Pashchim Express, 05734 Amritsar-Katihar Amrapali Express, 01058 Amritsar-CSMT Mumbai Dadar Express, 09222 Jammu Tawi-Ajmer Express, 02920 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-Dr Ambedkar Nagar Malwa Express, 04078 Pathankot-Delhi Express and 04678 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-Hapa Sarvodaya Express — were rescheduled to depart from their respective destinations by four to five hours. However, their actual departure would depend upon lifting of blockade by the protesting farmers.Stranded railway passengers were furious over the farmers disrupting the rail traffic as according to them the Railways had nothing to do with the agitation. “Farmers have a grudge against the Modi government and they could carry on their protest against the Centre. But due to rail roko, thousands of passengers are being made to suffer for no fault of theirs, just because trains are a soft target and it is very easy for even a small group of protesters to block the tracks and disrupt rail traffic,” said a passenger waiting at the railway station here to board a train for Gorakhpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/several-trains-cancelled-rescheduled-317278
28-09-2021||Lovleen Bains||Good response to bandh call at Sahnewal, Doraha||Sahnewal/Doraha,September 27Activities in Sahnewal, Doraha and Kohara came to a complete halt today as kisan unions, supported by local and regional fronts, organisations and associations gathered at designated sites to mark one year of the three contentious laws since these were passed by the Centre. All government and private offices, educational institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments remained closed even as emergency services were allowed to operate as usual.National highways and service lanes were entirely blocked, but the bandh was observed in a peaceful manner. Routine life was no doubt disrupted as the people had to cancel their important inter-state, national and international visits, medical appointments and land deals etc and sit at homes helplessly.Residents of Doraha, Sahnewal, Kohara and the surrounding areas stood firmly by farmers and supported the bandh call in true letter and spirit. They said forcible passing of farm bills by the Central Government was not only fatal for farmers, but for employees, labourers, pensioners and public too. Each and every section of society joined hands with sons of the soil to protest against the three farm laws of the Central Government.The Government Pensioners Association, Pensioners Association Powercom, Technical Services Union, BEd Adhyapak Front, Anganwadi Workers Union, All Traders Union of Sahnewal and Doraha, Rampur Writers Association, Youth Forum Doraha, Ambulance Welfare Society, Patwar Union, Bharatiya Yog Sansthan, Artiya Association, Association of Unaided College Teachers of Punjab, Punjab Educationists Forum, surrounding villages of Doraha, Sahnewal and Samrala, actively collaborated with kisan unions to fight against the three anti-farmer bills tooth and nail.BKU (Kadian) district president Hardeep Singh Giaspura, BKU Ekta (Ugrahan) general secretary Saudagar Singh Ghudani, BKU Punjab Jagjit Singh, BKU (Sidhupur) Gurjeet Singh and Kulvir Singh, BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal, Government Pensioners Association president Pawan Kumar Kaushal, BEd Adhyapak Front secretary Vikramjeet Singh, Government Pensioners Association secretary Tarsem Lal, TSU Power Com president Jaswinder Singh, Artiya Association Doraha president SP Verma, All Traders Union Doraha president Rajbir Singh Roobal, Punjab Educationists Forum general secretary Dr Kuldeep Singh Kalsi, Gurdwara Langar Sahib Kaar Sewa Reru Sahib Jathedar Major Singh, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha Raghuveer Singh Benipal, Doraha Anganwadi Union block president Sunita Rani, All Traders Union Sahnewal president Manjinder Singh Bhola, former Sarpanch Baldev Singh Daburjee and Kisan activist Harmindar Singh Jaspal Bangar were among those, who addressed gatherings at Doraha, Sahnewal, Tibba Pull, Kohara and Ghulal toll plaza.Together they pressed upon the Modi government to take back the three contentious farm laws before it was too late. “Nothing can be more unfortunate than the fact that thousands of farmers have died and thousands have been bereaved in the fight against these three contentious laws. But more the sacrifice, more are we enthused with the spirit of resistance, confrontation and hostility towards the system, which is both deaf and dumb,” said speakers.“Victory shall be ours at the end as no government, however, strong it may be, can suppress the people’s voice, which is gaining momentum with each passing day,” speakers added.The situation remained under control and no untoward incident was reported from the area. The Khanna Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Gursharandeep Singh, said special police force was deployed to ensure law and order at places of protest. “The situation remained peaceful,” the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/good-response-to-bandh-call-at-sahnewal-doraha-317279
28-09-2021||Mahesh Sharma||All sections of society support  anti-farm law protest in Malwa||Ahmedgarh, September 27The Bharat bandh call given by the Umbrella Union of farmers, Samyukat Kisan Morcha, received a warm response from all sections of society, including farmers, agricultural labourers, commission agents and small traders, who squatted at different places on Ludhiana- Malerkotla Road, Raikot-Jagraon Road, Hari Singh Nalwa Chowk at Raikot, Mullanpur-Jagraon Road and Mullanpur-Barnala highways, besides link roads of the Malwa region from 6 am to 4 pm today.Though residents were reported to have rescheduled their travel plans today, those undertaking journeys due to any emergency kept the police on toes while managing alternative routes for occupants of stranded vehicles.However, protesters allowed free movement of ambulances, marriage parties and vehicles providing other essential services.Office-bearers and activists of various farm organisations, led by regional leaders of the All India Kisan Sabha, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal), Kirti Kisan Union, and Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta) Dakaunda organised dharnas on highways and link roads to block vehicular traffic.Addressing gatherings at various places, speakers alleged that Prime Minister Narinder Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah were bent upon ruining the present and future of the nation for appeasing their masters in the corporate sector.“Now, when BJP leaders and colleagues of Prime Minister have conceded flaws of the laws passed by the Union Government and the farmers struggle has received support from the world across, but he (Prime Minister) is not ready to withdraw the Acts,” rued Harnek Singh Dhaliwal while addressing a gathering at Kilaraipur village.Speakers at Lehra, Bhogiwal, Payal, Raikot, Halwara and Gahaur alleged that the Centre had failed to protect rights and interests of the common man on all fronts.They urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the farm laws in the wider interest of the national economy, which according to them was bound to collapse in case these were implemented in present form.Majority of government offices, banks and educational institutes too wore a deserted look as they had already informed their clients that restricted business would be conducted on Monday.Children and women marked their presence by carrying flags of kisan unions to venues of protests and reciting poems and raising slogans.Long-distance train passengers sufferThe administration was caught unaware when the Railway authorities stopped long-distance trains at railway stations falling on the Ludhiana Dhuri line after activists of the umbrella body of protesting farmers, Samyukat Kisan Morcha, blocked tracks at the Dhuri junction, near here, early in the morning.Passengers of these trains, mostly non-Punjabis, were among worst affected as they were travelling with families, including women, children, elderly and patients. More worried were those families, who had to continue their further journey, by catching flights or trains from New Delhi.However, generosity of office-bearers and activists of social and religious organisations by organising medical camps, ‘chhabils’, ‘langars’ and ambulance services reduced sufferings of distressed passengers to some extent.Over 10 hours interruption of journey at small railway stations like Manid Ahmedgarh and Malerkotla proved a nightmare for passengers as basic amenities supposed to be provided by the Railways were absent. Lavatory and drinking water facility were completely unavailable at Mandi Ahmedgarh. Social organisations had to arrange their own public announcement system for dispersing information about availability of services among passengers spread over a wide area.Government Railway Police officials remained on toes while handling overcrowding at camps organised by volunteers to distribute medicines and eatables among passengers.Harmesh Pal, the GRP in-charge, said he had coordinated with office- bearers of social and religious organisations shortly after the Katra-Kota train was halted at 6.40 am. He said the train would resume its further journey by 5 pm.Mundey Ahmedgarh Dey, Rotary Club Ahmedgarh, Shree Ram Mandir Committee, Gurdwara Singh Sabha, Radha Rani Parbhat Feri Mandal and the Ahmedgarh Sports and Welfare Association were among those organisations, which provided necessary services to stranded passengers.Appreciating gestures of local residents, Radhey Shyam of Jammu said the condition of his friend, whom he was taking to Cancer Hospital in Sangrur, could have deteriorated had doctors not provided medical assistance and ambulance service for further travel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/all-sections-of-society-support-anti-farm-law-protest-in-malwa-317280
28-09-2021||Ahmedgarh||Youth feared drowned in Sirhind Canal||A youth of Lohatbaddi village is feared to have drowned after he jumped from the Kalyan Bridge into the Bathinda branch of the Sirhind Canal here today.The police have yet to ascertain the exact sequence of events which lead to the incident, but it’s suspected that the victim took the extreme step after he failed to receive justice in case of dispute with his close relatives.The youth, whose body is yet to be recovered, has been identified as Naurang Singh (43), a labourer of Lohatbaddi village in Raikot subdivision of the Ludhiana district.The spot from where he jumped into the canal was at a small distance from the venue for road blockade on the Raikot-Malerkotla road organised during the Bharat Bandh. Investigations revealed that Naurang was upset over his domestic circumstances and dispute with one of his close relatives. The police have yet to ascertain if he left some suicide note before leaving Lohatbaddi village.Naurang is survived by three minor children. His wife had died over two years ago. Lohatbaddi chowki in-charge Sayeed Shakeel said legal proceedings would be initiated after recovery of the body by. “However, we will conduct a probe into circumstances leading to the incident in case the aggrieved family lodges a complaint with us,” Shakeel added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/youth-feared-drowned-in-sirhind-canal-317281
28-09-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana lad Lakshay wins silver medal in Punjab Sr Badminton Championship||City lad Lakshay Sharma took a big stride as despite being in teens he competed in the senior section and stunned his experienced opponents by winning silver medal in the men’s singles category.Lakshay (16) participated in the Punjab State Senior Badminton Championship held in Mohali from September 16 to 19 wherein he not only won one or two matches, but gave a stupendous performance, logged in wins against seeded players to make his way into the summit clash and eventually settled for the runners-up trophy.Lakshay, a student of Class XI at Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana, began his campaign at Mohali in a style. In the pre-quarterfinal match, he drubbed fifth seeded Manmohit Sandhu from Jalandhar in two sets (21-5, 21-12). In the quarterfinal, Lakshay outwitted his city mate Chirag Sharma (21-18, 21-9) to storm into the semifinals wherein he faced top seed Ritvik Mohanty of Sangrur. Lakshay, after some hiccups, managed to pip his rival in three sets (15-21, 21-16 and 21-11) to secure his berth in the title clash.In the final against Abhinav Thakur from Jalandhar, Lakshay wrapped up the opening game 21-19. In the next game, however, Abhinav bounced back to win it 21-14 to level the score and the decider, he survived a scare before stitching it up 21-18, which also fetched him the title. For his outstanding performance in this championship, Lakshay Sharma has been selected to take part in the ensuing North Zone Inter-State and Senior National Championship.Lakshay, a trainee of his father Mangat Rai Sharma, an NIS qualified coach, has already won a couple of medals in the international level tournaments such as gold medal in the Youth International Badminton Championship held at Glasgow, Scotland (UK), gold medal in the singles and doubles categories at the Swiss Youth Open Badminton Championship. Last month, Lakshay emerged champion at the 11th Multi Alarm Hungarian International Junior Badminton Championship (U-19) at Pecs. This championship was organised by the apex body Badminton World Federation.Rajinder Singh Kalsi, general secretary, Punjab Badminton Association, honoured Lakshay for his achievement in Hungary during the prize distribution function of the state championship in Mohali.Sister Veena Dsouza, Principal, Sacred Heart Convent School, congratulated Lakshay on winning silver medal in the badminton championship and wished him good luck for the upcoming North Zone and National Tournaments. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-lad-lakshay-wins-silver-medal-in-punjab-sr-badminton-championship-317282
28-09-2021||Ludhiana||Rs 1.6 lakh snatched from flour mill owner in Ludhiana||Girl abducted, another missingLudhiana: A minor girl was allegedly abducted, while another was reported missing from different parts of the city. A 14-year-old girl, residing in Prem Vihar on Tibba Road, was allegedly abducted on the allurement of marriage by a youth in the neighbourhood. According to a complaint lodged by the mother of the missing girl with the police on Sunday, the girl had been missing from her residence for the last 10 days. The family, she said, had been trying to locate the girl during all these days without any success. On the suspicion of the complainant that a youth in the neighbouring area might be behind the abduction with the intent of marrying the girl, the police have booked Nitin Kumar, resident of Grewal Colony on Tibba Road, under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act and further investigation is in progress. Another 15-year-old girl was reported missing from Bharti Colony in the Salem Tabri area from her house in Saturday evening. According to a complaint filed with the police by the mother of the missing girl on Sunday, the girl had left without telling anybody about her whereabouts. The police have registered a case under Section 346 of the IPC. TNSMan killed in hit-and-runLudhiana: A resident of Mundian Kalan identified as Ranjit Prasad (56) was critically injured after being hit by a speeding vehicle near Pathak Petrol Pump at the Focal Point on Sunday morning. The victim was rushed to Fortis Hospital where he was declared ‘brought dead’ by doctors. Victim’s son Onkar Nath told the police that his father was returning home after his night duty in a factory at the Focal Point, Phase VIII, when he was run over by an unknown speeding vehicle. The police have registered a case under Sections 279/304-A of the IPC and started investigation. TNSYouth held with 5 gm of heroinLudhiana: The police arrested Sunny Gill of Vishal Colony on Kakowal Road on Sunday. The accused was stopped at a check point on suspicion. During search, 5 gm of heroin was recovered from him. The accused was booked under the NDPS Act. TNSSmuggler held with liquorLudhiana: Mandeep Singh, a resident of Model Gram, was nabbed by the police with five cases (60 bottles) Dollar Rum and charged under the Excise Act. The police said the accused was intercepted at a check post on a tip-off while he was going on an Activa scooter (bearing registration number PB-91H-6225) near Tahli Chowk in Model Gram and liquor bottles recovered from him. TNSObstructing traffic: 6 heldLudhiana: In a crackdown on roadside encroachments and causing obstruction in flow of the traffic the police have arrested six persons, who were booked under Section 283, IPC. The police said those arrested include a roadside cloth vendor was arrested from Chaura Bazar, a garment seller near Clock Tower Chowk, another vendor from Old GT Road, a mule-cart puller near a dhaba in Sahnewal, one truck (container) driver from Sahni village, near GT Road, Sahnewal, and a trawler driver from Moti Nagar Puli. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-1-6-lakh-snatched-from-flour-mill-owner-in-ludhiana-317283
28-09-2021||---||Bharat Band: Industrial activity comes to standstill in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar||Chandigarh, September 27Amid farmers’ protest across the state, industrial production and dispatches came to a standstill, affecting all major industrial clusters — Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar.Though it’s difficult to quantify the losses, industry veterans claim it may run into crores and it would also affect investor sentiments in near future.“Not only normal life, but the industrial production and dispatches also came to a standstill as transporters did not operate amid Bharat Bandh. This is peak time for industries. Many goods produced by Ludhiana industries have to be delivered in time considering the festival season,” said Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Associations (FOPSIA).Contrary to other industrial cities, a majority of the industrial units in Mohali were operating, sources said.Farmers across the state blocked highways and railway tracks at many places to mark Bharat Bandh on the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a coalition of farmers’ unions, to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three agricultural laws. At various places, transport services were also suspended. Besides, shops and commercial establishments remained shut at many places.“It’s a double whammy for industry. Initially, the industry had to shut operations for a few days in July amid power shortage. Now, again a day was lost. The worst-affected are the exporters as they have to deliver the export consignments in a time-bound manner. Amid bandh, they were not in a position to produce or dispatch the finished goods,” said an exporter from Amritsar.As many industries are striving hard to survive after recovering from the pandemic-induced crisis, the bandh has further aggravated the problem. “Normally, on an average, we have 24-25 working days in a month. Due to protest and bandh, almost 5 per cent of the industrial production was affected across the state. This may have serious implications on domestic as well as export market,” said another industrialist who did not wish to be named.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bharat-band-industrial-activity-comes-to-standstill-in-ludhiana-jalandhar-amritsar-316980
28-09-2021||Doraha||Samrala farmer ends life near protest site||Dejected over the government stance on the three farm laws, a farmer from Rohla village, near Samrala, allegedly died by suicide near the protest site at a toll plaza here last night.Tara Singh, 68, remained part of the farmers’ agitation in Delhi from November last till May, after which he joined the protest at the toll plaza. He is survived by his wife and five children.Samrala SHO Kulwant Singh said the death was being treated as natural as per information provided by the deceased’s son. “A compensation of Rs 5 lakh would be given to the bereaved family,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/samrala-farmer-ends-life-near-protest-site-317053
