04-06-2021||Bathinda||3 youths die in car mishap on  Bathinda-Dabwali road||Three youths in their mid-twenties were killed after the car in which they were travelling collided with an unidentified vehicle on the Bathinda-Dabwali road near Pathrala village. The victims belonged to Chak Ruldu Singhwala village in Sangat block of Bathinda district.The deceased were identified as Chanan Singh (24), Jagjit Singh (22) and Amandeep Singh (27). While two of them died on the spot, Amandeep succumbed to his injuries on way to the hospital.The bodies were taken to the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, for a post-mortem, following which these were handed over to the families. The police have registered a case against the unidentified driver of the second vehicle and launched a hunt.As per village residents, Amandeep was building a house where masons Chanan Singh and Jagjit Singh were working. The three had gone to a dhaba in the Doomwali area for dinner. While returning to their village, their car collided with another vehicle near Pathrala village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/3-youths-die-in-car-mishap-on-bathinda-dabwali-road-263009
04-06-2021||---||Workers protest orders to grow vegetables at anganwaris||Bathinda, June 3The Anganwari Workers’ Union today staged a protest against the state and central governments over being directed to plant seeds to grow vegetables in anganwari centres. They are being provided with seeds of vegetables and other items by the government under the Poshan Abhiyan scheme to make ‘poshan vatikas’ at their respective centres.Carrying packets of seeds in their hands, union members raised slogans and later submitted a memorandum of demands to the Bathinda Deputy Commissioner.“Rather than fulfiling our long-pending demands, the government is trying to deviate our attention by engaging in works not meant for us. The government has sent seed kits to anganwari centres, asking workers and helpers to prepare ‘poshan vatikas’. A majority of the centres are running from shared premises and barely have enough space to grow vegetables or make ‘poshan vatikas’ there. Moreover, there will be no one to guard these vatikas once plants will be grown,” Pratibha Sharma, a representative of the union, said. Union members in the memorandum requested that they be not coerced to make vatikas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/workers-protest-orders-to-grow-vegetables-at-anganwaris-263001
04-06-2021||---||Teachers’ body opposes work during vacations||Bathinda, June 3Members of the Joint Teachers’ Front took out a protest march on two-wheelers and burnt the effigy of the Education Minister in Bathinda on Thursday. The protesters alleged that teachers were being engaged in online trainings, meetings and other duties even during summer vacations.The protesters holding black flags started the march from Teachers’ Home and reached outside the District Administrative Complex and burnt effigies of the Education Minister and the Secretary of the Education Department.Jagpal Bangi, a union leader, said, “Teachers are being asked to take online classes, attend meetings and training programmes, distribution of books and food items and remain engaged in admission-related work during summer vacations. The government has also been delaying the report of the 6th Pay Commission.”Lachhman Singh, another leader, said, “Department officials are busy downsising so that its policy to close down government schools on permanent basis can be advanced further. Rather than regularising services of contractual teachers rendering their services for years as per new the education policy, the education sector is being affected adversely.”Resents online classesSangrur: To protest against for their demands, government teachers under the banner of the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha organised a march in Sangrur city. They demanded withdrawal of online classes during summer vacations, distribution of books and other official work. "The authorities are harassing government teachers during summer vacation. We will intensify our agitation in coming days," said Nirbhai Singh, convener of the morcha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/teachers-body-opposes-work-during-vacations-263002
04-06-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Jolt for senior Maur leaders as AAP MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu joins Congress||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 3With AAP MLA from Maur Jagdev Singh Kamalu joining the Congress, the political equation has changed in the Assembly segment. The move has come as a big jolt to senior Congress leaders who had been nurturing Maur.Among them former minister Harminder Singh Jassi, who had been taking care of the constituency after unsuccessfully contesting from here in the 2017.Divided houseThe Congress is a divided house in the Maur segment. Only time will tell whether Jagdev Singh Kamalu ’s joining the Congress will end the factionalism in the party or further muddle the situation.Even former MLA Mangat Rai Bansal and his wife Manju Bansal had also increased their political activities in Maur for past some time. Manju lost the Assembly election from Mansa in 2017, while Mangat Rai unsuccessfully contested the polls from the Maur segment in 2012.The Congress is a divided house in the Maur segment. Only time will tell whether Kamalu’s joining the Congress would end the factionalism in the party or lead to creation of another group.In the 2017 elections, the Congress had finished behind the AAP and SAD. AAP candidate Kamalu had defeated then Akali MLA Janmeja Singh Sekhon and Jassi. Later, Kamalu had joined the AAP breakaway group headed by Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who launched the Punjab Ekta Party. During the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, when Khaira contested from the Bathinda parliamentary segment, Kamalu had openly supported him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/jolt-for-senior-maur-leaders-as-aap-mla-jagdev-singh-kamalu-joins-congress-262987
