10-06-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda teachers protest transfer delay||Engineer promoted Chandigarh: Basant Kumar Jindal of Sangrur, who is working as Deputy Chief Engineer at Lehra Mohabbat Thermal Plant, PSPCL, has been promoted as Chief Engineer. He has been posted as Chief Engineer (Planning) at Patiala. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-teachers-protest-transfer-delay-265981
10-06-2021||Sameer Singh||MSP hike not enough, say farmers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 9The central government’s decision to increase the minimum support price (MSP) for paddy, cotton and other crops have failed to evoke a positive response from the farming community in the Malwa region. Terming the hike “meagre”, farmers sought the prices be increased as per the recommendations of the Swaminathan report.Notably, aimed at providing relief to farmers, the Centre on Wednesday announced a hike in Kharif crops. Ramkaran Singh Raman, state general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal), said, “A meagre increase of Rs 72 on paddy and Rs 200 on cotton is nothing but a cruel joke on farmers. The input cost of farming has increased considerably. We vehemently oppose the MSP hike. It is unfortunate that the government has failed to provide fair price for the crops sold as per the ever-increasing input cost till now. As a result, farmers, especially the marginal ones, are being pushed to remain under debt all their life. The Centre must be more pragmatic in its policies and increase MSP as per the C2 formula recommended by Swaminathan report.”Hold talks, Tomar urgedSAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday urged Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar to hold fresh talks with farmers to understand why they wanted the farm laws to be repealed instead of rejecting the demandBalkaran Singh Balli, a leader of the Punjab Kisan Union, said: “Every year, a farmer spends heavily on seeds, labour, pesticides and diesel for irrigation and then the government simply washes its hands off by making a meagre increase in the MSP. Farmers who cannot bear the burden of debt end their lives.”Baldev Singh Sandoha, president, BKU (Sidhupur), said: “We oppose this meagre hike. The prices of material required for sowing of paddy and cotton have increased manifold. Besides, the prices of petrol and diesel have skyrockted in the past one year, thereby burdening farmers. The MSP hike should reflect the corresponding increase in rates of input material.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/msp-hike-not-enough-say-farmers-265968
10-06-2021||Bathinda||International-level karate player working as labourer in paddy fields in Punjab's Mansa||Hardeep Kaur, an international-level karate player from the region is fighting poverty and is forced to work as a labourer in this scorching heat to transplant paddy in the field in her village Gurne Kalan in Mansa district.The government had promised to give her a job but even after four years the promise remains unfulfilled.While talking to The Tribune, Hardeep Kaur said she has made a name for her district and Punjab by winning 20 medals in karate championships at Malaysia and national games at Goa and other school-level games.She recalls that when she returned after winning the gold medal in karate championship at Malaysia, then Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi had met her when he visited her area and announced a government job for her but now four years have gone by, but the promise remains unfulfilled.“My father works as a labourer and I am studying DPED in Patiala and to support my studies and parents, I do domestic work and now doing labour work in fields to transplant paddy in our village,” she said.Hardeep also appeals to the state government to provide her some help as she even visited Chandigarh four times to take up her job issue, but she failed to get any success.Hardeep Kaur’ father Naib Singh and mother Sukhwinder Kaur said, “Our economic condition is quite bad and we manage to earn two square meals a day by working as labourers in fields. Even our daughter despite being a sportsperson is forced to work in fields as a labourer. We demand that our daughter should be given a job or financial help at the earliest.”Harjit Singh, a farmer on whose fields Hardeep is working, said, “She has brought laurels to the state and country, so the state government under ghar-ghar rozgar scheme should provide her a job, so that she is able to live her life comfortably.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/international-level-karate-player-working-as-labourer-in-paddy-fields-in-punjabs-mansa-265928
