14-06-2021||Abohar||Abohar Cong leader’s son dies in road mishap||Abohar Congress leader Vinod Sharma Lali’s son and two others were killed in two road accidents.Lali’s son Anuj Sharma (35), who was driving a car, lost control of the vehicle near Latera village on NH No. 62 on Saturday. As a result, the car hit a tree on the roadside. Anuj died in the mishap while his wife Charu (32), son Arhan (8) and mother-in-law Neelam Devi (65) were injured, said Circle Inspector Ramesh Kumar Neyol. The injured have been admitted to PBM Hospital, Bikaner. Today Anuj’s body was brought to Abohar and cremated at Shivpuri.PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, District Youth Congress ex-president Sandeep Jakhar and Mayor Vimal Thatai have mourned the death.In another mishap on the Abohar-Sriganganagar stretch of the same highway, the owner and driver of a mini-truck (Canter) died on the spot when it hit a tree near Maujgarh village last night. The deceased were identified as owner Palwinder Singh (35) and driver Bal Raj (40) who belonged to Gurdaspur district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/abohar-cong-leaders-son-dies-in-road-mishap-267992
14-06-2021||Praful Chander Nagpal||Amid staff strike, garbage set on fire||Fazilka, June 13With garbage strewn across the town a month after sanitary workers went on strike, the litter is now being set on fire, causing pollution in residential areas.As many as 190 regular and contractual workers had proceeded on strike in support of their demands on May 13. According to an estimate, 900 ton garbage had piled up in the town as 30 ton was collected daily.Mounds of garbage have been set on fire in several parts of the town. Garbage fires have been reported in the TV Tower Colony, Patwarkhana and Railway Road areas, emanating poisonous gases from polythene bags.“The smoke has is causing inconvenience to patients already battling the pandemic,” says Ajay Rai, a resident.Residents say the government has failed miserably in make alternative arrangements to lift garbage, forcing them to fend for themselves. The government has failed to persuade sanitary workers to end their strike as their demands are yet to be fulfilled.Naresh Khera, sanitary inspector, Fazilka MC, said the council would look into the allegations of garbage fires.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/amid-staff-strike-garbage-set-on-fire-267993
14-06-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Kin refuse to cremate gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar, want autopsy||Ferozepur, June 13Alleging foul play into the killing of gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar, whose body was brought here last evening, his parents have refused to perform the last rites demanding another post-mortem to ascertain the facts.Jaipal along with aide Jaspreet Singh was killed in an encounter with the STF of West Bengal Police in Kolkata on Wednesday afternoon.Jaipal’s cremation was scheduled in the afternoon and his younger brother, Amritpal Singh, currently lodged in the Bathinda jail, was brought here amidst tight security for the last rights.However, Jaipal’s father Bhupinder Singh Bhullar and relatives spotted some “unusual marks” on the body, raising suspicion. Bhullar, a retired inspector in Punjab Police, later approached DC Gurpal Singh Chahal and submitted an application demanding a second post-mortem.The DC asked Assistant Commissioner Ravinder Singh Arora to look into the matter. Later, SDM Amit Gupta along with senior police officials met the family at their house in Dashmesh Nagar and urged them to cremate the body today itself, but to no avail.The SDM said they had made arrangements for cremation, but the family demanded an autopsy, which was beyond their authority as the encounter had taken place in Kolkata.A heavy police deployment had been made around Jaipal’s house in the city. Earlier, the police reportedly nabbed a youth outside the locality and seized a pistol. SSP Bhagirath Singh Meena said they were looking into the matter. Sources said the family was planning to approach the HC to seek a second post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/kin-refuse-to-cremate-gangster-jaipal-singh-bhullar-want-autopsy-267997
14-06-2021||Raj Sadosh||1965 war veteran passes away at 99||Abohar/Sriganganagar, June 13Maha Vir Chakra awardee Brig Raghubir Singh passed away at his home town in Jaipur due to old age illness today. He was 99.Brigadier Raghubir commanded 18 Rajputana Rifles (later 11 Mechanised Infantry) during the 1965 war with Pakistan.He led from the front, displaying extreme valour during the battle of Asal Uttar. His Maha Vir Chakra citation reads: “In the Khemkaran and Asal Uttar Sector, the attack of the enemy was extremely violent. However, the soldiers of 18 Rajputana Rifles fearlessly confronted the Pakistan army’s attack and destroyed 22 Patton tanks of the enemy. On September 9, 1965, under the able leadership of Raghubir Singh, his battalion successfully accomplished the mission and kicked out the Pakistan army that had the suspicious motive of reaching Harike in Punjab.”For this gallant act, then President of India Dr S Radhakrishnan honoured Lieut Colonel (later Brigadier) Raghubir Singh with Maha Vir Chakra, the second highest gallantry award in the country.During the 1971 war, he effectively handled the post of Provost Marshal in the Military Police with the responsibility to look after one lakh Pakistan prisoners of war in the Bangladesh surrender camp. Brigadier Raghubir Singh, or ‘Dadosa’ as he was fondly addressed, is survived by his son Maj Sangram Singh Rajawat (retd).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/1965-war-veteran-passes-away-at-99-267998
