17-06-2021||---||Soldier cremated with state honours in Bathinda||Bathinda, June 16Soldier Jagraj Singh (26), who breathed his last at the Military Hospital in Chandimandir on June 14, was cremated with state honours at Sheikhpura village on Wednesday.A large number of locals bid farewell to Jagraj Singh, who was the only son of a poor farmer. He had been serving the 23rd Sikh Battalion of the Army for the past seven years.Jagraj Singh’s mother Jasveer Kaur and father Major Singh said Jagraj had joined the Sikh Regiment after passing Class XII.Jagraj Singh’s elder sister Manpreet Kaur is a Punjab Police employee.Jagraj Singh’s regiment is currently in Rajasthan. He was injured during training in Rajasthan on June 5 and was taken to Suratgarh Hospital by the Army, but was later airlifted to the Chandimandir Military Hospital. He underwent an operation for his injuries, but passed away on June 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/soldier-cremated-with-state-honours-in-bathinda-269711
17-06-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda Municipal Corporation upgrades infrastructure for rains||Bathinda faces waterlogging problems during the monsoon, but this year, the MC claims it has increased the capacity of pumping motors and ponds in the city.MC commissioner Bikramjit Singh Shergill claimed during the monsoon this year, rainwater would drain out faster. Some of the water drainage works had been completed while some would finish by June 30 and July 15.Shergill said a 1,000 mm rising main has been made operational due to which there was no water accumulation on the Power House road after rain lashed the area a few days back. The water had been removed from the sludge carrier by making a pond in 10 acres taken on lease from the Waqf Board.He said the Sanjay Nagar pond capacity had also been increased by 20 feet to drain out the water from the Sirki Bazaar area. Apart from this, the capacity of motors was being increased from 80 hp to 120 hp. The 7-acre DAV College pond has also been deepened by 18 feet. Along with this, two motors had been installed to drain out the water from here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-municipal-corporation-upgrades-infrastructure-for-rains-269632
17-06-2021||Sameer Singh||Academicians join hands to secure future of deceased farmers’ families||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 16The family of Leela Singh, a marginal farmer from Gharreli village in Bathinda district who lost his life during the ongoing agitation against the three agricultural laws at Delhi border, has received financial help for construction of a house and a monthly pension of Rs 10,000 (until his children become self-dependent), thanks to the Atam Pargas Social Welfare Council, a trust formed by a group of renowned academicians.The council has been reaching out to families of farmers who died during the farm agitation to provide them succour in this hour of crisis. The council has 25 teams on the ground to conduct surveys and analyse the needs of families of farmers to provide them assistance accordingly.A team of the council visited Bathinda recently and met 22 families of farmers who lost their lives during the agitation. In total, these teams have reviewed more than 152 families since February 2021 and based on their requirement, assisted 127 families of deceased farmers.Apart from Leela Singh, many other familiesof deceased farmers have received not just financial help, but aid in other measure as well.Council chairman Dr Varinderpal Singh said: “The affected families are being assisted after thoroughly assessing their circumstances and actual needs. The house of impoverished Leela Singh was in really bad shape with no door and crumbling walls, so we decided to provide all construction material to build a new house for the family. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. Since there is no earning hand, a monthly pension of Rs 10,000 has been started for the family.”An elated Jaspal Kaur said, “We have started receiving monthly pension and also received first intalment of Rs 1 lakh for the construction of house. Our world had come crashing down after the death of my husband. We were living in utter despair but this help has given us a ray of hope. I am at least relieved of stress of my two daughters’ education.”Two other affected families in Maur and Talwandi Sabo were provided buffaloes so that they can earn their livelihood. A farmer in Mansa was operated upon an eye. School and college fee of children to their career counseling and even free tuitions are also being given.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/academicians-join-hands-to-secure-future-of-deceased-farmers-families-269630
17-06-2021||---||Release jailed activists, demands BKU||Bathinda, June 16Farmers under the banner of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) staged a protest against the arrest of intellectuals and rights activists by the Centre and demanded their release.The protesters blocked the road leading to the Deputy Commissioner’s residence and raised slogans against the Union Government before carrying out a protest march in the city.Addressing the gathering, union’s legal adviser NK Jeet said, “The democratic fabric of our nation is getting eroded under the current government. Those who write for seeking justice or protecting basic rights of others are labelled as anti-national and booked under serious laws such as sedition and UAPA. Activists implicated in false cases and arrested in Bhima Koregaon case are languishing in jails for three years now. There are elderly persons among those jailed who are suffering from serious illnesses, but they were not granted bail till now.”Harjinder Baggi, general secretary of the union, said, “It is time that people of the state as well as the nation wake up to the communal and divisive politics of the government and unite against it to protect and preserve the democratic fabric of the nation. There were brazen attempts at sabotaging the farm agitation, but unions collective resolve could managed to keep the stir on course. Our movement against three agricultural laws will continue until our demands are not met.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/release-jailed-activists-demands-bku-269583
