19-06-2021||Bathinda||Farmers storm admn complex over land acquisition for e-way||Farmers, who are owners of the land to be acquired by the government for the Greenfield Expressway from Amritsar to Jamnagar, on Friday entered the Deputy Commissioner meeting hall inside the district administrative complex (DAC) and gheraoed an official of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) present there.The aggrieved farmers had a meeting scheduled with officials of the Pollution Control Board. When they reached the DAC, the police closed the gate and did not allow them to enter. After the police action, the farmers started protesting there.The protesters also started scaling the gate and walls of the complex to gain entry, forcing the police to open the gate. They said they had been regularly called by the district administration to raise objections but before that the authorities had called a meeting with “fake” farmers.Seeing the anger of farmers, Tehsildar Sukhbir Singh Brar rushed to the spot and informed them that the meeting had been cancelled. He promised the farmers that a meeting would be held with the district administration in which they could raise their objections, following which the protest was called off. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-storm-admn-complex-over-land-acquisition-for-e-way-270509
19-06-2021||Bathinda||Cops ‘assault’ vendor for violating norm||A 16-year-old boy, who runs a boiled egg vend, was allegedly thrashed by cops from the Canal Colony police station on Thursday evening for violating Covid restrictions that kick in after 7 pm.It is learnt that nearly half a dozen policemen allegedly slapped, kicked and assaulted him with sticks. Identified as Navi Kumar, the boy was admitted to the Civil Hospital after he complained of stomach ache late in the night.Navi said his father had been selling eggs at street No. 26 of Pratap Nagar. Since his father had been unwell for the past three years, Navi was working at his vend. The victim is a Class 12 student at Shaheed Sandeep Singh School at Parasram Nagar Chowk.He couldn’t work due to the lockdown and started selling eggs again a few days ago, he said.Around 7.30 pm on Thursday, a police vehicle halted near his vend. Around five police personnel, including the station in-charge, got down from the vehicle and thrashed him, he alleged. Later, he was admitted to the Civil Hospital.SI Amritpal Singh, in-charge of the police station, claimed he was not present at the scene when the alleged assault took place. “I will find out the facts. Only then can I comment on the matter,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cops-assault-vendor-for-violating-norm-270567
