22-06-2021||---||Man shot over land dispute||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 21A man allegedly shot his cousin over a land dispute at Maur Khurd village in the district today. The deceased has been identified as Parampreet Singh, alias Garry (28), a native of Maur Khurd, currently staying in Patiala.As per information, Parampreet had come to his village in connection with some land issue. His cousin Harvinder Singh, alias Lali, along with accomplices arrived at his home in three vehicles and allegedly opened fire at Parampreet, killing him on the spot. Lali and his unidentified accomplices fled the scene.On receiving information, the Maur police arrived at the scene and initiated investigation. A search had been launched to arrest the suspects, said the policeAccording to the victim’s relatives, the two sides were involved in a land dispute, but a settlement was reached later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/man-shot-over-land-dispute-272257
22-06-2021||Sameer Singh||Bathinda villages get only 6-hr power supply, sowing affected||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 21Poor electricity supply has affected paddy sowing in a number of villages in Bathinda district. Farmers said against the promised eight-hour uninterrupted supply to the agriculture sector by the state government, they had been getting power supply for six to seven hours, thereby resulting in shortage of water required for paddy sowing.Using generatorsWe are left with no alternative, but to use generators to draw water from tubewells. But, this requires large quantities of diesel, thereby adding to the input cost. Jagshir Singh Jhumba, leader of bku (ugrahan)Farmers rued that daily one-two hour cut in electricity could delay paddy sowing. Harpreet Singh and Ramesh Kumar, both farmers from Mehma Sarkari village, said, “The substation started power supply at 6 am, but it was switched off around 1 pm. We are yet to water a large chunk of our fields.”Jagshir Singh Jhumba, a leader of BKU (Ugrahan), said, “The supply from almost every power grid is affected in the district. PSPCL officials do not even attend our phone calls and complaints. If the department does not restore uninterrupted electricity supply, farm unions will start gherao at different power stations in the district soon.”Baljit Singh, Superintending Engineer, PSPCL, said, “If supply is reduced for some duration then it is compensated by providing extra power within 24 hours. We ensure that farmers get uninterrupted supply during the paddy season.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-villages-get-only-6-hr-power-supply-sowing-affected-272262
