25-06-2021||Abohar||Part of Cong office razed under beautification drive||The Municipal Corporation today launched the beautification plan in the old grain market that had been named by the British as Mandi Kesarganj in the pre-Independence era. The Punjab Mandi Board had developed a new grain market in the last few years near the city bypass.The MC started off by demolishing the pucca floor structure of the building that had once been working office of the PPCC president and is now being used as the office of the City Congress.The MC had earlier planned such a drive in 2016, but the then SAD-BJP government intervened and got the work stopped even when notices to demolish unauthorised structures were issued. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/part-of-cong-office-razed-under-beautification-drive-273557
25-06-2021||Raj Sadosh||No seminars, Punjab farmers learn techniques on social media||Abohar, June 24As the departments of agriculture and horticulture have not been able to organise seminars due to Covid restrictions, farmers are getting connected through social media for advice on new techniques in vegetable and fruit growing.Tejinder Singh, Deputy Director, Horticulture Department, said 13 WhatsApp groups launched to benefit the farmers got a good response. A survey conducted by the government indicated fruit orchards covering 33,948 hectares have come up in Fazilka district. “Due to the pandemic, training camps are not being held, but the department is trying to keep the farmers informed through social media. Farmers are advised to get soil and leaf tested at the state-of-the-art laboratory that has been set up at the Citrus Estate in Abohar.”Recently, farmers joined the two-hour online camps organised by the Punjab Agriculture University. Today, some experts visited orchards in Abohar to resolve the issues raised by farmers.A study by PAU scientists indicated kinnow fruit drop starts soon after flowering and leads to falling of small fruits. This is due to natural overproduction and not of much concern to the grower. Fruit drop leads to reduction of excess load on trees. The second wave of fruit drop commences approximately one to two months after bloom, young developing fruit abscise from trees with excessive fruit set in May, consisting of about 10 per cent of the total dropped fruits, the study indicates.Jagdev Singh Brar, who now prefers to grow vegetables and fruits in his Daulatpura village farms, said kinnow fruit produce might be 20 to 25 per cent less than that of the last year, which saw a bumper crop but prices nosedived due to glut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/no-seminars-punjab-farmers-learn-techniques-on-social-media-273560
25-06-2021||---||In Bathinda, ‘job letters’ given at mock protest||Bathinda, June 24Showing solidarity with unemployed teachers and contract workers in different departments who have been protesting seeking regular jobs, a former municipal councillor, Vijay Kumar, along with city residents carried out a novel protest here today.Protesters mocked the distribution of appointment letters to sons of legislators, while some participants were “beaten up” for seeking jobs by staging a protest. “It’s high time the government woke up from its slumber and provided jobs to qualified candidates, as promised by the Congress before the elections. While sons of legislators are getting jobs on compassionate grounds, those with degrees have been left to fend for themselves. Instead of giving them jobs, the protesters were being lathicharged on roads,” said Kumar.“The same voters had elected the Congress to power in the state and now they are being ignored,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/in-bathinda-job-letters-given-at-mock-protest-273533
25-06-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda traders rally behind employees, plan march to Golden Temple||Beopar Mandal senior vice-president and trader Amarjit Mehta said they would take out 190-km ‘padayatra’ from Bathinda to the Golden Temple, Amritsar, against the state government as it failed to concede to the demands of people. He said the ‘padayatra’ would start on July 7 at 12 noon from Bathinda.Mehta said the government had cheated the employees by denying them their dues in the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission. He said it was the right time when people from all walks of life, came out in support of the employees, who had been denied their financial dues by the government. Mehta pointed out various emoluments such as city compensatory allowance and non-practice allowance (in case of doctors) had either been done away with or drastically reduced. The recommended hike in salary and allowances was meager, he said.BDA employees observe pen-down strikeBathinda: Bathinda Development Authority (BDA) employees observed a pen-down strike in protest against the 6th Pay Commission report released by the government recently. BDA joint action committee members said if their demands were not met, they would observe a full-day strike on June 25 again. — TNSMinisterial workers’ stir till June 27Abohar: Anguished over the decisions taken by the state government on implementing the 6th Pay Commission report, the Punjab Ministerial Staff Union (PSMU) decided to continue their strike till June 27. They staged a dharna and raised slogans against the state government at the Fazilka district headquarters. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-traders-rally-behind-employees-plan-march-to-golden-temple-273539
25-06-2021||Bathinda||Protest against six-hour supply||Farmers under the banner of BKU’s Ekta Ugrahan and Dakonda factions gheraoed a power station here today alleging curtailed electricity supply to tubewells, thereby affecting paddy sowing in the district.Left with no alternative, some farmers were using electricity generators to draw water, but given the skyrocketing diesel prices, it had added to their input cost, the protesters claimed.In Mansa district, the farmers claimed they were receiving only five to six hours of power supply against the promised eight-hour uninterrupted supply. BKU Ugrahan leader Jagshir Singh Jhumba said: “Farmers are facing a lot difficulty in sowing paddy these days due to inadequate power supply by the PSPCL to tubewells. As a result, farmers are being forced to use generators to draw water, but it consumes 5 litre diesel per hour. With fuel rates skyrocketing, it has put an additional burden on farmers, many of whom cannot afford it.”Jhumba added: “We gheraoed the power grid near Multania road today but if the problem persists, we will stage protests outside other power grids in the district as well. The government had promised eight-hour uninterrupted supply during the paddy season. But a majority of farmers has been receiving only five to six-hour supply, making it difficult for them to carry out sowing.”BKU Dakonda leader Buta Singh said: “A small farmer is already burdened under increased input cost of sowing. Now, erratic supply has left them high and dry. The state government’s tall claims of having surplus power have fallen flat. It will have to make amends or it will bear the consequences in the upcoming elections.”Meanwhile, farm organisations in Mansa have started mobilising support for a massive protest on June 26. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/protest-against-six-hour-supply-273554
