26-06-2021||Bathinda||6th Pay Commission: Doctors' union threatens to shut emergency services||On a call given by the Joint Punjab Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee, government doctors, including PCMS, ayurvedic, homoeopathic, veterinary, rural medical officers and senior officials of health department, observed a pen-down strike in Bathinda and Mansa districts today to protest the 6th Pay Commission recommendations.The doctors did not examine patients and OPD services remained suspended throughout the day, causing inconvenience to patients. The protesting doctors and medical staff gathered at the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, and raised slogans against the state government. They threatened to intensify their agitation in the coming days if their demands were not met. Patients who had travelled to the city from distant villages had to leave without getting treatment or medicines at the government hospital.Senior health officials, including Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon and Senior Medical Officers, also participated in the protest.Dr Gurmail Singh, president, PCMS Association, said: “OPD services in all government-run hospitals remained suspended today. Only critical patients, including accident, were provided medical care in emergency units. If our demands are not met, we will suspend emergency services too.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/6th-pay-commission-doctors-union-threatens-to-shut-emergency-services-274185
26-06-2021||Bathinda||Anganwadi workers plan gherao of Punjab ministers’ houses||Anganwadi workers today announced to gherao residences of Congress MLAs and ministers from July 5-31, observe hunger strike and submit a memorandum of their demands “written in blood” to CM Capt Amarinder Singh.SSA employees demand regular jobsFazilka: Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan Mid-day meal employees have announced a demonstration in Sangrur on Saturday to protest the non-fulfillment of their demand for regular jobs. Union leaders said contractual employees would distribute balloons in the hometown of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, reminding the government of its promises made to them. OCThe decision was taken at a state-level meeting of the All Punjab Anganwadi Workers’ Union in Bathinda, which was attended by all district and block-level representatives from other districts.Union president Hargobind Kaur said: “We have been protesting for the past many years but our demands seem to have fallen on deaf ears. But it’s time that we intensify our stir and force the government to fulfil our long-pending demands.On October 2, the Integrated Child Development Services scheme will complete its 46 years, but demands of anganwadi workers and helpers are still pending. We demand that children between 3 and 6 years must be returned to anganwadi centres. Our services must be regularised. And if it’s not possible, the government must provide monthly salary of Rs 24,000 to workers and Rs 18,000 to helpers. And we must be provided with honorarium amount on lines of the Haryana pattern.”Union leaders said until the government acceded to their demands, they would intensify their agitation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/anganwadi-workers-plan-gherao-of-punjab-ministers-houses-274214
