29-06-2021||Bathinda||OPDs closed in Bathinda, patients suffer||Members of the Joint Punjab Government Doctors’ Coordination Committee observed a pen-down strike and suspended OPD services at the government hospitals in protest against the 6th Pay Commission recommendations.Doctors also staged a protest at the Civil Hospital and later took out a march to the Finance Minister’s office on Goniana Road, where they submitted a memorandum of demands. Meanwhile, patients visiting from distant villages were at the receiving end, many of whom had to return without being examined.Dr Gurmail Singh, president, Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA), said, “With the 6th Pay Commission recommendations in place our income has decreased instead of increasing.” Since the Finance Minister was not available, Bathinda Congress president (Urban) Arun Wadhawan received the memorandum on his behalf and assured the doctors that he would convey their demands to the government. In Faridkot too, doctors at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot observed a daylong strike and blamed the government for the misery of patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/opds-closed-in-bathinda-patients-suffer-275501
29-06-2021||Bathinda||Roadways contract workers begin stir in Bathinda||Members of the Punjab Roadways, Punbus Contract Workers’ Union and the PRTC Contract Workers’ Union started a three-day strike in Bathinda on Monday.The protesting union members suspended work for four hours and raised slogans against the state government, demanding regularisation of services.Gursikander Singh, union president, said, “Protests and representations submitted to the authorities for the long-pending demands on numerous occasions have failed to wake up the state government from its deep slumber. So now we have decided to launch an indefinite stir, which will continue until the government relents and fulfils our demands. For now we have decided to hold a three-day strike. Also, a state-level protest rally will be taken out tomorrow followed by a march towards Moti Mehal in Patiala.”He said, “Before forming the government in the state, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had promised that the services of contractual and outsourced employees of different state departments will be regularised. He had also promised ‘Ghar Ghar Naukri’ and end of transport mafia but nothing has been done on the ground. There is huge resentment among the transport sector workers as many of them have been rendering their services for the past over 15 years without being regularised. Now if the government representatives keep cancelling meetings to listen and address issues of its employees then it can reflect poorly in the upcoming elections.”Meanwhile, passengers had to bear the brunt of the strike as a majority of the government-run buses did not ply on roads and they had to wait for hours for private ones to reach their destinations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/roadways-contract-workers-begin-stir-in-bathinda-275485
29-06-2021||---||Now, friction in Congress over SAD leader’s illegal mining charge in Punjab||Bathinda, June 28With the Assembly polls slated next year, the infighting in the Punjab Congress is getting murkier by the day. Now, Congress MLA from Gidderbaha Amarinder Singh Raja Warring has tweeted a video of SAD ex-MLA Sarup Chand Singla in which he is alleging illegal sand mining on the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant land by Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and his brother-in-law Jaijeet Singh Johal, alias Jojo.Warring has also tagged CM Capt Amarinder Singh in it and demanded a thorough probe into the matter. Later, even Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Bittu retweeted Warring’s tweets.This is happening at a time when the Congress high command in New Delhi is holding regular meetings to resolve the infighting and put up a united front ahead of the Assembly polls in 2022.On Sunday, SAD leader Sarup Chand Singla did a live session and showed trucks being loaded in the area. Singla had accused Manpreet and Johal of being involved in the illegal sand mining. Singla also accused truck drivers of attacking him while he was shooting the video.Posting the video of SAD leader, Warring also tweeted: “Capt Amarinder ji, please take action against the people who are responsible. These are the people who are pulling the Congress down.”After some time, even Johal posted an old video pertaining to Faridkot murder case linked with Warring’s brother-in-law Dimpy Vinayak and asked Capt Amarinder Singh to conduct a thorough probe into this murder case.In February this year, a Faridkot-based contractor Naresh Kataria had killed his two children and wife before shooting himself. Kataria’s suicide note had accused Vinayak of forcing him to take this step. An inquiry into this case is going on.Manpreet’s office, however, refuted the allegations levelled by Singla. Senior Deputy Mayor Ashok Kumar and Bhatinda Improvement Trust Chairman KK Aggarwal said Singla was trying to mislead people by making allegations as he didn’t know the difference between sand and fly ash.However, party sources claimed rivalry between Manpreet and Warring was not new. In the 2012 Assembly polls, Warring defeated Manpreet, who then contested on PPP ticket from Gidderbaha. Later, Warring lost from the Bathinda urban constituency represented by Manpreet against SAD Harimsrat Kaur Badal in the General Elections in 2019.SIT to probe matter, FM denies allegation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/now-friction-in-congress-over-sad-leaders-illegal-mining-charge-in-punjab-275396
