16 July 2020||New Delhi,||I am not joining BJP, says Sachin Pilot||Rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Wednesday categorically denied that he was joining the BJP and maintained that he continued to be a legislator from Rajasthan’s Tonk constituency. In an exclusive interview with The Hindu, he, however, made it clear that he would not compromise on his self-respect and would decide on his next course after talking to supporters. The Congress, however, sent out mixed signals, with general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra reportedly making a fresh call to Mr. Pilot, while the All India Congress Committee (AICC) announced the dissolution of all district-level committees that had his appointees. “The propaganda that I am joining the BJP is absolutely false. There seems to be a planned effort to tarnish my name and image. No, I am not joining the BJP,” Mr. Pilot told The Hindu over phone. He confirmed that he had been in touch with Ms. Vadra earlier but “those talks have not led to any resolution”. On a day the party initiated moves to disqualify him and other dissident MLAs from the Assembly, Mr. Pilot countered theem by asserting that he had not said anything against the party’s interest. “I have not spoken a word against my party. I am here with my genuine grievances against Ashok Gehlot ji ,” he stated. Asked what his main grievance was, he said, “The notice [sent by Special Operations Group of police] and the humiliation that I have had to face in the past one-and-a-half years.”  The SOG had sought time from Mr. Pilot to record his statement in a case of conspiracy and sedition registered after attempts were allegedly made by the BJP to bribe Congress MLAs during last month’s Rajya Sabha polls. “The party’s doors have not been closed for Mr. Pilot. May God grant him good sense and [help him] realise his mistake. I pray that he comes out out of the elusive trap of the BJP,” AICC’s Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande tweeted in response to Mr. Pilot’s interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-am-not-joining-bjp-says-sachin-pilot/article32096750.ece
16 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Jio offers 5G tech, to develop cheap smartphone with Google||Reliance Industries Ltd.’s Jio Platforms unit has developed a 5G technology which will be deployed in India next year, chairman Mukesh Ambani said on Wednesday. To aid mass adoption of the technology and to enable millions of 2G feature phone users to graduate to smartphones, Jio and Google would partner to develop an entry level 4G or even 5G smartphone with Android operating system, Mr. Ambani added. Google also announced that it had agreed to invest Rs. 33,737 crore to acquire a 7.7% stake in Jio Platforms. “Jio has designed and developed a complete 5G solution from scratch,” Mr. Ambani told shareholders at RIL’s annual general meeting. “As India is standing at the doorstep of the 5G era, we should accelerate the migration of 350 million Indians who currently use 2G feature phones to an affordable smartphone. Jio is determined to make India 2G-mukt (free of 2G),” he added. “This Made-in-India 5G solution will be ready for trials as soon as 5G spectrum is available and can be ready for field deployment next year. And because Jio’s converged... we can easily upgrade our 4G network to 5G,” Mr. Ambani said. Jio planned to export its 5G solution to other telecom operators globally, as a complete managed service, once the technology was proven at India scale, the RIL chief said. ‘Greater impact’ Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google’s parent Alphabet, said, “Through this partnership with Jio Platforms, we see the chance to have an even greater impact than either company could have alone.” Stating that the investment in Jio would be the first and the biggest investment that Google would make in India from the $10 billion fund announced recently, Mr. Pichai said, “Our joint collaboration will focus on increasing access for hundreds of millions of Indians who don’t currently own a smartphone while improving the mobile experience for all.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jio-offers-5g-tech-to-develop-cheap-smartphone-with-google/article32096745.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. reviews progress of disengagement talks at LAC||A day after the marathon talks at the Corps-Commander level between India and China, the China Study Group (CSG) met on Wednesday evening and reviewed the progress of the dialogue for disengagement along the border, a defence source said. Responding to questions on the talks, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said, “Both sides have made positive progress on promoting further disengagement between troops at the western sector of the boundary and de-escalating tensions. We hope that India can work with China to implement our consensus with concrete actions and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas.” There are internal deliberations in the government on the issue to review the progress of the talks, a defence source said. In a related development, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is scheduled to make a two-day trip to Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir later this week, another defence source said. The talks on Tuesday went on for 15 hours as both sides worked to finalise details of the next phase of disengagement. Details of the talks are awaited. The talks at Chushul in eastern Ladakh began at 11 a.m. on July 14 and ended at 2 a.m. on July 15, that is 4.30 a.m. Beijing Standard Time, the source said. The CSG was set up in 1976 by the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) to advise on policy issues relating to China. It was initially headed by the Foreign Secretary and now by the National Security Adviser. It has the top Secretaries, military and intelligence officials, including the Army chief, as members. The focus of the fourth round of talks was to work out details of the second phase of disengagement from the stand-off areas, especially Pangong Tso, and also pullback by the Chinese troops, tanks, artillery and air defences along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The mobilisation violates the boundary agreements signed between India and China to maintain peace and tranquillity on the LAC. The Indian delegation was led by Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and the Chinese side by Maj. Gen. Liu Lin, Commander of the South Xinjiang military region. The earlier talks were held on June 6, 22 and 30. India has consistently maintained restoration of status quo ante of April and withdrawal of the massive deployment by China along the LAC. Diplomatic talks have also been on to resolve tensions on the border since the two sides first clashed on May 5 at Pangong Tso. Last week, Indian and Chinese troops completed the first phase of disengagement from the stand-off areas in the Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra and also partial disengagement from Pangong Tso, where Chinese troops moved back from the base of Finger 4 to Finger 5. However, Chinese troops are still present on the ridge line of Finger 4. Mr. Singh will be in Ladakh on July 17 to review the situation on the LAC. He would visit forward areas and interact with troops, the second source stated. On July 18, he would visit Srinagar to review the situation along the Line of Control (LoC) and in the Valley, the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-reviews-progress-of-disengagement-talks-at-lac/article32096747.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||623 fresh cases take COVID burden to 9,553||Local transmission of COVID-19 is escalating across the State with more cases from the community and clusters being reported in almost all districts. On Wednesday, the daily case number climbed further to reach 623 cases, 450 of which were cases of local transmission, with 37 cases having no epidemiological link. The situation in the capital district of Thiruvananthapuram continued to be grave with 135 out of the 157 cases reported on Wednesday occurring through local transmission. On Wednesday, with 196 recoveries, the State’s tally of active cases stood at 4,880. A 59-year-old woman in Idukki, who had died following a heart attack, has been confirmed as having had COVID-19. The death toll now stands at 35. The cumulative case burden now is 9,553, with 4,634 having recovered from the disease till date. Clusters formed through local transmission was reported from the coastal villages in Alappuzha, Chellanam in Ernakulam, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Malappuram, Kannur, Kasaragod and Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/623-fresh-cases-take-covid-burden-to-9553/article32097083.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,||CBSE results: Bengaluru region stands third||Students of 871 schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) coming under the newly carved Bengaluru region scored well in the Class 10 board examinations, with a pass percentage of 98.23. When the results were announced on Wednesday, the Bengaluru region stood third in the country. 100% pass While government-run CBSE schools registered 100% pass results, independent schools secured pass percentage of 98.06, Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas registered 99.6, Kendriya Vidyalayas 99.59, and schools under Central Tibetan School Administration secured 97.08. A total of 56,316 students registered for the 10th board examination. Of the 56,266 students who appeared for the board exams, 55,230 passed. The examinations were conducted in 208 centres in the State. Girls outperformed the boys in this board examination as well. Data provided by CBSE showed that while the pass percentage of girls was 98.94, the figure for boys was 97.66. Special needs students Around 276 students with special needs appeared for the examinations, including 19 students with visual disability, two with low vision, eight with Autism Spectrum Disorder, 134 with specific learning disabilities, 28 with hearing impairment and nine with cerebral palsy. Of these students, 264 passed, taking the pass percentage in this category to 95.65. While one student scored above 95%, eight scored over 90%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbse-results-bengaluru-region-stands-third/article32096789.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Single-day jump crosses 3,000 in Karnataka||The total number of COVID-19 positive cases reported in Karnataka in 24 hours breached the 3,000 mark on Wednesday. With 3,176 new cases — the highest single-day jump so far — the total number inched up to 47,253. Bengaluru continued to clock the highest numbers among all districts, with 1,975 cases reported from the city. A high Meanwhile, the total number of deaths owing to COVID-19 also touched a new high in the State, with 87 fatalities reported on Wednesday, taking the total to 928. Here too, Bengaluru accounted for the highest number, at 60, followed by six in Mysuru, five in Dharwad, three each in Uttara Kannada and Bagalkot, and two each in Chickballapur and Raichur. One death each has been reported in Mandya, Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, and Ramanagaram. As many as 597 patients are admitted in intensive care units as on Wednesday. Of the total 47,253 patients tested positive so far, 18,466 patients have been discharged. Samples tested The number of samples tested in the State so far is 9,02,026. Of the total 22,204 tests conducted on Wednesday, 18,082 tested negative. Meanwhile, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar announced that the government would give an incentive of Rs. 5,000 to cured patients willing to donate plasma. In another development, private medical establishments have said that they are faced with a severe shortage of doctors and other medical staff, making functioning difficult.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/single-day-jump-crosses-3000-in-karnataka/article32096790.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Engineering admission counselling from Sept. 17||Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission (TNEA) counselling for the academic stream will commence on September 17, Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan announced on Tuesday. The entire counselling process will be online, including for special categories such as wards of ex-servicemen, persons with disabilities and sportspersons, and supplementary and SCA/SC categories. Aspirants can log in towww.tneaonline.organdwww.tndte.gov.into register for counselling. The last date to register is August 16. Once the results for Class 12 are published, the Higher Education Department will upload them for verification, the Minister said. Uploading certificates The Directorate of Technical Education, which conducts the counselling, has made arrangements for aspirants to scan and upload the relevant documents from their mobile phones. They must pay the registration fee by August 16, the Minister said. The DoTE has increased the number of TNEA facilitation centres (TFC) to 52 this year by establishing units in the newly created districts of Chengalpattu, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Kallakurichi, Tenkasi and Mayiladuthurai. Though the certificate verification would be done online, in case of discrepancies the candidate would be called to the relevant TFC for verification by following the mandatory precautions against the virus infection, Mr. Anbalagan said. 465 colleges registered As of now, 465 colleges had registered for counselling but the number could increase as colleges had time till August 15 to add seats. In the academic year 2019-20, 536 colleges with an intake of 2,26,385 seats, had participated in counselling. The number of government seats was 1,49,821. A total of 1,08,932 seats had been filled. There had been an increase in the number of students admitted last year as compared to 2018-19, he said and added that this year too the number was bound to increase. To a question why fewer candidates preferred engineering, he said since the intake was high, it created a perception that fewer students were being admitted. Mathematics, Physics, and Chemistry would continue to be the core subjects for deciding the cut-off marks. End-semester exams The 11-member committee under the Higher Education Secretary to assess the feasibility of conducting end-semester exams was studying the issue. The committee will consult the Governor/Chancellor, the Minister said. The Centre and the Ministry of Human Resource Development had not yet responded to the State government’s suggestion that it should decide on the conduct of exams. As for online admission for arts and science colleges, he said a method had been proposed but it would be finalised in a couple of days after consulting the Chief Minister. Aspirants can email attnea2020enquiry@gmail.comor call the DoTE control room on 044-22351014, 22351015, 22350523, 22350527, 22350520, 9445493718, 9445496318 and 9445093618.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/engineering-admission-counselling-from-sept-17/article32096846.ece
16 July 2020||Srinagar,||Abducted BJP leader rescued in Kashmir||A municipality committee vice-president affiliated to the BJP, who was abducted by unidentified persons in Baramulla on Wednesday morning, was rescued later in the day by the police. “The abducted BJP leader has been rescued,” Inspector-General Police of Kashmir Vijay Kumar told The Hindu late in the evening. The details of the rescue operation were not given but the police said militants were behind the abduction of Mehrajuddin Malla. Earlier in the day, BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur said: “BJP leader Mehrajuddin Malla was walking on the road, outside his residence, when a vehicle stopped and unknown men bundled him in. The kidnappers threw his cell phone on the road.” Following the abduction, an alert was sounded in Sopore. Mr. Malla is the vice-president of the Watergam-Sopore municipal committee. He is also the son of senior BJP leader Ghulam Muhammad Malla, who has been associated with the party since 2012. A Lashkar-e-Taiba 'commander' Sajjad alias Haider in north Kashmir, in a audio message uploaded on Tuesday, had warned of action against BJP leaders, a police official said.  Previous incident The abduction comes just eight days after militants killed BJP district president Wasim Bari, his father and brother in Bandipora. Resignations In another development, BJP vice-president for Kupwara Asif Ahmad on Tuesday resigned from the party. “I did not join the BJP to make money but to work for my people. We are not allowed to work by officials. The BJP has no value on the ground,” Mr. Ahmad said. Last week, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha president from Baramulla Marouf Bhat also resigned after the Bandipora attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/abducted-bjp-leader-rescued-in-kashmir/article32096795.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Panel formed to work on new districts||The Cabinet has set the stage for carving out 12 new districts out of the existing 13 by constituting a committee which will work out the modalities. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney will head the committee, which will have the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration, Secretaries of the General Administration (Services) and Planning Departments and a representative of the Chief Minister's Office as members and Principal Secretary (Finance) as the convener. A decision to that effect was taken at the Cabinet meeting held at the Secretariat on Wednesday. Besides, the Cabinet resolved to establish a corporation that will exclusively take care of the delivery of sand, which relieves the AP Mineral Development Corporation of its additional responsibility to regulate the mining and supply of sand. The functioning of the sand corporation will be monitored by a committee of Ministers led by Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao and Perni Venkataramaiah (members). Briefing media persons about the Cabinet resolutions, Minister for Information & Public Relations and Transport Perni Venkataramaiah said the creation of new districts was aimed at improving the public service delivery mechanism and better implementation of welfare schemes. The committee would study ways to limit the expenditure entailed by the creation of new districts and look into other aspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-formed-to-work-on-new-districts/article32096741.ece
16 July 2020||Jaipur,||Speaker issues notice to former Dy. CM, 18 MLAs||Despite rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot declaring that he would not join the BJP, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday talked tough and accused him of being involved in horse-trading in league with the BJP. Mr. Gehlot alleged that his former deputy was himself “doing the deal” as part of a conspiracy to pull down the Congress government. Speaker C.P. Joshi issued notices to Mr. Pilot and 18 other dissident Congress MLAs after the ruling party sought their disqualification. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, however, extended the olive branch, calling upon Mr. Pilot and his supporters to return to Jaipur from a resort in BJP-ruled Haryana. Interacting with mediapersons outside a hotel near Jaipur, where the Congress and the Independent MLAs supporting the government are staying, Mr. Gehlot launched a scathing attack on Mr. Pilot. He said the rebel leader, who was ousted as the PCC president, was hobnobbing with BJP leaders, offering money to legislators to topple his government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/speaker-issues-notice-to-former-dy-cm-18-mlas/article32096743.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India and EU push trade talks; discuss China, Pakistan & pandemic||India and the European Union (European Union) committed to a framework for strategic cooperation until 2025, and vowed to cooperate on their response to the coronavirus pandemic and at the United Nations Security Council. The assurances came as Prime Minister Narendra Modi held talks with European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula Von der Leyen via videoconference on Wednesday. In a new initiative to revive talks on a free trade agreement that have been suspended since 2013, the two sides announced a “high-level dialogue” between Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and EU Trade Commissioner Phil Hogan to try and take the Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA) forward. “India and the EU are natural partners,” said Mr. Modi in his opening remarks. “Our partnership is important for global peace and stability, and this reality is clearer given the situation around the world,” he added. He also referred to shared “universal values” of democracy, pluralism, respect for international institutions and multilateralism between India and the EU. In particular, officials said the leaders discussed India’s tensions with China at the Line of Actual Control, the situation with Iran and concerns over cross-border terrorism from Pakistan. The EU leadership also raised concerns over the situation in Jammu and Kashmir as well as the Citizenship Amendment Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-and-eu-push-trade-talks-discuss-china-pakistan-pandemic/article32096748.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||1,597 test positive; COVID tests cross 2 lakh in TS||The total number of COVID tests in Telangana crossed two lakhs on Wednesday. A little over one lakh tests to detect coronavirus were performed in the past 12 days. The total COVID cases in the State reached 39,342 as 1,597 more swab samples tested positive on Wednesday. Eleven more people died taking the toll to 386. Besides RT-PCR tests, the State government has started to perform Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) from July 8. The number of tests shot up thereafter. Around 13,642 tests were performed on Wednesday alone which was the highest till July 15. Till July 14, at least 25,000 RAT were performed. The total number of tests was mentioned in the medical bulletin issued by the State Health department. While 1.04 lakh tests were performed till July 3, one lakh more tests were performed from July 4-15 (12 days). The cumulative Test Positivity Rate dropped to 18.85%. The Positivity Rate was over 20% from July 4 -13. The new cases include 796 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 212 from Rangareddy and 115 from Medchal. Of the total 39,342 cases, 12,958 are active cases, 25,999 were discharged and 386 patients died. The State is likely to cross 40,000 cases on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1597-test-positive-covid-tests-cross-2-lakh-in-ts/article32097021.ece
16 July 2020||MANGALURU,||Four die in Dakshina Kannada; 53 fresh cases in Udupi district||Dakshina Kannada district report 73 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday and the death of two men and two women. Meanwhile, the neighbouring Udupi district reported 53 positive cases. A bulletin from the district administration said that the deaths were reported on Tuesday and Wednesday. Of the 73 positive cases in Dakshina Kannada, 11 were primary contacts, 23 had ILI, three each had SARI and international travel history, one had inter-district travel history, while the administration is tracing contacts of 32 patients. As many as 103 patients were discharged on Wednesday, the bulletin added. In Udupi district, of the 53 patients, 18 were from Udupi taluk, 29 from Kundapur taluk and six from Karkala taluk, a bulletin said. Two each had inter-State travel history, 16 had ILI and 33 were primary contacts. In all, 22 were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday. The district has 401 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-die-in-dakshina-kannada-53-fresh-cases-in-udupi-district/article32096998.ece
16 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||139 new cases in Dharwad||Dharwad district recorded the highest single day spike of 139 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday. It also recorded five deaths related to the pandemic. With this, the tally went up to 1,398 in the district. Meanwhile, 32 patients were discharged from hospital on Wednesday taking the total number of such persons to 482. The district now has 872 active cases. So far, 44 people have died in the district. Meanwhile, Vijayapura district recorded 80 cases on Wednesday taking the tally to 976. Uttara Kannada registered 48 new cases and three deaths. Bagalkot recorded three deaths and Haveri one related to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/139-new-cases-in-dharwad/article32096997.ece
16 July 2020||Srinagar,||Abducted BJP leader rescued in Kashmir||A municipality committee vice-president affiliated to the BJP, who was abducted by unidentified persons in Baramulla on Wednesday morning, was rescued later in the day by the police. “The abducted BJP leader has been rescued,” Inspector-General Police of Kashmir Vijay Kumar told The Hindu late in the evening. The details of the rescue operation were not given but the police said militants were behind the abduction of Mehrajuddin Malla. Earlier in the day, BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur said: “BJP leader Mehrajuddin Malla was walking on the road, outside his residence, when a vehicle stopped and unknown men bundled him in. The kidnappers threw his cell phone on the road.” Following the abduction, an alert was sounded in Sopore. Mr. Malla is the vice-president of the Watergam-Sopore municipal committee. He is also the son of senior BJP leader Ghulam Muhammad Malla, who has been associated with the party since 2012. A Lashkar-e-Taiba 'commander' Sajjad alias Haider in north Kashmir, in a audio message uploaded on Tuesday, had warned of action against BJP leaders, a police official said. In another development, the BJP vice-president for Kupwara, Asif Ahmad, on Tuesday resigned from the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/abducted-bjp-leader-rescued-in-kashmir/article32096751.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 1,647 new COVID cases, 41 deaths||As many as 1,647 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,16,993, said a government health bulletin. Also, 41 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 3,487. Of the total cases, 95,699 have recovered, reducing the active cases to 17,807.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-1647-new-covid-cases-41-deaths/article32096971.ece
16 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Seven more die in Assam, flood toll touches 66||Assam’s flood death count increased by seven on Wednesday and the toll went up to 66. The water level, however, receded across the State. Assam Disaster Management Authority officials said three of the seven deceased were from Morigaon district. Two were from Barpeta and one each from Sonitpur and Golaghat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-more-die-in-assam-flood-toll-touches-66/article32096972.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Confusion over industrial operations hits sector||Confusion over industrial operations in Bengaluru during lockdown, which commenced on Tuesday night, has cost the sector dear. Without a clarity on industrial operations, a sizeable workforce moved out of Bengaluru before the lockdown curfew began, affecting the operations on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/confusion-over-industrial-operations-hits-sector/article32096792.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru settles after morning bustle||Despite some initial teething problems and confusion, the first day of lockdown on Wednesday was near total, claim the police. Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao said nearly 95% of the city was shut down and lockdown was successful.The police have been stringent in preventing unnecessary travel by citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengaluru-settles-after-morning-bustle/article32096793.ece
16 July 2020||Belagavi,||Hindalga jail inmates test positive||As many as 11 inmates of the Hindalga Central Prison tested positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi on Wednesday. They were shifted to the prison ward at the district hospital for treatment, Health Department officers said. They were tested at different times, but the results were declared on Wednesday. The prison ward has security personnel deputed from the Department of Prisons for duty. The doctors from the COVID-19 hospital would treat the inmates. With this, the total number of active cases in the hospital is 226.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hindalga-jail-inmates-test-positive/article32096995.ece
16 July 2020||Hassan,||Seer dies of COVID-19||Channabasappa Swamy of Rampura Mutt in Honnali taluk died of COVID-19 in Shivamogga on Wednesday. The 55-year-old seer was admitted to McGann Hospital on July 9 with symptoms of fever, throat irritation and difficulty in breathing. The staff took his throat swab and he tested positive. Later, he was shifted to the COVID-19 ward on July 11. He could not be revived and was declared dead at 4.55 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seer-dies-of-covid-19/article32096996.ece
16 July 2020||Kolkata,||Highest single-day spike in West Bengal||West Bengal recorded 1,589 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, its highest single-day spike yet, taking its tally to 34,427. The State also recorded 20 more deaths, pushing its toll to 1,000. Of the latest victims, nine were from Kolkata, six from North 24 Parganas, three from Howrah, and one each from Hooghly and Paschim Bardhaman districts. There are 12,747 active cases in the State and its recovery rate stands at 60.06%. As many as 11,388 samples were tested on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highest-single-day-spike-in-west-bengal/article32097150.ece
16 July 2020||Kolkata,||86.34% students clear Class X board exams||The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education on Wednesday said 86.34% of students cleared the Class X examinations this year. The board said 10,03,666 students had appeared for the Madhyamik Pariksha and 8,43,305 have cleared it. Boys have registered a better pass percentage (89.87%) than girls (83.48%). A total of 84 students shared the top 10 ranks. The Class X board examinations were held between February 18 and 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8634-students-clear-class-x-board-exams/article32097151.ece
16 July 2020||Mumbai,||HSC results today||The results of the Class XII exams of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education will be declared at 1 p.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hsc-results-today/article32097207.ece
16 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra tally crosses 2.75 lakh; toll now 10,982||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally breached the 2.75 lakh mark on Wednesday, with the State reporting a surge of 7,975 cases. The State’s total case tally now stands at 2,75,640. The State also recorded 233 more deaths, pushing its toll to 10,982. With 1,374 new cases, Mumbai’s case load has touched 96,474. The city also recorded 62 more deaths, pushing its toll to 5,467.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-tally-crosses-275-lakh-toll-now-10982/article32097205.ece
16 July 2020||Mumbai,||State to form panel to fix rates of masks, sanitisers||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday said it will be forming a committee to fix the rates of masks and sanitisers. The State will be appealing to the Centre to include these items in the list of essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-form-panel-to-fix-rates-of-masks-sanitisers/article32097206.ece
16 July 2020||Chennai,||State suffers 50% fall in its tax revenue||The COVID-19 lockdown has caused about a 50% fall in the State’s Own Tax Revenue (SOTR) during the first quarter of this financial year, compared with the figure for the corresponding period last year. SOTR collections during April-June amounted to Rs. 12,318.18 crore against the previous year’s figure of Rs. 25,082.52 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-suffers-50-fall-in-its-tax-revenue/article32096849.ece
16 July 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally crosses 1.5 lakh||Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of COVID-19 surpassed 1.5 lakh with another 4,496 fresh cases being detected on Wednesday. In a parallel development, the total number of persons discharged after treatment crossed one lakh as 5,000 more persons were discharged across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadus-covid-19-tally-crosses-15-lakh/article32096848.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Deaths, new cases rise in Karnataka||The Andhra Pradesh situation was one of another record spike in COVID-19 deaths and new cases. As of Wednesday, 44 deaths and 2,432 fresh cases were reported. The death toll rose to 452 and the cumulative tally was 35,451. With 911 more patients discharged, the number of recoveries stood at 18,378, more than active cases numbering 16,621. Meanwhile, the total number of infections doubled in 11 days, during which period half of the total cases, 17,752, were reported. The number of deaths too doubled in just 10 days. However, the death rate remains way below national average and is at 1.27%. Anantapur and West Godavari witnessed nine deaths each. Kurnool witnessed five deaths and Chittoor, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam witnessed four deaths each. Kadapa, Krishna and Prakasam reported two deaths each while Nellore, Prakasam and Vizianagaram reported one death each. In the past day, 22,197 samples were tested, and 12,17,963 samples were tested so far. The positivity rate increased to 2.91%. The daily case number in Kerala climbed further to 623 on Wednesday, of which 450 were due to local transmission, and 37 had no epidemiological link.  Local transmission Thiruvananthapuram faced higher local spread with 135 of 157 cases linked to local transmission. There were 196 recoveries, and the State tally of active cases stood at 4,880. A 59-year-old woman in Idukki, who had died following a heart attack was confirmed to have had COVID-19. The death toll rose to 35. The cumulative case burden was 9,553. Clusters linked to local transmission were reported from the coastal villages in Alappuzha, Chellanam in Ernakulam, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Malappuram, Kannur, Kasaragod and Kozhikode. In Ernakulam, 64 of the 72 new cases were through local transmission. In Idukki, in 11 of the 55 fresh cases, the source of infection was unknown.  T.N. tally crosses 1.5L Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally exceeded 1.5 lakh with another 4,496 cases added on Wednesday. In parallel, the total number of persons discharged crossed one lakh as 5,000 more were declared as having recovered. With this, the State reported 1,51,820 cases. Of this, 1,02,310 were discharged, while persons under treatment stood at 47,340. Another 68, including a 19-year-old girl, died, taking the toll to 2,167.Chennai saw a marginal rise in fresh coronavirus infections with 1,291 cases. Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts had 278 and 186 cases respectively. While Kancheepuram had 163 cases, there were 123 new cases in Tiruvannamalai. There were 97 cases in Vellore and 91 in Villupuram.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deaths-new-cases-rise-in-karnataka-and-ap/article32096694.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||Fewer high scorers in Class 10 exam||The Class 10 examinations of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) this year have recorded a pass percentage of 91.46%. The pass percentage last year was 91.1%. The results were announced on Wednesday, and in a break with practice, no merit list of top scorers was announced. As many as 18.7 lakh students wrote the exams. The number of high scorers has dropped this time in stark contrast to the trend in the Class 12 examination. Over 1.8 lakh candidates scored above 90%, as against 2.2 lakh last year. More than 57,000 scored above 95% last year, and the number dropped to nearly 41,800 this year. The Class 10 exams were less affected by the COVID-19 pandemic than the Class 12 schedule, as only two papers — information and communication technology and computer applications — were remaining by the time schools were shut down and examinations halted in mid-March. For students in northeast Delhi, where violence in February disrupted examinations, another six papers were also cancelled. The CBSE provided alternative assessment to declare results for those papers. Girls continued to perform better than boys, widening the pass percentage gap to 3.17%. While boys maintained the exact same pass percentage — 90.14% — as last year’s, girls improved to 93.31%. The performance of transgender students dipped significantly, with only 79% passing this time, in comparison to 94.7% last year. Almost 94.5% of the children with special needs passed the exams, a slight dip from last year’s 96%. The southern region continued to outshine others, with Thiruvananthapuram achieving a 99.28% pass percentage, followed by Chennai, Bengaluru and Pune, which all crossed 98%. The overall Delhi region improved its performance, with a percentage of almost 86% as against almost 81% last year. About 8% of students nationwide have been placed in compartment. The schedule for compartment exams is yet to be announced, given the ongoing pandemic. The results are available on cbseresults.nic.in and results.nic.in and the Umang and Digilocker mobile app. Messages were sent directly to students on their registered mobile numbers and e-mail addresses. Digital mark sheets as well as passing, migration and skill certificates will be available through the Digilocker app. The CBSE has replaced the term “Fail” with “Essential Repeat”. Students and parents can avail the Board’s telecounselling facility until July 27 by calling the toll-free number 1800 11 8004 on all days from 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fewer-high-scorers-in-class-10-exam/article32096719.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Pacific a pivot for ties with Moscow’||India wants Russia to be more involved in the Indo-Pacific and Moscow should look to its own interests in the region and that will create a mutual basis for cooperation and dialogue, said Indian envoy to Russia D.B. Venkatesh Varma on Wednesday while referring to Indian and Russian investments in Vietnam’s oil and gas sector as one of the areas of cooperation. “We see Russia as a very important Pacific power... Just like Russia has an interest in the Indian Ocean, we have an interest in the Pacific Ocean. I think the connectivity that we are looking at, we are looking at Indo-Pacific as a geographic continuum for cooperation and for certain principles that we want this region to be free and fair for everyone,” Mr. Varma said in response to a question from The Hindu . He was speaking at a webinar, jointly organised by the Russian International Affairs Council and the Indian Council of World Affairs. Referring to Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov’s statements on Indo-Pacific on several occasions that Russia does not want to create new divisions especially with respect to containment of China, Mr. Varma said India saw this in a slightly different light. India did not see it as containment or non-containment but as a positive construct that brought together countries and people on the basis of certain principles. “If India were to say that no country in the region should look for unilateral advantage at the cost of international rules and law, I am sure Russia will agree,” he said. Common interests In this direction, he referred to investments by both India and Russia in the oil and gas sector of Vietnam. If there was a challenge to well established principles of international law, norms and contracts, Indian interests were as much effected as much as Russian interests. “This is an area we need to work together. There is already a lot of common ground.” A stable Indo-Pacific assumes particular importance for Russia too with the proposed energy bridge from Arctic to Vladivostok to Chennai. There have been standoffs between China and Vietnam in the South Chin Sea due to overlapping claims close to the Indian oil blocks in Vietnam’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Mr. Varma said both India and Russia saw ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations) centrality as critical to the Indo-Pacific concept. There was a perception that India and Russia dealt with Indo-Pacific as different concepts but “the differences are quite exaggerated.” The commonalities far outweighed the differences. Mr. Varma said Russian President Vladimir Putin will visit India later this year coinciding with the 20th year of India-Russia strategic partnership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pacific-a-pivot-for-ties-with-moscow/article32096732.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||12 MLAs stand between Pilot and BJP?||A day after hinting that ousted Deputy Chief Minister of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot was en route to joining the BJP, senior BJP leaders said that it was not on the horizon as of now. The reason the senior leaders who are dealing with the situation said was down to the fact that at least a dozen MLAs with Mr. Pilot were reluctant to make the move. A Rajasthan State core committee meet that was scheduled to be held in Jaipur has been put off till former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje, who has been maintaining a stoic silence on the events in the State, arrives in Jaipur. “We had decided the timing of the BJP meeting based on Sachin Pilot’s press conference but now that has been cancelled, I have asked Vasundhara Raje ji to arrive in Jaipur by evening,” said Leader of the Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria. Senior BJP leader Om Mathur has already reached Jaipur in anticipation of the meeting. Mr. Pilot did not hold a press conference but did speak to presspersons, including from The Hindu , that he was in fact not joining the BJP. Senior BJP sources said that “some MLAs loyal to Sachin Pilot were not in favour of joining the BJP, around a dozen of them.”  Raje’s stand The fate of Mr. Pilot is also inextricably linked with the equations in the State unit of the BJP, with Ms. Raje not saying a word, and the talks with him seeming to emanate from Delhi. Ms. Raje’s dominant position in the party could have been jettisoned with Mr. Pilot’s entry along with MLAs loyal to him had he had the numbers he had claimed to have, that of 30 MLAs. That has not come to fruition, however, with Mr. Gehlot managing to retain a majority of MLAs. Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Digvijaya Singh seemed to be alluding to Ms. Raje’s hand in Mr. Gehlot managing to save his government. “Is there a possibility of a reverse swing by Vasundhara ji ? Who knows? We all know how much [Prime Minister] Modi and Vasundhara ji ‘admire’ each other and the same time Ashok Gehlot is a trained magician!! So one never knows when he would pull ‘a rabbit out of his hat’,” he tweeted. The BJP also seemed to be veering to the view that Mr. Pilot may yet launch a party of his own, an interesting intervention in the largely bi-party State. “If that happens, that too will work in our favour,” said a leader, but did not specify why.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/12-mlas-stand-between-pilot-and-bjp/article32096706.ece
16 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Seven more die in Assam, flood toll touches 66||Assam’s flood death count increased by seven on Wednesday to reach 66. The water level, however, receded across the State. State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) officials said three of the seven who drowned were from Morigaon district. Two were from Barpeta and one each was from Sonitpur and Golaghat districts. “In two waves of floods over almost two months, 66 people have met a watery grave while 26 more were buried alive in landslips induced by heavy rainfall. But the situation has improved slightly with the number of displaced people decreasing overnight from 44,108 to 36,320 across 249 relief camps in 19 districts,” an SDMA spokesperson said. Though the number of flood-affected districts has come down from 28 to 26, the number of affected people has increased by 2.8 lakh to 35.74 lakh. The area of affected farmlands remained at 1.28 lakh hectares. Dhubri in western Assam displaced Barpeta as the worst-affected district with 5.51 lakh people living in makeshift camps set up by them. Officials said Barpeta had 5.3 lakh affected people at last count followed by Goalpara (4.28 lakh), Morigaon (4.2 lakh) and South Salmara (2.25 lakh). The water level at the flooded Kaziranga National Park (KNP) subsided marginally but two one-horned rhinoceroses drowned on Wednesday. “About 90% of the park is now submerged with 153 of the 223 anti-poaching camps inundated, 14 of them vacated because of high water level,” director P. Sivakumar said. The KNP, also a tiger reserve, has a core area of 430 sq km and a total area of 1,055 sq km. The carcasses of the male and the female rhino were found at two spots of the park’s Central Range. The carcass of another male rhino was found on June 26, but officials said it had died of natural causes. Rhino, tiger released Two more rhinos rescued from the flooded park underwent treatment at the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation at Kaziranga. One of them was released in the jungles. A rescued female tiger was also released. The deluge, an annual phenomenon, has so far claimed the lives of 66 KNP animals — 55 of them being hog deer. Thirteen of them were killed by speeding vehicles on the highway that runs through the escape route of the animals between the flooded park and the hills of Karbi Anglong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seven-more-die-in-assam-flood-toll-touches-66/article32096738.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Modi exhorts youth to skill, reskill and upskill||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the youth should skill, reskill and upskill themselves to remain relevant in the rapidly changing business environment and market conditions, which were impacted by the COVID-19 crisis. Speaking on the occasion of the World Youth Skills Day and the fifth anniversary of “Skill India Mission”, Mr. Modi said the mission — launched exactly five years ago — had led to the creation of vast infrastructure for skilling, reskilling and upskilling and enhancing opportunities for access to employment, both locally and globally. Kaushal Kendras Under the programme, hundreds of PM Kaushal Kendras had been set up and capacity of the ITI ecosystem increased. More than five crore youth were skilled. Referring to a portal launched recently for mapping the skilled employees and employers, the Prime Minister said it would help the skilled workers, including the migrant workers who had returned to their homes, to access jobs easily and the employers to contact skilled employees at the click of a mouse. Skills of migrant workers would also help in changing the local economy. “Skill is something which we gift to ourselves, which grows with experience. Skill is timeless, it keeps getting better with time. Skill is unique, it makes you different from others. Skill is a treasure that nobody can take away. And, skill is self-reliance, it not only makes one employable but also self-employable,” the Prime Minister said. He said a natural inclination to acquire new skills provided new energy and encouragement in one’s life. Distinguishing between “knowledge” and “skill”, the Prime Minister said knowing how a cycle ran was “knowledge”, while actually being able to ride a cycle was a “skill”. Mr. Modi highlighted the potential to capitalise on skilling opportunities, giving example of the healthcare sector where Indian skilled manpower could supplement the global demand. He said there was a need to map such opportunities and align Indian standards with those of other countries.  Skill is self-reliance, it not only makes one employable, but also self- employable Narendra Modi Prime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-exhorts-youth-to-skill-reskill-and-upskill/article32096702.ece
16 July 2020||Mumbai,||Uddhav seeks alternative rail route at Melghat||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has sought alternative routes for the proposed broad gauge conversion of a railway line passing through the Melghat Tiger Reserve in Amravati district. Mr. Thackeray has written to Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar and Union Railways Minister Piyush Goyal, requesting an alternative alignment for the Akola-Khandwa line, considering the long-term irreversible impact the work will have on endangered species like tigers. Mr. Thackeray also referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘conservation of tigers is not a choice but an imperative’ remark in his letter. Of the 176-km-long Akola-Khandwa line, 38 km passes through the core area of the tiger reserve, which is spread over 2,768.52 sq km. Melghat, part of the Satpura-Maikal landscape, is among nine places in the country designated as tiger reserves in 1973-74. Mr. Thackeray said the proposal submitted by the Ministry of Railways involves cutting and blasting of rocks using heavy machinery and explosives. “It also involves realignment away from the existing track to ease sharp curves on 23.48 km of the 38-km line passing through the core area of the reserve. This amounts to realignment and not just gauge conversion along the track,” he said. ‘Rise in rail traffic’ The Chief Minister said converting the Akola-Khandwa line from metre to broad gauge will lead to a rise in railway traffic in the long run and disturb the core areas of the reserve. “It would lead to an increase in the speed of trains, restrictions on future expansions and modifications, and rise in pollution along the track,” he said. The core area has been protected by rehabilitating 13 villages, and six of them are located within 10 km of the railway line. “Due to this, wildlife has significantly increased in the area. This project will reverse the benefits accrued from rehabilitation and habitat development,” he said. In his letter, Mr. Thackeray pointed out that in January 2019, the Wildlife Institute of India had recommended “avoidance of upgradation through the tiger reserve and opting for alternative alignments” as the best ways to reduce the risk posed by the railway line. The realignment will not only ensure the much required space for wildlife but also bring railway connectivity and great economic development to unconnected villages located in Jalgaon-Jamod and Sangrampur talukas, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uddhav-seeks-alternative-rail-route-at-melghat/article32096725.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India’s population may peak by 2047||When this century ends, India may no longer be a country of a billion, says a projection that appears in the online edition of the Lancet on Wednesday. At the current rate of growth, India's population is likely to peak by 2047 at about 1.61 billion and then decline to 1.03 billion by 2100. However, were it to meet UN Sustainable Goal Development targets, the peak would be earlier and see a population decline to 929 million. Conventional wisdom is that though a decline in population is expected, it is expected to begin only around 2046 and that fall, according to the latest 2019 assessment by the United Nations Development Programme calculation, is expected to see India’s population settle at a little over 1.4 billion, though this too ranges from 2.1-0.9 billion Access to contraception The sharper fall, say the group of scientists who are affiliated to the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington, is due to the assumption that all women globally will have have much higher access to contraception and education. This scenario will lead to a sharper reduction in the Total Fertility Rate, a metric that shows on average how many children a women must have to keep replenishing population. A TFR lower than 2.1, it is said, leads to a decline in a country’s population. The UNPD forecasts assume that all countries mirror the trend in selected low-fertility countries in Europe, east and southeast Asia, and North America, where the TFRs converge towards a level of approximately 1·75. “In our model, in a population where all females have 16 years of education and 95% of females have access to contraception, the global TFR was projected to converge to 1·41 (1·35–1·47). The difference between a convergent TFR of 1·75 or 1·41 is profound,” the study said. Seen this way, they argue, world population is expected to peak by 2061 at 9.73 billion and by 2100 dip to 8.79 billion. However, the UNDP forecasts about 10.8 billion by then. Nigeria to grow India will, however, remain the most populous country. The five largest countries in 2100 (are projected) to be India, Nigeria, China, the U.S. and Pakistan. However, these forecasts showed different future trajectories between countries. “Nigeria is forecast to have continued population growth through 2100 and was expected to be the second most populous country by then,” the study added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-population-may-peak-by-2047/article32096714.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fight against hunger disrupted by slowdown||Between 8.3 crore and 13 crore people globally are likely to go hungry this year due to the economic recession triggered by COVID-19, warns the State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World (SOFI) 2020 report. Estimates drawn from data available till March 2020 show that almost 69 crore people went hungry in 2019 — up by 1 crore in 2018. The SOFI report was released on Monday in New York on the sidelines of the High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development which tracks the progress of nations towards achieving Sustainable Development Goals 2030. It is produced jointly by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the UN World Food Programme (WFP) and the World Health Organisation (WHO). Its first edition was brought out in 2017 The heads of the five agencies warn that “five years after the world committed to end hunger, food insecurity and all forms of malnutrition, we are still off track to achieve this objective by 2030.” The report underlines that in line with findings in the previous editions, hunger continues to be on the rise since 2014 and the global prevalence of undernourishment, or overall percentage of hungry people, is 8.9%. Asia remains home to the greatest number of undernourished (38 crore). Africa is second (25 crore), followed by Latin America and the Caribbean (4.8 crore). According to current estimates, in 2019, 21.3% (14.4.crore) of children under 5 years were stunted, 6.9% (4.7 crore) wasted and 5.6% (3.8 million) overweight. The report highlights that a healthy diet costs more than Rs. 143 (or $1.90/ day), which is the international poverty threshold. The number of people globally who can’t afford a healthy diet is at 300 crore people, or more than the combined population of China and India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fight-against-hunger-disrupted-by-slowdown/article32096716.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana HC extends stay on Secretariat demolition||Telangana High Court on Wednesday extended the order staying demolition of Secretariat buildings till Thursday. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL plea challenging demolition of Secretariat buildings, passed the direction. The bench said that it is extending the stay order since the petitioners’ counsel Chikkudu Prabhakar and Advocate General made different interpretations of a crucial point in the case. Presenting his arguments, Mr. Prabhakar said the Centre had issued an Environment Impact Assessment Notification on September 14, 2006 under the Environmental Protection Act. This notification deals with demolition and constructions of any structures. It mandated a detailed procedure of securing prior environmental clearance from the authority concerned to bring down a structure. The Supreme Court and the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh High Court upheld this in a catena of judgments, he contended. As per the notification, the State government should have obtained environmental clearance from the regulatory authority or agency concerned before getting down to the work of demolishing Secretariat buildings, the lawyer argued. Demolition of the building falls within the meaning of “preparation of the land” to erect a new structure. Hence the State government cannot bring down Secretariat buildings without securing an environmental clearance certificate from the appropriate authority, Mr. Prabhakar maintained. The Advocate General however rejecting the counsel’s argument said the point of ‘preparation of land’ had to be read in conjunction with the word construction activity. He maintained that preparation of land meant commencement of the construction by digging foundation of the existing building. Demolition of an existing structure or clearing the land to erect a building cannot be termed as preparation of land for construction, he argued. With the petitioners’ counsel and the Advocate General giving different interpretations over the point of ‘preparation of land’, the bench extended the stay order till Thursday. During the previous hearing, Mr. Prabhakar argued that the demolition taken by the government is illegal as it did not adhere to rule 4 (3) of Demolition and Construction Waste Management Rules-2016. However, the government presented papers before the court stating that it had complied with that rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-hc-extends-stay-on-secretariat-demolition/article32096675.ece
16 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||An event that gained India a membership in space club||“At T-Zero, the check-out computer at the block house switched on the Stage 1 motor. And SLV-3, the epitome of the hopes and aspirations of thousands of people, soared towards the sky.” That’s how Countdown , the in-house journal of ISRO’s Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) described, in 1980, the crucial moments of an event which gained India a membership in an exclusive space club. Saturday, July 18, will mark the 40th anniversary of the first successful flight of the Satellite Launch Vehicle-3 (SLV-3) of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). On that day in 1980, SLV-3 lifted off from Sriharikota to place the 35 kg RS-1 (Rohini satellite) in orbit. The mission’s success made India the sixth nation capable of launching satellites. “I have been saying earlier that seven years of hard work will be proved in 436 seconds. Today this has come true,” a jubilant A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, the SLV-3 Project Director who would go on to become the President, was quoted as saying after the mission. The first experimental flight on August 10, 1979, was a failure.  Great teamwork Great teamwork contributed to the mission’s success. Kalam was Project Director and S. Srinivasan was the Deputy Project Director. Project managers of various critical systems included G. Madhavan Nair, V.P. Sandlas, M.S.R. Dev, M.K. Abdul Majeed, E.V.S. Namboodiri, N. Sundararajan, U.S. Singh, D. Sasikumar, D. Narayanamurthy, Vijaikumar, C. Soupramaniane, and P.S. Veeraraghavan. “With this mission, India was noticed as a spacefaring nation. It also showed us we are capable of mastering the multi-disciplinary launch vehicle technologies,” says former VSSC Director S. Ramakrishnan, who was closely associated with the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/an-event-that-gained-india-a-membership-in-space-club/article32097090.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||House panel calls for database on migrants||Lessons should be learnt from the COVID-19 pandemic which saw unprecedented reverse migration, members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs, headed by Congress leader Anand Sharma, said at a meeting on Wednesday. The Committee has advised the government to set up a national database of migrant workers so that they don’t fall out of the social security cover. ‘Avoidable exodus’ The members, it is learnt, asked Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and other officials from the Union Home Ministry to explain if better coordination between States and districts could have prevented the massive exodus of migrant workers, many of whom trudged back many kilometres to their home States. Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, along with others from the Ministry were also present at the meeting. The officials, sources said, informed the panel that if a nationwide lockdown had not been imposed, the number of cases could have gone up to 50 lakh and India would have seen nearly 1.5 lakh deaths. The officials also warned that going by the global trends, the number of cases will continue to spiral and projections for weeks ahead is grim. “This pandemic has brought to the fore the gaping holes in our social security network, which need to be plugged. The government can announce any plans but unless the benefit reaches the concerned, it is of no utility,” one of the members said. The committee has urged the government to come up with the database at the earliest since the pandemic and consequent economic uncertainty is likely to continue for while. Sources said the members, including BJP general secretary Anil Jain, flagged the black-marketing of essential drugs. The members slammed the Health Ministry for pushing more expensive drug and treatment protocols when cheaper options were available. Health Ministry officials, according to sources, said oxygen cylinders were in short supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-panel-calls-for-database-on-migrants/article32096709.ece
16 July 2020||Kolkata,||Uncertainty over, Visva-Bharati pays staff||Visva-Bharati is not a start-up or a company whose survival depends on its revenues; it’s a gigantic educational institution set up by Rabindranath Tagore in 1921 and whose Chancellor is the Prime Minister himself, but its employees got their salaries for the month of June only in mid-July — on Wednesday. On July 6, nearly a week after salaries were to have been credited, the university issued a circular that said: “As soon as the Central Administrative Building is sanitised, the normal activities including the release of salary shall immediately be undertaken.” ‘Unprecedented’ Until the afternoon of July 15, uncertainty prevailed over the payment of salaries and tempers were rising, even though there was talk of funds being transferred by the end of the day. “This is unprecedented,” said a professor, requesting not to be named. “People are angry that salaries are being delayed in a difficult time like this.” When The Hindu called up university PRO Anirban Sircar — the only official authorised to speak to the media — he first said he did not wish to comment. Minutes later he called back to say that he had spoken to the Vice-Chancellor and that there were chances that the salaries would be credited by Wednesday. He attributed the delay to the fact that an employee had displayed COVID-19 like symptoms following which the administrative office had been shut for 14 days, but added that the employee had tested negative. Finally, around five in the evening, salaries were credited. Many teachers were quick to point out that if an employee had indeed shown symptoms of COVID-19, the university should have put out a circular and advised those who had come in contact with him to quarantine themselves. “But there was no such notice... This lack of communication puts people at risk,” said a long-serving professor. The delay in payment of salaries is unprecedented in the history of the university — the only Central university in West Bengal and the only to have the Prime Minister as its Chancellor. In February too, it had issued a circular saying that salaries for that month could be delayed due to paucity of funds, prompting the HRD Ministry to seek an explanation why such a circular was issued despite being assured of funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uncertainty-over-visva-bharati-pays-staff/article32096730.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Facing shortage of doctors and nurses, say Bengaluru hospitals||Private hospitals and nursing homes in Karnataka have said that they are facing shortage of doctors, nurses and ward staff to treat and take care of patients battling COVID-19. At a press conference on Wednesday, R. Ravindra, president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said they were facing 30% shortage of doctors and 50% shortage of nurses and ward boys. He attributed this to multiple reasons ranging from healthcare workers contracting the virus to many fearing that they will get infected. “Some of them have stopped coming as they are worried that they will contract the infection while treating patients. Many of our staff went to their hometowns during the lockdown and have not returned,” he said. Around 6% to 10% of staff have tested positive and are under quarantine. Dr. Ravindra also said that while the hospitals had enough infrastructure, they were struggling for want of staff. “We appeal to our staff to come back to duty as we are facing gross shortage. Even though we are offering double salary and are promising them health insurance, doctors and nurses are refusing to come,” said Dr. Ravindra. According to PHANA, hospitals are facing a severe shortage of anaesthesiologists who are at high risk of contracting the virus when they treat COVID-19 patients in intensive care units. He said the State government had even promised to provide private hospitals with ventilators if needed. As a result of the shortage, many patients in private hospitals complained that doctors were conducting fewer rounds per day and giving priority to most-serious patients. Vikram Sreeram, managing director of Mallige Hospital, said they have 20% to 30% shortage of nurses in the hospital. “While some of them have legitimate reasons, many are stuck in their hometowns. We need at least 20 to 30 doctors right now,” he said. Another doctor who works at a private hospital in Bengaluru said: “We have told all doctors who are above 60 not to report for duty. But, there is fear among the doctor community. Many claim that they have symptoms and don’t report to work. There is no way we can verify this and have to accept what they tell us.” H. Sudarshan Ballal, director of Manipal Group of Hospitals, said they were facing shortage of staff after many tested positive and others are in quarantine. “We are trying to work in shift system so that one group does not get affected even if someone tests positive in the other,” he said. The association has written to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences to depute their final-year nursing students, including those who are specialising in Ayurveda and other streams.  We appeal to our staff to report to duty as we are facing gross shortage. Though we are offering double salary and promising health insurance, doctors and nurses are refusing to come. R. Ravindra PHANA president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/facing-shortage-of-doctors-and-nurses-say-bengaluru-hospitals/article32096677.ece
16 July 2020||Kolkata,||‘Nobel Laureate’s health message generates positive response’||A video message by Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee on prevention of COVID-19 has generated a positive response prompting more people to report symptoms to the frontline health staff, not to leave the villages and improve hygiene practices. These are the findings of a working paper by Professor Banerjee, economist Esther Duflo (who shared the 2019 Economics Nobel with him) and others published by the National Bureau of Economic Research, an American non-profit research organisation. “An SMS was sent to 25 million individuals containing the 2.5-minute clip, delivered by West Bengal native and 2019 Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee. All messages encouraged reporting symptoms to the local health worker,” the paper said. Mr. Banerjee is also the chair of the State government’s COVID-19 advisory board. The working paper titled “Messages on COVID-19 Prevention in India Increased Symptoms Reporting and Adherence to Preventive Behaviors Among 25 Million Recipients with Similar Effects on Non-recipient Members of Their Communities” was aimed at looking into whether additional light-touch messaging by a credible individual would lead to a change in behaviour. The document says in times of health crises, individuals are inundated with messages but one from credible individuals generates a positive response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nobel-laureates-health-message-generates-positive-response/article32096721.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sivasankar quizzed by Customs officials||Customs officials early Wednesday escorted former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan M. Sivasankar home after questioning him for nearly seven hours at its office here. The examination, held as part of the agency’s probe into the smuggling of gold via air cargo shipments addressed to the consulate of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in the State capital, set off a ripple of anti-government sentiment in the political sphere and dominated the news cycle for the better part of the day. Mr. Sivasankar had come under the Customs radar owing to his association with Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the case. She is currently in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the national security aspect of the offence. The NIA might question Mr. Sivasankar separately.  Mr. Sivasankar reportedly told investigators he knew Swapna professionally. She had interacted with an array of State government officials, including himself, in her capacity as executive secretary of the Consul General of the UAE. They shared a workplace friendship. Her alleged involvement in gold smuggling had shocked him. He had no clue about her outside office activities. Officials said the long hours Mr. Sivasankar spent inside the Customs House did not imply that the Customs had any incriminating evidence against him. The probe was still at a nascent stage, and it was too early to assign or repudiate guilt. Customs enforcers also inspected two houses in Kozhikode and Manjeri. They arrested one person and summoned a few others for questioning in Kochi. In Thiruvananthapuram, Customs officials inspected the flat leased by Mr. Sivasankar. They also checked the office of the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited (KSITIL), a subsidiary of the IT Department, where Swapna had worked briefly as a marketing officer for the Space Park. Opposition demand Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the investigation had come awkwardly close to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). Mr. Vijayan had lost the right to continue in his post. Mr. Chennithala said he would move the court for an investigation against the CMO. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president K. Surendran echoed a similar sentiment in Kozhikode. Both leaders indicated that the protests against Mr. Vijayan would intensify.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sivasankar-quizzed-by-customs-officials/article32096686.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear appeals against Maratha quota||The Supreme Court will begin hearing on a day-to-day basis from July 27 a batch of appeals challenging a Bombay High Court decision upholding a State law providing reservation to the Maratha community in education and government jobs in Maharashtra. A three-judge Bench, led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, on Wednesday decided to hear the appeals via the prevalent virtual court system, saying the chances of returning to the physical court mode looked slim for the time being. The court, however, declined passing any interim orders.   The lawyers leading the sides, like senior advocate Shyam Divan, raised doubts whether the case, which involves complicated questions of law on quota, could be argued effectively through the virtual court system. But he also emphasised the urgency of the case. Mr. Divan urged for a short date. He submitted that the court should also revisit the need for an interlocutory relief. He had sought interim orders on the ground that the conduct of the postgraduate exams in Maharashtra were at risk. Several appeals have been filed against the HC decision allowing 12-13% quota to the Maratha community under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act. They have argued that the decision is erroneous as the State law has breached the 50% cap on reservation fixed by a Constitution Bench in the Indira Sawhney judgment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-appeals-against-maratha-quota/article32096699.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. nod for urgent defence procurements||The Defence Ministry on Wednesday once again gave emergency powers to the armed forces to procure weapons systems at costs up to Rs. 300 crore on an urgent basis, without any further clearances, to cut short the procurement cycle, the Defence Ministry said. Similar powers were given to the services after the Balakot air strike in February 2019. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC), chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, which the Ministry convened considering the security environment due to the situation along the northern borders and the need to strengthen the armed forces. “The DAC delegated the powers for processing urgent capital acquisition cases up to Rs. 300 crore to the armed forces to meet their emergent operational requirements. This will shrink the procurement timelines and ensure placement of orders within six months and commencement of deliveries within one year,” the Ministry said. The Army has already taken a decision to place repeat orders for 72,400 SIG-716 assault rifles from Sig Sauer of the U.S. and 12 launchers and around 250 missiles of the Spike Anti-Tank Guided Missiles (ATGM) from Israel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-nod-for-urgent-defence-procurements/article32096707.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indigenous vaccine for pneumonia gets nod||The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has approved the first fully indigenously developed conjugate vaccine for pneumonia developed by the Serum Institute of India Pvt. Ltd, Pune. The Serum Institute first obtained the DGCI approval to conduct Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical trials of Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Conjugate Vaccine in India. Clinical trials It has also conducted clinical trials in Gambia, the Health Ministry said in a statement. “The committee [constituted by the drug regulator] recommended for grant of permission of market authorisation to the said vaccine. Serum Institute of India Pvt. Ltd, Pune has been granted permission to manufacture domestically developed first Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Conjugate Vaccine. Earlier the demand for such vaccine was substantially met by licensed importers since the manufacturers were all based outside India,” the statement added. This vaccine is used for active immunisation against invasive disease and pneumonia caused by “streptococcus pneumonia” in infants. The vaccine is administered intramuscularly. According to information on the clinical trials registry, the first phase of the trial was conducted in 2013 in 34 young Indian adults, while the second phase in 114 toddlers of 12-15 months. The third phase of trials was conducted on 448 infants between the age of six to eight weeks old, and this was completed in October last year, as per the registry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indigenous-vaccine-for-pneumonia-gets-nod/article32096713.ece
16 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Minor reshuffle of senior IAS officers||In a minor reshuffle, the State government transferred more than a dozen senior IAS officials late on Wednesday evening. Prominent among the transfers is senior IAS officer A. Santi Kumari, secretary of Health and Family Welfare department. Ms. Kumari has been posted as special Chief Secretary in the Forest department relieving Rajat Kumar from full additional charge. Mr. Kumar. Principal secretary, Irrigation department, will continue to hold full additional charge of Environment, Science and Technology departments. Ms. Santi Kumari’s transfer comes in the light of the ever increasing number of COVID cases in the State. Ms. Kumari will be replaced by Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi, officer on special duty in the Telangana Bhavan. Another major change is transfer of senior bureaucrat Adhar Sinha who has been posted as Director General, Environment Protection Training and Research Institute, relieving Mr. Rajat Kumar, from full additional charge. Senior bureaucrat Vakati Karuna has been posted as commissioner of Public Health and Family Welfare in place of Yogita Rana who has been posted as Commissioner of SCD relieving Rahul Bojja. Senior officer T. Vijaya Kumar has been posted as special secretary in the same department. While K.S. Sreenivasa Raju has been posted as secretary of Tourism relieving Mr. M. Raghunandan Rao who was holding full additional charge, E. Sridhar had been posted as special secretary in Tribal Welfare department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minor-reshuffle-of-senior-ias-officers/article32097025.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Jio offers 5G tech||“This Made-in-India 5G solution will be ready for trials as soon as 5G spectrum is available and can be ready for field deployment next year. And because Jio’s converged... we can easily upgrade our 4G network to 5G,” Mr. Ambani said. Jio planned to export its 5G solution to other telecom operators globally, as a complete managed service, once the technology was proven at India scale, the RIL chief said. Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google’s parent Alphabet, said, “Through this partnership with Jio Platforms, we see the chance to have an even greater impact than either company could have alone.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jio-offers-5g-tech/article32097152.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,||Ex-priest seeks bail to marry rape survivor||A petition has been filed at the Kerala High Court by Fr. Robin Vadakkumcheril, former vicar of St. Sebastian Church, Kottiyoor, and a convict in a case relating to the rape and impregnation of a minor girl, seeking interim bail to marry the survivor. In his petition, Robin said that as the Pope had taken him off all priestly obligations, including celibacy, there could not be any impediment for him to marrying the rape survivor. He added that the child born to the girl was now three years old and in the custody of St. Angelo’s Foundling Home, Kannur, under the supervision of Child Welfare Committee. The prosecution case was that in May 2016, Robin raped the girl in his room. She gave birth to a baby boy on February 2, 2017. He was awarded 20 years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 3 lakh by the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences special court at Thalassery. Robin said in his petition that his family members and the rape survivor had repeatedly approached the Child Welfare Committee for the custody of the child, in vain. The petition is posted for hearing on July 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-priest-seeks-bail-to-marry-rape-survivor/article32097087.ece
16 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam COVID-19 deaths treble within a fortnight||The number of people who died of COVID-19 in Assam almost trebled in less than a fortnight while the recovery rate during this period has fluctuated from 65-68%, figures show. From 12 on July 1, the number of people with or without co-morbidities who succumbed to the novel coronavirus reached 46 on July 14. Assam recorded a total of 18,666 positive cases by 11.50 p.m. on July 14, of which about 45% have been from Guwahati. On the brighter side, the recovery rate improved marginally from 64.1% on July 13 to 65.2%. This rate had dipped from a little more than 68% a week ago. Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the situation in the city would be assessed before the lockdown period ends on July 19 for a decision on relaxation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-covid-19-deaths-treble-within-a-fortnight/article32096717.ece
16 July 2020||IMPHAL,||Activists recall Imphal’s women crusaders||Human rights and social activists on Wednesday observed the anniversary of a protest by 12 women in Imphal city in 2004, observing it as anti-repression day. The protest was held in the office of the Human Rights Alert at Kwakeithel near Imphal. In view of the COVID-19 restrictions, it was kept low key with minimum attendance. On July 14, 2004, the 12 women converged at the gate of the 17 Assam Rifles camp and staged the protest removing their clothes demanding removal of the camp. The protest was held a few days after personnel of the 17 Assam Rifles arrested a young girl Thangjam Manorama from her home at Bamon Kampu, five km from the city, on the charge that she was an insurgent. She was eventually gunned down. The official report was that while she was “leading a team of personnel to a place where arms and ammunition were stashed ...” she tried to flee ignoring the warnings from the personnel. Activists fear she was gang-raped and shot dead. After the protest, the 17 Assam Rifles camp was shifted from Imphal.  Babloo Loitongbam, executive director of the Human Rights Alert said, “The intrepid women always come to fight all issues. They should leave their commitment, courage and dedication to the children.” Sunil Karam, president of the United Committee Manipur, said, “17 Assam Rifles was removed from Imphal because of the campaign by the women activists.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activists-recall-imphals-women-crusaders/article32096733.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||J&K HC upset with poor Internet connectivity||Irked by “poor Internet connectivity”, the J&K High Court has directed the Union Territory (UT) Home Secretary, Shaleen Kabra, to appear before it on Thursday. “This court is concerned with urgent issues involving rights of the residents of J&K and Ladakh. However, we find today [Tuesday] that despite best efforts on the part of our IT experts, it has been impossible to have even a bare semblance of a hearing,” a Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Mittal and Justice Sanjay Dhar, observed while hearing a public interest litigation plea. The judges said the court had struggled to get virtual or audio connectivity with the amicus curiae and several counsels appearing before them. “Even the Advocate General has expressed grave difficulty in joining the hearing.” Due to the rising COVID-19 cases, large parts of Kashmir province were under a lockdown and virtual hearings “have been necessitated”. “Access to justice is a fundamental right and cannot be impeded and the courts are required to remain accessible,” the court observed. It asked Mr. Kabra to appear before the court through a videoconference and “apprise about the impact of the restrictions on e-connectivity of the courts.” The administration banned high-speed Internet on August 5, 2019. On July 8, an order issued by Mr. Kabra extended the ban till July 29. The order said the ban helped neutralize more militants and prevented the spread of fake news.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-hc-upset-with-poor-internet-connectivity/article32096735.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches assets worth Rs. 33 cr. in bank fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 33.71 crore in connection with a money laundering case against Era Infra Engineering Limited (EIEL) and others for alleged bank fraud. The properties include two tunnel machines valued at Rs. 18.31 crore and Rs. 15.40 crore, which are owned by the company. Multiple charges The ED probe is based on a case registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation in April 2018 against EIEL, its then chairman-cum-managing director, Hem Singh Bharana, and unknown bank officials. The agency alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery, use of forged documents and criminal misconduct by the accused persons in the sanction, disbursement and use of two term loans amounting to Rs. 650 crore. According to the ED, the funds were used for unstated and unsanctioned purposes. Of the Rs. 450 crore disbursed by UCO Bank, Rs. 211 crore and Rs. 25 crore were allegedly diverted. “Further, Rs. 14.70 crore was diverted from the other sanctioned amount of Rs. 200 crore and thus, the total amount diverted by EIEL in this manner comes to Rs. 250.70 crore, which qualifies as ‘proceeds of crime’ under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,” said the agency. In the same case, the agency had earlier attached assets worth Rs. 5.72 crore and the order was confirmed by the Adjudicating Authority under the PMLA. The total value of attachment so far stands at Rs. 39.43 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-33-cr-in-bank-fraud-case/article32096736.ece
16 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Telangana police, Maoists exchange fire||An exchange of fire took place between the Special Police party and the outlawed Maoists in the forest near Thokkuguda village of Thiryani mandal in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district, around 300 km from here, on Tuesday night. No casualties or injuries were reported on any side and the armed men of the banned CPI (Maoist) slipped into the deep forest. On Sunday, the police party had seized several incriminating documents, electronic gadgets and detonators from the forests while conducting combing operations to nab the Maoists, including Telangana State Committee member Mailarepu Adellu alias Bhaskar, who has a cash reward of Rs. 25 lakh on his head. According to Adilabad SP Vishnu S. Warrier, also the SP in charge of KB Asifabad district, the extremists opened fire on the police party after spotting it. The dalam, comprising five members, is led by Adellu, who hails from Pocharam in Boath mandal of Nirmal district. He said the police were continuing the combing operation after they seized some material belonging to Maoists in Thiryani on Sunday. “Around 10.30 p.m. on Tuesday, when police parties were searching in Thokkuguda village, a Maoist dalam in olive green outfit carrying AK 47 and SLR weapons attempted to fire at us and we retaliated. As a result, the dalam fled from the scene in the dark,” Mr. Warrier said. He said the search operations and intense combing operations were going on to catch the dalam comprising Adellu, Varghese Koya, Mangu, Ajay and Ramu. The names of the Maoists were known after police questioned a villager, Kova Ananth Rao, at whose house they reporterdly took shelter. “We have increased combing in the forest,” the SP said. He said any person giving information regarding the dalam or any suspicious persons in their area would be rewarded and their identity would be kept secret. One held Meanwhile, the Kumaram Bheem Asifabad police arrested Kova Ananth Rao of Thokkuguda in Thiryani mandal for sheltering the Maoist dalam. Mr. Vishnu S. Warrier said that Kova Ananth Rao gave food and shelter to the dalam led by State Committee member Mailarepu Adellu alias Bhaskar. “We understood that the extremists were taking logistic support from Rao and he also helped them escape into the jungle,” he said. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code, Explosive Substances Act, National Security Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act were booked against Rao, who was arrested and will be remanded to judicial custody. “Those providing shelter to the Maoists will be booked under non-bailable sections,” warns Mr. Warrier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-police-maoists-exchange-fire/article32096679.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Speaker issues notice to former Dy. CM, 18 MLAs||“After doing the deal, our former PCC chief gave statements that no horse-trading was taking place. What clarifications were you giving when you yourself were involved in it?” Mr. Gehlot said. In a personal attack on the 42-year-old leader, who was sacked both as the Deputy CM and PCC president, Mr. Gehlot said speaking good English, giving good television bytes and being handsome was not everything in politics. “What is inside your heart for the country, your ideology, policies and commitment... Everything is considered,” the veteran Congress leader said. “A knife made of gold is not for use on a plate for eating. Do you get my drift?” Mr. Gehlot told reporter. He said the Congress had proof of the BJP’s attempts at horse-trading in Rajasthan during the Rajya Sabha elections, because of which the ruling party’s legislators had to be kept at a hotel for 10 days. “If we had not done that [last month], the same thing which is happening in Manesar now would have happened back then,” Mr. Gehlot said in an apparent reference to the MLAs owing allegiance to the Pilot camp being holed up at a resort in Haryana's town near Delhi. The Chief Minister said senior Congress leaders liked the new generation, as the future would be theirs, but added that young leaders should toil to make a mark for themselves. “I have been in politics for 40 years. The young people, who become Union Ministers and State party presidents, would have understood all this if they had gone through what we did in our time.” Mr. Surjewala later asked Mr. Pilot and his supporters to stop accepting the hospitality of Manohar Lal Khattar government and come back to the Rajasthan capital. “Congress has already expressed willingness to resolve all issues with Mr. Pilot. Since he has ruled out joining the BJP, he should stop speaking through media and come here as a member of the Congress family,” Mr. Surjewala said. In a conciliatory note, Mr. Surjewala said the Congress had given “so much” to Mr. Pilot in his young age and there was no political personality in any party to be promoted in this manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/speaker-issues-notice-to-former-dy-cm-18-mlas/article32096689.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||India, EU push trade talks; discuss China, Pak.||“India and the EU are natural partners,” said Mr. Modi in his opening remarks. “Our partnership is important for global peace and stability, and this reality is clearer given the situation around the world,” he added. He also referred to shared “universal values” of democracy, pluralism, inclusivity, respect for international institutions and multilateralism between India and the EU. In particular, officials said the leaders discussed India’s tensions with China at the Line of Actual Control, the situation with Iran and concerns over cross-border terrorism from Pakistan. The EU leadership also raised concerns over the situation in Jammu and Kashmir as well as the Citizenship Amendment Act. “Regarding the Citizenship law, you know that in the European Parliament this was an important topic, and we raised this issue in our talks. I would like to say that we trust Indian institutions. We understand the Supreme Court will have a role to play to assess this legislation,” said Mr. Michel at a press briefing after the talks. “We took a decision with India to continue a dialogue on human rights in order to exchange best practices and have the best understanding on how to tackle this issue for India and the EU,” he added. When asked at the briefing whether the EU valued its strategic ties with India or China more, Ms. Von der Leyen said ties with both countries were “very different”, although they had a common interest in tackling climate change, and building trade. “The difference is indeed that we share with India that we are democracies, and [we are] committed to defending our values,” said Ms. Von der Leyen, who has visited India in her past role as German Defence Minister. The two sides issued a joint political statement, a five-year roadmap for the India-EU strategic partnership, a civil nuclear research and development cooperation agreement between EURATOM and the Department of Atomic Energy, a declaration on “resource efficiency and circular economy” to exchange best practices in range of areas and the renewal of their science and technology agreement for another five years. Both sides stressed the importance of bilateral trade, as EU is India’s largest trading partner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-eu-push-trade-talks-discuss-china-pak/article32096690.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. reviews progress of disengagement talks at LAC||It was initially headed by the Foreign Secretary and now by the National Security Adviser. It has the top Secretaries, military and intelligence officials, including the Army chief, as members. The focus of the fourth round of talks was to work out details of the second phase of disengagement from the stand-off areas, especially Pangong Tso, and also pullback by the Chinese troops, tanks, artillery and air defences along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The mobilisation violates the boundary agreements signed between India and China to maintain peace and tranquillity on the LAC. The Indian delegation was led by Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and the Chinese side by Maj. Gen. Liu Lin, Commander of the South Xinjiang military region. The earlier talks were held on June 6, 22 and 30. India has consistently maintained restoration of status quo ante of April and withdrawal of the massive deployment by China along the LAC. Diplomatic talks have also been on to resolve tensions on the border since the two sides first clashed on May 5 at Pangong Tso. Last week, Indian and Chinese troops completed the first phase of disengagement from the stand-off areas in the Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra and also partial disengagement from Pangong Tso, where Chinese troops moved back from the base of Finger 4 to Finger 5. However, Chinese troops are still present on the ridge line of Finger 4. Mr. Singh will be in Ladakh on July 17 to review the situation on the LAC. He would visit forward areas and interact with troops, the second source stated. On July 18, he would visit Srinagar to review the situation along the Line of Control (LoC) and in the Valley, the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-reviews-progress-of-disengagement-talks-at-lac/article32096691.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Yogi Samasa’s answers||Samasa is one of the nine yogis who advise King Nimi, said P.T. Seshadri, in a discourse. King Nimi asks Samasa about what happens to those who are slaves to worldly attractions and who, therefore, do not worship Vishnu. Samasa says that there are many learned men in this world, who may do prescribed samskaras diligently, but they have no desire to acquire jnana. When they perform Vedic rites, it is only to attain something. And this result that they seek is fulfilment of some material desire. They do not understand the implications of their deeds. They are preoccupied with thoughts of their lives and of themselves. There are others in this world who mock Hari bhaktas. Obviously, they are not going to seek jnana. There are people who are completely caught up in mundane matters. They think of what good will come to their families if they perform a sacrifice. Even if they do a meritorious deed like annadana, it is only with a view to getting some benefit out of it. They think that there is nothing beyond the joys of this world. They make fun of the Lord and His devotees. And because of such sinful acts, they develop more bad qualities. After detailing the behaviour of most people thus, yogi Samasa says that we must use wealth in dharmic ways in order to ultimately obtain jnana. A person with no jnana is a slave to his senses. There are four Purusharthas — artha, kama, dharma and moksha. A person with no jnana does not think about the most important purushartha, namely moksha. A jnani will never work for more and more comforts in life. Many mistake ajnana for jnana. Being attached to wealth helps in no way. When death occurs, in just a second a wealthy man is separated from the wealth he has so carefully accumulated over the years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yogi-samasas-answers/article32096724.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rahul slams Centre over foreign policy||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday targeted the Narendra Modi government’s foreign policy saying the country is losing power and respect everywhere. Mr. Gandhi tweeted that India’s policy is in “tatters”, tagging a report published in The Hindu on Iran moving ahead to construct a rail line from the Chabahar port to Zahedan without Indian participation. “India’s global strategy is in tatters. We are losing power and respect everywhere and the government of India (GOI) has no idea what to do,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-slams-centre-over-foreign-policy/article32096722.ece
16 July 2020||Bhopal,||Kin given the wrong bodies at hospital||The Indore police are inquiring into how two bodies got changed and were given to different families at a government hospital on Monday. Santosh Patelia, father of deceased Akash Patelia, 20, reached the M.Y. Hospital on Monday from Dewas district to collect his son’s body, which was handed over to him wrapped. “But we realised it was not him,” he said. The hospital told him that the body of his son who died while undergoing treatment after he reportedly consumed acid was mistakenly taken by another family around noon. “There has been negligence by the hospital,” said Mr. Patelia, who filed a complaint at the Sanyogitaganj police station. “The bodies got changed as both the deceased had the identical first names,” said Rajeev Tripathi, in charge of the station. “After the post-mortem examinations were conducted, their first names were announced at the hospital for families to collect the bodies which caused confusion.” Owing to the fear of COVID-19, contended Mr. Tripathi, the family of the other deceased, Akash Panchal, 25, didn’t open the covered body, and collected the wrong body earlier in the day. “They cremated it within an hour. And later, when handed over the correct body they cremated it too,” he said. The change occurred not at the hospital level but at the police level, claimed P.S. Thakur, hospital superintendent. “We conducted the procedures on the bodies given to us by the police, who gave them to the families later,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kin-given-the-wrong-bodies-at-hospital/article32096723.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Warning sign||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/warning-sign/article32096727.ece
16 July 2020||Patna,||Bihar BJP head tests positive for COVID-19||A day after 24 Bihar BJP leaders, office-bearers and staff at the party headquarters in Patna were found infected with COVID-19, State unit president Sanjay Jaiswal tested positive on Wednesday. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Tejashwi Yadav took on the State BJP leadership for “spreading” pandemic. Mr. Jaiswal has, of late, been meeting leaders and office-bearers at the party headquarters in view of the Assembly elections in October-November. The BJP headquarters has been sanitised and sealed. Besides, over three dozen staff of the Raj Bhavan too have been tested positive for COVID-19. Bihar has reported a total of 157 COVID-19 deaths and 20,173 positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-bjp-head-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32096728.ece
16 July 2020||Bhopal,||Newspaper owner held under POCSO||The police on Wednesday arrested Pyare Miyan, a newspaper owner from Bhopal accused of raping minor girls repeatedly and running a sex racket. The accused was held in Srinagar in Jammu and Kashmir three days after the first case was filed against him. Miyan was caught in an operation in coordination with the local police in Srinagar, said Bhopal South Superintendent of Police Sai Krishna Thota, who is leading a special investigation team set up to inquire into cases against the owner of the vernacular newspaper Dainik Afkar . The 68-year-old faces four cases, including two relating to raping five minor girls. The other two cases relate to the seizure of fine alcohol and antlers from his apartment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/newspaper-owner-held-under-pocso/article32096734.ece
16 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala Assembly to meet on July 27||The Kerala Assembly will meet for a day on July 27, adhering to the COVID-19 protocol, to pass the Kerala Finance Bill. A Cabinet meet on Wednesday decided to request Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to summon the Assembly. The House is meeting after the 19th session was called off on March 13 after the COVID-19 outbreak. Finance Bill The one-day sitting will exclusively be for passing the Kerala Finance Bill. Instead of the usual practice of referring the Kerala Finance Bill to the Subject Committee for consideration, the House will discuss it department wise and pass the Bill before adjourning for the day. All parties and the Opposition had agreed not to refer the Bill to the Subject Committee in view of the prevailing situation, official sources said. The Legislature Secretariat has commenced steps to ensure norms in the House. Each legislator will get one chair exclusively and it will be placed at a distance to avoid physical contact. The Public Works Department has been tasked to make the new arrangement of chairs, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-assembly-to-meet-on-july-27/article32096684.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Back with mommy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/back-with-mommy/article32096696.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ashok Lavasa appointed V-P of ADB||The Asian Development Bank (ADB) on Wednesday announced that it had appointed Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa, who was next in line to become the Chief Election Commissioner in 2021, as its vice-president (V-P) for private sector operations and public-private partnerships. The Manila-headquartered regional bank said: “He [Mr. Lavasa] will succeed Diwakar Gupta whose term will end on August 31. Mr. Lavasa has a long and distinguished career in the Indian civil service ... He has extensive experience in public-private partnerships and infrastructure development at the state and federal levels, with deep knowledge on public policy and the role of private sector.” Mr. Lavasa, a retired 1980-batch IAS officer of the Haryana cadre, was appointed an Election Commissioner in January 2018 and could have taken over from CEC Sunil Arora upon his retirement in April 2021 based on seniority. According to a source, Mr. Lavasa was sounded out about the job some months ago. Another source said Mr. Lavasa was yet to resign from the ECI. During the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Mr. Lavasa gave dissenting opinions when the EC gave Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah clean chits in alleged model code of conduct violation cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ashok-lavasa-appointed-v-p-of-adb/article32096698.ece
16 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Jharkhand Cong. MLA alleges neglect||Amid the political crisis in Rajasthan, a Jharkhand Congress MLA has alleged that he is being neglected by the party higher-ups. Irfan Ansari from the Jamtara segment claimed that although he and other MLAs were trying to air their grievances before Rahul Gandhi, forces were not letting them meet the leadership. “Mr. Singh [Congress’ Jharkhand in-charge R.P.N. Singh] is not strengthening the party in Jharkhand, he is disintegrating it,” said Mr. Ansari. His outburst followed State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon’s statement, saying the BJP was trying to influence four of the party’s MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jharkhand-cong-mla-alleges-neglect/article32096700.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea on J&K domicile rules turned down||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to entertain a petition challenging legal provisions granting 100% domiciliary quota in public employment in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. A three-judge Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao advised advocate Nahum Ul Huda to approach the J&K High Court. The plea was filed through Nishant Khatri, a lawyer. The petition had sought the “quashing of sections 3A, 5A, 6, 7 and 8 of the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment) Act as violative of Articles 14, 16, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India as these sections direct 100% reservation to domicile of the UT of Jammu and Kashmir in public employment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-on-jk-domicile-rules-turned-down/article32096703.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC questions detention of Bar assn. chief||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Jammu and Kashmir administration to explain on July 23 the basis for detaining the erstwhile State’s High Court Bar Association president Mian Abdul Qayoom for nearly a year. “He is 73. We want to know on what basis you like to detain him in Tihar [Jail]. His detention as per the order has already expired,” a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul addressed Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta. Mr. Mehta said Mr. Qayoom’s ideology went against national interest. Justice Kaul said there are compulsions of law that need to be complied with. The Bench added that Mr. Qayoom’s ideology seems to remain unchanged. It also reminded the administration about the present health crisis. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Vrinda Grover, for Mr. Qayoom, said he should not be in Tihar amid the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-questions-detention-of-bar-assn-chief/article32096704.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Srisailam getting flood from Jurala||Srisailam project, one of the two common reservoirs of the two Telugu States, has started receiving flood being let out from Jurala, about 210 km away, on Wednesday evening. The inflows into the reservoir were measured at about 31,000 cusecs at 6 p.m., including over 2,800 cusecs of supplementation from Handri river. The receipt of flood in the reservoir is over two weeks in advance compared to last year, as it received flood only in the first week of August. The Central Water Commission (CWC) has forecast further increase of flood to Jurala till Thursday morning in the measure of about 71,000 cusecs. Jurala was receiving about 64,000 cusecs water from the upstream at 6 p.m. Power generation The flood monitoring engineers at Jurala stated that the total discharge of flood from Jurala was nearly 76,000 cusecs with over 42,400 cusecs from eight spillway gates, another 28,800 cusecs after power generation through four units of 39 MW each at Jurala power house and another 5,000 cusecs to different canal/lift systems. Generation of power at the Lower Jurala power house also commenced on Tuesday night and nearly two million units of energy was generated in the two power houses on the first day. Although the inflows into Almatti have fallen below 30,000 cusecs, the discharge of flood after power generation there is still continuing in the measure of about 45,000 cusecs on Wednesday. The flood into Jurala also included supplementation from the local catchment area and from some rivulets in the downstream of Narayanpur. The water level in Srisailam was 816.4 ft against its full reservoir level of 885 ft and the storage was 38.29 tmc ft against its capacity of 215.8 tmc ft at 6 p.m. on Wednesday. The inflows into the reservoir are expected to reach about 50,000 cusecs by Thursday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/srisailam-getting-flood-from-jurala/article32097054.ece
16 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Cyber crime sees spike during lockdown: DGP||Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy on Wednesday said that cyber crime have increased significantly during COVID-19 lockdown. “Internet-users should be more aware of cyber risks and counter measures,” Mr. Reddy said after the launch of ‘#CybHer’, a month-long online campaign to make the cyber world safe for women and children. The online campaign is being organised by the Women Safety Wing (WSW) of Telangana police in collaboration with Legal Aid Centre, Symbiosis Law School, Hyderabad. “The campaign shall be held on multiple online platforms, including Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, and other mediums, with an aim to amplify the sensitisation during the critical times of COVID-19 on cyber crime,” said Additional DGP (Women Safety Wing) Swati Lakra. She also said that the campaign aims to educate women and children about the immediate risks and threats on cyberspace, which also acts as an interactive and informative platform for a healthy discussion on cyber safety. The Women Safety Wing will also organise competitions such as essay writing, quiz and polls, video posts, informative posters and Fact Friday. DIG (Women Safety Wing) B. Sumathi, badminton star PV Sindhu, Tollywood actor Nani, television show host Suma, Symbiosis director professor Sarfaraz Ahmed Khan and other eminent personalities from different walks of life took part during the online launch of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cyber-crime-sees-spike-during-lockdown-dgp/article32096680.ece
16 July 2020||Kochi,||HC bans protests, agitations till July 31||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday ordered that there shall not be any gathering, to be specific, demonstrations/ processions/ agitations in the State till July 31. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali directed the State government and the State Police Chief (SPC) to initiate all preventive measures to ensure that there shall not be any processions/agitations in violation of the guidelines issued by the National Disaster Management Authority for the Unlock 2 period. The court directed the State government and the SPC to ensure that no political parties violated the guidelines and the court order. The court observed that the police had to ensure that action was initiated against violators as the guidelines remained in force till July 31. Under Unlock 2 guidelines, certain activities, including, social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religions functions and other large-scale congregations, were not allowed till July 31. The court observed the guidelines issued under the National Disaster Management Act will prevail over the regulation by the State government allowing social gatherings, including get-togethers, processions, and dharnas with the permission of the authority concerned and a maximum of 10 participants.  The court passed the order on a public interest litigation seeking to ban demonstrations, dharnas, and other protest meetings organised by political parties and others in the State in view of the COVID-19 situation. 3,214 cases The SPC had submitted that as many as 3,214 cases had been registered against violators of the physical-distancing norms. In fact, no police personnel were infected with SARS-CoV-2 while dealing with protesters or agitators. However, as many as 18 police personnel had contracted the disease while performing general duty. In fact, the positive cases had gone up tremendously. In this context, holding of demonstrations, agitations, and processions by political parties would defeat the very objective of physical-distancing norms. So, no processions/agitations and demonstrations should be allowed in the State, the SPC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-bans-protests-agitations-till-july-31/article32096681.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Methodology of calculating EB charges is reasonable, rules HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed a public interest litigation petition which termed as “unjust and arbitrary”, a methodology adopted by Tamil Nadu generation and distribution corporation (Tangedco) for calculating power consumption charges during the period of COVID-19 lockdown from March 25, when meter readings could not be noted down. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha rejected the case filed by M.L. Ravi of Desiya Makkal Sakthi Katchi and held that the methodology was “reasonable and justified”. They agreed with Additional Advocate General P.H. Arvindh Pandian that “any other methodology, especially the one suggested by the petitioner, would not ensure equality.” Pointing out that individual household meter readings were being recorded bi-monthly in the State, the judges pointed out that Tangedco could not deploy its personnel for noting down meter readings after a nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. Hence, it permitted the consumers to pay the same charges that they had paid during the previous billing cycle. Subsequently, after the relaxation of the lockdown, it deployed its personnel for noting down the meter readings for the next billing cycle. Such readings were divided equally into two and the consumers were asked to pay the necessary charges after deducting the amount they had already paid. The methodology was followed as per Regulation 10(2) of Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code. Holding that the Regulation was in no way contrary to the Electricity Act of 2003, the judges said: “We find that the procedure adopted exhibits an element of fairness. Obviously, one could infer that there has to be an increase in usage of electricity in households during lockdown…The petitioner cannot seek a direction to adopt a particular methodology which is beneficial to one set of consumers.” Authoring the judgement, Justice Sundresh said there were about 1.75 crore low tension consumers of whom only a few would have any grievance with regard to the methodology adopted. His Bench rejected as unacceptable the petitioner’s contention that Tangedco had made an unjust enrichment through the adoption of a particular methodology. “Such accusations are unwarranted. While the welfare of the general public is important and the difficulties they have undergone due to the pandemic is serious, the role of the government in tackling the crisis and the resources required for the same is not a trivial issue to be brushed aside. The need to pay taxes and other statutory obligations on time becomes paramount,” the court held. “The method of calculation has to be uniform and acceptable to all and also in tune with the Electricity Supply Code,” the HC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/methodology-of-calculating-eb-charges-is-reasonable-rules-hc/article32096871.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 tally crosses 1.5 lakh in State; over 1 lakh discharged||Tamil Nadu’s overall COVID-19 tally crossed 1.5 lakh, with 4,496 fresh cases reported on Wednesday. The total number of persons cured crossed one lakh as 5,000 more persons were discharged across the State. With this, the State has reported a total of 1,51,820* COVID-19 cases till now. Of this, 1,02,310 persons have been cured, while the number of persons under treatment stood at 47,340. Another 68 persons, including a 19-year-old girl, died, taking the toll to 2,167. Chennai saw a marginal rise in the number of fresh infections with 1,291 cases. Its neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu had 278 and 186 cases respectively. While Kancheepuram had 163 cases, there were 123 in Tiruvannamalai, 97 in Vellore and 91 in Villupuram. In the southern region, Madurai continued to witness a high number of cases with 341. Thoothukudi followed with 268 cases, while Virudhunagar and Tirunelveli had 175 and 164 respectively. There were 134 cases in Kanniyakumari, 113 in Dindigul and 119 in Ramanathapuram. Sivaganga district had 100 cases. Among the rest, Coimbatore had 103 cases and Tiruchi 99. All 37 districts reported new cases on Wednesday. Of this, only six had cases in single digits. Sixty-six returnees tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. With this, the overall tally of cases stood at 80,961 in Chennai, while it was 8,741 in Chengalpattu, 7,573 in Tiruvallur and 7,331 in Madurai. The State’s recovery rate was 67%. Of the 5,000 persons cured, a significant number were from Chennai and Madurai. A total of 1,484 persons in Chennai and 1,188 persons in Madurai were discharged. As of date, a total of 64,036 persons have been discharged in Chennai. In the last few weeks, more than 1,000 persons were being discharged per day in the State. As per guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research, exit tests are no longer needed. Earlier, patients were discharged after two samples returned negative. Oxygen saturation A senior doctor said the guidelines were clear. “Once symptoms subside, patients can be discharged if they are able to maintain oxygen saturation for three days in room air and their vital signs are stable. On average, patients require hospitalisation for seven to 10 days,” he said. Another doctor pointed out that asymptomatic young patients were discharged earlier than older ones. However, strict home quarantine for 14 days was advised. Chennai accounted for 23 of the 68 deaths. The rest occurred in districts including Madurai, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Kanyakumari and Vellore. A 19-year-old girl from Kancheepuram died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on July 14. She had Type 1 diabetes, chronic kidney disease (CKD), and tested positive for COVID-19. She died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, respiratory failure, COVID-19 pneumonia, sepsis, acute on CKD and diabetes ketoacidosis. A 97-year-old man from Chennai died at RGGGH on July 14. He had systemic hypertension and newly diagnosed CKD. His death was due to sepsis, septic shock, respiratory failure, COVID-19 pneumonia, acute on chronic kidney disease and acute encephalopathy. In the last 24 hours, 41,382 samples were tested in the State. This took the total number of tests to 17,36,747. One more testing facility was approved at the Government Headquarters Hospital, The Nilgiris. Now, there are 107 testing facilities in the State.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-tally-crosses-15-lakh-in-state-over-1-lakh-discharged/article32096903.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamaraipakkam dam to be renovated at a cost of Rs. 4 crore||The Water Resources Department (WRD) will soon begin improvement works at Tamaraipakkam dam, one of the oldest across Kosasthalaiyar river. Built in 1868, this structure plays a crucial role in storing and diverting surplus water for Chennai’s drinking water supply. Located 15 km downstream of Poondi reservoir, one of the prime storage points for city’s water supply, the Tamaraipakkam anaicut, built near Ammanambakkam village, Tiruvallur district, is nearly 190.80 m long. Portions of the dam were damaged during the 2015 floods, said officials. The WRD will soon call for bids to take up repair work at a cost of Rs. 4 crore. Officials said it was from this dam that surplus water from the Poondi reservoir is diverted to Cholavaram reservoir through a 13-km upper supply channel and further to the Red Hills reservoir. During the torrential rains in 2015, the apron of the structure, which helps in controlling the floodwater flow and dissipates the energy of flow effectively, was damaged. The department plans to repair the apron with concrete blocks and also the shutters. Similarly, the four sand vents that help in releasing the silt accumulated at the dam would be repaired. The river banks near the dam have been damaged over the past several years. The work would be taken up in August with financial assistance from NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development). “Repairing these structures are important to prevent the anicut from further damage. It is a three-month project. We plan to complete major portions of repair before the onset of the northeast monsoon in October,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamaraipakkam-dam-to-be-renovated-at-a-cost-of-rs-4-crore/article32096864.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Due to lockdown, T.N. suffers 50% fall in its tax revenue||The lockdown, imposed throughout the country to contain the spread of COVID-19, has caused about a 50% fall in the State’s Own Tax Revenue (SOTR) of Tamil Nadu during the first quarter (April-June) of this financial year, compared with the figure for the corresponding period last year. This year’s SOTR collections during April-June amounted to Rs. 12,318.18 crore against the previous year’s figure of Rs. 25,082.52 crore. The extent of loss is around 63% if one is to go by the State government’s estimates, which were prepared prior to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. As per the estimates, the SOTR collections for the entire 2020-21 are Rs. 1,33,530.3 crore. The figure for a quarter will be about Rs. 33,383 crore. Notwithstanding the severe drop in the revenue collections, what has provided a glimmer of hope to managers of the State finances is the performance in the collections in June as against April and May. In fact, the revenue through the State Excise — an index of the sale of liquor — was higher in June 2020 than what it was a year ago, let alone the collections in May 2020. Tax on liquor Apart from the opening of retail outlets of the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac), the restructuring of tax on liquor has contributed to the hike. In June this year, the collections were Rs. 724.3 crore, whereas the figures for June 2019 and May 2020 were Rs. 588.47 crore and Rs. 324.83 crore respectively. As for the components of Stamps and Registration — an indicator of real estate activity — and Motor Vehicle (MV) Tax, the revenue collections last month doubled those of May 2020. There is an expectation among officials that the MV Tax may net more revenue in the coming months than in the past in the event of improvement in the sale of two-wheelers on account of the restrictions on public transport. This time, one more aspect has provided breather to the government. The Centre provided around Rs. 4,600 crore in two instalments during April-June towards the Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation. This amount was for the period of October 2019-February 2020, an official of the Finance Department pointed out.  This year’s SOTR collections during April-June amounted to Rs. 12,318.18 crore against the previous year’s figure of Rs. 25,082.52 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/due-to-lockdown-tn-suffers-50-fall-in-its-tax-revenue/article32096901.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aptel defers hearing on tariff concession issue||The Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (Aptel) has deferred the hearing of the issue of concession in certain charges to high-tension consumers in Tamil Nadu, saying a similar appeal is pending and being heard by the Madras High Court. In May, the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) directed Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) to provide a 80% concession to high-tension consumers in the minimum demand charges as per the norms during the lockdown period from March 24 to May 3. Tangedco moved Aptel against the order. Aptel stayed the order and continued hearing the case. At a recent hearing, Aptel said the issue had also come up before the court, first through a batch of petitions at the Madurai Bench and then through another batch at the Principal Bench in Chennai. The Madurai Bench had not ruled on the validity of TNERC’s order, but had given a direction for inspections by the Superintendent Engineer to collect data on consumption by high-tension consumers during the period, Aptel noted. “The Madurai Bench has also directed that the data be presented before us for consideration,” Aptel said and asked the parties concerned to approach Tangedco to get the time for bill payments extended. The petitions before the Principal Bench were stated to be pending, it said. Aptel said that the prime common issue was whether TNERC had issued the order by following the proper procedure. It said the interim stay would continue till further orders and posted the case to September 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aptel-defers-hearing-on-tariff-concession-issue/article32096894.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam police face one more case of custodial torture||Close on the heels of the sensational case involving the deaths of trader P. Jayaraj, 58, and his son J Benicks, 31, after alleged torture at the Sattankulam police station, another case of assault in custody has surfaced with a remand prisoner accusing police of beating him badly. A fresh case has been registered against the same two Sub-Inspectors of Police who have been arrested in the alleged murders of the father-son duo. ‘Serious injuries’ According to police sources, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court took suo motu cognisance of report of the Principal District Judge, Thoothukudi, that one Raja Singh of Melapalayam, an inmate of the Sub-Jail, Kovilpatti, had also suffered “serious” injuries and was under treatment and directed the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Thoothukudi, to conduct an inquiry. The court also said that after competing the inquiry into the circumstances that led to remand prisoner Raja Singh suffering injuries if the Chief Judicial Magistrate felt that a full-fledged police investigation was required into the matter, she could exercise powers vested under Section 156(3) of Criminal Procedure Code and direct the Station House Officer of the police station under whose jurisdiction the incident took place to conduct a detailed investigation. Acting on the instructions of the court, the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Thoothukudi, recorded the statement of Raja Singh, an accused in a criminal offence, and sent her report to the Inspector of Police, Sattankulam police station. Case registered A case was registered against Sub-Inspectors Raghu Ganesh, Balakrishnan and others on charges of wrongful restraint, causing hurt, torturing suspect to confess, trespass etc, police sources said. The case was handed over to a Deputy Superintendent of Police rank officer for further investigation, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattankulam-accused-face-one-more-case-of-custodial-torture/article32096908.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver’s death in accident turns out to be suicide||What the police thought was a fatality due to a road traffic accident turned out to be suicide by an autorickshaw driver, further investigations revealed. According to the police, Raju, 70, of Mehta Nagar, Kundrathur, was crushed to death by a speeding multi-axle truck while he was crossing the Kundrathur-Anakaputhur road to have tea from a shop located on the other side. Initially, the case was treated as a traffic fatality. But later, personnel of the traffic investigation team, Poonamallee, scrutinised CCTV footage and came to the conclusion that Mr. Raju had walked across the road and lie down in front of a speeding truck. The reason behind his taking the extreme decision was not known. Those with suicidal tendencies can contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-drivers-death-in-accident-turns-out-to-be-suicide/article32096852.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Wellness webinar today||The Hindu Wellness will host a webinar series on “Self-medication – why is it a matter for serious dialogue” on July 16. The constraints imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic have driven many to self-medicate. It is possible that the situation may prevail for an indefinite period of time. It is, therefore, important that the practice be examined and discussed in some depth. The speakers include Arjun Rajagopalan, trustee and adviser (formerly medical director and head, Department of Surgery, Sundaram Medical Foundation) and Usha Sriram, consultant diabetologist and endocrinologist. Throughout history, dispensation of remedies and cures had been restricted to those who were specially trained in the art: from shamans and healers to present-day healthcare professionals. In spite of this, people constantly attempted to circumvent the rule and medicate or treat themselves. They did so out of lack of access, lack of resources or just resentment of a particular system. Self-medication could harm the body and the health of the consumer. Ingesting drugs without proper knowledge and understanding of the agent and its effects, beneficial and harmful, was unsafe. However, some doctors say self-medication cannot be condemned outright. Indeed, many countries have a long list of over-the-counter (OTC) remedies which could be bought and consumed without a doctor's prescription. The speakers will analyse various aspects relating to self-medication during the session. The event would be held from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. Participants can register athttps: //bit.ly/3j7rMs3or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-wellness-webinar-today/article32096862.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. ‘actively considering’ suggestion to drop plan to acquire Jayalalithaa’s house||The State Government on Wednesday told the Madras High Court that it was “actively considering” a suggestion made by the court on May 27 to not waste public money on acquiring Veda Nilayam, the residence of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa at Poes Garden, Chennai, along with the movable properties and converting it into a memorial. Appearing before Justice N. Anand Venkatesh, Advocate General Vijay Narayan said a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose had made three suggestions to the court while declaring Jayalalithaa’s niece J. Deepa and nephew J. Deepak as her legal heirs. All those suggestions were under active consideration. The first suggestion was to drop the move to acquire the properties. Second, the bungalow could be acquired and used as the official residence of the Chief Minister. Third, the government could consider using a part of the property spread over 10 grounds as a memorial and the rest as the official residence, the Bench had said. “The government is considering the suggestions. Your Lordship may record my statement,” the A-G said. He opposed a writ petition filed by Poes Garden Kasthuri Estate House Owners Association (PGKEHOA) challenging the acquisition proceedings on many grounds, including possible disturbance to residents due to the proposed memorial. Petitioner’s counsel L. Maithili contended that the proceedings were being conducted in an undue haste without considering suggestions made by the Division Bench. However, the judge dismissed the writ petition after recording the submissions made by the A-G that the court’s suggestions and petitioner association’s objections would be considered. Denying the allegation of undue haste, the A-G said the acquisition proceedings under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act of 2013 began as early as October 4, 2017. It had been proceeding steadily after complying with norms such as conduct of social impact assessment and so on. He, however, agreed that many people might throng Poes Garden to visit Jayalalithaa’s residence, like how they visit the Lincoln Memorial and other such places. “There may be visitors but that is not enough to challenge acquisition proceedings. After all, when the former Chief Minister was alive, huge crowds had been coming there for last 25 to 30 years,” he said. “Only the land and building can be acquired under the 2013 Act, so the Ordinance was passed,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-actively-considering-suggestion-to-drop-plan-to-acquire-jayalalithaas-house/article32096867.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre returns Chittoor-Thachur Road proposal, wants new EIA done||The Union Ministry of Environment and Forests’ Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) has returned a proposal seeking environmental clearance for the six-lane Chittoor-Thachur Road (NH 716B) directing that the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study be redone. It pulled up the project consultant for not carrying out the environmental impact assessment properly and also the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is the project proponent, for not verifying the report. Farmers happy The EAC said that though the terms of reference for the project had been issued for a length of 126.55 km, the EIA report submitted to them was for 116.550 km. The EIA did not capture issues related to loss of agriculture, animal husbandry and related livelihoods along with other critical issues raised during the public hearing. The committee said that a detailed study on usage of waterbodies by local community and impact of proposed project on hydrogeology and geomorphological features of the region along with adequate mitigation measures was to be done before finalising the alignment. Besides other issues, the study should ensure that the major, minor bridges and culverts should not affect the drainage systems. Farmers along the alignment have expressed relief and hoped that the proposal would be dropped since farm lands and waterbodies and canals were being affected by the proposed road. P. Seshadri, a farmer of Puducheri in Utthukottai taluk, who stands to lose 1.5 acres due to project, said that production of 600 tonnes of paddy would be hit every year in his village alone due to the blocking of channels carrying water from the Puducheri lake. “The road cuts through the centre of our village. If they take it outside it would cause less harm,” he said. A 100-year-old banyan tree too would be felled. “At least six borewells and several open wells would be lost. This would lead to the groundwater table being affected. Our grazing lands would be lost too," said G. Sundarraj, another farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-returns-chittoor-thachur-road-proposal-wants-new-eia-done/article32096877.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNCC launches digital publication||On the occasion of Kamaraj’s birth anniversary, a digital publication,Desiya Murasu, aimed at countering fake news and false propaganda, was launched by the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) on Wednesday. Desiyamurasu.com has been set up by the TNCC media wing head A. Gopanna. Speaking on the occasion, N. Ram, former Chairman, THG Publishing Pvt Ltd, said, it was important to delve deep into the issues of democracy, secularism and social justice and guidance on how to approach them should be looked into as the government continued taking decisions unilaterally without consulting the Opposition, on the basis of the brute majority it had in Parliament. “On how institutions can function, how the Supreme Court should function, how bureaucracy needs to function, the Election Commission should function… there needs to be guidance on that. This existed during the time of Nehru, Kamaraj, Jyoti Basu, but has now declined,” he added. Mr. Ram said ideological leanings did not seem to matter to some people anymore who were willing to jump to the Opposition camp with a completely opposite ideology just because a post or position of power was denied to them. He said governments should understand that secularism meant that government does not have religion or any religious bias and should have equal respect for all religions that should be implemented in letter and spirit. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri, who launched the website, said “it is being started on an ideological basis. This will counter the fake propaganda run by the right wing. The most difficult thing to do is expose falsities, fake propaganda and put forth the right views which will be done by the digital site,” he said. R. Nallakannu of the CPI said the ideological fight was very important in a democracy. “Nehru, Kamaraj, Ambedkar fought for ideologies and it is important to make sure this happens now as well,” he said. Nakkheeran editor, R.R. Gopal, conveyed his wishes for the portal’s growth.  Ideological leanings did not seem to matter to some people anymore who were willing to jump to the Opposition camp with a completely opposite ideology just because a post or position of power was denied to themN. Ram,Former Chairman, THG Publishing Pvt Ltd||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tncc-launches-digital-publication/article32096878.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM, Stalin wish Malini Parthasarathy||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and DMK President and Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin on Wednesday congratulated Malini Parthasarathy on her unanimous appointment as the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of The Hindu Group Publishing Private Limited. “My hearty congratulations and best wishes to Dr. Malini Parthasarathy for becoming the first woman chairperson of The Hindu Group. I am sure she will lead The Hindu newspaper group to greater heights,” Mr. Palaniswami tweeted. Mr. Stalin said she had led admirably in her earlier stint as Editor of The Hindu newspaper and subsequently as Director of The Hindu Centre for Politics and Public Policy. “I wish her a successful tenure in her new role,” he tweeted. In a tweet, S.P. Velumani, Minister for Municipal Administration, extended his wishes to her on Twitter, and wished the paper greater success under her leadership. On behalf of the employees union of The Hindu , M.K. Kanimozhi, president of The Hindu Office and National Press Employees’ Union said in a tweet: “I wish you the very best in these trying times and we trust that your leadership will guide the organisation to greater heights. Look forward to working with you.” Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali extended his wishes. He said, “I am confident that with your rich experience in dealing with journalism, the group will be benefitted in many aspects, under your able and dynamic administration in the years to come.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-stalin-wish-malini-parthasarathy/article32096868.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. shines in Class 10 CBSE Board exams||Tamil Nadu recorded a pass percentage of 99.61, the highest in the country, in the Class 10 CBSE board exam results announced on Wednesday. A majority of the students had completed their board examinations in the five main subjects — English, language, science, social science and mathematics — before the lockdown began in Tamil Nadu. A total of 62,260 candidates appeared for the exams and only 241 students did not clear them. The CBSE has also announced that they have replaced the term 'Fail' with 'Essential repeat' which would be reflected in the documents given to the students and the results hosted online on their website. This was the first year that the students were given an option to choose between basic maths and standard maths for their final paper. A majority however, preferred to take up the standard maths exam. “All our students opted for standard maths and they have performed exceptionally well. We have several centums in the subject as well,” said Minoo Aggarwal, Principal, DAV Public School, Velachery. Meanwhile, a few schools said that there had been a dip in the performance of students in science. A mix of conceptual learning and thorough revisions spelt success for students who scored well in the exams. “I went through the NCERT textbooks thoroughly and ensured that I was clear about all the concepts,” said P. Harini, a student of P.S.B.B. Senior Secondary School, K.K. Nagar who scored a total of 499 marks. More MCQs In the coming year, the students are expected to have a lot more MCQs (Multiple Choice Questions) in their board exam papers. Aditya Gokul, a student of Vel's Vidyashram, who secured 493 marks said that students should keep this in mind and ensure that they go through their textbook thoroughly from the start of the year. While the girls recorded a pass percentage of 99.85, boys recorded 99.42% pass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-shines-in-class-10-cbse-board-exams/article32096869.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Outpatient services resume at Vijaya Hospital||Vijaya Hospital has resumed outpatient services (only by appointment) since July 14 and online consultation is also available, Nagi Reddy, trustee at Vijaya Educational and Medical Trust, confirmed. “Our doctors and staff are well-trained in infection control measures and adherence to the same while handling patients. We are committed to the safety of our patients, staff and community at large,” the Trust said in a statement. The hospital had suspended services after some staff members tested positive for COVID-19. “The management had voluntarily decided to shut down one of our units (Vijaya Hospital) in the last week of June as soon as we identified a potential risk of infection spread. Following this, we have taken stringent measures to disinfect the facility completely as per disinfection protocols...,” the release said. “Most of our staff have been tested, and the ones who required institutional quarantine have been taken care of at our other unit (Vijaya Health Centre),” the release said.  Our doctors and staff are well-trained in infection control measures and adherence to the same while handling patients||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outpatient-services-resume-at-vijaya-hospital/article32096904.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two asphyxiated while clearing sewage channel||Two workers were asphyxiated when they entered a sewage channel to remove blockage in Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board flats at Seenivasapuram, Pattinampakkam, on Wednesday evening. The victims have been identified as Nagaraj, 38, and Saheen Shah, 32, of Seenivasapuram. According to the police, the sewer line was clogged for sometime here. Despite the residents complaining to the authorities, no one had turned up. One of the residents engaged the duo to remove the block. One of them entered an eight-foot deep channel and collapsed first. On seeing him, the other person climbed down to rescue him but he also was asphyxiated. The residents tried to rescue the duo but failed. Personnel of the Fire and Rescue Services in Mylapore rushed to the spot and retrieved the bodies. They were sent to the Government Royapettah Hospital for post-mortem. The Pattinampakkam police have registered a case and arrested Kubendran, who engaged the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-asphyxiated-while-clearing-sewage-channel/article32096856.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police focus on crowded junctions to drive home message on COVID-19||At 9 a.m., a patrol team takes to the mike and urges people near the junction EVR Road-Raja Muthiah Road junction not to come out of their houses unnecessarily. A policewoman on the mike appeals to the public to wear masks when they step out and maintain physical distance in public places. “Frequently clean your hands with sanitisers. Only through such personal hygiene activities, we will not contract coronavirus and contain its spread. Please cooperate with us to fight the pandemic. It is an appeal from the Greater Chennai Police to make the city free from the virus,” she appeals repeatedly. After the new Commissioner of Police took charge, there has been shift in the strategy of the city police. Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal told The Hindu , “We have been doing awareness campaigns for a long time. Apart from enforcement of COVID-19 norms, such as wearing masks and maintaining personal distance, we have been doing awareness campaigns in different areas at different timings.” “We have now changed strategy. Now, awareness campaigns are conducted at almost all the main junctions during peak hour traffic simultaneously. Public watching the awareness campaign at junctions will definitely carry the message home. It is to emphasise to the public not to lower their guard,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-focus-on-crowded-junctions-to-drive-home-message-on-covid-19/article32096858.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fish markets violating norms to be shut||Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar has warned that 12 major fish markets in the city that have been reopened will be closed again if personal distancing was not maintained and masks were not worn. Speaking to reporters after visiting the Kasimedu fishing harbour on Wednesday when mechanised boats left for fishing after 110-odd days, he said that retailers would not be let into Kasimedu. “All the protocols that were suggested have been implemented in Kasimedu. Nobody can enter without a pass. All entry points are being monitored by the police,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fish-markets-violating-norms-to-be-shut/article32096854.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Perarivalan seeks copies of State’s communication with Raj Bhavan||A.G. Perarivalan, one of the life convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, has written to the State Home Department seeking copies of correspondence between the Tamil Nadu Government and Raj Bhavan on his petition seeking premature release under Article 161 of the Constitution. Calling for information within 48 hours since the issue pertained to his life and liberty, Perarivalan, who is serving his 30th year of imprisonment, said his petition under the Right to Information Act followed the Supreme Court’s direction to the State on February 11 this year to apprise it of the Governor’s decision on his petition. The convict, presently lodged in the Puzhal central prison, Chennai, had in December 2015 filed a petition seeking premature release. Three years later, acting on the apex court order, State Cabinet passed a resolution recommending the release of the seven life convicts in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perarivalan-seeks-copies-of-states-communication-with-raj-bhavan/article32096875.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4 held for panchayat chief’s murder||The Thirunindravur police have apprehended four youths who are suspected to be involved in the murder of a village panchayat president in Kosavanpalayam near Thirunindravur on Tuesday evening. The 40-year-old village panchayat president was hacked to death in full public view by four persons who arrived on motorbikes on Tuesday. The victim was identified as D. Paramaguru, who was recently elected president of the Kosavanpalayam panchayat which comes under Tiruvallur district. At 5.30 p.m on Tuesday, he was inspecting the construction of storm-water drain work at a street in Arunthathiyarpalayam, adjacent to Poonamallee High Road. He went to the main road to take a phone call. Four persons, who reached the spot on three bikes, attacked him with knives while he was talking over the phone. He collapsed in a pool of blood and passersby alerted the police. Personnel from the Thirunindravur police station rushed to the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-held-for-panchayat-chiefs-murder/article32096851.ece
16 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Bill payment deadline extended||Tangedco on Wednesday extended till July 30 the deadline for payment of electricity bill (low tension connections) in Chennai and five districts. In a release, it urged residents with low tension connections in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Madurai and Theni districts to pay electricity bills (if their due dates were between March 25 and July 14) latest by July 30. Residents living in containment zones have been requested to pay bills within 15 days of the relaxing of restrictions, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bill-payment-deadline-extended/article32096879.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bid to rob ATM foiled||Burglars attempted to break open three ATMs in Mowliwakkam and Kolapakkam. The police have launched a search for the accused. After targeting two ATMs, the burglars entered the third ATM in Kolapakkam, but fled the spot when the alarm went off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-rob-atm-foiled/article32096882.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Unregistered barbers to get relief||The Tamil Nadu government has announced Rs. 2,000 each in ex gratia to 26,413 barbers in 17 districts. They have not registered themselves with any labour welfare board and their livelihood has been affected by the lockdown to contain COVID-19. The government has accepted the proposal of the Commissioner of Revenue Administration based on the approval of the State Executive Committee to sanction over Rs. 5.28 crore to 17 Collectors from the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF), an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unregistered-barbers-to-get-relief/article32096891.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BCG vaccine’s efficacy in the elderly to be tested||Tamil Nadu will soon launch a trial to study the efficacy of the BCG vaccine in reducing morbidity and mortality due to COVID-19 in the elderly. The National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT), Chennai, an institute under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), will take up the trial soon, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Wednesday. BCG (Bacille Calmette-Guerin), a vaccine against tuberculosis, was administered to infants as part of the National Immunisation Schedule for 50 years in India. It is learned that the vaccine could reduce the rates of morbidity and mortality due to COVID-19 in those aged 60-95, he said in a press release. Permission sought The Indian Council of Medical Research had sought permission from the State government to study the efficacy of the vaccine in the elderly. The Chief Minister issued orders according approval for the trial. The study would focus on the vaccine’s potential in reducing morbidity and mortality due to COVID-19 and preventing hospitalisation. The Minister said the government was taking measures for prevention and treatment of COVID-19. It was known that elderly persons with diabetes, hypertension and cardiac diseases were at higher risk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bcg-vaccines-efficacy-in-the-elderly-to-be-tested/article32096893.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines issued for re-exam||The Revenue and Disaster Management Department has issued guidelines for the conduct of the Plus-Two exams for those who missed them. The students will write the exams in their schools. The re-examination is being held on July 27 for those who were unable to write the chemistry, accountancy and geography exams on March 24 because of the restrictions. The private candidates will have to write the exams at the same centres where they had written other papers. If any of these centres are in a containment zone, an alternative school nearby will be assigned. The Chief Educational Officers have been asked to arrange for transport of the candidates. Fresh hall tickets can be downloaded from www.dge.tn.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guidelines-issued-for-re-exam/article32096892.ece
16 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 5.5 cr. seized from car at Elavoor checkpost||The police seized a bag with bundles of currency notes totalling Rs. 5.5 crore from a car during checking in the Arambakkam police station limits in Tiruvallur district on Tuesday evening. The bag has been handed over to the Income Tax Department. Three persons, including the driver of the car, were arrested. According to the police, on Tuesday night, personnel were checking vehicles at the Elavoor checkpost. They stopped a car and asked for the e-pass. However, the three passengers in the car claimed to have an MLA pass. Growing suspicious, the police checked the vehicle and found the bag full of currency notes. The car passengers did not have any valid documents to account for the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-55-cr-seized-from-car-at-elavoor-checkpost/article32096853.ece
16 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Water supply scheme inaugurated||N. Surendar alias Naathikan, anchor of YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam, which is in the thick of a controversy over its video on Tamil devotional song ‘Kandha Sashti Kavasam’, has filed an anticipatory bail petition in the Madras High Court. The petition is expected to be listed before Justice A.D. Jagadish Chandira on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-supply-scheme-inaugurated/article32096876.ece
16 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||State BJP unit makes appointments||The Tamil Nadu BJP has appointed actor Radha Ravi, former Minister H.V. Hande, film director and actor Dhanush’s father Kasthuri Raja, music director Gangai Amaran and actor Vijayakumar to the State unit’s executive committee. While Mr. Radha Ravi was appointed directly to the committee, the others have been appointed as special invitees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-bjp-unit-makes-appointments/article32096880.ece
16 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. gets five robotic machines to clean UGD manholes||Coimbatore Corporation on Wednesday received five robotic UGD manhole cleaning machines from Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), which had sponsored the machines for Rs. 2.50 crore under its corporate social responsibility initiative. Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath received the machines from BPCL Executive Director Jayesh Sha, who through video conferencing joined the event held at the Corporation Kalaiarangam. The BPCL officials in Coimbatore led by Territory Manager N. Krishnamani and Director of Genrobotics K. Rashid were present. Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani is expected to launch the machines at a function to be held at the Corporation main office in Town Hall on July 16. Mr. Jatavath said machines would help eliminate manual scavenging. With the Corporation getting the machines, it became the first city in India to have so many robotic machines and would deploy the five machines at one each a zone. The Commissioner also said that for the next two years a person each from the BPCL and Genrobotics would guide the Corporation workers to use the machines and they would take care of operation and maintenance as well. Mr. Krishnamani said the company had sponsored the machines as a part of the Swachata Pakhwada programme, which was held annually from July 1 to 15. The company did not stop with sponsoring the machine but also took care of training the manual scavengers to operate the machines. Mr. Rashid said the machines through its robotic arm could clean manholes up to 10 m. Member of the State committee to eliminate manual scavengers S. Selvakumar said the Corporation should see to it that it trained either manual scavengers or the qualified among its conservancy workers to put the machines to good use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-gets-five-robotic-machines-to-clean-ugd-manholes/article32096934.ece
16 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Collector tests positive for virus||District Collector K. Rajamani tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Confirming this, a senior official of the district administration said Mr. Rajamani had mild symptoms and his swab sample was collected on Tuesday. The result returned positive and he was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore on Wednesday morning. “The Collector’s chamber is closed and it will be fumigated. The staff strength has been reduced to 30%,” the official said. The official added that swab samples of 50 employees at the collectorate, who were in contact with the Collector, had been collected for testing. Health Department sources said that efforts were being made to prepare a list of people who were in contact with the Collector over the last several days. Apart from taking part in public events and meetings, Mr. Rajamani was also seen inspecting COVID-19 affected areas and treatment facilities. He was at his office, giving directions to officials until Monday. He had visited at least 10 COVID-19 affected places with proper precautions to review containment measures, according to a Revenue Department official.  Scotching rumours, the revenue official clarified that as of now, there were no plans to impose total lockdown in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-collector-tests-positive-for-virus/article32096898.ece
16 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault on minor girl||The All Women Police, Pollachi, on Tuesday arrested a 35-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl. C. Raja, a resident of Chinna Vadambacheri near Sulur, was arrested by the police based on a complaint lodged by the survivor’s mother. Police said the incident took place on Monday afternoon when the 11-year-old girl went to the accused’s house to watch television along with his two daughters. According to police, the accused took the girl to a room and sexually assaulted her. Raja was arrested for offences under Sections 9 (m) (aggravated sexual assault on a child below 12 years) and 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody. The accused owns a garment company in Tiruppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article32096931.ece
16 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dry rations for noon meal students||Coimbatore Corporation has instructed parents of students who are beneficiaries of noon meal programme at its schools to collect dry rations, as per a State government order, from the schools concerned between July 16 and 23 (excluding weekends). A release from the civic body said the parents should go to the schools wearing mask and observe physical distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dry-rations-for-noon-meal-students/article32096923.ece
16 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Flower vendors stage protest||Over 200 flower vendors staged a protest here on Wednesday demanding space to sell their produce. The flower market at the Anna Flower Market Complex here was closed by the end of March. The vendors were given space at the bus stand where there was no infrastructure. Everyday hundreds of flower growers brought their produce to the complex. Even when the lockdown was relaxed, the market was not thrown open by authorities. So, they resorted to a protest. Officials pacified the vendors and assured a favourable response as and when the COVID-19 situation improved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flower-vendors-stage-protest/article32097186.ece
16 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Contract workers get outstanding wages||Outstanding wages to 34 contract workers at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai has been paid as per the agreement reached between the district administration and the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), said S. Chinnasamy, State Secretary of AITUC. The decision was taken following talks the AITUC office-bearers had with Collector C. Kathiravan, Superintendent of Police, Dean of the hospital, Tahsildar and manager from the private company that recruited the workers. Mr. Chinnasamy said that outstanding wages to the workers were paid by the private company. The company was instructed to deduct only 12% towards PPF and 0.75% towards ESI and not 29% as earlier, he said. “It was decided in the meeting that the daily wage of a worker is Rs. 360 and after deduction towards PPF and ESI, the balance wage should be paid to the workers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contract-workers-get-outstanding-wages/article32096922.ece
16 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||14 TV channels ready to telecast lessons: Minister||Fourteen television channels have come forward to telecast lessons for government school students and the schedule will be released in three days, School Education Minister K. A. Sengottaiyan told mediapersons in Gobichettipalayam, on Wednesday. The Minister, who laid foundation stones for various development projects, said laptops given to Class 12 students will help them download lessons and study using the Wi-Fi facility available at 6,019 schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-tv-channels-ready-to-telecast-lessons-minister/article32096906.ece
16 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||14 TV channels ready to telecast lessons: Minister||Fourteen television channels have come forward to telecast lessons for government school students and the schedule would be released in three days, School Education Minister K. A. Sengottaiyan told reporters at Vellalapalayam Panchayat in Gobichettipalayam on Wednesday. The Minister, who laid foundation for various development works, said laptops given to Plus Two students would help them download the lessons and study using the WiFi facility available at 6,019 schools. Using QR Code and YouTube, students can also learn their lessons on their mobile phone. “Government school teachers were trained to take classes for the purpose,” he said. Since schools were closed, steps were taken to clear the doubts of students. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that distribution of textbooks to students has begun and all the students will be given the books in a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-tv-channels-ready-to-telecast-lessons-minister/article32096944.ece
16 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||CM to launch projects in Erode tomorrow||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will inaugurate completed works and lay foundation for new projects during his visit to Erode on July 17. Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release said that the CM will hold a meeting at the Collectorate in the presence of School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan, Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan and others on COVID-19 control measures. As many as 13 works completed at a total cost of Rs. 21.73 crore would be inaugurated and foundation would be laid for 14 new projects at Rs. 76.12 crore. He will distribute assistance worth Rs. 53.71 crore to 4,642 beneficiaries and hold meetings with office-bearers of MSME associations, representatives of farmer’s federations, and interact with SHG members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-launch-projects-in-erode-tomorrow/article32096935.ece
16 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Couple share bank details over phone, lose Rs. 68,000||A couple was cheated to the tune of Rs. 68,000 after they shared their debit card details over phone to unknown persons who introduced themselves as bank managers.  Murugesan (45) of Valliyampalayam in Sivagiri, in his complaint to the Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, said that on July 13 he received a call on his mobile phone from a person who introduced himself as the manager of the bank in which he holds a savings account. The caller obtained details of his debit card and pin number and later Murugesan received an SMS that Rs. 18,000 had been debited from his account. His wife Vidhya (35) also received a similar call and she shared her bank details. Later, Rs. 50,000 was debited from her account. Together they lost Rs. 68,000. The complaint was forwarded to the Cyber Crime Branch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-share-bank-details-over-phone-lose-rs-68000/article32096936.ece
16 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Aquatic weeds removed||Farmers in Erode block removed aquatic weeds in Kalingarayan Canal that prevented water from reaching tail-end users. They said that weeds entered the sub-canals and choked the flow affecting crops cultivated in Modakurichi and Kodumudi blocks. They urged the district administration to chalk out a plan to prevent further spread of weeds .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aquatic-weeds-removed/article32096924.ece
16 July 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tamil Nadu’s case count likely to decline in 10 days’||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 case count is likely to decline in the next 10 days and the spread of the virus is reducing noticeably in Chennai, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Wednesday. Addressing the media, Mr. Palaniswami said the daily case tally was expected to come down. However, the containment of the virus was “in each person’s hands”, and what was needed was “self-regulation and people’s support”, he added. Mr. Palaniswami was in Krishnagiri to review containment measures and lay the foundation for an international flower auction market. Responding to queries regarding the Opposition’s criticism of the government and DMK leader M.K. Stalin’s demand that each family be paid Rs. 5,000 as COVID-19 relief, Mr. Palaniswami sought to know what kind of compensation did the erstwhile DMK regime provide during cyclones and floods. “The Opposition, instead of lending support to the government, is busy issuing statements of criticism,” he said. Dismissing reports that cooperative societies had been asked to increase loan disbursements, Mr. Palaniswami said they were facing demands in respect of deposits, and adequate liquidity had to be maintained by the societies in order to be able to return the deposits when a demand is made. “The depositors with cooperative societies are largely farmers and in these hard times, such societies need liquid cash to return deposits. Loans will be disbursed in proportion to the liquidity of the society concerned,” he said. Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister laid the foundation for an international flower auction centre, which will come up at Moranapalli village in Hosur at a cost of Rs. 20.20 crore. The centre, to be spread over 7.68 acres, envisages 3,702 ha under flower cultivation, with a production capacity of 39,383 tonnes. The export turnover is estimated to be Rs. 150 crore-Rs. 200 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadus-case-count-likely-to-decline-in-10-days/article32096896.ece
16 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Intensified lockdown relaxed||The intensified lockdown in Madurai was relaxed after three weeks on Wednesday. All types of vehicles were back on the roads and people waited in front of shops in crowded markets despite the rising number of cases. A press release by the Collector said that all relaxations that were allowed before the intensified lockdown, starting from June 24, in Madurai Corporation, Paravai Town Panchayat and rural blocks of Madurai East, Madurai West and Tirupparankundram would be in force. It would be permitted in a phased manner. No activity will be allowed inside containment zone. Small temples outside containment zones with annual income of less than Rs. 10,000 and other places of worship including small mosques and churches were allowed to function with adequate physical distancing. However, there should not be crowds. Industries were allowed to function with 100% employees but the information technology sector would have to ensure that 20% of its workforce works from home. P.N. Ragunantha Raja, president, Kappalur Industrial Estate, said the estate is yet to run in a full-fledged manner as public transport is yet to be permitted. Since the market for most industries is in major cities, sales will not pick up until the lockdown is completely lifted. “Production in full capacity will resume only when demand picks up,” he said. Restaurants are allowed to have dine-in with 50% of seats. K. L. Kumar, president, Tamil Nadu Hotel Owners Association, said they have advised hotels to provide parcel service and avoid dine-in till July 31 to ensure safety of their labourers and customers. “Some small hotels have opened their doors but sales are low everywhere. We can only get 20% of our margin,” he said. Grocery stores, vegetable shops and tea shops were allowed to remain open from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. Hundreds arrived at shops throughout the day to purchase goods. Markets functioned in full swing. Tasmac shops were allowed to remain open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Autorickshaws and rental car services, with only two or three people, were allowed to ply on roads. Sundays in July will see a complete lockdown. Only sale of milk, medicines and functioning of hospitals will be allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intensified-lockdown-relaxed/article32097188.ece
16 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Many CBSE schools get 100% pass in Class 10||Most schools in Madurai achieved 100% pass percentage in the Class 10 examinations conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Examinations (CBSE). The results were announced here on Wednesday. A total of 1,198 students from nine schools in the district had passed. Principals of schools said they were satisfied with the result. Many students scored full marks in Mathematics and Social Science. C. Sivarajan of Vallaba Vidyalaya said their student K. Suraj scored 491 marks out of 500. A total of 48 students appeared for the examinations and three scored centum. From Velammal Bodhi Campus, a total of 232 students scored cent percent results. Students Krishore Narayan and Apsara Nilani scored 490 marks and stood first in their school. The school saw 11 centums including nine in Mathematics, one in Social Studies and one in English. Principal S. Thilaga said a student scoring the maximum marks in English was surprising. Mahatma School student J. Dhanushree scored 489, the highest in their school, where a total of 292 students appeared. Principal Subha Manikandan said their school had 16 centums in Mathematics and two in French. Principal, Adhyapana School, Aruna Visweswar, said two students C. Akshadha Angel and A. Sanjeev scored 489 marks - the highest mark. There were three centums in the school, she said. Principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Tirupparankundram, J. Gerald, said that all 96 students, who appeared for the examinations, passed and the highest mark was scored by a student with 489 marks. One student secured a centum in Sanskrit. In Maharishi Vidya Mandir, a total of 92 students wrote the exam of which all passed. N. Subhashini, a student secured 486 marks which was the highest in their school. Their school had three centums including one in Mathematics and two in Social Science. Director of Academics, Queen Mira School, Sujatha Guptan, said that the highest mark in their school was secured by M. Krithika who got 485. A total of 46 students wrote the exams. One person secured a centum in Mathematics and two in Social science. She added that the school average was 84.4%. In Mahatma Global school, a total of 71 students wrote the examination and all of them have passed. The highest mark was 482 scored by two students. Principal, Kendriya Vidyalaya, P. Selvaraj, said that 202 out of 203 students passed the examinations. “We will definitely improve our results, he said. Karaikudi Kendriya Vidyalaya in Karaikudi, CECRI campus, has achieved 100 % result in class X CBSE examination. Principal V Subramanian said all the 109 students who appeared have passed the examination with 98 scoring 60 % and above. The toppers are A Rohith - 467/500, Dhava Dharanya - 464/500 and Lincy Francia - 462/500. In class XII CBSE, 62 students passed out of 64 who had appeared. In science stream, Divya Bharathi scored first with 475/500 marks, followed by Mas Annamalai (463) and Ku Sugirtha Christy (457). In commerce stream, Rati Rupa got 473, Sweta Kasturi 467 and Sriranjani 457 marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-cbse-schools-get-100-pass-in-class-10/article32097179.ece
16 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rich tributes paid to Kamaraj||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan hailed the contribution of former Chief Minister K. Kamaraj. Speaking on the occasion of his 118th birth anniversary in a video conference conducted by Madurai Kamaraj University here on Wednesday, she said that he had made it a point to speak to people who came from various towns and cities in person. This was an admirable trait, she said. Representatives from Madurai Kamaraj University including Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan and Registrar (in-charge) V. S. Vasantha spoke about the greatness of the former Chief Minister and garlanded his statue on the university campus. Members of Desiya Chinthanai Kazhagam also took part. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan paid floral tributes to the bust of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, K. Kamaraj, on the occasion of his 118th birth anniversary here on Wednesday. Superintendent of Police P. Perumal and District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian accompanied him. DMK MLAs K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, Thangam Thennarasu and A.R.Srinivasan garlanded the statue of Kamaraj at his manimandapam. The party MLA S. Thangapandian offered his respects at Rajapalayam. On behalf of the Congress, cadres of the party East district Youth Congress distributed welfare assistance to the local people. Its president M.K.M. Meenakshi Sundaram administered a pledge. Tirunelveli The contributions of Kamaraj was significant, said K Pandiarajan, Minister, Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture, on Wednesday. Participating in a function organised by the Sevalaya through virtual meeting, he spoke about the rich contributions in education, agriculture and industry in Tamil Nadu. Earlier, online competitions were conducted for school students. S Kanchana, Head Value Education, Sevalaya, read out names of all winners. V Muralidharan, founder and managing trustee, and Amarchand Jain, advisor, Sevalaya, joined the celebrations online, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rich-tributes-paid-to-kamaraj/article32097195.ece
16 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Cow gets reunited with bull ‘friend’||Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam intervened on Tuesday to reunite a cow with its friend, a temple bull, in Palamedu, known for jallikattu. After farmer Muniyandi of Palamedu sold his cow, it was loaded into a cargo autorickshaw on Sunday. The bull, belonging to Manjamalai Swamy Temple near Palamedu, was visibly upset at this. “It had walked around the vehicle and also occasionally hit it with its horns expressing its disappointment and anger,” said Sholavandan MLA Manickam. After sometime, when the vehicle started to move, the bull gave it a chase. “It ran for nearly one km before the vehicle disappeared,” the MLA said. Moved by incident, Mr. Panneerselvam had asked the MLA, under whose constituency Palamedu comes, to locate the cow and reunite it with its friend. “The Deputy CM told me that the cow should be bought from its new owner at any cost,” Mr. Manickam said. The MLA and O.P. Jayapradeep, younger son of Mr. Panneerselvam, tracked the cow somewhere near Sattur in neighbouring Virudhunagar district. “Our men offered the best price sought by the new owner and brought it back on Monday night,” he added. Mr. Panneerselvam and his family are attached to Manjamalai Swamy Temple. “His elder son O.P. Raveendranath Kumar had kick-started his election campaign during the Lok Sabha polls at this temple. Even I started my campaign from this temple,” Mr. Manickam said. The cow was left in the custody of Kizhakku Theru Mahasabai that takes care of the temple bull.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cow-gets-reunited-with-bull-friend/article32097200.ece
16 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Twitter comment against CAPF: summons issued to CRPF officer stayed||Taking into account the COVID-19 pandemic situation, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has stayed the summons issued by Sivaganga police to an Assistant Commandant of Central Reserve Police Force, stationed at New Delhi. The court was hearing the petition filed by Assistant Commandant Ravi Ranjan Sinha, who sought to quash the FIR registered against him by Karaikudi North police based on a complaint lodged by an RSS functionary. The complainant, R. Suriyanarayanan, had alleged that an unknown person had created a Twitter account – ‘RSS for India’ – and a comment was made in Hindi on the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF). He alleged that the remark was made in the name of the RSS to create tension by portraying a distorted version of the CAPF, but the petitioner said it was a reply to a colleague and the expression did not cause hatred. Justice B. Pugalendhi observed that in the opinion of the court the message could not be construed to be creating any enmity, hatred or ill-will between two classes or communities. The court took into account the submission that there were other accounts using the name of the RSS such as ‘Friends of RSS’. The judge also took note of the fact that the de facto complainant had not been authorised to lodge a complaint on behalf of the RSS. The court said it was not inclined to interfere with the investigation, but in view of the pandemic situation, stayed the summons issued to the Assistant Commandant and directed the State and the de facto complainant to file their counters. The case was adjourned till August 24. Earlier, the High Court Bench had dismissed the anticipatory bail petition filed by the Assistant Commandant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/twitter-comment-against-capf-summons-issued-to-crpf-officer-stayed/article32097202.ece
16 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC issues notice||Taking a serious view of illegal sand quarrying in Karur district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered show cause notice to the Karur district administration for failing to curb the illegal activities. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the district administration in the public interest litigation petition filed by S. Madhavan from Manmangalam in Karur district. The petitioner complained of rampant sand quarrying in the stretch between the bridge in Thavittupalayam that connects Karur district with Namakkal district and the railway bridge and road bridge at Vangal. Due to illegal sand quarrying from the Cauvery, people who were dependent on the water for irrigation and drinking water purposes were put to much hardship. The illegally quarried sand was transported to nearby states, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-issues-notice/article32097174.ece
16 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Drones keep a tab on public movement||The police, who have started using the drones since Tuesday, have deployed three drones to keep a watch on movement of people in the city in view of relaxation of lockdown conditions with effect from Wednesday. Besides monitoring thickly populated areas with cameras, drones would be used to create awareness of the need to scrupulously follow lockdown norms. Speakers fitted on drones would announce lockdown conditions and warn people against coming out unnecessarily. “The drones get some attraction among the people and they will be effective in spreading the message,” the Commissioner Prem Anand Sinha said. These drones will be useful in containment zones and to reach people living in high-rise buildings. “The drones will spare our men from the need to enter narrow streets and bylanes to monitor movement of people, The cameras will help us identify those areas where social distancing norms are violated,” he said. The recorded voice talks about the prohibitory order under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure and warns of action against those who violate it. People are asked to come out only to buy essentials like groceries and vegetables. The police cautioned the youths, who roam unnecessarily on motorbikes, by initiating legal action. Apart from corporation and revenue officials, the police are warning people for not using masks. “The police impose a fine of Rs. 200 on violators. Besides, masks are being distributed to poor people,” he said. The police are taking action on shops that are not implementing personal distancing norms on their premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drones-keep-a-tab-on-public-movement/article32097194.ece
16 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Beware of fall armyworm attack on maize||The Agriculture Department has asked farmers to prevent fall armyworm attack, which had caused extensive damage to crop in 2018. In a press release, Collector T.G. Vinay and Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan asked farmers to take precautionary measures against fall armyworm attack as they are expected to begin maize cultivation this year. Maize is cultivated on around 15,000 hectares in Tirumangalam, Sedapatti, Chellampatti, Alanganallur, Usilampatti, Kallikudi and T. Kallupatti blocks, said an official. An official said a female moth lays 100 to 200 eggs inside whorls of leaves. “Worms that come off eggs tend to eat lower portion of leaves; the colour of leaves turn to white from green. The worms can create a web and shift from one crop to another depending on direction of the wind,” he said. So, farmers are asked to take up summer ploughing and apply 100 kg of neem cakes in an acre at the final stage. Farmers are asked to use 10 grams of a bio pesticide called Beauveria Bassiana or 10 grams of another insecticide called Thiamethoxam for 1 kg of maize seeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beware-of-fall-armyworm-attack-on-maize/article32097178.ece
16 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers get dues||Guest lecturers from Madurai Kamaraj University college have received their dues. K. C. Palani Kumar, one who petitioned Madurai Kamaraj University Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan regarding their pending salaries, said that families of 63 individuals from Madurai Kamaraj University College were happy. Guest lecturers were paid Rs. 15,000 for a month. Initially, the guest lecturers had sought pay for May and June. However, the VC said that recruits would be paid after the vacation month of May as per orders of the State Government. The plight guest lecturers in the time of COVID-19 was taken into account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-lecturers-get-dues/article32097176.ece
16 July 2020||MADURAI/THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||341 new cases take Madurai’s tally to 7,331||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Madurai district crossed 7,000 mark to reach 7,331 as 341 people tested positive on Wednesday. As many as 1,188 people were discharged from various treatment facilities, including private hospitals. The number of active cases in the district is 3,347. With five deaths, including that of a 94-year-old man, on Wednesday, the toll stands at 129. Thoothukudi reported 269 new cases – all the cases except one were indigenous – which took the district’s total case count to 2,766, with 1,619 active cases. In Tirunelveli, the single-day tally was 164 and all the cases were indigenous. The district has recorded a total number of 2,098 cases, with 1,119 active cases. Kanniyakumari reported 135 fresh cases, including one imported case, on Wednesday. The district, which has registered a tally of 1,745, has 1,115 active cases. Seventeen cases were recorded in Tenkasi, which has recorded a total of 842 positive cases and 514 active cases. Virudhunagar With three more deaths from Virudhunagar reported on Wednesday, the district’s toll rose to 22. The victims were aged 74 (woman), 55 and 52 (both men). The patients, with various co-morbidities, had died at different government hospitals on July 13 and 14. The district registered 175 fresh cases which pushed its tally to 2,603. Twenty-one patients were discharged on Wednesday. The district has 1,577 active cases. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said the huge backlog of samples accumulated in the last few days had been cleared. “From Thursday, all the results of swabs taken will be out the very next day,” he added. Theni With 59 people – 33 men, 22 women and four children – testing positive on Wednesday, Theni’s tally rose to 1,975. Theni town reported 18 of the new cases, Periyakulam 11 cases, Bodinayakkanur 10 cases and Uthamapalayam 5 cases. Forty people were discharged from hospitals. Dindigul Dindigul’s single-day tally was 120. With this, the district’s positive case count went up to 1,066. Ramanathapuram A total of 120 people tested positive in Ramanathapuram, taking the district’s case count to 2,076. Thirty-two people were discharged from hospitals. Sivaganga Sivaganga recorded 100 fresh cases which pushed the total number of infections in the district to 1,103. Tiruppuvanam, Tirupattur, Sivaganga town, Kalayarkoil and Manamadurai continued to report cases. There were 27 people discharged from hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/341-new-cases-take-madurais-tally-to-7331/article32097192.ece
16 July 2020||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||New officials assume charge in Mayiladuthurai||The Special Officer for the newly formed Mayiladuthurai district, R. Lalitha, and Superintendent of Police N. Shreenatha assumed charge on Wednesday. On her first day in office, the Special Officer visited the government hospital and evaluated the sites identified for construction of the Collectorate Complex for the new district. After assuming charge, the new SP said safety of children, women and elders, and maintenance of law and order would be given priority. The Chief Minister announced formation of the new district in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-officials-assume-charge-in-mayiladuthurai/article32097233.ece
16 July 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Helpline for senior citizens, women||Superintendent of Police. S. Sakthi Ganesan on Tuesday launched helpline numbers to assist senior citizens and women in the district. Mr. Ganesan said in a release that the schemes have been named as ‘Hello Seniors’ and ‘Ladies First.’ Details of complainants would remain confidential and action would be taken within 24 hours. Senior citizens can contact 99947 17110 for all kinds of assistance. Similarly, women can contact district police at 98945 15110.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helpline-for-senior-citizens-women/article32096927.ece
16 July 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records three deaths; toll up to 21||The deaths of three elderly COVID-19 patients took the fatalities to 21 in the Union Territory on Wednesday. Health officials said while a 76-year-old man from Muthialpet died in the IGMCRI, a 62-year-old woman from Lawspet and a man aged 75 from Reddiarpalayam died at Jipmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-three-deaths-toll-up-to-21/article32096872.ece
16 July 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Festival begins||The annual Adi Thirukalyana Urchavam commenced here with the hoisting of the holy flag at the Ramanathaswamy Temple in Rameswaram on Wednesday. The fortnight long celebrations included Adi Amavasai on July 20 (Monday), car festival July 23 (Thursday), Adi Thabasu July 25 (Saturday), celestial wedding on July 26 (Sunday) and Kenthamadanaparvatham Mandahapadi on July 31 (Friday). HR and CE department is making necessary arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-begins/article32097180.ece
16 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Government will take steps to get due share of Cauvery water: CM||The State Government will take all measures needed to get Tamil Nadu its due share of Cauvery water, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami told presspersons here on Wednesday after inaugurating three flyovers and laying foundation for 34 development works. When asked what the government proposed to do, he pointed out that the issue was flagged with the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee on Tuesday. On the public interest litigation petition filed against the Mettur Surplus Water Scheme by Thamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam, which stated that the scheme would hit irrigation in delta districts, the Chief Minister said the scheme would use only surplus water to fill lakes and tanks to improve ground water level in the dry regions of Salem district. “In a similar PIL filed earlier by another person in the High Court, the court has made its observation clear. The court asked the State Government what steps had been taken to save surplus water. Its only after that the State government decided to conserve surplus water which drained into sea. It decided to build a check dam to conserve water and to use the surplus to fill lakes in dry areas to improve ground water level”, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-will-take-steps-to-get-due-share-of-cauvery-water-cm/article32096929.ece
16 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Curbs will be eased only when cases dip, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said here on Wednesday that the lockdown measures could be relaxed further only when the spread of COVID-19 decreases gradually. Responding to a question on the possibility of more relaxations after July 30, he said, “It cannot be said now. A decision can be taken based on the decision of the Centre and other State governments. Secondly, the spread of the disease should gradually decrease...” Mr. Palaniswami said transport restrictions were introduced because people travelled from rural areas to cities and returned, leading to the spread of the disease in their region and making contact-tracing difficult. Hence, bus services had been stopped. On Makkal Needhi Maiam leader Kamal Hassan’s allegation of the lack of facilities in rural primary health centres, he said the disease could not be treated everywhere. N95 masks and PPE kits were required. “He [Mr. Hassan] is not aware of it. Doctors have to wear PPE kits. Not all primary health centres are treating COVID-19 patients; special hospitals have been set up,” he said. Treatment was provided as per the guidelines of the World Health Organization, the Union Health Ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research. Only those private hospitals that had the required facilities were permitted to treat COVID-19 patients. Across Tamil Nadu, 75,000 hospital beds were ready. Referring to the charge that some private hospitals shifted patients to government hospitals when the disease turned severe, he said this should not be done and people should approach the hospitals permitted by the government for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curbs-will-be-eased-only-when-cases-dip-says-cm/article32096899.ece
16 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Shops fined for violations||The Salem Corporation over the past two days fined 722 shops for violating safety norms. Officials on July 13 and 14 inspected 722 commercial spaces in four zones and collected Rs. 2.83 lakh as fine, a release said. Special teams have been formed in each zone to monitor adherence to COVID-19 safety norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-fined-for-violations/article32096915.ece
16 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 7,151 crore credit plan for Salem district||The annual credit plan for the district for 2020-21 envisages an outlay of Rs. 7,151 crore. The plan, prepared by Indian Bank, which is the Lead Bank for the district, was released by Collector S.A. Raman recently. The plan envisages an outlay of Rs. 5,405.49 crore to agriculture, and allied activities which are Rs. 305.49 crore higher than the last year’s outlay. The allocation to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises sector is Rs. 808.22 crore, while other priority sector has been allocated Rs. 937.29 crore which is 13.11% of the total outlay and education is at Rs. 181.40 crore. Out of the total plan under priority sector, the share of commercial banks is Rs. 5,932.47 crore (82.96%), cooperatives Rs. 976.69 crore (13.652%), regional rural banks Rs. 219.65 crore (3.07 %) and that of Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) Limited is Rs. 22.19 crore (0.31%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-7151-crore-credit-plan-for-salem-district/article32096921.ece
16 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Teenager held for rape, murder||Namakkal district police on Tuesday detained a 17-year-old boy on charges of raping and murdering a 24-year-old married woman at Keeraikadu in Kolli Hills. According to police, the victim left her house near Keeraikadu on Monday to graze cows and did not return home. The victim’s husband went in search of her and found her body at Keeraikadu. Valavanthinadu police station registered a case and started investigation. On Tuesday, police detained a 17-year-old boy from Gunturkaadu on charges of rape and murder. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenager-held-for-rape-murder/article32096938.ece
16 July 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Villagers detain 50 sand lorries||Villagers from 10 hamlets near Ilayankudi resorted to a road roko on Wednesday. They said though they had complained to the officials concerned, there was no action to prevent illegal sand mining. Sand miners said that they were lifting savadu soil only from private patta lands but they dug beyond permitted level, the villagers said. The villagers detained at least 50 sand laden lorries and threatened to immolate themselves if any vehicle proceeded an inch further. There were heated exchange of words between the lorry crew and the villagers. The villagers said the district had become a hotbed for sand miners as a few activists in Manamadurai and Tiruppuvanam had approached the High Court Bench in Madurai praying for a ban on sand mining in any form. There was a good rainfall in the south-west monsoon. The Vaigai, which criss-crossed the district for over 60 km, had a good flow. When farmers were ready to take up agriculture, sand mining activity, with the blessings of some of ruling party functionaries, dampened their spirit and damaged natural resources, villagers of Kachathanallur said. Villagers from Pirmanakurichi said that even after submitting photographs and videos on WhatsApp, officials did not stop sand miners who indulged in destroying water bodies. On the contrary, complainants (villagers) were being booked by the police for impounding lorries, they alleged. Tahsildar Ramesh, accompanied by police, held talks with the villagers and assured them to take legal action. The lorries were shifted to the office of Tahsildar but the villagers said that the issue would snowball into a people’s movement soon if proper action was not taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-detain-50-sand-lorries/article32097183.ece
16 July 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||No devotees for Aadi Pooram at Andal temple||The Aadi Pooram festival, which is scheduled to begin at the Andal temple here on Thursday, will be a low-key affair. Only a limited number of temple officials and priests will take part in it. The Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments has prohibited participation of devotees in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, temple sources said. The 12-day festival marks the birth star of the presiding deity Andal. The highlight of the festival is the car-pulling event that attracts thousands of devotees from all over the State. “This year, there will be no fanfare. Only a limited number of temple staff members will participate in the hoisting of the flag to mark the commencement of the festival,” Executive Officer A. Elangovan said. Instead of the huge temple car that is pulled by thousands of devotees on the Car Streets around the temple, a golden car will be drawn in the praharam , he said. Sri Satagopa Ramanuja Jeeyar of Srivilliputtur had appealed to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to allow the conduct of the festival in the usual way. But the government has not allowed public participation because Virudhunagar district has recorded nearly 2,000 fresh cases in the last 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-devotees-for-aadi-pooram-at-andal-temple/article32096905.ece
16 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Collector’s warning||Thanjavur Town South Police are on the lookout for a person who posted fake news on a social messaging platform on the pandemic situation in Thanjavur town. In a press release, Collector M. Govinda Rao said that village administrative officer of Pudupattinam Senthilraj received a message through a social messaging platform recently claiming that some of the private hospitals in Thanjavur town had closed down after their staff tested positive. When he went to the hospitals, he found the institutions were still serving patients. Subsequently, he lodged a complaint seeking legal action against the person who spread the false news. Based on his complaint, Thanjavur Town South Police have registered a case under the Information Technology Act and the Disaster Management Act. Stern action will be initiated against those who spread unconfirmed information/data with respect to the pandemic through the social messaging platforms, the Collector warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-warning/article32097236.ece
16 July 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Pension applications must be submitted online’||Applications seeking to avail benefits of eight pension schemes shall have to be submitted only online from this month, according to Collector M. Govinda Rao. In a recent circular to all Collectors, the Commissioner of Revenue Administration had directed the move, he said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-applications-must-be-submitted-online/article32097229.ece
16 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Two teens arrested for rape, murder of 9-year-old girl||The Sattankulam police have detained two teens for allegedly sexually assaulting and murdering a nine-year-old girl and dumping a plastic drum containing her body into a dry irrigation channel. Police said the victim, a Class 3 student, who was playing near her house in a village under Meignanapuram police station limits, went missing after 11 a.m. on Wednesday. When her mother, who is living separately after her husband abandoned the family, started searching for her daughter, she could not find the girl. Stuffed in plastic drum Even as the search was going on, the body of a girl stuffed in a plastic drum lying in a dry irrigation channel at Kalvilai under Sattankulam police station, was retrieved around 2.30 p.m. The Sattankulam police, following an investigation, picked-up one Mutheeswaran, 19, and his associate Nandeeswaran, 19, both hailing from S.S. Manickapuram under Thoothukudi North Police Station limits and living at Indra Nagar near Kalvilai. The duo reportedly confessed to having committed the crime. Forensic experts from Tirunelveli rushed to the spot and lifted the evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teens-held-for-rape-murder-of-9-year-old/article32096881.ece
16 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Custodial deaths: CBI interrogates five accused||The CBI investigators handling the Sattankulam twin custodial deaths case on Wednesday evening brought the five prime accused to Sattankulam from Madurai as part of the investigation. Though the investigators brought them to Sattankulam around 6 p.m., they were not allowed to get down from the vehicles. Meanwhile, head-constable Revathi, who had deposed against her senior colleagues, appeared before the CBI team and recorded her statement. While she was allowed to go home around 9.30 p.m., the interrogation of constable Beulah continued even after 10 p.m. The accused, meanwhile, were taken to Benicks’ mobile phone shop around 9 p.m. and then to the Judicial Magistrate Court premises. Even in these places, the accused were not allowed to get down from the vehicles even as they were seen being interrogated.  Deputy Superintendent of Police, CB-CID, Anil Kumar, who was the investigating officer of this case earlier, met the CBI team at the police station around 9 p.m. and had a discussion with them for a while. He, along with a few CBI officials, left for Tirunelveli around 9.45 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/custodial-deaths-cbi-interrogates-five-accused/article32096907.ece
16 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur records new high, as central region sees spike in cases||The central region saw a new high in COVID-19 cases with 291 patients testing positive on Wednesday. The region also recorded one death in Thanjavur district. A 34-year-old man who had been admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital died of COVID-19 related complications on Tuesday. The patient died of cardio-respiratory arrest and had a history of a severe head injury, according to the State Health Department’s medical bulletin. Of the 291 who tested positive on Wednesday, 99 hailed from Tiruchi, 77 from Thanjavur, 50 from Tiruchi, 43 from Ariyalur, nine from Tiruvarur, seven from Nagapattinam and three each from Karur and Perambalur. Tiruchi Of the 99 who tested positive in Tiruchi, four corporation workers, including a sanitary worker and three engineers, including a man who had been conducting door-to-door fever screening, tested positive. A contract staff at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital also tested positive for the viral infection.All were admitted to MGMGH. Meanwhile, a total of 67 patients, including 50 from the MGMGH and 17 from the COVID Care Centre, were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in the city allowed 10 patients to be home quarantined, officials in Tiruchi said. All 10 had mild symptoms or were asymptomatic patients, who had houses in the city where they could be quarantined in a separate room. “For these patients, contacts of doctors and basic medicines are given and they are sent home. The patients are asked to sign an undertaking that they will rush to the hospital if they develop any symptoms,” a senior official here said. Tiruchi Corporation would conduct fever camps in all four zones of the city starting July 16. On Thursday, camps would be held at Sruthi Mahal, SRC College Road in Srirangam zone, Corporation School, Palakkarai in Ariyamangalam zone, R. C. Middle School, Woraiyur in K. Abishekapuram zone and Aiman College of Arts and Science in Ponmalai zone. The camp would function from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and the general public could get themselves screened. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said those who visited the camp would be screened for fever, cold and sore throat. “If we identify people with symptoms, then swab samples will be lifted.” The main focus was on people over the age of 50, those with comorbid conditions and immuno-compromised individuals, he said. Thanjavur saw a spike in COVID-19 cases on Wednesday with 77 patients testing positive. Senior officials at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital said a cluster was identified at the vegetable market in Kumbakonam. “A total of 46 of the 77 patients were vendors at the market. The market has now been sealed and contact tracing and testing is on,” a senior health official said. The total number of cases in the district stood at 77. Pudukottai, Ariyalur Pudukottai district saw 50 new cases, many of who returned from other districts. Of the 43 who tested positive in Ariyalur, 33 worked at a private garment store. The other 10 had travelled to the district from other States and districts in Tamil Nadu. Karur, Perambalur  Three tested positive in Karur, while nine were discharged. A total of 58 active cases were undergoing treatment at Karur Government Medical College Hospital. Perambalur saw three patients test positive. They were admitted to Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital .  Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur In Nagapattinam, five of the seven patients who tested positive were relatives of patients who previously tested positive. Tiruvarur recorded nine new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanjavur-records-new-high-as-central-region-sees-spike-in-cases/article32097238.ece
16 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||STP plant: Tiruchi Corporation ready to meet farmers, residents halfway||While ruling out the possibility of changing the location of the sewage treatment plant (STP) at Keezha Kalkandarkottai, Tiruchi Corporation has come forward to partially meet the demands of farmers and residents, who are up in arms against the project. The STP is part of Phase-II of the underground drainage project in the city. Farmers, who own lands near Keezha Kalkandarkottai, where the civic body has begun construction of the plant, fear that treated effluents discharged from the STP will pose danger to agriculture activities. Some of them contend that they may even destroy the paddy fields in the long run. On Monday, a group of farmers staged a protest at Tiruchi Collector Office, forcing authorities to hold peace talks with the demonstrators. During the talks held at Tiruverumbur taluk office on Tuesday, representatives of the protesters said the Corporation should not proceed with the construction and must find a suitable alternative site. “The civic body should not have chosen cultivable land to set up the plant when dry lands are available nearby. If the sewage treatment plant is not maintained properly, it will surely destroy the paddy fields,” said a vocal resident of Keezha Kalkandarkottai. However, officials are firm that the STP cannot be shifted at this stage as construction work has already begun. A sum of Rs. 53 crore has been sanctioned for the plant, S. Amuthavalli, City Engineer, toldThe Hindu. She says it is being executed as a separate package of the phase-II underground project. About 15% of the construction has already been completed. The project was started only after receiving environmental clearance from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB). Moreover, the STP site was chosen after a series of studies on natural gradient of the surface. Based on it, the UGD mains have been laid. Hence, no change can be made on the UGD project as well as the STP plant and site, she points out. Further, ‘Enter Upon permission’ has already been received from the revenue department for using the revenue land to set up the STP. There is no need for apprehension of any leaks on the agricultural fields as pipes carrying the treated sewage water will be fully covered. However, as per their demand, the farmers have been given undertaking that the neighbouring branch channel of Uyyakondan canal will be protected and strengthened. An access road will be created to the paddy threshing floor. Farmers have also been assured that no treated water will be let into the fields, the civic official adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stp-plant-tiruchi-corporation-ready-to-meet-farmers-residents-halfway/article32097244.ece
16 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Schools begin textbook distribution in batches||The School Education Department on Wednesday began the process of distributing text books and supplying content for levels X to XII to students through their schools. Students will be given textbooks in batches over the next few days to ensure adherence to social distancing norms. As for Plus Two students, digital content in Tamil, English, Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and Biology are being uploaded in their laptops, Chief Educational Officer S. Shanthi said. Textbooks for other classes have already been distributed to the schools and they will be handed over to the students subsequently, the CEO said. Distribution of books to students of all levels will augur well with the handling of subject lessons through television channels, according to teachers of government schools. According to teachers of private schools, which began online teaching-learning a month ago, the State government is expected to come out with specific guidelines on the duration of online sessions for the students, based on guidelines specified by the Ministry of Human Resource Development. Following concerns expressed by parents about conduct of online classes for hours at a stretch, the MHRD has recommended a cap on duration and the number of sessions in a day for students. As per the guidelines, two online sessions of up to 45 minutes each have been recommended for classes I to VIII and four sessions of 30 to 45 minutes duration have been recommended for classes IX to XII.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-begin-textbook-distribution-in-batches/article32097235.ece
16 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU may extend deadline for submission of internal scores||Bharathidasan University is understood to have taken cognisance of representations from teachers’ associations and college managements seeking more time to submit internal scores of students. The university had fixed July 15 as deadline for submission. The university is likely to extend the deadline to August considering absence of public transport, difficulty of college managements to calculate marks for project work for final year students and recent spurt in COVID-19 cases, sources said. “The university has taken efforts to be ready with all data if the government decides that internal marks are sufficient for awarding degrees to final year students,” said Srinivasa Raghavan, Controller of Examinations In-Charge. Although, as per the new UGC guidelines issued earlier this month, higher educational institutions have been instructed to conduct examinations for final year students by September, college heads are not certain if ground realities will be conducive. UGC has suggested that the exams be conducted online/paper and pen format or blended pattern. Fortunately for the colleges, the State government, which has been converting higher educational institutions in suitable locations into COVID care centres, has taken the position that it is not feasible to conduct online exams due to difficulty in providing digital access to thousands of students in remote areas. The government also feels compelled to maintain quality of assessment and academic credibility. The HRD Ministry must ensure that apex academic bodies such as All India Council for Technical Education, Pharmacy Council of India, National Council of Teacher Education, and National Council for Hotel Management and Catering Technology are on the same page on the issue of conducting exams for final year students, says a college principal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bdu-may-extend-deadline-for-submission-of-internal-scores/article32097240.ece
16 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Labourer’s body retrieved from pond at TNPL unit||The body of a contract labourer working in Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Ltd Unit 2 at Mondipatti near Manapparai was found inside a pond on the plant premises on Wednesday. Police sources said R. Kalaichelvan, 26, of Kullampatti village in Karur district, who was engaged as tractor driver, attended general duty on Tuesday morning. However, his whereabouts were not known in the evening, prompting a search within the premises including a pond. Acting on an alert, firefighters from Manapparai searched the pond on Tuesday night but suspended it due to poor light. Sakthivel, the contractor, lodged a ‘missing’ complaint with Manapparai police. On Wednesday morning, firefighters from Manapparai and Tiruchi stations resumed the search in the pondand retrieved Kalaichelvan’s body. The contract labourer’s death caused anxious moments inside the premises. Kulithalai MLA E. Ramar visited the plant on learning about the labourer’s death and held discussions with the authorities. Revenue officials were also present, said the sources. The body was sent to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/labourers-body-retrieved-from-pond-at-tnpl-unit/article32097246.ece
16 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Woman rescued||A woman suspected to be mentally ill was rescued by a traffic police team here on Tuesday and accommodated in an orphanage. The destitute woman believed to be in her mid-30s was spotted amid a bush at G corner ground where a temporary vegetable market is functioning. Barely clothed, her presence was noticed by locals, who alerted traffic police personnel deployed at TVS Toll gate. They informed an orphanage in Crawford area and representatives of the orphanage came to the spot and took her away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-rescued/article32097239.ece
16 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Fifth case at railway workshop||A senior section engineer of Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi has tested positive for COVID-19. He had submitted his sample at MGMGH and received the result on Tuesday. The wagon assembly shop, where he was working, has been closed for disinfection. Sixteen employees, who were primary contacts, have been asked to remain in home quarantine. The wagon assembly shop was disinfected in the morning and reopened in the afternoon. This is the fifth positive case at the railway workshop, which has been functioning with total workforce since June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fifth-case-at-railway-workshop/article32097242.ece
16 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Entries invited for stamp design contest||The Department of Posts has invited entries for its annual stamp design (photography) competition. The department conducts the competition every year and winning entries are used for designing commemorative postage stamps and other philatelic items issued on the occasion of Independence Day. This year, the competition on the theme ‘UNESCO World Heritage Sites in India (Cultural)’ was launched on July 7 on the portal mygov.in, R. Ganapathi Swaminathan, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Tiruchi, said. Contestants of all age groups and from all parts of the country can participate in the competition by uploading the photographs clicked by them on the portal through the web-link:https://www.mygov.in/task/design-stamp-themed-unesco-world-heritage-sites-india-cultural/.Last date for submission of entries is July 27. For more information, dial 0431-2414149.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entries-invited-for-stamp-design-contest/article32097241.ece
16 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Custodial deaths: CBI team takes accused to Sattankulam||The CBI team, which has taken up for investigation the Sattankulam twin custodial deaths case, took one of the accused to Sattankulam police station late on Tuesday night for questioning. Inspector Sridhar, Sub-Inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, Special Sub-Inspector Pauldurai, head constable Murugan, constable Muthuraj and four more constables, all attached to Sattankulam police station, were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, and lodged in Madurai Central Prison. The CBI, which has taken over the case from the CB-CID, has taken into its custody Sridhar, Balakrishnan, Raghu Ganesh, Murugan and Muthuraj for interrogation. The CBI team, led by Additional Superintendent of Police Vijaykumar Shukla, brought constable Muthuraj from Madurai at 10 p.m. on Tuesday and took him to Sattankulam police station where Sridhar, Balakrishnan, Raghu Ganesh and other policemen allegedly thrashed Jayaraj and Benicks on June 19 night. Muthuraj answered the questions of the CBI team at the police station till 11.30 p.m., and it was videographed. The investigators raised questions on the sequence of events – right from bringing Jayaraj and Benicks to the police station to lodging them in Kovilpatti Sub-Jail. Muthuraj was taken to the mobile phone shop of Benicks near Kamaraj statue, from where his father was picked up by Balakrishnan and Muthuraj for allegedly keeping the shop open defying lockdown norms on June 19. Later, the CBI team left for Madurai with Muthuraj. SHRC inquiry On Wednesday, State Human Rights Commission(SHRC) member and retired Deputy Superintendent of Police Kumar interrogated in Thoothukudi Dr. Vinila, who screened Jayaraj and Benicks at Sattankulam Government Hospital on June 20 after alleged custodial torture by the police, the present Inspector of Police Bernard Xavier, Special Branch constable Santhanakumar, Superintendent of Kovilpatti Sub-Jail Shankar and Dr. Balasubramanian, who screened the duo at Kovilpatti GH on being admitted by the prison officials. Those who appeared before the SHRC representative said they were asked to submit their statements in writing. On Tuesday, Mr. Kumar had met the family, relatives and friends of Jayaraj and Benicks and a few traders at Sattankulam to get information about the custodial deaths. He also obtained a statement from constable Revathi. “After interrogating other policemen arrested in connection with this case in Madurai Central Prison on Thursday, I will submit my report to the SHRC Chairman,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/custodial-deaths-cbi-team-takes-accused-to-sattankulam/article32096942.ece
16 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Food delivery staff condemn wage cut||Nearly 120 employees of online food delivery aggregator Swiggy went on a strike on Wednesday condemning reduction in wages . In a petition to District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, they said that wages to delivery staff have been reduced from Monday. “Instead of Rs. 600 a day, we get only Rs. 340 now,” the petition said. Most of the earnings are spent on fuel for two-wheelers, they said. Requesting anonymity, one of the protesters, who had been a delivery partner with Swiggy for nearly two years in Tiruppur, claimed that the delivery staff also went on strike in Thanjavur, Tiruchi and Madurai . The company allegedly refused to restore the original wages, following which they went on strike, he said. “Till they meet our demands, our protest will continue,” he said. Efforts to reach Swiggy representatives through calls and text messages on social media platforms went in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-delivery-staff-condemn-wage-cut/article32096926.ece
16 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Deceased farmer’s loans likely to be waived||A private bank that had lent loans to farmer P. Rajamani (55), who committed suicide on July 4 near Kundadam in Tiruppur district, is likely to waive the loans in a couple of weeks, officials said on Wednesday. Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar said the decision was taken in a meeting held on Monday chaired by Dharapuram Tahsildar M. Kanagarajan with Aixs Bank officials, police officers and representatives from various farmer organisations. The representatives also demanded compensation to the farmer’s kin, which has been accepted by the bank officials, he said. “We have given 15 days for the bank,” said Mr. Kanagarajan, before which they must submit the relevant documents that the loan amount of around Rs. 14 lakh received by Rajamani has been waived.  Case against bank Regarding the case registered by the Kundadam police against the bank under Section 306 (Abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code, the tahsildar said that further action would be taken after the 15-day period. Bank’s response An official spokesperson of Axis Bank said, “This (the death of the farmer) is a very unfortunate incident. We are in discussion with the family and the local authorities to resolve the matter. Axis Bank stands committed to protect the interest of its customers.” Rajamani took the extreme step after allegedly being unable to repay his loans, according to police. Call to convene meeting District secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association R. Kumar, who participated in the meeting, said that the farmers have asked the Tahsildar to request District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan to convene a meeting with farmers, representatives from private banks and the District Administration officials to avoid such incidents in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deceased-farmers-loans-likely-to-be-waived/article32096937.ece
16 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Loans for street vendors||The district administration has invited applications from street vendors to avail loans under Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors’ Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi). Those vending in urban areas on or before March 24, 2020 are eligible to apply, a release said. Initial working capital of up to Rs. 10,000 will be provided by financial institutions. The PM SVANidhi applications are being collected at all urban local bodies namely Town Panchayats, Municipalities and the City Livelihood Centre under Tiruppur Corporation. About 200 applications are expected in the district, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loans-for-street-vendors/article32096925.ece
16 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest guard injured in scuffle with tribal residents||A forest guard was injured in an altercation that broke out between a team of Forest Department staff and a few tribal residents accused of encroaching a wetland in the Nilgiris Forest Division on Tuesday. In a statement, the Department said that a team was on a routine patrol of the Nilgiris North Forest Range near Pykara when they discovered a shack set up by a Kota tribal woman named P. Rajeshwari. As the construction threatened a wetland in the area, they served notices on Rajeshwari and her family to remove the encroachment on July 3. Officials said that the local villagers had encroached on a few acres of reserve forest, and that in many cases, had sub-leased the land to members of non-tribal groups for farming. “We decided to remove the encroachment as it threatened a wetland,” said Assistant Conservator of Forests, Nilgiris Division, K Saravanakumar. When the forest team went to the area on Tuesday, Rajeshwari and a few of her family members picked a quarrel with them. A scuffle ensued, and a forest guard sustained injuries. The guard, Mr. Thirumoorthy, was taken to hospital and treated for his injuries. The department has lodged a complaint with the Nilgiris district police. After further negotiations, the Forest Department agreed to give Rajeshwari time to remove the encroachment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-guard-injured-in-scuffle-with-tribal-residents/article32096940.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||104 new cases in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore district saw 104 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases of the disease to 1,173. Madukkarai police station was closed for fumigation after eight police personnel, including two special sub-inspectors, tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Those affected had reportedly been into vehicle checks and patrols within the jurisdiction of the police station. Inspector Thooyamani Vellaisamy said that the station will function from the old police station building. Tiruppur Tiruppur district reported 25 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking its overall tally to 342. Of the 25 cases, 23 were indigenous and two were imported cases, A junior administrative assistant of Taluk Legal Services Committee in Judicial Magistrate Court Building in Palladam tested positive. Following the confirmation, the 29-year-old man was admitted at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, legal sources said. The Judicial Magistrate Court Building was closed for disinfection following this case on Wednesday. Udhagamandalam Twenty-five people tested positive in the Nilgiris. With the latest infections, 103 have tested positive in the district in the last three days. Till date, a total of 277 people have tested positive in the district, with 169 active cases, officials said. Two clusters in the Nilgiris have contributed to more than a third of the total number of COVID-19 infections in the district. While one cluster emanated from a private firm in Yellanalli, another more recent infection cluster is said to have occurred after a marriage was held in Thangadu village which was attended by more than 50 persons. Officials from the district administration said that an explanation has been sought as to how such a large gathering of people went unnoticed. Salem Twenty-four cases were reported in Salem. Officials said 20 of them are indigenous, including 15 from Salem Corporation limits and four have travelled from other States like Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar. Krishnagiri Twenty-two persons tested positive in Krishnagiri district, After inaugurating an international flower auction centre, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the spread of the disease was far lower in Krishnagiri compared to other districts. A total of 274 persons were affected so far in the district. Of the infected persons, 173 have returned home. Currently, 94 persons were under treatment, he said. Namakkal Twelve cases were reported in Namakkal. According to officials, six of the patients are contacts of previous cases and three persons have travelled to Erode and Coimbatore. One of the patients has returned from Qatar. Erode Nine persons tested positive in Erode district. Health officials said that three persons were discharged from the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Currently, 253 persons are under treatment and the district’s tally is at 460. Dharmapuri In Dharmapuri, nine persons tested positive on Wednesday. Those tested positive included a 31-year-old staff nurse in Karimangalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/104-new-cases-in-coimbatore-district/article32096919.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five persons die in districts||A woman affected with COVID-19 disease died at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem during the late hours of Tuesday. According to hospital authorities, the 48-year-old patient was admitted to the hospital on July 10 after she tested positive for COVID-19. The patient was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, officials said. A 60-year-old woman from Coimbatore district died of COVID-19 at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Tuesday. With this, the official death toll in the district increased to 11. The woman was asymptomatic when admitted to the hospital on July 13, according to the COVID-19 media bulletin issued by the Health Department. A 45-year-old man of Kothukaran Street in Erode Corporation limits who tested positive for COVID-19 and was under treatment at the isolation ward of Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai died on Tuesday night. Officials said that he was admitted to the hospital on July 10. With this, the total number of deaths reported in the district is eight. Two deaths were reported in Krishnagiri on Tuesday. A 80-year-old male died of acute pulmonary edema, COVID-19 pneumonia and a 60-year-old male died of COVID-19 pneumonia. The total number of deaths was seven in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-persons-die-in-districts/article32096917.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. adopts new norms to declare quarantine areas||The Coimbatore Corporation did not go by an ‘one size fits all’ approach in declaring a locality as COVID-19 quarantine area, Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath said. Instead of adopting a standard strategy for all the localities, the Corporation had left it to its zonal assistant commissioners to decide on the area to be quarantined. It was for the officials to decide after visiting the locality that had reported a positive case. The Corporation, however, would go by the number of COVID-19 positive case(s), the density of population, the nature of the area where positive case was reported and a few other factors. If the density of population in the area with positive case(s) was high, the Corporation would go in for widening the quarantine area so as to contain the spread. If it was an apartment, the first approach would be quarantine the floor where the cases were reported or a particular block. Mr. Jatavath also said the locality also played a factor in deciding the area to be quarantined. If it was a densely populated area where people were likely to violate the safety norms, then the Corporation would go in for requesting the presence of police personnel as well. If the assistant commissioners felt that people within the quarantined area would abide by the safety guideline then the Corporation would not increase vigil, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-adopts-new-norms-to-declare-quarantine-areas/article32096911.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Book distribution begins||While uncertainty continues to prevail on reopening of schools amid the COVID-19 pandemic, distribution of textbooks began in government, aided and corporation schools in Coimbatore on Wednesday. The textbooks were distributed to students entering Classes X and XII in about 150 higher secondary schools and 106 high schools in Coimbatore district, school education officials said. Only 20 students will be allowed an hour to avoid crowding and maintain personal distancing as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures. Students and staff members will be wearing masks and the school premises are disinfected in the morning and evening. On Wednesday, the textbook distribution took place from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. With around 80 students being the target per day, the completion of the distribution will vary from school to school depending on the student strength, officials noted. Apart from textbook distribution, the soft copies of study materials and video lessons were uploaded to the laptops of the students in the school’s hi-tech laboratories. However, some government schools in Coimbatore district were unable to download the soft copies due to network issues. SALEM Distribution of books for class 10 and 12 students began at government and government-aided schools here and according to education department officials, the distribution was carried out maintaining safety norms. T. Ganesh Moorthy, Chief Education Officer said, “books are being distributed to 35,750 students studying in Class X and 26,800 students in Class XII.” He added that students who are in quarantine or in containment zones can collect the books whenever feasible. ERODE Distribution of free textbooks for and downloading video lessons for Class XII students began in the district. With reopening of schools delayed, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday launched televised lessons for Class X students through Kalvi TV and also textbooks for students of Class X and Class XII for current academic year. Officials said that there are 240 government and government-aided schools in Erode Educational District in which 26,019 students pursue Class X, while 23,645 students pursue Class XII. Distribution of textbooks will be completed in two days, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-distribution-begins/article32096914.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engg. admission counselling||In the academic year 2019-20, 536 colleges with an intake of 2,26,385 seats, had participated in counselling. The number of government seats was 1,49,821. A total of 1,08,932 seats had been filled. There had been an increase in the number of students admitted last year as compared to 2018-19, he said and added that this year too the number was bound to increase. To a question why fewer candidates preferred engineering, he said since the intake was high, it created a perception that fewer students were being admitted. Mathematics, Physics, and Chemistry would continue to be the core subjects for deciding the cut-off marks. End-semester exams The 11-member committee under the Higher Education Secretary to assess the feasibility of conducting end-semester examinations was studying the issue. The committee will consult the Governor and Chancellor, the Minister said. The Union government and the Ministry of Human Resource Development had not yet responded to the State government’s suggestion that it (State) should take a decision on the conduct of exams. As for online admission for arts and science colleges, he said a method had been proposed but it would be finalised in a couple of days after consulting the Chief Minister. Aspirants can email attnea2020enquiry @gmail.comor call the DoTE control room on 044-22351014, 22351015, 22350523, 22350527, 22350520, 9445493718, 9445496318 and 9445093618.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engg-admission-counselling/article32096860.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||341 Indians return from Singapore, Sharjah||As many as 341 Indians landed at Coimbatore International Airport on two repatriation flights from Singapore and Sharjah on Wednesday. Sources said that an Air India Express flight from Singapore landed here with 172 passengers around 6 a.m. An AirArabia flight from Sharjah landed at the airport with 169 passengers around 8.15 a.m. The return flight to Sharjah that left Coimbatore around 9.45 a.m. had 54 passengers. On its return flight, the AirArabia flight to Sharjah took 5.5 tonnes of cargo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/341-indians-return-from-singapore-sharjah/article32096912.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Runway resurfacing work gets underway at Tiruchi airport||After a gap of 10 years, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has embarked on the task of resurfacing the runway of the Tiruchi international airport. The project has been awarded to a Mumbai-based private company for execution of the work, which will cost around Rs. 30 crore. The entire runway which runs to a length of over 8,000 feet would be resurfaced, conforming to the prescribed standards and specifications, General Manager Projects, AAI, Tiruchi, P. Sri Krishna, told The Hindu on Tuesday. Notwithstanding the lockdown, the work commenced recently, said Mr. Sri Krishna who is monitoring the project. “A lot of parameters are involved in runway resurfacing which is a challenging task for the engineers, as it involves the safety of flights.” said Mr. Sri Krishna. The resurfacing would be done with a combination of bitumen and graded metal, he said. With the trial patch-work having been completed successfully, the next work of laying the new surface would be taken up. However, this depended on the weather conditions and availability of the runway, said Mr. Sri Krishna. The resurfacing work would be taken up during late night hours. A NOTAM (notice to airmen) has been issued in connection with the runway resurfacing, he said. Usually, the resurfacing is done after eight years, subject to runway conditions. The last runway resurfacing at the airport was done 10 years ago. Apart from a few domestic services and evacuation flights from various overseas destinations bringing back Indians periodically, flight traffic to the airport has been relatively low during the lockdown. The Tiruchi airport was next only to Chennai in Tamil Nadu in handling overseas flights and international passengers. The non-metro airport had been witnessing a steady rise in overseas flight movements with direct connectivity to Colombo, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Sharjah and Dubai over the years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/runway-resurfacing-work-gets-underway-at-tiruchi-airport/article32097232.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Repair works under way on overbridge||The Tiruchi Corporation has begun repair works on the road overbridge on Salai Road after a portion of the structure was damaged during the heavy rain in the city on Saturday. The approach road to the road overbridge developed cracks, and gravel underneath the top surface of the road eroded due to the heavy downpour. The Corporation was contemplating closing the road for heavy traffic when the damage occurred, officials said. After the erosion, the road overbridge was cordoned off on both sides to prevent vehicles from plying on it. Meanwhile, the Corporation began temporary repairs on Wednesday. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian inspected the work being undertaken as a temporary measure. “I have asked for an estimate for construction of a retaining wall and strengthening the bridge by constructing a slope on either side. A professor from the National Institute of Technology- Tiruchi is also being consulted so as a permanent solution can be found,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said. The bridge will be strengthened soon, he added. A junior engineer of the civic body, who was in charge of the repair works, said sandbags were being used to strengthen the cracked area and fill up the gap to ensure no further damage in the event of heavy rainfall. “The District Collector will inspect the works on Thursday, following which a decision on the reconstruction and repair work will be made. For now, we have temporarily fixed it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repair-works-under-way-on-overbridge/article32097245.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||College gets patent for developing fabric testing device||The fashion technology department at Sona College of Technology has been awarded a patent for developing a device that could test a fabric’s ability to stay dry. Sweat transfer tester According to a press release, department has been awarded a patent for its dynamic sweat transfer tester which assesses a fabric’s ability to handle perspiration. The sweat transfer tester will allow fabric makers to assess how well the cloth can handle perspiration, a release said. According to a release, the tester analyses wicking behaviour of multi-structured fabrics. The rate of sweat travelling through a fabric sample is measured on the principle of electrical conductivity, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-gets-patent-for-developing-fabric-testing-device/article32096910.ece
16 July 2020||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Guest lecturers across State not paid for months now||While the government has now taken a decision on holding exams for undergraduate and postgraduate students in September, guest lecturers employed in State colleges on contract basis are yet to get salaries for several months even as their future remains uncertain. The State government that employs them on contract has not released salaries to over 14,000 guest lecturers in colleges and around 2,000 guest lecturers in the 25 State-run universities. Guest lecturers account for 69% of the total number of teachers in colleges and nearly 50% in universities. While the Commissionerate of Collegiate Education releases the salary of colleges, the various universities release the salaries of the guest faculty in universities. As per their contract, they are to be paid for 10 months in a year. Due to the differences in the academic calendars of universities, the ‘salaried holiday’ for lecturers in some districts lies in April and May while in some others it is June and July. However, since classes were suspended indefinitely from March 23, they have not been receiving a salary beyond that date. A PG teacher gets a consolidated salary of Rs. 11,000 while a teacher with a PhD gets Rs. 13,000 per month. “Most of us have got our salaries only for six to seven months. It is very difficult to sustain ourselves with such a reduced income,” said Shivamoggi Somashekar, president, Coordination Committee of Guest Lecturers in Government Colleges. M.C. Narahari, general secretary of the committee, feels betrayed that the Chief Minister’s relief package did not cover guest lecturers. The government released food packets and Rs. 5,000 subsistence allowance to all kinds of workers like weavers, barbers and autorickshaw drivers. But we were left out. The government thinks that our condition is better than theirs. But that is not true. A majority of guest lecturers are struggling to feed their families,” he said. “Some are now working as security guards and suppliers in hotels. Some others have gone to their villages to work as MNREGA labourers,” he said. Guest lecturers across the State organised a dharna on June 19, seeking release of salary for the lockdown period and regularisation of their services. “We have demanded regularisation of our services based on experience, and other criteria like attending seminars, examination duty, contributing to journals, research work, book publications and age. We are opposed to the system of recruitment examination as it does not take teaching experience into account,” Dr. Somashekar said. He points out to States like Delhi, Assam, Haryana and MP that have regularised nearly 40,000 guest lecturers each. Legal issues An officer of the rank of director in the Department of Collegiate Education, told The Hindu on condition of anonymity that legal problems had stopped the payment of salaries. “The contract of employment stated that the teachers be paid for their period of working. Since the lockdown can not be included in the period of work, we can not release their salaries. But an exception can be made if the State government takes a decision to that effect,” he said. The committee members say they are even open to the idea of shifting guest lecturers to vacant positions of non-teaching staff in the Higher Education Department. There are 7,000 non-teaching positions vacant in the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guest-lecturers-across-state-not-paid-for-months-now/article32096839.ece
16 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 war room set up||KLE Society Chairman Prabhakar Kore inaugurated a COVID-19 war room at the KLE Prabhakar Kore Hospital in Belagavi on Wednesday. He said that the hospital had set aside 40 beds for COVID-19 patients. “We have eight patients under treatment now. Two are being discharged today after they were fully cured,” he said. He said that the hospital had made preparations three months ago, he said. He handed over bouquet of flowers to a 70-year-old man from Athani and his 30-year-old son who were discharged from the hospital’s COVID-19 ward. KLE director Mahantesh Kavatagimath, hospital director M.V. Jali, doctor Madhav Prabhu and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-war-room-set-up/article32097001.ece
16 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Health activists protest||Accredited Social Health Activists, in Belagavi on Wednesday, joined the State-wide agitation seeking regularisation of their services, increased wages and safety gear for taking up COVID-19 duties. Nearly 600 activists went to post offices and sent post cards to the government containing the list of their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-activists-protest/article32097000.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Confusion over industrial operations hits sector hard||Confusion over industrial operations in Bengaluru during lockdown, which commenced on Tuesday night, has cost the sector dear. Without a clarity on industrial operations, a sizeable workforce moved out of Bengaluru before the lockdown curfew began, affecting the operations on Wednesday. The industry estimates between 40% and 50% of the workforce remained absent on Wednesday as industries did not have clarity over lockdown norms, and about 30% of industries remained closed. If the guidelines issued on Tuesday morning by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijaybhaskar allowed industrial operations in food processing industry, pharmaceutical, medical instruments and packaging industry among a few others, it was only later in the evening that Department of Industries and Commerce clarified that all industries could function. “However, by the time we received clarification, most industries had allowed workers to leave early as the lockdown curfew would kick in by 8 p.m. Our estimation is that about 50% of the workforce, mostly dependent on public transport and hotels for their food, have left,” Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI) president C.R. Janardhan told The Hindu . “The confusion also arose as one of the Ministers had earlier asked those who wanted to leave Bengaluru during the lockdown to leave before curfew. We had been earlier informed that there will be no exemptions,” he said. The Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) put the number of workers remaining absent on Wednesday around 40% while about 30% of industries remained closed. “As it is, 20% of the industries have not reopened after the first lockdown, and this local lockdown has further affected the industries,” KASSIA president K.B. Arasappa felt. Not consulted For the industrial sector that had barely started normalising operations after being allowed to start on May 18, this round of lockdown is another blow. Not only are the operations affected, the supply chain has also been disrupted. What has hurt the industry more is that it was not consulted, it is learnt. The government was adamant about total lockdown, only to rescind by Tuesday evening. In fact, Mr. Janardhan said efforts were made to convince the administration to spare the industry citing examples of how other States such as Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, and Gujarat had allowed industries to function. “The administration was sympathetic, but there was no clarity,” he added. According to him, though lockdown in Bengaluru would be in place for seven days, those industries that shutdown anticipating a total lockdown would require at least about 10 days to resume work. “Machineries have been cleaned up and they have to be reconditioned. Workers have to return to work,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/confusion-over-industrial-operations-hits-sector-hard/article32096820.ece
16 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Class 10 CBSE students celebrate success||The Class 10 results of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examinations were announced on Wednesday, putting an end to a period of anxiety for students. Though most schools in Bengaluru had finished conducting the examinations before some were rescheduled and eventually cancelled, students were worried about their scores. A few schools like National Public School, Rajajinagar, had to cancel some of the papers. Ruchitha Mohan, a student of NPS, could not appear for chemistry and mathematics exams, but was ecstatic to learn that she had scored 99.4%. Marks for the two papers were calculated on the basis of her performance in three periodic tests. “Consistency and perseverance are the mantras of success. I had consistently done well in all my tests and, hence, I was able to score above 99%,” she said. Though she was worried about the pandemic, which had only just started to spread when she appeared for the boards, she refused to let fear get the better of her. “You cannot and should not let that stop your life and, hence, I just well-prepared,” she added. Ruchitha, who wants to pursue engineering in computer science followed by an MBA, has already got into NPS Rajajinagar for Grade 11. Wait added to anxiety Though many CBSE grade 10 students have continued in their respective schools for grade 11, they were anxiously waiting for their results. Sanchita Jindal, a student of Delhi Public School (Electronics City) who scored 98.6%, said, “I would carry a sanitiser with me for the exams.” Hithysh Kanth, a student of DPS (South) who scored 98.4%, said he misses school. “Online classes are good, but I like to go to school. My friends and I are waiting for classes to begin,” he said. Nandini Bhat, principal of GEAR Innovative International School, said that it was a challenge for students to write the exams while reports of COIVD-19 had just started coming out. “We sent guidelines, to both students and parents, regarding the use of sanitisers and masks, and requested that social distancing norms be followed at exam centres. I am glad that students have done well” she said. Against all odds In 2018, Vedant Vijay, a student of DPS (South), was paralysed on the left side of his body following a stroke. He scored a high 84.6% while fighting not only a physical battle but also an emotional one. “I am satisfied with my performance. Now I have enrolled for Grade 11 at DPS (South) and have chosen commerce. Though online classes are good, I miss spending time with my friends,” he said. His mother, Chitra Vijay, was thrilled that his hard work and positive attitude paid off. “Vedant had to put in relentless effort to improve on his general cognisance and handwriting. It was a Herculean task. I am glad that he fought and succeeded with the help of his friends and teachers,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/class-10-cbse-students-celebrate-success/article32096800.ece
16 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||THiS institutions in Bengaluru boast 100% pass results||The schools that are part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme achieved 100% pass results in the CBSE Class 12 examinations. All 41 students at BGS National Public School, Hulimavu passed in first class. In all 29 students scored 90% and above marks. P Nakshatra by securing 96.6% emerged school topper. Delhi Public School, Bangalore South boasted 100% pass results. In all 131 of 240 students secured 90% and above marks. Prerana B., (97.4%) was the topper in Science, Aryan Madan (96.2%) in Commerce. Nizel Pradhan (96%) emerged topper in Humanities. Students of four branches of National Public School (NPS) excelled in board examinations. In NPS, Indiranagar, all 112 students passed. In Science stream, Parth Arora (97.8%) emerged topper, while in Commerce, Nithya Prabhu (96.8%) was the topper. In NPS, Koramangala, all 66 students secured distinctions. Abhinav S. Menon and Raunak Prasant both securing 97.6% were the joint toppers. In NPS, Rajajinagar, 80 of 88 students secure distinctions. Sukeerth Ramkumar by securing 97.4% was the school topper. Students of NPS, HSR Layout achieved success in all the three streams ss the school average stood at 90.4%. Nethra Natarajan (98.2%( was the Commerce topper, while in Science, Kavya Bhat (98%) stood first. Aditi Rajesh (96%) emerged topper in Humanities. At Presidency School Bangalore East, Kasturinagar, 14 of 36 students scored 90% and above marks. Jaya Srivastava by securing 96.6% emerged school topper. Shishya BEML Public School too achieved 100% pass results with 12 of 13 students securing distinctions. Shivanshu Basu Mallick (96%) was the school topper. At Freedom International School all 27 students secured distinctions. Athira Prajod by securing 95.8% stood first to the school. In Army Public School, PRTC, 42 of 52 students secured distinctions. Ayush Jain (94.8%) was the topper in Science, while Khushi Raghav (96.2%) in Commerce. Ayush Rai (93.4%) stood first in Humanities. At Army Public School, ASC Centre, 50 of 80 students secured distinctions. Kumari Arju (96.2%) stood first in Science. Dinesh Sharma (89.6%) in Commerce and Shimla Choudhary (89%) in Humanities emerged toppers. In Army Public School, K. Kamaraj Road, 65 of 160 students scored 90% and above marks. Vikas Keshavamurthy Bhat (97%) was the topper in Science. Gaurika Jain (96.6%) in Commerce and Anagha S., (96.2%) in Humanities were the school toppers. Vyasa International School too achieved 100% pass results with 38 of 53 students securing distinctions. Prachi Parineeta Sahoo (97. 6%) was the topper. All 147 students in Kendriya Vidyalaya MEG & Centre passed. Ishttartha Pujar (96%) in Science, Hema Malini (89%) in Commerce and Shivam (96.4%) in Humanities were the school toppers. In Delhi Public School Bangalore North, 210 of 214 students secured distinctions. Aryaman Bhutani (97.4%) in Science, Rakshithaa Balasubramanian (96.4%) in Commerce and Aditya Praveen Kumar and Esha Nair both securing 97.6% emerged school toppers. At Kendriya Vidyalaya, MG Railway Colony, all 42 students passed. Sharwary M R., (96.4%) was the school topper. In Kendriya Vidyalaya No. 2, AFS Jalahalli East, 105 students passed in first class. Sarvesh Kumar (97%) in Science, and Deepti Mishra (94.4%) in Commerce, were the toppers. All 175 students at Sri Kumaran Children’s Home (CBSE) passed in first class. Sohan S Desai (98.6%) in Science, Nikita Rajagopal (98.4%) in Commerce and Ananya Giri Upadhya and Varsha M Kaushik both securing 97.6% in Humanities emerged toppers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/this-institutions-in-bengaluru-boast-100-pass-results/article32096799.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ITI to produce 15 lakh face shields, dozens of ventilators||Joining in the efforts to combat COVID-19, public sector undertaking ITI Ltd. will manufacture 15 lakh face shields and dozens of portable ventilators per month. The production facility at Dooravani Nagar in the city will produce over 5 lakh units of face shields every month while another 10 lakh will be made at its plants at Mankapur, Naini and Raebareli and in Uttar Pradesh. ITI is also in the process of readying its portable ventilators, designed on a transfer of technology (TOT) basis with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRRO). ITI CMD Rakesh Mohan Agarwal told The Hindu: “We have put together five units of these ventilators and they are currently going through various tests at DRDO. Once the research organisation completes its technical validation process, we will install them at select hospitals in Bengaluru. Then, we will go for mass production and we have a capacity to make 1,000 units per month.” As per ITI, the ventilator will be priced at Rs. 2 lakh per unit and the company has already sourced materials and critical components required to design 25 such units.  Sourcing material “There is a big scramble in markets that sell raw materials and components for ventilators as everyone around the globe is busy purchasing these items. Currently, we are sourcing the components from Singapore and Hong Kong,”' Mr. Agarwal said. ITI has roped in government e-com portal GeM and private e-tailers such as Amazon and Flipkart to market its face shields. “I’ve written to Heads of all PSUs, government secretaries, Chief Secretaries, public and private hospitals, and Heads of local administration bodies, including Mayors, across the country seeking their support. We are now witnessing an overwhelming response for our face shields,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iti-to-produce-15-lakh-face-shields-dozens-of-ventilators/article32096823.ece
16 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Lab to be set up for quality testing of Byadagi chillies||The Byadagi variety of chillies from Karnataka, that have geographical indication tag, will soon get a boost with a laboratory being set up in the Byadagi market for quality testing. Co-operation Minister S.T. Somashekhar, who inspected the Byadagi chilli market in Haveri district on Wednesday, told The Hindu that presently, samples were being sent to Chennai for quality testing. Having a laboratory in the local market would go a long way in boosting production and marketing this popular variety of chilli that enjoys international repute, he said. The proposed lab would cost Rs. 4 crore, the Minister said. Pointing out that Byadagi APMC itself had Rs. 17 crore collected in the form of cess, he said the government would give a green signal as soon as it sent a proposal for setting up such a laboratory. Setting up such a market would also encourage more farmers to take up production of quality Byadagi chilli varieties, he said. Byadagi chillies, named after a town in Haveri district, are are known for their deep red colour. These are among the prominent chilli varieties that have high turnover in the country. Oleoresin oil extracted from the pods of the chillies is used in the preparation of nail polish and lipsticks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lab-to-be-set-up-for-quality-testing-of-byadagi-chillies/article32096844.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru settles after morning bustle||Despite initial teething problems and confusion, the first day of lockdown on Wednesday was near total, claim the police. Till around 10 a.m., however, people were seen taking morning walks, though the police had urged residents to limit their movement within their neighbourhoods. Supermarkets, grocery and kirana stores, and meat shops opened as early as 6 a.m., as they had to shut down by noon. They saw brisk business and crowds till afternoon, after which people returned home. There was negligible traffic on the roads. Police patrol vehicles began their rounds in the morning itself announcing on public addressal systems asking shopkeepers to down shutters by noon. City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao said: “The first day of lockdown usually has some teething problems and confusion. This time, most of the industries are working and hence there was some confusion as to who can be allowed to travel. It will settle down in a day or two.” Nearly 95% of the city was shut down on Wednesday. The lockdown was successful, he added. Meanwhile, BMTC operated 210 buses, mostly for personnel carrying out essential services, including to Vidhana Soudha. It also operated 21 Vayu Vajra buses to the airport for passengers on pre-scheduled flights. Around 140-150 flights were operated at the airport. However, many found it difficult to reach the airport. A CRPF personnel used an autorickshaw from Gauribidanur to reach KIA, a distance of over 70 km, with his family. He was stopped at many points by the police and was let go only after he showed their air tickets. South Western Railway in a release said that nine special trains services, including Yeshwantpur-Shivamogga, KSR- Hubballi, KSR-New Delhi, KSR-Danapur, will continue to run as scheduled. “As buses, taxis, and autorickshaws are not available, passengers are requested to make their own arrangements to reach the Railway Station. They are also requested to reach the railway station well ahead of departure,” said SWR officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-settles-after-morning-bustle/article32096819.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hospitals must display bed allocation board||All hospitals registered under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act have to display the name of their hospital, total number of beds and total beds allocated for COVID-19 patients referred by the BBMP. The order issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar on Wednesday stated that hospitals must make arrangements to do so by July 16. Non-compliance will attract punishment under the relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Indian Penal Code. The order was issued after the government received several complaints that private hospitals were refusing to admit patients. In the notification, hospitals have also been asked to make a category-wise list of beds. The State government has been mandated to reserve 50% of beds in private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients referred by the public health authorities. The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) said that after admitting patients referred by the public health authorities and those who approached hospitals directly, there were very few beds left to treat non-COVID-19 patients. Responding to this, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that private hospitals should follow the Government Order.  Non-compliance will attract punishment under the relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospitals-must-display-bed-allocation-board/article32096827.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||50,000 rapid testing kits handed over to BBMP for use in fever clinics||The State government has handed over 50,000 rapid antigen testing kits to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to be used in primary health centres (PHCs) and urban primary health centres (UPHCs) that are functioning as fever clinics in Bengaluru Urban district limits. Senior officials told The Hindu that the kits will help determine if a person has COVID-19 within 30 minutes. The tests will be done on those with symptoms where urgent medical intervention is required. “The objective is to immediately segregate COVID-19 patients from others, especially symptomatic cases, so that the spread can be contained,” an official said. In a tweet, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said priority on using the test kits would be for persons with Influenza like Illness and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection from containment zones, those who have returned from abroad, police personnel and medical professionals, cancer/ HIV/ leprosy patients, those undergoing dialysis, and patients with low immunity, among others. PHCs and UPHCs have been directed to upload all results on the ICMR portal, officials said, and added that a meeting had been scheduled on Thursday to discuss strategies and implementation of testing with the kits. On uploading of real-time information on net availability of beds in both government and private hospitals, the IT team at the State war room and BBMP have been asked to work out the technical issues. Hospitals have been directed to update the state of COVID-19 patients admitted, discharged, deaths, and net availability of beds to the BBMP Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/50000-rapid-testing-kits-handed-over-to-bbmp-for-use-in-fever-clinics/article32096830.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS visits Victoria; praises doctors, nurses||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Wednesday visited Victoria Hospital, which has been dedicated for COVID-19 in Bengaluru, and praised the 0services by doctors, nurses and paramedical staff. After a videoconference with doctors and 20 patients at the hospital, Mr. Shivakumar said doctors and nurses were doing a good work and appealed to the Ministers to visit hospitals and monitor facilities provided to patients. “Doctors, nurses and supporting staff are doing a wonderful job. Patients are very happy. It is our duty to stand with them…we have to give them a moral boost,” he said. “I had interactions with patients of all ages and they appreciated the services in the hospital,” he said, and urged the government to give more support and strength to doctors who have been treating patients without visiting their family members for many days. The hospital authorities have allowed patients to keep their cellphones with them and patients have been interacting with their relatives. By talking to their relatives, the patients have gained mental strength. Phone facilities must be made available to patients in all hospitals,” he said. On alleged scams in the purchase of equipment, the Congress leader said: “I am not here to find fault. There is a different time in the Vidhana Soudha to discuss them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-visits-victoria-praises-doctors-nurses/article32096825.ece
16 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Imposter announces grace marks for PU students||A police complaint has been filed in connection with the alleged opening of a Twitter account in the name of Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar and posting misleading information. On Tuesday, while the Minister was chairing a press conference on II pre-university examination results, an unidentified person posted a message from the Twitter handle stating that Mr. Kumar had given instructions to evaluators to award 26 grace marks in the English language paper. The director of the PU Board lodged a complaint with the police. The complaint states that the fake message created anxiety and confusion among students and teachers as well as much embarrassment to the board. The PU Board has asked police to take stringent action against the culprit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/imposter-announces-grace-marks-for-pu-students/article32096797.ece
16 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Aim to raise produce processing level to 25% by 2025||Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil on Wednesday said the State government had set a target of increasing the processing of produce from agriculture and allied sectors to 25% in the next five years from the present level of 3 to 5%. Participating in a webinar on ‘Impact of Agro and Food Processing Industries in Karnataka: Gaps, Challenges, Opportunities and Way Forward for Better Future’, organised by ASSOCHAM here, he said the target was in line with that of the Centre.  Marketability “Our State is planning to improve the marketability of farm produce and provide value-added services like assaying, grading, cleaning, labelling, and packing at warehouses and cold storages through Karnataka State Agricultural Produce Processing and Export Corporation (KAPPEC) and Department of Industries and Commerce, besides trading platforms,” he said. Mr. Patil said Karnataka was planning to establish warehousing and logistic hubs in food and agri parks. It was also preparing to operate warehousing and cold storages as sub-markets with online trading platforms; warehouse-based sales facilities for agriculture and horticulture produce. He said the government was in discussions with experts on how best it could make use of funds available under Atma Nirbhar Abhiyan.  100 more FPOs The Minister also stated that the Karnataka government was planning to establish another 100 FPOs in the current financial year. The recently released guidelines of the Centre on FPOs will further strengthen the FPOs in Karnataka, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aim-to-raise-produce-processing-level-to-25-by-2025/article32096845.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3 arrested for murder||The Girinagar police have arrested three people in connection with the murder of an 18-year-old girl. The incident happened on Tuesday at Dwarakanagar. The victim has been identified as Narmada. Rohini Katoch Sepat, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South division), said the prime accused is Abhi Gowda, a history-sheeter in Rajajinagar police station. The DCP said the accused was known to the victim for three to four years. She, however, cut off relations after he went to jail. That had angered Abhi. On Tuesday, he took Namrada to his house at Dwarakanagar and pressured her to marry him. During the fight, he stabbed her in the neck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-arrested-for-murder/article32096804.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MTR Foods unit shut||MTR Foods unit in Bengaluru has stopped production after many of its employees tested positive over the last week. Employees’ union sources said that the measure to stop production temporarily was taken after over 40 employees tested positive in the last week at the unit located in Bommasandra Industrial Estate. This is not the first instance of a factory being shut in Bengaluru on account of COVID-19 outbreak. Recently, Bosch factory in the city had stopped production for a period of time for the same reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mtr-foods-unit-shut/article32096803.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBP to remain closed till July 22||In view of the lockdown in Bengaluru from July 14 to July 22 announced by the State government, the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) will remain closed for visitors during the above period. BBP in a release said that all its units such as zoo, safari, and butterfly park will be closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbp-to-remain-closed-till-july-22/article32096821.ece
16 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Webinar on biodiversity conservation||IIPM-B in association with GoI-GEF-UNDB, India High Range Mountain Landscape Project, will be organising a webinar on ‘Best practices for Biodiversity Conservation’ on Friday (July 17). The objective is to identify best practices and governance approaches for main streaming biodiversity conservation, particularly in the production sector of tea, cardamom, coffee, oil palm and forest plantation. Biodiversity experts, Forest Dept. officials are expected to attend. Call 080-23212773 or visitwww.iipmb.edu.in for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar-on-biodiversity-conservation/article32096829.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Helpline||In case the toll-free number 1912 to access beds is not reachable, people can mail to 1912covidhelpline @gmail.com. People can also WhatsApp on 91- 9480812450.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/helpline/article32096828.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Caste, income certificates for poorer sections of Brahmins||The Revenue Department of the State government on Wednesday directed tahsildars to issue caste and income certificates to economically weaker sections of those in the Brahmin community. Following complaints that tahsildars have been not issuing these certificates, the department in its circular asked DCs to take steps to ensure issue of the same to economically weaker sections of the Brahmin community. The Centre has enacted a law to provide 10% reservation to all candidates belonging to economically weaker sections, irrespective of castes. Income and caste certificates would help candidates avail of facilities provided by the Karnataka Brahmin Development Board, the circular said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/caste-income-certificates-for-poorer-sections-of-brahmins/article32096842.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Losses estimated at Rs. 5,000 crore||The lockdown in Bengaluru that shut down trade and business and has affected industrial operations could result in an overall loss to be about Rs. 5,000 crore over seven days, the FKCCI has estimated. FKCCI president C.R. Janardhan said that this will not only dent the turnover of businesses, but also affect the revenue collections for the government as Bengaluru is the biggest revenue earner for the exchequer in real estate, liquor, and transportation fee collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/losses-estimated-at-rs-5000-crore/article32096817.ece
16 July 2020||HASSAN,KARNATAKA||Fishermen face a double whammy||Earlier it was COVID-19 lockdown and now it is ban on fishing in rivers that is affecting the fishermen community on the backwaters of Hemavati reservoir. Without being allowed to catch fish, around 60 families of Shillekyatas are struggling. The Fisheries Department has issued licenses to local people to fish in Hemavati backwaters. Shillekyata families, a tribal community, have put up tents on the banks of the backwaters in Chowdahalli, Konapura, Shettihalli and other villages in Hassan taluk. Their only source of income is fishing with no land as back up. “If we don’t catch fish, our family members have to remain hungry,” said Subramanya, a member of the community. During lockdown, they could not catch fish. Even if some people could, they had no opportunities to sell. “We ran out of all our savings during lockdown. A few families with ration cards got foodgrains from the State government. Now, again ban has been imposed, making our lives difficult,” said Mr. Subramanya. Representatives of the community met the officials and placed their demand to allow fishing, but in vain. “As a policy, fishing is banned in all waterbodies in June and July. This is a breeding season for fish. If we allow catching fish during these two months, it would affect the yield in the next season. We cannot allow fishing violating the policy,” R. Vivek, Senior Assistant Director of the department, told The Hindu . The officers in the department maintain that the fishermen community had difficulty during lockdown only for a short duration. “Later there was a huge demand for fish when the sale of chicken was stopped due to bird flu scare,” said the officer. ‘Reality hidden’ However, the fishermen reject the officers’ statement. “The officers are hiding reality. The police did not allow movement of the public during lockdown. How can one expect fishermen to carry fish to the market? Moreover, the market itself was closed down,” pointed out Mari Joseph, an office-bearer of Dalit Human Rights Forum. The fishermen have demanded the State government allow them to fish, or else provide them food and other essential items till the ban is lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fishermen-face-a-double-whammy/article32096809.ece
16 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Tribals get help to face pandemic crises||Belur tahsildar N.V. Natesh, on Wednesday, directed officials of Hagare Gram Panchayat to provide jobs for Hakki-Pikki community of Angadihalli under the MGNREG programme. The officer visited the village on Wednesday and interacted with people of the tribal community about the problems they were facing during the COVID pandemic.  The Hindu had carried a news report about their difficulties on July 13. Taking note of this report, Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish had directed the tahsildar to visit the village. The tahsildar, after his visit, submitted a report to the DC. He said the people had got foodgrain under the public distribution system; however, they complained of inability to purchase other essential items. “The Panchayat Development Officer of Hagare Panchayat has been directed to issue job cards for the residents under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme and provide them with jobs so that they can earn money,” he said. He also suggested that they take up work in agriculture fields. The total population of the village is 1,516. They reside in 404 houses and the number of ration cards distributed in the village is 474. The taluk administration provided food kits for those who did not have ration cards as well, he added. The tribal community people collect minor forest produce with medicinal value and take them to different places to sell them. Some of them offer body massages. However, in recent days, due to the pandemic, they cannot move out to earn, as the public hardly entertains outsiders fearing the spread of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribals-get-help-to-face-pandemic-crises/article32096841.ece
16 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Three forest guards assaulted during raid||Three forest guards of Chikkamagaluru division were assaulted by a group of people at Halasina Maradahalli in Chikkamagaluru taluk when they went for a raid on Tuesday evening. Forest guards H.P. Nagendra, Nisar and Prakash were injured in the incident. The accused even locked up Nagendra until the local police intervened. Acting on a tip-off, a forest team rushed to the village. However, it was surrounded by a group of people which assaulted and locked up Nagendra. Later, Sakharayapatna Police reached the spot and rescued the team. Deputy Conservator of Forests N.H. Jagannath told The Hindu that a gang had been active in the locality. It had felled trees in Kamenahalli State Reserve Forest in the past as well. “The incident happened when our team went to arrest the gang. However, we succeeded in recovering Saguvani and other variety of timber. One of the accused has been arrested, and the main accused, Chetan, is absconding,” he said. Both the police and forest officials have registered cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-forest-guards-assaulted-during-raid/article32097010.ece
16 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man shot dead||A 28-year-old man was shot dead at Soppinahalli in Alur taluk on Wednesday afternoon. The police gave the name of the deceased as Madhu. The police said that Rupesh, also a resident of Soppinahalli, shot dead Madhu with his gun at 3.15 p.m. The motive is yet to be ascertained, they added. However, it is suspected that Madhu was in love with Rupesh’s sister and that could have been the reason for the murder. Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda told The Hindu that the accused was absconding. “We are still collecting information. As of now, it is not clear why Madhu was shot dead,” he said. Alur Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-shot-dead/article32097011.ece
16 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Amid rising cases lockdown begins||The lockdown announced by the Dharwad district administration to check the surge in the number of COVID-19 positive cases came into force on Wednesday with the authorities taking steps to ensure strict implementation of the Deputy Commissioner’s order. Following the imposition of lockdown, the otherwise busy traffic junctions in the twin cities wore a deserted look in the afternoon, as the district administration allowed people to buy essential commodities only till noon. Meanwhile, as announced, public transport services within the city and to other districts remained suspended. On Wednesday, as it was the first day of the lockdown, the police officials were on patrol making announcements about the lockdown restrictions. Even Police Commissioner R. Dileep went on rounds appealing to the people to follow the lockdown guidelines. The police have put up barricades on several roads at regular distances to check unnecessary vehicular movement. Police personnel have been posted at strategic points to take action against motorists moving around without any valid reasons. Two-wheelers were being seized to discourage unnecessary movement of motorists. As many as 18 check-posts have been set up in the border areas of the district to check the entry of vehicles from neighbouring districts. Dharwad Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil has said that those vehicles passing through the district to reach other districts would be allowed, but they cannot drop or pick up passengers from the district. Mr. Patil has, through a Facebook video post, appealed to the general public to follow safety guidelines even in their houses. On the relaxations for buying essential commodities, he said that only one person from a family can go out to make purchases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amid-rising-cases-lockdown-begins/article32097007.ece
16 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Rapid antigen test begins in Kalaburagi laboratory||United Diagnostics, a laboratory wing of United Hospital in Kalaburagi, has launched rapid antigen test facility for detecting COVID-19. Addressing a media conference here on Wednesday, Chairman and the Managing Director of the hospital Vikram Siddareddy and head of United Diagnostics Ayesha Fatima Baseer said that test kits were cleared by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and his hospital was the sixth in the private sector to start the antigen test, after the five in Bengaluru. “There is an urgent need for reliable point-of-care-rapid antigen detection test with good sensitivity and specificity for early detection of COVID-19. The test detects certain proteins that are part of the virus and the whole procedure can be completed within 30 minutes. “Although real-time RT-PCR test is the standard frontline test for diagnosis of COVID-19, it requires specialised laboratory facilities in terms of equipment, bio-safety and bio-security and takes two-three hours to give results,” Mr. Siddareddy said. To a question, he said that RT-PCR confirmation would not be required once the swab samples tested positive for COVID-19 in the antigen test. However, if the samples test negative, the patient will have to opt for RT-PCR test if he is symptomatic, he added. The hospital had started rapid antibody test in April and RT-PCR test in June to become the first private hospital in North Karnataka to launch the two procedures for detecting COVID-19 test. “Antigen test is ideal and highly recommended for frontline workers such as medical professionals and police personnel who are in the forefront of the fight against COVID-19 as it considerably reduces the time and provides accurate results. This test can be used in the containment zones or hotspots for rapid detection of the disease. The test is more useful for asymptomatic patients who seek hospitalisation and those undergoing aerosol-generating surgical or non-surgical interventions as it offers quick results,” Dr. Siddareddy said. When asked, he said that the antigen test would cost about Rs. 3,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rapid-antigen-test-begins-in-kalaburagi-laboratory/article32097014.ece
16 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||21 medical staff test positive||The Kalaburagi branch of the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research closed all its services on Sunday after a patient admitted with cardiac issues tested positive for COVID-19. As many as 21 staff members — four cardiologists, 13 staff nurses, a cathlab technician, X-ray technician, a patient coordinator and a group D employee —, who came in contact with him, have been infected with coronavirus. According to sources in the hospital, a 60-year old male patient from Sedam taluk admitted at SJICSR branch here on July 5 did not inform the doctors that he had earlier sent a sample for test. The doctors came to know only after he was diagnosed positive for COVID-19 late on Monday evening. All the 21 medical staffs were shifted to the isolation ward. The primary contacts of the infected were quarantined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/21-medical-staff-test-positive/article32097012.ece
16 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Now, face shields coated with silver nanoparticles||A start-up company, Apahatech Solutions LLP, incubated in the Science and Technology Entrepreneurs Park of National Institute of Technology-Karnataka, Surathkal, has commenced production of reusable transparent face shields coated with silver nanoparticles for extra safety. The modified product is in continuation of the face shields that were produced by NIT-K, Surathkal, during the complete lockdown period in April this year, said a release here. Arun M. Isloor, professor of Chemistry, NIT-K and designated partner of the start-up company, the silver nanoparticles-coated face shield was the first such reported commercial product in the country. The nanoparticles on the bands of the face shield offer antimicrobial property while the strip of spongy layer provides cushioning effect making its wearing comfortable. The shields could be reused just by wiping both surfaces with soap solution using a cotton swab. Prof. Isloor said that the intention of commercialising the product was not for profit but to fulfil public requirement for an affordable product. “Moreover, I want to show our students and youngsters that entrepreneurship is possible under any circumstances and India too can make any product at an affordable price,” he added. A part of the income goes to NIT-K as royalty while another portion goes to the Indian Army Fund. The shields were made of 100 micron thick transparent polyester sheet covering about 180 degrees of frontal portion of the head thereby giving protection against any splash or saliva from any infected person. The band was made of styrofoam, a lightweight material unlike that of an elastic band. The start-up has already obtained orders from Kerala, Ballari, Bengaluru and other places. One shield costs Rs. 35. Details may be had from Prof. Isloor on Ph: 9448523990.  The nanoparticles on the bands of the face shield offer antimicrobial property while the strip of spongy layer provides cushioning effect making its wearing comfortable||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-face-shields-coated-with-silver-nanoparticles/article32097016.ece
16 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Support sought for weaker sections of society to see through lockdown||Several like-minded organisations have told the State government that it was not enough to impose lockdown to contain spiralling COVID-19 positive cases; it was equally important to help the vulnerable sections of society to lead a normal life during the period. Speaking on behalf of these organisations, Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) State president Muneer Katipalla in a statement here said that the government was attempting to conceal its failure to contain COVID-19, with lockdowns. At the same time, it was acting irresponsibly by not offering any solution to several sections, including unorganised labour, small-time employees and the like who solely depend on daily wages. Criticising the district administration for such lackadaisical attitude, these organisations demanded supply of food and medicine to people from these sections and also concession in house rentals. Free treatment should be ensured for COVID-19 positive persons in government and private medical college hospitals as per the government guidelines. All hospitals should compulsorily treat COVID-19 patients and tests should be carried out free for all sections of people, they said. Mr. Katipalla said that private hospitals should be discouraged from compelling asymptomatic patients, including non-COVID-19 patients and pregnant women, to undergo COVID-19 tests and admitting them to COVID-19 wards even before test reports are obtained. Asymptomatic patients should be discharged immediately with an advice to undergo home quarantine, he said. Hostel buildings and auditorium of private colleges should immediately be converted into COVID-19 care centres to admit asymptomatic patients. More specialists should be empanneled at the Government District Wenlock Hospital in view of increasing number of deaths of COVID-19 positive patients.  ‘Ensure supply of food and medicine to people from such sections and also concession in house rentals’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/support-sought-for-weaker-sections-of-society-to-see-through-lockdown/article32097018.ece
16 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Agri. scientists go on field visits to educate farmers||Teams of agriculture scientists and agriculture officers recently visited agriculture and horticulture fields in Belthangady taluk to create awareness about managing diseases and pests in agriculture. A team comprising scientists from Mangaluru Krishi Vijnana Kendra Kedarnath, Shodhan and Rashmi visited Belalu and Kokradi villages under the Aathma scheme of the Agriculture Department, said a release. Addressing farmers on the field belonging to progressive farmer Sulaiman Bheemande in Belalu, Dr. Kedarnath said that excessive use of pesticides to control pests and managing diseases in paddy crop would destroy dependent and predatory insects. Consequently, diseases and pests would increase, he said and asked farmers to opt for organic pesticides, including Trichoderma and Pseudomonos. During her visit to progressive farmer Sudhakar Jain’s field at Kokradi, Dr. Rashmi explained the importance of horticulture crops and comprehensive crop pattern in arecanut and coconut crops. She also gave information about pre-planting and post-planting nurturing. Assistant Horticulture Officer Mahaveer enlightened farmers about damage caused by red ring nematode, how to identify and manage them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agri-scientists-go-on-field-visits-to-educate-farmers/article32097009.ece
16 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ban sought on import of silk from China||The squeezing of sericulture industry’s economy by COVID-19 and the climate of hostility between India and China have led to a demand for complete ban on import of Chinese silk. The Silk Association of India (SAI), Bengaluru, a body comprising cocoon farmers, silk reelers and weavers, besides retired officials of the Sericulture Department, has written to Union Textiles Minister Smriti Irani seeking a complete ban on silk originating from China – exported directly to India or through Vietnam and other South Asian countries taking advantage of the duty-free provisions. Though superior quality Chinese raw silk has its own market among weavers and fabric manufacturers in India, the import of silk and silk fabrics from China had been a pain point for the indigenous sericulture industry particularly for sericulture farmers and reelers. Presently, 2,200 to 2,500 tonnes of silk worth Rs. 750 crore to Rs. 800 crore is imported from China every year. During 2019-20, India produced 25,384 tonnes of raw silk, including almost 7,000 tonnes of internationally gradable bivoltine silk. The quantum of silk imported from China every year can easily be substituted with domestic production in the next couple of years, contended SAI, which is headed by retired IAS officer V. Balasubramanian. After the Central Silk Board (CSB) seeking to represent indigenous cocoon farmers and reelers of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh had complained against the dumping of mulberry silk originating from China, the Centre, in 2015, imposed an anti-dumping duty of $1.85 on every kg of Chinese silk, which is of grade 3 A and below. The imposition of anti-dumping duty had not only helped revive the country’s silk industry, but also augmented production of import substitute raw silk. However, the anti-dumping duty is scheduled to end in December 2020, pointed out SAI, making out a case for either extending the levy for a period of five more years or completing banning Chinese silk. Retired Deputy Director of Sericulture, Government of Karnataka, N.Y. Chigari, who is also a member of SAI, told The Hindu that the sericulture farmers had recently urged the government, which had banned Chinese apps like Tik Tok, to extend the ban even to Chinese silk and promote the growth of indigenous silk. The SAI, in its letter to Ms. Irani, has also referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atma Nirbhar scheme “Vocal for Local” while seeking a total ban on the use of raw silk and silk fabrics from China. Such an approach will not only help boost production of superior quality silk, but also encourage domestic entrepreneurs to venture into seri-business on a large scale. The demand for ban on Chinese silk also comes at a time when the price of cocoons had plummeted to a new low due to mounting stocks of silk with reelers and weavers with COVID-19 bringing down the demand for fabrics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ban-sought-on-import-of-silk-from-china/article32096816.ece
16 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 Care Centres in school, college buildings||A primary and middle school and a women’s college are among the buildings shortlisted by the Mysuru district administration for setting up COVID-19 Care Centres in the wake of a sharp increase in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus in Narasimharaja Assembly constituency. A combined facility of 600 beds for COVID-19 care is expected to be created at Andalus English School in Rajiv Nagar and Farooqia Women’s College in Udayagiri, besides Beedi Workers’ Hospital in Azeez Sait Nagar after parts of Narasimharaja constituency began reporting an alarming increase in the number of people dying due to coronavirus. Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudutta Hegde, who inspected the private school in Rajiv Nagar, has assured the school management that the authorities will complete disinfect the school premises and make it virus-free after treatment. School Secretary Naseer Ahmed said they were wary of handing over the premises to the administration initially in view of the reservation from the parents of their students and the residents of the locality. But, he said they relented after the administration and the people’s representatives promised to completely disinfect the premises and make it safe for children whenever schools resume.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-care-centres-in-school-college-buildings/article32096798.ece
16 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Police wield lathi to impose lockdown||The Raichur Police on Wednesday wielded the lathi to impose lockdown strictly in Raichur and Sindhnur city limits as the district administration has declared a complete lockdown till midnight on July 22 owing to the rising number of COVID-19 cases. Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy said that several motorcycles have been seized as riders were found unnecessarily roaming around on the roads. A majority of shops remained closed. However, those permitted to sell essential commodities saw business as usual. Torrential rain did not deter the police personnel from discharging their duty. A team of police personnel went on rounds even in interior areas and imposed fines on motorcyclists for not wearing face masks and roaming around unnecessarily. Most of the roads, the Central Bus Stand and other areas that are usually busy with thick floating population wore a deserted look.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-wield-lathi-to-impose-lockdown/article32097005.ece
16 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||49 new cases in Yadgir||As many as 49 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Yadgir district on Wednesday. With this figure, the total number of such cases went up to 1,501. On Wednesday, 144 patients were discharged taking the number of such patients to 1,038.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/49-new-cases-in-yadgir/article32097002.ece
16 July 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Two dead in Raichur||As many as 26 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Raichur on Wednesday and two patients (P-37,080 and P-35,516 ) have died in the designated hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-dead-in-raichur/article32097003.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: HC permits display of awareness hoardings and banners||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday permitted the State government and the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to put up around 2,000 hoardings and banners at important junctions and public properties to create awareness on safety measures to be followed to prevent spread of COVID-19. However, the court imposed conditions that hoardings or banners should not contain any other material or advertisement of any product other than information to create awareness to prevent spread of COVID-19, and plastic or other prohibited materials should not be used for displaying publicity contents. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Alok Aradhe passed the order on an application filed by the State government seeking the court’s permission to put up hoardings and banners for create awareness of COVID-19 safety measures. The bench also directed the government and the BBMP to remove all these hoardings and banners immediately after controlling the spread of COVID-19. The government filed an application in the PIL petitions, though which the court has been monitoring BBMP’s actions of removing all illegal banners, hoardings and structures put up to display advertisements across the city. As the government said that hoardings and banners would be put up using funds out of the Rs. 49.5 crore earmarked in BBMP’s budget for 2020-21, some apprehension was expressed on behalf of the petitioners that funds earmarked for publicity could be used for treating COVID-19 positive patients, as publicity on measures to prevent COVID-19 was needed four three months ago when the virus started spreading. Reasonable amount While observing that the government’s decision to use BBMP’s fund does not mean that they would be using the entire Rs. 49.5 crore for putting up hoardings and banners, the bench hoped that only a reasonable amount from the BBMP’s exchequer would used for this purpose. Also, the court said that permission is being granted by taking judicial note of the fact that during past fortnight, the number of COVID-19 positive cases was multiplying and that the government wants to resort to mass public campaign for educating people on preventing the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-hc-permits-display-of-awareness-hoardings-and-banners/article32096802.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||25 hospitals have shut after pandemic set in: PHANA||The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANHA) has claimed that 58 out of the 384 private hospitals in Bengaluru have shut their operations, either permanently or temporarily, in the last one year. As many as 25 of them shut down after the COVID-19 pandemic, said R. Ravindra, association president. While some shut due to financial constraints, others closed as they were run by a single doctor who may have chosen to retire. “Many hospitals were finding it difficult to comply with the regulations and we hope to engage with the government so that some of them may resume operations,” said Dr. Ravindra. The Head of a city-based hospital said that many of these hospitals were those with less than 50 beds. “It has become financially difficult for these hospitals to operate. In March and April, many of the hospitals had less than 20% occupancy and were unable to pay the bills,” he said. He said that while some of these hospitals will bounce back, many owners had decided to put their hospitals on sale. Dr. Ravindra also said that many of the smaller hospitals had decided to convert their facilities to treat COVID-19 patients. “At these hospitals, they cannot have a separate COVID-19 section. So two or three hospitals in the neighbourhood will tie up and segregate to treat positive patients and non-COVID-19 patients,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/25-hospitals-have-shut-after-pandemic-set-in-phana/article32096834.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. to provide Rs. 5,000 as incentive to plasma donors||The State government has decided to provide an incentive of Rs. 5,000 for patients who have recovered from COVID-19 and donate their plasma, which will be used to treat patients. Speaking at a press conference on Wednesday, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said this was to encourage patients to come forward to donate. He said that plasma therapy was administered on five patients in the State. Of these, three had recovered, the Minister said. He said that after a person donates plasma, other factors such as matching their blood groups would have to be looked into. In Karnataka, 18,466 patients had recovered from COVID-19 and discharged. In Bengaluru, 5,455 patients had been discharged and were eligible to donate plasma. Delay in results Speaking of the delay in receiving the test results, Mr. Sudhakar said that in a week’s time, test results would be received within 24 hours. He said that Karnataka would further ramp up testing and aim to conduct 40,000 to 50,000 tests. The Minister, who held a meeting with 25 private medical colleges in the State, said that the lab in each of these colleges test at least 500 samples per day. Home isolation Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said that 4,000 people who tested positive for COVID-19 are currently in home isolation. Mr. Sudhakar said that those aged above 60 would be under reverse isolation. Mr. Sudhakar said that booth-level task force committees would be formed soon and they would undergo orientation and training. The Medical Education Minister also said that out of 8,658 beds, as many as 2,574 were currently occupied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-provide-rs-5000-as-incentive-to-plasma-donors/article32096836.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Battling the elements||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/battling-the-elements/article32096806.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Day one||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/day-one/article32096814.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. directive on beds||The State government, in a circular issued on Wednesday, directed Deputy Commissioners and chief executive officers of all the district to ensure 50% beds are earmarked for COVID-19 cases in all private hospitals. It asked the district authorities to prioritise beds with oxygen and ventilator support and ICU beds for such cases. “The number of beds available for COVID-19 in government hospitals shall be allotted under centralised bed allotment system,” the circular read. It states that additional ambulance facility can be hired if demand arises, and vehicles be made available for the final rights of deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-directive-on-beds/article32096826.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘WFH’ option for Assembly staff||Employees of the State Legislative Assembly secretariat have been given the option to work from home for seven days from Wednesday. In a circular issued by the Assembly secretary M.K. Vishalakshi, employees have been asked to complete all pending and urgent work on time. If necessary, officials can attend offices in the Vidhana Soudha and complete the work. However, employees can opt for work from home also. In case senior officials summon any employee to office for immediate work, they will have have to come to office, she said. Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar had issued a circular directing all departments to ensure 50% attendance in offices during the seven-day lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts. The estate officer will assign work for employees of the Legislators’ Home here, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wfh-option-for-assembly-staff/article32096831.ece
16 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||20 more test positive in Alappuzha district||The district logged 20 more COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, six got the disease through contact, 10 had come from abroad and four from other States. According to officials, one of the patients who contracted the disease through local transmission is a 49-year-old fish vendor associated with Kumarapuram market. He hailed from Thrikkunnapuzha. Another, a 43-year-old man native of Arookutty is associated with Chellanam harbour. A 48-year-old man hailing from Arattupuzha works in the fishing sector in Thiruvananthapuram. A young man hailing from Thrikkunnapuzha is on the contact list of a COVID-19 patient from Kayamkulam. Another, is a 42-year-old man from Eramalloor on the contact list of a COVID-19 patient who also hailed from Eramalloor. A 60-year-old woman from Pattanakkad was on the contact list of a fisherman at Chellanam who tested COVID-19 positive earlier. Health Department officials said that the collection and testing of samples for SARS-CoV-2 were intensified in the district following a spike in cases in recent days. Ward 7,8,9 and 10 in Thrikkunnapuzha and ward 1, 2 and 3 in Krishnapuram were declared as containment zones. Meanwhile, the medical board has given nod to start plasma therapy to a 70-year-old COVID-19 patient undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha. The plasma was brought from the MCH, Manjeri. MCH authorities said that they had started plasma therapy and the condition of the patient was improving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/20-more-test-positive-in-alappuzha-district/article32097215.ece
16 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||MCH turns exam centre||The Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha, is on the frontline of COVID-19 fight by treating and saving a large number of lives. Apart from being a medical facility, the MCH will turn an examination centre for KEAM 2020, the State entrance examinations for admission to engineering and pharmacy courses, on Thursday. While almost all the 1,10,250 candidates registered for KEAM will write the test in centres such as schools, colleges and other facilities, at least two candidates are set to take the entrance examinations from the hospital bed, if everything goes as planned. The candidates, both hailing from Alappuzha were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 recently. While one of the patients is admitted to a COVID-19 first-line treatment centre in Kayamkulam, another is undergoing treatment at the MCH, Alappuzha. A collective effort of their parents, Office of the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE), and Health Department is set to fulfil the wish of the students to appear for KEAM 2020. MCH superintendent R.V. Ramlal told The Hindu that arrangements had been made for the students to write the examination in the COVID-19 ward. COVID guidelines "The examination will be conducted as per the COVID-19 guidelines. The candidate admitted to the hospital in Kayamkulam will be brought to the MCH by around 8.30 a.m. in a vehicle. In the examination room, the candidates will be seated ensuring physical distancing. A nurse wearing PPE kit will be deployed to the room. After the examination, answer sheets will be disinfected and put in a cover. It will be further placed in another cover. The cover containing answer sheets will be opened only after 10 days," Dr. Ramlal said. Authorities said the candidates were only showing mild symptoms of the disease. "The parents of the candidates first approached people's representatives informing the desire of their children to appear for KEAM. The matter was then taken up with the Office of the CEE, who in turn approached the Health Department. It gave its permission on Wednesday evening," said an official entrusted with the conduct of KEAM 2020 in Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-turns-exam-centre/article32097216.ece
16 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||82.46% pass in Alappuzha||Alappuzha district registered a pass percentage of 82.46 in the Plus Two examination. Of the 23,066 students (school going) who appeared for the examination, 19,021 became eligible for higher studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/8246-pass-in-alappuzha/article32097214.ece
16 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Patient details on social media in Idukki||The details of 51 persons diagnosed with COVID-19 in the district got leaked out to public domain on Wednesday, creating a furore. The names, addresses, and phone numbers of the patients appeared on social media. The incident came to light after the patients began to receive threatening calls. Idukki reported 55 cases on the day, the largest number in the district in a single day. The details of four persons from a family who tested positive were not on the list, officials said. One patient said his family faced much discomfort as their neighbours and even their distant relatives were alerted to it. Strangers rang up, threatening or teasing, he said. Explanation sought District Collector H. Dinesan asked the District Medical Officer for an explanation on how the details leaked out. Mr. Dinesan said the issue was serious since victims’ identities needed to be protected. An inquiry had been ordered. He said that leak could have happened after the list was sent from the DMO’s office to the taluk level offices. Idukki reported the first COVID-19 death on Wednesday. Valsamma, 56, of Rajakkad had died at a hospital in Ernakulam of cardiac arrest on Sunday. Her samples were tested and COVID-19 was confirmed on Wednesday.  Among those who tested positive, 20 returned from other States and 11, from abroad. There were 19 cases of local transmission and the source of infection of six persons were not known. In addition to the entire wards of Rajakkad garma panchayat, the grama panchayats and ward numbers which were declared as containment zones on Wednesday are: Chinnakanal (3, 10); Kanchiyar (11, 12); Ayyappancoil (1,2,3); Upputhara (1, 6, 7); Udumbanchola (2, 3); Kodikulam (1, 13); Bisonvalley (8); Peerumade (13), Senapathi (9).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/patient-details-on-social-media-in-idukki/article32097223.ece
16 July 2020||Kasaragod,KERALA||Kasaragod sees biggest single-day spike||In biggest single-day spike, Kasaragod district reported 74 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Among those infected through contact were 29 residents of Chengala. Other local transmission cases were reported from Mogral Puthur, Cheruthur, Meencha, Kumbala, Muliyar, Kasaragod Municipality, Manjeswaram, and Madhur. District Collector D. Sajith Babu said the current situation in the district was grim. The Collector was speaking at the district-level Corona Core Committee meeting held at the Collectorate on Wednesday. In the wake of increasing number of local transmission cases, more restrictions will be in place in the district. Shops will be allowed to open only from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. In case of non-compliance, shops will be closed for seven days and will be allowed to reopen only after disinfection. Areas along the national highway from Kumbala to Thalappadi have been declared as containment zones. All meetings in the district, including hearings, have been postponed for 14 days. The ban on fishing will continue until July 17. In Malappuram A COVID-19 infected 69-year-old man died while being in quarantine at Purathur near Tirur on Wednesday. He was quarantined at his home after returning from Bengaluru. He was found positive when the test results came after his death. Meanwhile, 17 others tested positive for the virus in Malappuram district on Wednesday. While four of them had contracted the virus through local transmission, three had returned from other States and 10 from abroad. In Kannur Kannur district reported 35 more COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. While eight of them returned from abroad, 15 came from other States. Nine are DSC personnel and three got infected through contact. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district rose to 795. Of these, 463 were discharged from the hospital. There are currently 26,093 persons under observation. In Palakkad Nineteen persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Wednesday. They included a one-year-old girl and a man from Malappuram. Eleven of the new cases had returned from the United Arab Emirates, five from Saudi Arabia, and one from Tamil Nadu. Apart from them, a man from Puthuppariyaram and a migrant labour from Assam were tested positive, but their source of infection could not be ascertained. The total number of infected persons currently under treatment in the district rose to 264 on Wednesday. Apart from them, ten persons from Palakkad are being treated in other districts also. In Thrissur Five more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur on Wednesday. One person was infected through contact. As many as 241 persons are currently undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in various hospitals. Meanwhile, antigen testing is under way in the district. More than 100 tests were held in Kunnamkulam and Irinjalakuda. In all, 14,105 people are under observation in the district. In Wayanad Wayanad reported four more COVID-19 cases. Officials said a 37-year-old man from Pozhuthana who returned from Saudi Arabia, a 24-year-old woman from Kurukkan Moola near Kattikulam, a 23-year-old youth from Chennalode, and a 32-year-old from Edavaka who had returned from Bengaluru were the newly infected patients. All of them were shifted to the District Hospital at Mananthavady. (With inputs from Kannur, Palakkad, Thrissur, Malappuram, and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kasaragod-sees-biggest-single-day-spike/article32097101.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||49% of cases in Ernakulam through local transmission||The Aluva market area and Chellanam remain areas of concern for the district, as 39 persons from Chellanam and 12 from the Aluva market area tested positive on Wednesday. Those who tested positive in Chellanam are all contacts of people who had been infected earlier. A total of 109 persons from Chellanam have tested positive so far. Around 46% of the 659 cases recorded in the district so far are through local transmission. The percentage of cases through local transmission has steadily increased from a little over 20% in the middle of last week, going by data available on the Directorate of Health Services COVID dashboard. Two persons from Kavalangad and one from Keezhmad have been infected through contact with those in the Keezhmad cluster. As many as 72 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday, of whom 65 acquired the infection through local contact, while seven persons had returned from outside the State. A 53-year-old resident of Thoppumpady who used to work at a food processing unit in Alappuzha and two of his family members have tested positive. A 62-year-old doctor from the Champakkara division of the Kochi Corporation, who is an oncologist at a private hospital in the district, has tested positive. A 75-year-old from Parakadavu has tested positive with no clear source of infection. Panchayat officials said the patient had, after developing symptoms, visited a nearby hospital and another private hospital, where he tested positive. One of his relatives had recovered from fever a week ago, they said. Five family members of a 79-year-old from Rayamangalam who had tested positive after his death last week have also been infected. A 29-year-old from Edathala, whose parents had tested positive, has acquired the infection. The district recorded only one recovery, and 474 people are being treated. As many as 749 samples were sent for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/49-of-cases-in-ernakulam-through-local-transmission/article32097111.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Lighthouses in State still shine bright||The COVID-19 pandemic has brought life around lighthouses along Kerala’s coast to a standstill. There is no footfall but the beacon lights still shine, just as they have always been despite the mariners depending heavily on emerging technologies. Kerala’s lighthouses, with easy access to the public, are unlike many sleepy towers in many parts of the country. They are frequented by visitors, from tourists curious about what these tall structures do for seafarers to history enthusiasts. 20 in all Of the 20 lighthouses along the State’s coast, the ones at Vizhinjam, Thankassery, Alappuzha, Vypeen and Kannur are the most popular with visitors. The enthusiasm was so much that the Directorate General of Lighthouses and Lightships established museums in Kannur and Alappuzha. A musical fountain is ready at Vizhinjam. Alappuzha’s museum is the country’s first lighthouse museum built after a heritage theme. But silence is pervading these facilities now. But it was temporary, sources said, pointing out that the facilities at Vizhinjam used to have a large number of visitors and ticket collection often touched around Rs. 4 lakh a month. “The relevance of lighthouses has not diminished a bit despite the change in technology and the way mariners find their way in the sea,” said I.C.R. Prasad, a historian of lighthouses with about 40 years of experience with the Directorate of Lighthouses. Draft Bill The lighthouses are once again in focus with the Union government publishing the draft of the Aids to Navigation Bill, 2020. The Bill is proposed to replace the nearly a century-old Lighthouse Act 1927 to incorporate best practices in the world, technological developments and India’s international obligations in the field of Aids to Marine Navigation, said a communication from the Ministry of Shipping .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lighthouses-in-state-still-shine-bright/article32097119.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Local bodies told to form disease management panels||In order to manage the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the district at the local body level, District Collector S. Suhas has ordered the constitution of COVID-19 management committees at the panchayat level, under the supervision of respective tahsildars. The committee would comprise a representative of the local body, a sub inspector of police, a doctor from the local primary or community health centre, and a representative nominated by the tahsildar. The committee would be required to make arrangements to set up a 50-100 -bed first-line treatment centre, along with tele-medicine and swab collection facilities. The committee must also arrange for double-chambered vehicles to transport patients, and identify grocery and medical shops that can be opened in containment zones on a rotation basis. The committee will function from 24-hour control rooms which are to be set up at local bodies to deal with monsoon-related exigencies. Local bodies have been asked to make a list of teachers, police and other government officials in the area who can be called upon if the area is declared a containment zone. The strategy is to make available the maximum number of beds possible at the local level for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients in the next 10 days, the Collector said in an online briefing. GH ward to reopen The patients who were in quarantine in the general ward of the Ernakulam General Hospital have been discharged after they tested negative and the ward is set to begin functioning again, sources said. A psychiatrist from the hospital had also tested positive recently, but since the doctor had been off duty for a week, staff members were not required to go into quarantine. Test results for the patients in the cardiac ward are awaited.  The committees will arrange for vehicles to transport patients and identify grocery and medical shops that can be opened in containment zones||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-told-to-form-disease-management-panels/article32097103.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. draws HC ire as waste dumping goes unabated||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday expressed displeasure over the delay on the part of the Kochi Corporation in taking steps to stop dumping of waste from the slaughterhouse at Kaloor into the Thevara-Perandoor canal. Justice Devan Ramachandran warned the civic body that the court would be left with no option but to order closure of the slaughterhouse on the next day of posting, that is July 27, if it was not informed of the action taken in accordance with the State Pollution Control Board’s suggestions. The court made the observation while hearing a petition on the cleaning of the canal. The court had earlier observed that the discharge of waste directly into the canal could not be allowed, as it had already directed the corporation to clean up the canal. It had held that the corporation was operating the slaughterhouse without a fully functional sewage treatment plant. The court also directed the district administration to take immediate steps to complete the desilting of Vivekananda Thodu subject to orders on petitions filed by shop owners nearby. The government pleader informed the court that the administration was not able to complete the renovation work on Vivekananda Thodu from South railway station to Mullassery Canal (Division 62), as some traders had obtained court orders allowing them to discharge waste into the canal. Discharge of waste into the canal had hampered its renovation work. Notice to civic body The Pollution Control Board (PCB) had slapped a show-cause notice on the corporation in September last year, specifying that, in the absence of an effluent treatment plant, waste from the slaughterhouse was being released into the Thevara-Perandoor canal. Corporation officials said a detailed project report for a modern facility was ready, and that approval from the corporation council was being awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-draws-hc-ire-as-waste-dumping-goes-unabated/article32097104.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CSL bags order to build zero carbon autonomous ferry for Norwegian firm||Public sector Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) has signed contracts for construction and supply of two Autonomous Electric Ferry for ASKO Maritime AS, Norway, with an option to build two more identical vessels. Part-funded by the Norwegian government, the ambitious project is aimed at emission-free transport of goods across the Oslofjord. These vessels will be managed by Massterly AS, the first company set up to take technical management and operate autonomous vessels, a joint venture between Kongsberg, world leader in autonomous technology, and Wilhelmsen, one of the largest maritime shipping companies, according to a communication. Once in operation, the vessel is expected to create a new benchmark in merchant shipping in the field of autonomous vessels with zero carbon emission. The 67-metre-long vessels will be delivered as a full-electric transport ferry, powered by 1,846 kWh capacity battery. After the commissioning of autonomous equipment and field trials in Norway, it will operate as a fully autonomous ferry of ASKO that can transport 16 fully loaded Standard EU trailers in one go across the fjords. The vessels are designed by Naval Dynamics Norway using Kongsberg Maritime systems, with detailed engineering to be carried out by CSL. They will be built under DNV GL classification and flagged in Norway, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/csl-bags-order-to-build-zero-carbon-autonomous-ferry-for-norwegian-firm/article32097106.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. urged to draw up policies for CBSE schools||The Kerala CBSE School Managements Association has urged the government to formulate policies to encourage CBSE schools in the State in view of the high academic standards and results earned by the institutions. The restrictions and tax burden imposed on self-financing private schools have affected their functioning, and the government should take steps to support such institutions, T.P.M. Ibrahim Khan, president of the association, said in a communication on Tuesday. The government’s intent to turn the State into a hub of higher education and to increase job opportunities for Keralites can be achieved by recognising the contributions of private schools, he added. “We request the government to support us along with the encouragement given by to public schools,” Mr. Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-urged-to-draw-up-policies-for-cbse-schools/article32097108.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||District schools impress in CBSE 10th results||Schools in Ernakulam put up an impressive performance in the Class X examinations conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education, the results of which were declared on Wednesday. The number of distinctions won by schools under Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan are: Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Elamakara (178); Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Girinagar (121); Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Eroor (131); Bhavan's Adarsha Vidyalaya, Kakkanad (153); Bhavan's Varuna Vidyalaya, Thrikkakara (66); Bhavan's Munshi Vidyashram, Thiruvankulam (122); Bhavan's Newsprint, Velloor (111). Eighty-nine students of Global Public School, Thiruvaniyoor, bagged distinction. Rajagiri Public School, Kalamassery, registered 100% success as did Rajagiri Higher Secondary School, Kalamassery. In Christu Jayanthi Public School, Kakkanad, 175 students secured distinction. Vidyodaya Public School, Thevakkal, registered 123 distinctions. Eighty-eight students of Gregorian Public School, Maradu, secured distinction. In Cochin Refineries School, Thiruvaniyoor, 101 students won distinction while in Toc H Public School, Vyttila, 148 students secured distinction. Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Thripunithura, bagged 114 distinctions while 120 students of Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Vaduthala, won distinction. Seventy-five students of Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Kannamaly, bagged distinction. Sixty-five students of SBOA Public School, South Chittoor, won distinction. Fifty-five students of Nalanda Public School, Thammanam, bagged distinction while 137 students of Assisi Vidyaniketan Public School, Kakkanad, won distinction. Fifty students of Nava Nirman, Vazhakkala, bagged distinction. Eighty students of Sree Narayana Public School, Poothotta, won distinction. Twenty-nine students of Delta Study, Fort Kochi, bagged distinction and 42 students of Amrita Vidhyalayam, Edappally, bagged distinction. Forty-six students of Greets Public School won distinction and 14 students of Cochin Public School won distinction. Forty-seven students of Rajashree SM Memorial School, East Kadungalloor, bagged distinction. Twenty-nine students of Sri Sri Ravishankar Vidya Mandir won distinction. St. John's Public School, South Paravoor, registered 100% success. Pragati Academy, Perumbavoor, bagged 94% distinction. Twenty-two students of St. Paul’s International School, Kalamassery, won distinction and 169 students of Choice School, Thripunithura bagged distinction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-schools-impress-in-cbse-10th-results/article32097107.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Union Minister reviews Vallarpadam work||Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya has reviewed development work at the Vallarpadam container transshipment terminal here, the first transshipment port in India managed by DP World. Mr. Mandaviya directed officials to chalk out a strategy to tackle challenges and actualise the vision of transshipment hub of India and pioneer hub in South Asia, said a press release here. “Resolving various issues of the Vallarpadam terminal is one of the top priorities of the Ministry of Shipping,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/union-minister-reviews-vallarpadam-work/article32097114.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Supplyco online shopping from next month||The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) expects to reach consumers across the State with its online supply of provisions and other items by August. The Corporation is already engaged in online supplies and door delivery in Ernakulam. Supplyco is developing an internet application for the purpose. Only the transport cost for the supplies would be charged extra, said a press release here. Supplyco would shift to a single software from the present system of using different software for different purposes, the press release added. The Corporation expects to generate income to the tune of Rs. 400 crore from brand lifting fees from brand owners at the rate of Rs. 2,000 each. It would also charge Rs. 2,000 as ‘preferred shelfing’ fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-online-shopping-from-next-month/article32097120.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Actors agree to pay cut||The Association of Malayalam Movie Artistes (AMMA) has agreed to a salary cut proposed by the Kerala Film Producers Association (KFPA) in view of the financial impact of the pandemic crisis on the Malayalam film industry.  B. Rakesh, treasurer of KFPA, has welcomed the decision of AMMA, stating that it would help revive the fortunes of the industry that has been hit hard by the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/actors-agree-to-pay-cut/article32097138.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam tops Plus Two results with 89.02% pass||Ernakulam earned the distinction of having topped the list of districts that came out with flying colours in the State Higher Secondary examinations, the results of which were published on Wednesday. The district won 89.02 % pass percentage to lead the overall tally. Ernakulam increased its overall pass percentage by 3.17 points compared with last year. The corresponding figure in 2019 was 85.85%. Around 28,220 students of the total 31,700 in 202 schools in the district who appeared for the examinations became eligible for higher studies. Of them, 1909 students secured A Plus in all subjects. Technical category In the technical school category, 387 of the total 426 who appeared for the examinations became eligible for higher studies. The overall pass percentage was 90.85. Twenty-one students won A Plus in all subjects. The overall pass percentage in the open school category was 51.77 per cent. Of the 2,401 students who appeared for the examinations, 1,243 became eligible for higher studies. Nine students won A Plus in all subjects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-tops-plus-two-results-with-8902-pass/article32097112.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Mahajanwadi building roof caves in||After a portion of the roof of the rickety Mahajanwadi building in Mattancherry collapsed on Wednesday, a section of the building will soon be demolished. While two families continue to live in one part of the building, the other section will be demolished, said T.K. Ashraf, councillor representing Mattancherry, by whose estimates, the building could have been built nearly a century ago. The property is managed by a trust under the Waqf Board. Around eight families living in the upper storey of the building had been rehabilitated to a three-storey building in Mattancherry by the Kochi Corporation last year. The people in the vicinity, including nearly 30 families behind the Mahajanwadi building, are mostly landless and living in rundown houses, said Jaisin Kareem of Sunrise Kochi, an NGO based in Fort Kochi. But any sort of rehabilitation continues to evade them, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mahajanwadi-building-roof-caves-in/article32097102.ece
16 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Technician electrocuted||A 34-year-old service technician on contract at the Bharat Petroleum Corporation’s Kochi Refinery here was electrocuted while working at the Petro FCCU plant on Wednesday. M.N. Rohith of Manayathatumana in Edakkatuvayal suffered an electric shock while the plant was in shutdown mode. He was rushed to the refinery’s medical centre but was shifted to the Medical Trust Hospital after his condition worsened, according to company authorities. The incident occurred around 3 p.m. An internal inquiry will be carried out to find out how the accident occurred, they said. The deceased is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/technician-electrocuted/article32097113.ece
16 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||11 fresh cases in Kollam||The district reported 11 COVID-19 cases and eight recoveries on Wednesday. While eight are contact cases, two are from abroad and one had travelled from Karnataka. Three Bharatipuram residents aged 34, 30 and 42 are the contacts of a fish vendor who tested positive on July 14. Two women from Anchal contracted the infection from their relative, a 50-year-old Anchal resident who tested positive on July 13. The suspected contact cases, include two persons from Anchal and a Vilakkudy resident. Among the patients, a 50-year-old Nedumbana resident and 37-year-old Karunagappally resident had travelled from Saudi Arabia. The person from Karnataka is a 24-year-old Punalur resident. Since many contacts of fish vendors have tested positive in the last few days, all the fish selling centres in the district will remain closed. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting at the collectorate on Wednesday. Focus on fish vendors The meeting also noted that fish vendors have been forming clusters at Anchal, Eroor and Chadayamangalam. The District Collector has instructed the officials concerned to hand over the list of markets to be closed. Despite the ban on marine fishing, fish was available in the market and its source would be investigated, said the District Police Chief. The meeting also decided to arrange 100 more beds at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11-fresh-cases-in-kollam/article32097218.ece
16 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||COVID care to go the designer way||With face masks becoming a wardrobe staple, Kudumbashree is all set to launch Mukhasree, a range of premium designer masks coming in different sizes and a variety of fabrics. Women who underwent training at the Kerala State Institute of Design (KSID), Kollam, and the National Institute of Fashion Technology, Kannur, will be in charge of the designer units. Though most of the masks will be made of breathable fabrics such as cotton and linen, a range of other materials, including silk, will be used to offer more options for customers. “We are focussing on Indian ethnic designs such as pochampally , ikat and kalamkari while synthetic material will be used for some. But for children, we have come up with some funny designs such as animals and cartoons so that they will like wearing them,” says Manoj Kumar Kini, Principal, KSID. The Mukhasree masks will be different from the mass-produced ones in terms of quality and comfort. “Technically perfect design and variety will be the USP of the masks,” says Kudumbashree Mission district coordinator A.G. Santhosh. In sets of four or more Since Kudumbashree apparel parks have the sophisticated machines needed for an industrial unit, mask sets with four or more pieces will be introduced in the market in the initial phase. “We will also provide customised masks with particular colours, emblems or embroidery for corporates and other institutions. The material will be procured from production centres outside Kerala to make it cost-effective,” he adds. Reusable Mukhasree masks will be available at a much lower price compared to other designer brands in market. The designing institutes will provide all the technical support for the units, and Mr. Manoj Kumar Kini says a lot of engineering is involved in making a proper mask.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-care-to-go-the-designer-way/article32097225.ece
16 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Spike in contact cases in Kottayam||Giving rise to fears of community transmission, as many as 22 people out of the 25 who tested positive for COVID-19 got it through contact. These include 15 persons from the Parathodu panchayat, who contracted COVID-19 through local contact. Officials said a new cluster had been formed in Parathodu panchayat, where a 72-year-old COVID-19 patient died a couple of days ago. Though the patient tested negative before death, as many as 18 persons in his contact list have tested positive so far. This included 12 persons in ward 8 of the local body where the person had resided and three others from his neighbouring wards . Meanwhile, two more persons who had been in the contact list of the COVID-19 patient from Manarcad tested positive during the day, taking the total number of persons in the particular cluster to 14.  According to health authorities, a total of 72 persons have contracted the virus through local contact in Kottayam. Special team Taking a serious note of the local contact cases in Parathodu, a team comprising experts from the Community Medicine Department at the Government Medical College, Kottayam will be sent to the local body for coordinating the pandemic prevention activities. Meanwhile, nine persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from various hospitals here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spike-in-contact-cases-in-kottayam/article32097219.ece
16 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||More curbs imposed in Kozhikode district||Complete lockdown on Sundays, closure of malls, shopping malls and supermarkets other than those selling essential stuff and medicines, and a ban on travel unless for medical care and essential needs, are some of the restrictions being imposed on Kozhikode district in the wake of a rapid rise in the number of COVID-19 cases through local transmission. Curfew will be in place between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao said in a release on Wednesday that the recent cases had been reported from places where people came in large numbers such as shopping centres and during funerals and weddings, apart from flats. The maximum number of people who can attend weddings is 50 now and more than 20 persons cannot be there at a time. More than 20 persons are not allowed to attend funerals. Rapid response teams (RRT) should be informed of the details of the participants. Dharnas, protests and rallies without police permission have been banned. More than 10 persons should not congregate at a place. Chombala and Koyilandy harbours will not function until further notice. Those travelling between districts should inform RRTs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-curbs-imposed-in-kozhikode-district/article32097094.ece
16 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode registers 86.22 pass percentage in Plus Two exams||Kozhikode district registered a pass percentage of 86.22 when the results of the higher secondary exams were announced on Wednesday. According to sources, of the 38,188 students who wrote the exams, 32,924 cleared it. As many as 1,991 students got A-plus grade in all subjects. Twenty-three students scored full marks (1200 out of 1200), up from 16 last year. Those who scored full marks in the science stream are B. Swathikrishna (Government Higher Secondary School, Kokkallur), R.P. Sivapriya (Government Higher Secondary School, Kuttiyadi), Bhagirath Swaraj (Government Mappila Higher Secondary School, Koyilandy), S. Navaneeth (Government Higher Secondary School, Kalachi), J.R. Pavithra (Government Higher Secondary School, Balussery), Mohammed Farhan and S.S. Aishwarya (Perambra Higher Secondary School), S. Anil Shan (Rahmania Higher Secondary School, Kozhikode), Diya Shaji, O. Ashra Fathima, K. Radhika Deeju, Sindhoora Sreekumar (St. Joseph’s Anglo-Indian Girls Higher Secondary School, Kozhikode), Devika Vijith (Memunda Higher Secondary School), U. Swathi (Kunnamangalam Higher Secondary School) R.M. Sreya (National Higher Secondary School, Vattoli), B.R. Amalraj, and K. Narmada (Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Koyilandy), and E.K. Arya (Government Higher Secondary School, Avala). Those who scored full marks in the humanities stream are K. Saraswathi (Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Payyoli), Malavika V. Nair (BEM Higher Secondary School, Kozhikode), Devasagar (Government Higher Secondary School, Naduvalloor). In the commerce stream, Anjana Prasanth (Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Nadakkavu, Kozhikode), and S. Sreelakshmi (Providence Higher Secondary School, Kozhikode) scored full marks. Eight schools from the district registered cent per cent results. In the technical school section, 26 of the 30 students who wrote the exam cleared it. In the vocational higher secondary section, 2,204 students wrote the exam, and 1,909 became eligible for higher studies in part 1 and 2, 1805 in part 2 and 3, and the pass percentages are 86.62 and 81.90, respectively. In Wayanad Wayanad district recorded a pass percentage of 82.97 in the higher secondary exams. Officials told The Hindu that of the 9,582 students who wrote the exams at 60 schools in the district, 7,950 had passed. As many as 453 students in the district secured A-plus in all subjects. The district secured only the 10th position in the pass percentage at State level as against the fourth position last year. Four schools — Sarvodaya HSS, Echom; MGM HSS, Ambukuthi; NSS HSS, Kalpetta; and St. Roselle Las Speech and Hearing HSS, Poomala — recorded cent per cent win. Ambedkar Memorial Residential HSS for tribal students at Nalloornad registered 98.5% results. In the open school section, the district achieved 42.23% pass. Of the 1,281 students, 541 qualified for higher studies. In Thrissur Thrissur district recorded 87.13% pass in the higher secondary exams. As many as 28,461 students became eligible for higher studies. A total of 1,662 students got A-plus in all subjects. In all, 32,665 students wrote the examinations from 202 schools in the district. Vivekodhayam Boys Higher Secondary school, Thrissur, and Sacred Heart’s Convent Girls Higher Secondary School, Thrissur, secured maximum number of A-pluses. As many as 19 schools won 100% results. In the VHSE exams, the district registered 82.31% pass. A total of 1,745 students became eligible for higher studies. In all, 2,120 students appeared for the examination. GVHSS, Thiruvilwamala, and VHSS, Aryambadam, secured cent per cent results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-registers-8622-pass-percentage-in-plus-two-exams/article32097096.ece
16 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Good show by schools in CBSE Class 10 exam||Schools in Kozhikode district recorded a good performance with the major ones registering 100% pass when results of the Class 10 exams under the Central Board of Secondary Education were released on Wednesday. At Kendriya Vidyalaya-1, 252 of the 253 students who wrote the exam cleared it. Kendriya Vidyalaya-2 registered 100 per cent pass with all the 97 students becoming eligible for higher studies. Of the 127 students who wrote the exams at the Dayapuram Residential School, Chathamangalam, 99 got distinction and 26 first class. Devagiri CMI Public School secured 100% pass .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-show-by-schools-in-cbse-class-10-exam/article32097092.ece
16 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||14,390 to write KEAM exams in Kozhikode||As many as 14,390 students from Kozhikode district will appear for the Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical (KEAM) exams to be held on Thursday across the State for admission to professional courses. A release said on Tuesday that the exams were being held at 37 centres in the district, in line with the COVID-19 protocol between 10 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. and 5 p.m. Fire Services personnel have disinfected the exam centres. Only 20 students would be there in each room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/14390-to-write-keam-exams-in-kozhikode/article32097099.ece
16 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||CM protecting Jaleel: BJP||BJP State president K. Surendran has termed ‘inconsistent’ the statements of Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel regarding his alleged links with Swapna Suresh, accused in the gold smuggling case. At a news conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Surendran said that the clarification Mr. Jaleel gave on the calls he had made to Swapna failed to corroborate with the facts. It appeared that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was trying to protect Mr. Jaleel in the smuggling case, Mr. Surendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-protecting-jaleel-bjp/article32097115.ece
16 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||64 fresh cases in district||The number of COVID-19 cases through local transmission continues to rise in Kozhikode with 64 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. The infection of 62 of them, including those from Thooneri, Nadapuram, Vadakara, and Kozhikode Corporation, was revealed through antigen tests, said a release. . There were 22 fresh cases from Nadapuram, 18 in Thooneri, 12 in Vadakara and three in Kozhikode Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/64-fresh-cases-in-district/article32097097.ece
16 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Hypnotist Ayroor dead||Noted hypnotist and rationalist Johnson Ayroor, 74, died at Nilambur on Wednesday. The funeral will take place on Thursday morning. Ayroor had worked in the Postal Department but was ousted during the Emergency for union activities. He was president of the Mishra Vivaha Sangham and vice president of the Kerala Yuktivadi Sangham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hypnotist-ayroor-dead/article32097095.ece
16 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||64 new cases in Pathanamthitta||A total of 64 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday and 45 of them contracted the disease through contact, according to an official bulletin released here in the evening. A health worker is also among the infected persons. Seventeen among the newly infected persons tested positive for the virus in a rapid antigen test drive at Thiruvalla on Wednesday. All of them were contacts of infected persons, the bulletin said. A 48-year-old woman hailing from Podiyadi, near Thiruvalla, who tested positive in Kottayam on July 12 is undergoing treatment in the district. So far, a total of 649 people tested positive in the district and 317 of them have been cured of the disease. One person died. 331 active cases There are 331 active cases, of which 319 people are in hospitals in the district and 12 others undergoing treatment outside the district. A total of 335 persons, comprising patients and those with symptoms, are in isolation wards of hospitals in the district. As per the bulletin, 156 of them are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, 18 at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, three persons at Adoor General Hospital, 85 persons at the First-line COVID Treatment Centre (FCTC) at Menanthottom Hospital in Ranni, 36 persons at the FCTC at Archana Hospital in Pandalam, 28 persons at FCTC at Eraviperoor, and nine others at various private hospitals in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/64-new-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32097222.ece
16 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Apps stand in good stead||Half-a dozen user-friendly mobile applications developed by the Mar Athanaseus College for Advanced Studies Thiruvalla (MACFAST) here have come in handy for the administration to contain the pandemic. The revenue and police authorities in Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, and Alappuzha have benefited from the technological innovations of the MACFAST team comprising Pavin Raj Thadathil, Sudeep B. Chandramana, Tiji Thomas, Jaimon James, Ajay Kurien, and Saji Varghese in their efforts to combat the pandemic. ‘Corona Outbreak Management - Bringing Action Together’ (COMBAT) is the first mobile application developed by the team, facilitating speedy communication among stakeholders of the pandemic management team. COVID-19 Live Update for Everyone (CLUE) is another platform developed by the team for getting information and updates on COVID-19 at the global, national, State, district, and even at the panchayat levels, says Jaimon James, an MCA student who headed the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/apps-stand-in-good-stead/article32097220.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||85.13% students pass Plus Two exams||As many as 85.13% of the students who appeared for the Plus Two higher secondary examinations this year has become eligible for higher studies. The result is 0.8 percentage point more than last year’s pass percentage of 84.33. The results of the Plus Two and vocational higher secondary examinations were declared by Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath here on Wednesday. Of the 3,75,655 school-going regular students who sat for the exams, 3,19,782 became eligible for higher studies. Girls outperformed boys by a good margin. As many as 92.29% of the girl candidates became eligible for higher studies, as compared to 77.22% for boys. While government schools registered a pass percentage of 82.19, down from 83.04 last year, aided school showed an improvement – 88.01 this year as compared to 86.36 last year. Unaided schools had a pass percentage of 81.33, an increase from 77.34 last year. Special schools in the State registered 100% results. The pass percentage for the State Council for Open and Lifelong Education (SCOLE) was 43.64, up from 43.48 last year. In the Technical stream, the pass percentage was 87.94, an increase from 69.72% last year. In the Art stream, conducted at Kalamandalam Art Higher Secondary School, the success rate was 98.75%. The first batch of students following the National Skills Qualifications Framework appeared for the examinations this year. Of the 3,733 students from 66 schools, 2,755 qualified for higher education, registering a pass percentage of 73.02. Two schools registered 100% pass, while three had less than 30% pass. Twelve students had A+ grade in all subjects. VHSE results In the vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) examinations, 76.06% regular students cleared Parts 1, 2, and 3 and became eligible for higher studies under the Continuous Evaluation and Grading (Regular-cum-Modular) scheme). This was down from 80.07% last year. As many as 81.8% cleared Parts 1 and 2 and became eligible for trade and skill certificates. The pass percentage last year was 87.14. In the Continuous Evaluation and Grading (Revised-cum-Modular) scheme) private category, 50% of the candidates passed Parts 1 and 2, and 43.37% Part 3. In the Continuous Evaluation and Grading scheme private category, 60.87% of the students passed Parts 1 and 2 and 51.47% Part 3. The results of the Lower Secondary Scholarship (LSS) and Upper Secondary Scholarship (USS) will come out on Thursday. For the first time, the higher secondary certificates would include the candidate’s photograph, date of birth, name of mother and father. The valuation of Plus One answer scripts had been completed, and the results would be declared this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/8513-students-pass-plus-two-exams/article32097135.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||With beds running out, govt. to open new facilities||The sudden and massive surge in the number of COVID-19 patients and suspected cases in the district in just three days, following intense local transmission in the district’s coastal villages, has thrown out of gear all preparedness and planning by the district health administration. The capital district has at present 939 COVID-19 patients as well as 856 persons with mild COVID-19-like symptoms, all of whom have been isolated at hospitals. The fall-out of this sudden spike in the number of patients has been that almost all COVID-19 hospitals in the district — Government Medical College Hospital, SAT Hospital, and General Hospital — as well as the COVID first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs) are now filled to capacity. The GH has some 170 patients and suspected COVID-19 cases; SAT around 40 patients, including pregnant women and children (another 60 beds were being found); and MCH, around 70. About 1,200 of the beds in eight or nine CFLTCs had been occupied by Wednesday evening . All Category A patients with mild symptoms and COVID-19-positive asymptomatic cases are being admitted to CFLTCs while only moderate (Category B) and severe (Category C) patients are being admitted to COVID hospitals. Staff shortage While the Chief Minister announced that a 750-bed facility will be opened up, health officials confided that human resources to manage the huge volume of patients in all the centres — doctors, nurses, and other ancillary staff — was going to be a major issue. “We had planned to earmark 500 beds at the MCH, but now we find that we can only manage about 300 beds or else our non-COVID-19 patients with serious illnesses will suffer,” a senior health official said. “We might have to rethink our current strategy and resolve to isolate all mild and asymptomatic COVID-19 cases at their own homes, with strict monitoring by the health field workers because the numbers are becoming unmanageable. Up till now, we could afford to keep them in hospitals but we will have to free up space for serious patients,” he said. Sources at the district health administration said that the calculation of available beds had gone all wrong and that the sudden spike in numbers had been unanticipated. However, public health experts say that it has been known all along that when the epidemic peaks, the surge in patient load as well as the proportion of serious patients could overwhelm even the best of health systems. Private hospitals Meanwhile, though the government had spoken about roping in private hospitals for COVID-19 care, it had not finalised the list of hospitals or given approval for the understanding reached with private hospitals, said A.V. Jayakrishnan, chairman, IMA’s Hospital Board of India. “There is no question of unwillingness on the part of private hospitals to treat COVID-19patients. We also need clarity on whether we can take in only patients referred by the government or if people can walk in on their own,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-beds-running-out-govt-to-open-new-facilities/article32097163.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus Two: 83.41% pass in district||As many as 83.41% of the students who appeared for the Plus Two higher secondary examinations from the district in the regular school going category became eligible for higher studies. As many as 32,582 students had sat for the examinations. Of them, 27,177 qualified for higher studies. The results were declared here on Wednesday. The district also had 1,664 students who secured A+ grade in all subjects, coming fifth in the State in this category. Twenty students from the district secured 100% marks. While nine students belonged to Carmel Girls HSS, Vazhuthacaud, two each were from Government Girls HSS, Cotton Hill, and Government Girls HSS, Pattom. One each belonged to Government Model Boys HSS, Attingal; Government Girls HSS, Attingal; Government HSS, Kilimanoor; Government Girls HSS, Mithirmala; Government Model Boys HSS, Thycaud; Kulathummal Government HSS, Kattakada; and Darsana HSS, Nedumangad. Technical school In the Technical school category, 52.83% of the students from the district became eligible for higher studies. In the Open School category, 37.77% of the candidates from the district passed. As many as 2,268 students appeared for the vocational higher secondary examinations from the district. While 1,845 (81.35%) passed Parts 1 and 2 and became eligible for trade certificates, 1,711 (75.44%) cleared Parts 1,2, and 3 to become eligible for higher education. Government VHSS and THS for the Deaf, Jagathy, had 100% results in Parts 1,2, and 3, and in Parts 1 and 2. Besides the nine students who secured full marks, Carmel GHSS had 127 students who got A+ in all subjects. At St. Mary’s Higher Secondary School, Pattom, from where the maximum number of students appeared for the HSE exam in the State (839), 803 became eligible for higher studies, a pass percentage of 96. The school had 74 full A+ grades. At Karthika Thirunal Government V&HSS for Girls, Manacaud, the pass percentage was 94%. As many as 34 students secured A+ grade in all subjects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-two-8341-pass-in-district/article32097166.ece
16 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Maiden crew change off Vizhinjam||The maiden outer anchorage crew change for ships off the Vizhinjam port took place on Wednesday, enabling 13 seafarers to sign off and 14 to sign on to Ever Globe, a 2.19-lakh tonnage container ship, sailing under the flag of Panama from Egypt to Colombo. The exercise began once the vessel reached three nautical miles within the Vizhinjam port at 6 a.m. The crew change, adhering to COVID-19 protocol, was completed by 1 p.m. and the vessel departed for Colombo by 1.30 p.m. Boats of the Marine Enforcement were used for the purpose. The 14 who were to join the vessel were taken in a boat while health officer of the Port Health Organisation Malini; port officer, Kollam, Hari Achuta Warrier; Vizhinjam port purser Surendranath; port conservator S. Kiran, Customs officials led by Deputy Commissioner Harikrishnan, and Immigration Officer Sunil Kumar travelled in the other boat. The 13 seafarers who disembarkedwill have to undergo quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maiden-crew-change-off-vizhinjam/article32097124.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Good show by city schools in CBSE class 10 exam||City schools put up a good show in the CBSE class 10 examinations the results of which were declared on Wednesday. Sona F. Shukoor with 99.2% secured the first position in Sarvodaya Central Vidyalaya, Nalanchira. The school had 100% results. Meenu S.A. secured 99.2% marks to emerge the topper in Dr G.R. Public School, Neyyattinkara. The school had 100% results. Devika S. Kumar with 99% marks topped Shift 1 at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pattom. Anamika H.A. topped Shift 2 with 98.4% marks. Nandana Anand with 99% marks was the topper in Arya Central School, Pattom. Eighty-five students had 90% and above marks. Jaimy Pandit with 98.6% marks bagged the first position in Jyothis Central School, Kazhakuttam. The school posted 100% result. Adrith Kishan M. of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Akkulam, was the school topper with 98.6% marks. The school had 100% results. At Army Public School, Pangode, Vedhika Ghodmare with 98.4% marks was the topper. The school had 100% results. Thomas Biju Cheeramvelil with 98.2% marks was first in St. Thomas Central School, Mukkolakkal. The school had 100% results. Students of Saraswathi Vidyalaya, Vattiyurkavu, registered 100% results. Rohith S. and Gowri Krishnan M. shared the top slot in the school with 98% marks. St. Shantal English Medium School, Malamukal, registered 100% success. Sumithra S. was the topper with 98% marks. Gouri Priya J. with 97.8% marks was the topper at Navajeevan Bethany Vidyalaya, Nalanchira. The school had 100% results. At Shanthiniketan School, Gouri Renjith secured 97.6% marks to be the topper. The school had 100% results. Sreejith S. and Ananditha G. Nair shared the top position at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pangode, with 97% marks. The school had 100% results. Midhuna S with 97% marks topped Sree Chithira Thirunal Residential Central School, Kunnathukal. The school had 100% results. Devika R. with 96.8% marks topped St. Mary’s Central School, Poojappura. The school had 100% results. Sai Krishna Public School, Chenkal, had 100% results. Nandana S.R. was the school topper with 96.6% marks. Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Attukal, registered cent percent success. Shivani S. Nair bagged the first position in the school with 96.4%, At Kendriya Vidyalaya, SAP Peroorkada, Lakshmi A.S. is the school topper with 96.2% marks. The school has 100% pass. Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pallipuram, secured 100% results. Sandesh J.S. was the school topper with 96%. Abhiram Shankar S. Nair was the topper at Loyola School, Sreekaryam, with 95% marks. The school had 100% results. Cordova Public School, Ambalathara, secured 100% pass. Muhammed Ismayil topped with 92% marks. Amrita Kairali Vidya Bhavan, Nedumangad, secured 100% success. Theertha P.S. was the school topper with 98% marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-show-by-city-schools-in-cbse-class-10-exam/article32097164.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM: no community transmission yet||The State government has continued to maintain that community transmission of COVID-19 is yet to happen in Kerala. On Wednesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the State was on the brink of community transmission and that disease transmission had reached a stage wherein every other person one encountered on the street could be a potential COVID-19 transmitter. This was especially so with over 60% of the patients in the State not displaying any symptoms. Sounding this dire warning to the public, he said the public needed to maintain utmost vigil in all public places such as markets or hospitals, where more people congregate. Avoiding crowded places, close interactions or close-contact settings and confined or enclosed settings was extremely important to minimise chances of disease transmission. Even when the State’s case fatality ratio was low, disease transmission had reached a stage wherein the proportion of serious patients and mortality was bound to go up. More focus was thus needed in districts where local transmission was going up, to protect vulnerable groups and to increase testing in the community.  Over 1.84 lakh people are currently under surveillance and in quarantine in State, of whom 4,989 persons with mild COVID-like symptoms are isolated in hospitals. The daily number of tests in the State went up to 16,444 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-no-community-transmission-yet/article32097125.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala tops CBSE class 10 exam||The Thiruvananthapuram region of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) continued its stellar run in the CBSE class 10 examinations by registering a pass percentage of 99.28, the highest in the country. The results were declared by the CBSE on Wednesday. The region’s pass percentage was only slightly less than that of last year’s — 99.85. It was, however, more than the overall pass percentage this year — 91.46. The Chennai region was in second position with a pass percentage of 98.95. In the Thiruvananthapuram region (comprising Kerala and Lakshadweep), 70,992 students (35,475 boys and 35,517 girls) appeared for the class 10 examinations from 1,310 schools in 235 centres. Of them, 70,483 passed, with the pass percentage for boys being 98.99 and that for girls, 99.58. Navodaya, KV results Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas in the region failed to register 100% results this year. Their pass percentage dipped to 99.91, just after Delhi West which had 100% results. Though Kendriya Vidyalaya institutions also saw the pass percentage dip to 99.82 (tying with Chennai) from 99.98 last year, it was still more than that in other regions. While CBSE schools run by the government improved their performance from 95.69% to 97.09%, in the case of independent schools, the region was ranked after Chennai with 99.26%. Of the 528 children with special needs who sat for the exam, 523 passed – a pass percentage of 99.05, the highest. Twenty-three students had more than 90% marks, and six had more than 95%. The number of candidates placed in compartment was 503, the lowest of any region. In Lakshadweep In the region, Kerala registered a pass percentage of 99.3, while Lakshadweep had 95.09. As in the case of class 12 students, the students who appeared for the class 10 exams have been evaluated according to an assessment scheme owing to disruption in examinations caused owing to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-tops-cbse-class-10-exam/article32097136.ece
16 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||157 new cases in capital||The COVID-19 scenario in the district remains grim with 157 new COVID-19 cases reported on Wednesday, prompting the government to announce plans for a 750-bed COVID First Line Treatment Centre (CFLTC) at the Greenfield Stadium, Karyavattam. Of the 157 new patients, 130 contracted the infection through local transmission, revealing the magnitude of the challenge faced by health workers in the district. Poonthura, a critical containment zone, reported 36 cases while Pulluvila and Parassala reported 22 and 21 cases each. The source of infection has not been ascertained in seven of the cases. Given the spike in cases in Poonthura, a temporary hospital would be established at the St Thomas School, Poonthura, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The government has decided to establish a CFLTC at the Greenfield stadium complex where 500 to 750 people can be accommodated, the Chief Minister said. “'Indications are that the situation in the district remains serious,” he said, during his customary evening briefing on COVID-19-related developments. The increase in the district's caseload over the past few days had prompted the government to go for the CFLTC. It will also have facilities for the collection of swab samples. Wednesday's list contained a number of imported cases from the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Telangana, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Five health workers also contracted the infection on Wednesday. On the bright side, the district also reported 11 recoveries on the day. Dengue The threat of other contagious diseases during the southwest monsoon season also looms large over the district. So far 35 cases of dengue have been reported. The results of 15 people are awaited. Meanwhile, the City Police booked a 55-year-old man for breaching quarantine stipulations. The man, who was in home quarantine at Kaithamukku on his arrival from Bangalore, was found missing during a police inspection. Cases have have registered under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020; Kerala Public Health Act, and various IPC sections. Cases have been registered under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance against three others who trespassed into the Secretariat campus and shouted slogans. In addition to this, 50 people have been booked for lockdown violations and 88 others for failure to wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/157-new-cases-in-capital/article32097169.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BigCart Kerala to cover more districts||BigCart Kerala, an e-commerce platform launched by a start-up incubated by the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM), is set to expand its operations to more districts in the State to enable people purchase essential commodities during the COVID-19 period. The online delivery platform, developed by Steve Mobile Technologies Pvt Ltd, was launched in the capital to deliver goods through online and WhatsApp after the lockdown kicked in. It later made its way to Kottayam. The company is now gearing up to extend its services to Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kozhikode districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bigcart-kerala-to-cover-more-districts/article32097170.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Team for geriatric care||The Health Department has formed a special team for ensuring geriatric care in the critical containment zones of Poonthura, Manikyavilakom, and Puthenpalli in the capital which are witnessing a COVID-19 ‘super-spread.’ The team, led by the Social Security Mission, will focus on health security and rehabilitation of the elderly, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said on Wednesday. The current COVID-19 situation renders the elderly more vulnerable. Many of them take medication for various ailments. Reverse quarantine is being prescribed for them in this context, the Minister said. Six medical teams will visit people above 65 years of age in the three regions and provide physical and mental health care. Symptomatic patients will be shifted to hospitals for expert treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/team-for-geriatric-care/article32097168.ece
16 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||75 more police stations turn child-friendly||Seventy-five more police stations in the State have opened ‘child-friendly’spaces on their premises. Children accompanying their parents to police stations can engage in activities like drawing, reading books and watching television. The Station House Officers of the 75 stations inaugurated the facilities. State Police Chief Loknath Behera addressed the officers via videoconference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/75-more-police-stations-turn-child-friendly/article32097131.ece
16 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Free ration sought for fishers||The Kerala Swatantra Matsya Thozhilali Federation has urged the government to issue ration items and essential commodities free of cost to the fishing community, given the COVID-19 situation in the coastal areas. Steps should also be taken to keep primary health centres in the region open 24 hours, federation president Jackson Pollayil and National Fishworkers’ Forum general secretary T. Peter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-ration-sought-for-fishers/article32097130.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Aid for medicinal-plant cultivation||The Kerala State Medicinal Plants Board has extended the last date for submitting projects for financial assistance to take up medicinal plant cultivation and management. Projects can be submitted up to August 15. For details and application form, visit smpbkerala.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-for-medicinal-plant-cultivation/article32097132.ece
16 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LSS/USS results today||Results of the LSS/ USS examinations held in February will be announced at 11 a.m. on Thursday. The results can be viewed onhttp://keralapareekshabhavan.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lssuss-results-today/article32097137.ece
16 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur records 162 new cases||Anxiety and fear have gripped the people in Anantapur district as it reported 162 new cases and nine deaths in the last 24 hours. Adding to their fears is the steady rise in the fatalities, which went up from 24 to 49 in just three days. While there were six deaths on Monday, 10 on Tuesday and nine till Wednesday morning in the district. With 1,559 active cases as on Wednesday and a cumulative total of 3,813, the district has been pitchforked to the third spot on the State’s list of COVID cases, just behind Kurnool (4,226) and Guntur (3,824). Meanwhile, the district administration, which was scrambling to find a place to house the patients, has identified the Cancer Day Care Centre near the JNTU Campus. An isolation ward would be created in the facility with about 185-200 beds. A meeting with the private doctors on Tuesday yielded no result as they expressed their inability to treat coronavirus patients owing to lack of manpower. While the five-storey super speciality hospital is getting constructed next to the Cancer Care Centre, it has not yet been used due to delay in execution of infrastructure work. GGH severely understaffed The Government General Hospital(GGH) in Anantapur, which is severely understaffed, is presently catering to 164 COVID-19 patients and of them, 76 were on oxygen and eight on ventilators as on Wednesday. A majority of the patients were admitted to the RTD Bathalapalli Hospital as it has 125 beds, while a few went to KIMS Saveera that has 32. 5 deaths in Kurnool Meanwhile, Kurnool witnessed a steep rise in the cases as the district added 403 more to its tally on Wednesday, along with five deaths (113 total); the second-highest in the State. District Collector G. Veerapandian asked the nodal officers to encourage at least 30% of the patients to opt for home isolation. The death rate can be reduced only by identifying and testing people with comorbities and provide them treatment at an earlier stage, he said. The number of discharged patients had also gone up significantly and was the highest in the State at 2,233 followed by 2,205 in Anantapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-records-162-new-cases/article32097266.ece
16 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Release Rs. 30 cr. for hospital’||Communist Party of India State secretary K. Ramakrishna has written a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy demanding immediate release of Rs. 30 crore from the State government for the Super Speciality Hospital being constructed in Anantapur. The number of COVID-19 cases in Anantapur touched 3,813 and 1,559 of them were being treated in hospitals, hence commissioning this new facility was essential, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/release-rs-30-cr-for-hospital/article32097267.ece
16 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 poachers nabbed in wildlife sanctuary||The Bangarupalem police on Wednesday nabbed four persons on charges of poaching at Koundinya wildlife sanctuary, and seized a country rifle along with a stock of gunpowder and pellets, and skin and antlers of a deer. Sub-Inspector (Bangarupalem) Ramakrishna said that on a tip-off, a special party rushed to the forest fringe village of Devarakonda near Moghili ghat section and sighted a gang of six accused emerging from the sanctuary zone. “While two of them fled, we nabbed four of them, all local persons of Bangarupalem mandal,” he said. On interrogation, it was found that the accused had hunted a deer in the sanctuary on July 13 and sold its meats. The skin and antlers of the deer were also seized. A case was registered under Acts of wildlife protection and possession of illegal arms, and the accused were sent for remand. Funds released Meanwhile, Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor East) Narentheran in a press release said the pending salaries of 303 forest staff, including forest protection watchers, strike forces, drivers, elephant trackers and data entry operators, would be paid for the months from March-June in a couple of days. The DFO said that Chief Minster Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had released Rs. 9.219 crores for disbursement of pending salaries all over the State, while the Tirupati wildlife circle was allocated Rs. 1.74 crore. Mr Narentheran said the problem of the staff was duly represented to senior officials of the department and Forest Minister Balineni Srinivasulu Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-poachers-nabbed-in-koundinya-wildlife-sanctuary/article32096759.ece
16 July 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to keep boats ready as Godavari brims||With the water levels of the Godavari River rising owing to incessant rain in its catchment areas, the officials of irrigation, revenue, tourism and police departments have been instructed to keep boats ready for any emergency flood situation. West Godavari Collector Revu Mutyalaraju has asked the officials to contact the boat owners and sarungs (drivers) immediately and keep the boats ready at the jetties. According to sources, as many as 65 passenger and tourist boats are being operated from the Godavari banks in Bhadrachalam to different points in West and East Godavari districts. Mr. Mutyalaraju asked Jangareddygudem Revenue Divisional Officer Y.N. Prasanna Lakshmi and other officers to anchor the boats at Perantallapalli and Singanapalli, and at the jetties at Koruturu, Pochavaram, Koida and other points as a precautionary measure. “We have held a meeting with the boat owners and asked them to keep the boats ready in wake of the flood situation. The irrigation officials will share the details of the flood water levels with the boat owners,” said K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana. “The administration has asked us to keep 20 boats ready near boating control rooms and jetties. Expert swimmers will accompany the boats,” said P.V. Ramakrishna, a boat owner, after attending the virtual meeting with the officials. Safety equipment Meanwhile, SP K. Narayan Naik said the police would ensure that necessary life saving equipment such as water jackets and lifebuoys were available on the boats. The Collector also asked the tourism officials to take all measures to facilitate the operation of the boats engaged on flood duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-keep-boats-ready-as-godavari-brims/article32097298.ece
16 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth arrested for ‘blackmailing’ girls with morphed images||A 22-year-old man has been arrested by the Guntur Rural Police on charges of cyberstalking and blackmailing girls by threatening them to post their morphed pictures on social media platforms. The accused has been identified as Kamarajugadda Raghubabu, a native of Nizampatnam mandal. He has been booked under Sections 354(A), 354(D) of IPC and Sections 66(C), 66(D), 67-A of the Information Technology Act, 2,000 and Amendment Act of 2008. Modus operandi According to police, Raghubabu, skilled in animation and multimedia, runs a small unit in Guntur. He allegedly managed a fake virtual phone number using ‘Numero eSIM’ app and created a WhatsApp account. “The accused allegedly morphed faces of his classmates into explicit images and blackmailed many girls by threatening that he would post the morphed photos on social media platforms,” Guntur Rural SP Vishal Gunni told the media here. With some girls blocking his number, Raghubabu allegedly created more fake WhatsApp and Instagram accounts using the app and circulated the morphed photos among his classmates, the SP said. Police took up investigation acting on a complaint lodged by one of the victims at Nagaram police station. The police nabbed the accused by tracing his original phone number with the help of the IT core wing, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-arrested-for-blackmailing-girls-with-morphed-images/article32097293.ece
16 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||423 children undergo COVID tests||The police rescued more than 1,000 children who had gone missing and restored most of them to their parents on the first day of Operation Muskaan launched on Tuesday. Of the 1,193 children rescued under Operation Muskaan Covid-19, phase 6, 1,035 were restored to their parents. Operation Muskaan is guided by the Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi. Director-General of CID, Mr. P.V Sunil Kumar said 423 of the rescued children underwent tests for COVID-19. Prize for stories The AP CID has come out with an offer for any one who wishes to write interesting stories of children who had been rescued and restored to their parents. “We have announced a cash prize of Rs. 10,000 to those who write interesting stories of children and their experiences. Those interested can send the stories to Additional SP, CID, Saritha WhatsApp no 9494471694 or through e mail spwpccidap@gmail.com,” said Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/423-children-undergo-covid-tests/article32096762.ece
16 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vignan’s exam results out||Vignan Deemed to be University has released the results of online examinations of final year B.Tech and BCA programs. Vice-Chancellor M.Y.S. Prasad said that the university had conducted online examinations and declared the results post lockdown. All eligible candidates would receive their certificates within the next few days, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vignans-exam-results-out/article32096752.ece
16 July 2020||Harish Gilai VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown pushes toy makers out of play||Hit hard by the lockdown imposed to check the COVID-19, artistes from Etikoppaka, a small village famous for toy making, are looking to the government for support. Most of the artisans have not received any orders since the outbreak of the dreaded virus. About 250 to 300 families from the village , about 80 km from Visakhapatnam, have been dependent on the profession for over decades. The Etikoppaka toys, made by these artistes, had a huge demand and they had enough work on hand, but the pandemic pushed them into a deep financial crisis. “This profession depends on the orders and the income is like daily wages. Since lockdown, we have no orders. The stock is still unsold due to closure of shops ,” says S. Chinnayacharai, an artisan from the village. P. Yesu, a 41-year-old artisan from the village, says that before the lockdown, many people from various places used to visit Etikoppaka and buy products. Shopkeepers from surrounding villages used to purchase toys from them and sell them at other places. But now, the pandemic has affected the business. “As the government provides financial aid under ‘Nethanna Nestham’ to handloom weavers from the village, we need similar support ,” they say. Training sought With online shopping gaining ground, the artisans from Etikoppaka seek the government help for training them so that they could sell their products through e-commerce platforms. “Good packing is vital for online deliveries. Some toys get damaged by the time it reaches the customers. We appeal to the government to train us on packing and sale of toys online,” says Chinnayachari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-pushes-toy-makers-out-of-play/article32097291.ece
16 July 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Copious rain leads to increased sowing in Chittoor district||Chittoor district has recorded 20% excess rain in 50 mandals and normal rainfall in 15 mandals, while just one mandal received deficit rain in July. According to irrigation officials, more than 60% of the small village tanks and check-dams were brimming with rainwater following continuous rain in July. The normal rainfall in July for Chittoor is 6,728 mm, but by July 15, the rainfall was recorded at 12,498.6 mm, bringing the much required relief to the farmers, who are now getting busy with the Khariff. During the last five years, the rainfall in the district remained below normal to deficit in several mandals during the kharif season, and the spectacle underwent sea change this year. The copious rains had led to sudden spike in the acreage. The agriculture department expected the kharif sowing in about 1.4 lakh hectares, but the figure is likely to cross 2 lakh hectares. “The sowing time will continue till July 31. Seeing congenial conditions for groundnut crop, a number of farmers are rushing to the fields. We have supplied the seeds to the farmers as per their requirement,” said Joint Director (Agriculture) N. Vijay Kumar. Water storage Superintending Engineer (Irrigation) Surender Reddy said that with good rains, a number of check-dams and small village tanks had received good inflows. “Since a week, we have initiated works pertaining to restoration of damages at check-dams. So far, more than 120 such works were completed. In the western mandals, the water is slowly building up in several check dams of the western mandals,” the official said. The farmers at several villages of Puthalapattu Assembly Constituency were a happy lot with the Bahuda river receiving gushing rain water since a week. As the phenomenon came as a pleasant sight to them after several years, the farmers performed “Jalaharathi” to the river. Spillway works Meanwhile, the Satyavedu MLA , Koneti Adimulam on Wednesday launched the spillway works estimated at Rs. 36 crore at the Araniyar reservoir at Pichatur. He said the project which was launched with just Rs. 1 crore decades ago, now required several crores for modernisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/copious-rain-leads-to-increased-sowing-in-chittoor-district/article32096761.ece
16 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||iMASQ buses hit the road for COVID-19 testing||Three Intelligent Monitoring Analysis Service Quarantine (iMASQ) bus services kick-started mass COVID-19 tests in the high-risk areas of East Godavari district on Wednesday. Kakinada Member of Parliament V. Geetha Viswanath and Kakinada city MLA D. Chandrasekhar Reedy, accompanied by East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, interacted with the iMASQ staff and appealed to the fisherfolk to undergo the COVID-19 test at their village itself. Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said the three iMASQ bus services would cover the high-risk areas across the district. In Rajamahendravaram, city MP M. Bharat, who inaugurated the service, urged the people to voluntarily come forward for the COVID-19 test.  New cases Meanwhile, as many as 281 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in East Godavari district in the past 24 hours as of Wednesday morning. The highest number of 69 cases were reported in the district headquarters of Kakinada followed by 47 in Rajamahendravaram city. On the other hand, 117 persons were discharged from hospitals after recovery, according to a bulletin. In Kakinada rural, a total of 24 persons tested positive, while 34 contracted the virus in Rajamahendravaram rural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/imasq-buses-hit-the-road-for-covid-19-testing/article32097307.ece
16 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restrictions in East Godavari from today||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Wednesday said that more restrictions would come into force in the district from Thursday. In a teleconference with the media, Mr. Muralidhar said that as part of the restrictions, malls and shops would remain open between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m. only until further the curbs partial lockdown had been taken as people continued to move in the public places though they had no work, which resulted in spreading of the coronavirus in the district, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restrictions-in-east-godavari-from-today/article32097308.ece
16 July 2020||KOVVUR (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Road-cum-rail bridge closed till July 21||The West Godavari district authorities on Wednesday closed the road-cum-rail bridge across the River Godavari, restricting movements of people and vehicles between Kovvur and Rajamahendravaram. This is a vital link connecting the Godavari districts. Movement of trains has already been suspended by the Railways. In an official release, West Godavari Collector R. Mutyalaraju said the decision has been taken as part of the COVID-19 containment strategy. Kovvuru town Circle Inspector M.V.V.S.N. Murthy said vehicles are being allowed through the two other road bridges across the Godavari, including one at Dowleswaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rail-cum-road-bridge-closed-till-july-21/article32096683.ece
16 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three more die in Nellore, Prakasam||Three more persons succumbed to Coronavirus in the last 24 hours as of Wednesday taking the toll in south coastal Andhra Pradesh to 26. While two persons died in Ongole, one lost the battle against the virus in Nellore. With this the toll rose to 13 each in the two districts. With 90 fresh cases, the total number of positive cases went up to 1,854 in SPSR Nellore district, a health bulletin released by the Medical and Health Department said. Ten more containment zones came into existence in Prakasam district which witnessed 39 fresh cases. The cumulative confirmed cases went up to 1,681 in Prakasam district. A stringent lockdown was implemented in Kandukur town which accounted for 13 fresh cases and in Markapur town where seven new cases were registered. All roads to remote Ballikurava village were sealed as seven persons tested positive for the virus. Ongole tops With two fresh cases, Ongole topped the district in the incidence of the dreaded disease, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 312. Two persons each tested positive in Kangiri, Mundlamuru, Lingasamudram and Pamur, while one person each got infected in Darsi, Gudlur, Hanumanthinipadu and Singarayakonda. Six of the infected persons had returned from the neighbouring Telangana State. With a view to stepping up screening of persons in remote places, Prakasam district got five new mobile testing facilities. Christened 'Sanjeevini', three State-owned buses would visit towns and villages in Ongole and Kandukur divisions, health officials said. Two reworked State-owned buses would be stationed in Markapur to cover villages in western mandals, they added. Nellore city bore the brunt of the virus accounting for a maximum of 56 cases, including eight in Moolapeta, seven in Saraswathinagar and five in Dargamitta. Elsewhere in SPSR Nellore distric,t nine persons got infected in Kovur and four in Podalakur. One person each from Bengaluru, Chennai and Kadapa also tested positive, the Medical and Health department said on Wednesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-more-die-in-nellore-prakasam/article32097270.ece
16 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||BIRRD to be an extension COVID hospital for SVIMS||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams on Wednesday permitted the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) to utilise the Balaji Institute of Surgery Research and Rehabilitation for the Disabled (BIRRD) as an extension unit to its COVID hospital. The decision was taken by TTD Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal at a meeting with District Collector Bharat Narayana Gupta. To combat the growing number of positive cases at Tirupati, Mr. Singhal upon the request of the Collector also agreed to hand over TTD’s Vishnu Nivasam rest house with over 400 suites to the district administration for treating COVID patients, and instructed the officials concerned to shift the existing slotted Sarva Darshanam ticket counters to Bhudevi Complex situated in the vicinity of Alipiri Bus Station for the convenience of pilgrims. Tests for Tirumala staff The meeting also took cognisance of the quality of food provided to employees and also the COVID tests carried out to those working at Tirumala. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 swab (specimen) collection centre at Alipiri was temporarily closed down with a couple of on-duty staff reportedly testing positive. A section of electronic channels flashed stories that four of the temple priests working at Tirumala besides three local denizens also reportedly tested positive to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/birrd-to-be-an-extension-covid-hospital-for-svims/article32096763.ece
16 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stigma wreaks havoc on spas||Hairstylists, salons and beauty spas already suffered loss of business due to the continued lockdown and the Unlock 2.0 offers them no respite. The rising fear over hygiene and sanitary measures apart, the new stigma of ‘spreader’ has hit them at the roots of their livelihood. The absence of social gatherings, parties and functions in the COVID-19 situation virtually sounded the death-knell for these players, as it robbed the need for one to tidy up one’s appearance. Secondly, the use of scissors, knife and ‘extraordinary’ physical proximity were feared to increase the probability of contracting coronavirus. More than hospitals, people have an unfounded fear of walking into salons. “In spite of our sincere efforts, some customers have taken us for ‘super carriers’ and stopped visiting since the lockdown,” says J. Dhana Sekhar of Mr.Change, operating on Beri Street. Though operating in a small outlet, the inflow of customers is steady as he wears an apron, goggles, nose mask, face shield and hand gloves, almost resembling an astronaut. He also drapes a single-use towel over the customer and trashes it in his very presence after the job. “My attire is necessary to infuse confidence in my clients. The Rs. 50 additional expenditure incurred towards the disposable products is charged to the customer, who does not mind paying for his own safety and hygiene,” Dhana Sekhar adds.  Brand value doesn’t help The situation is no better for the retail chains having nationwide presence and the brand value offers no solace. With the 90% fall in business leaving a huge operating loss, many struggle to make ends meet. “As the COVID cases increased, we decided to close the outlet till the situation improves,” rues G. Yugandhar, who operates the Naturals salon and spa at Bhavani Nagar. A few men venture out, but most women clients stay indoors, he observes. Some hairstylists and beauticians are invited for ‘home service’, only to be treated shabbily and stigmatised out of fear. People are comfortable buying trimmers and using them, rather than venturing out. Sensing the preference for exclusive use of personal care products, Dhana Sekhar sells a kit comprising two towels, an apron, scissors, comb and a roller comb for Rs. 1,800, to be used only for that customer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stigma-wreaks-havoc-on-spas/article32096754.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fatalities and tally double in 11 days||The State has again witnessed the biggest spike in COVID-19 deaths and fresh cases in a day. During the past 24 hours as of Wednesday morning, 44 deaths and 2,432 fresh cases were reported. The death toll has gone up to 452 and the cumulative tally crossed the 35,000-mark and reached 35,451. With 911 new discharges, the number of recoveries stands at 18,378 above the number of active cases which stands at 16,621. The recovery rate is at 51.8%. Meanwhile, the total number of infections doubled in 11 days, during which period half of the total cases, 17,752, were reported. The number of deaths too doubled in just 10 days. However, the death rate remains way below national average and is at 1.27%. The new deaths occurred in all districts except Guntur. Anantapur and West Godavari witnessed nine deaths each. While Kurnool witnessed five deaths, Chittoor, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam registered four deaths each. Kadapa, Krishna and Prakasam reported two deaths each and Nellore, Prakasam and Vizianagaram one death each. For the first time, the number of fresh local cases in a district crossed the 400-mark with two districts, Guntur and Kurnool, reporting 468 and 403 cases respectively. They are followed by Chittoor (257), East Godavari (247), West Godavari (207), Srikakulam (178), Anantapur (162), Visakhapatnam (123), Kadapa (112), Krishna (108), Prakasam (53), Vizianagaram (49) and Nellore (45). With this, Kurnool’s tally has crossed the 4,000-mark and Guntur took the second place pushing Anantapur to third place with over 3,800 cases each. The tallies of district local cases are as follows: Kurnool (4,226), Guntur (3,824), Anantapur (3,813), East Godavari (3,362), Chittoor (3,331), Krishna (2,852), West Godavari (2,233), Kadapa (2,094), Visakhapatnam (1,612), Srikakulam (1,592), Nellore (1,464), Prakasam (1,291), and Vizianagaram (881). In the past day, 22,197 samples were tested, and a total of 12,17,963 samples were tested so far. The positivity rate has further increased to 2.91%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fatalities-and-tally-double-in-11-days/article32097273.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay Rs. 1 crore ex gratia to kin of accident victim: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has demanded that the government pay an ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore to the next of kin of the deceased in the fire that broke out at Visakha Solvents located in the Pharma City developed by the Ramky group, on the lines of the compensation paid to the victims of styrene vapour leak at LG Polymers. “The government should also ensure best treatment to the injured persons,” he said in a statement on Wednesday. “The government has not learnt any lessons and is failing in preventing the industrial accidents in Visakhapatnam,” Mr. Naidu said. The complacency of the government was putting the lives of the people at huge risk, he observed. Alleging that there was no timely relief and rescue, Mr. Naidu said even as the mother of the diseased kept wailing at the company gate, neither the revenue nor police officials tried to reach out to her. While the family members were protesting at the gate, the officials shifted the body of the victim, Srinivasa Rao, through the back door, Mr. Naidu alleged. ‘Illegal detention’ Taking objection to the police “illegally detaining” members of the TDP, the CPI, the BJP, the Jana Sena and the labour unions at the police station for over six hours, Mr. Naidu said former Minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy was arrested just for visiting the factory. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has not learnt any lessons from the LG Polymers tragedy,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-rs-1-crore-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-accident-victim-naidu/article32097280.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPV to mitigate drought in Seema||The State Cabinet on Wednesday decided to establish Rayalaseema Drought Mitigation Projects Development Corporation. It will be a 100% government-owned special purpose vehicle having a capital outlay of Rs. 40,000 crore to take up various projects in the parched region. Further, the Cabinet resolved to make an amendment to the AP Agriculture Land Act, 2006, through an ordinance to facilitate the conversion of farm-lands for setting up solar power plants. The Cabinet gave its nod for Renewable Energy Export Policy - 2020 for selling solar and wind power in other States. The Cabinet decided to bring Fish Feed Quality Control Ordinance - 2020 to curb the menace of spurious feed flooding the market. APIIC can raise loans The Cabinet cleared the proposal to extend the YSR Cheyutha scheme to 8.21 lakh eligible beneficiaries over and above 17.03 lakh persons who have already applied for it. G.O. MS No. 22 through which infrastructure works have been taken up in the education sector under the Nadu-Nedu programme was ratified by the Cabinet. The Cabinet permitted the AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) to raise loans amounting to Rs. 2,000 crore with government guarantee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spv-to-mitigate-drought-in-seema/article32097278.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railways set to increase freight loading||The Indian Railways has established a Business Development Unit (BDU) to improve the freight loading from the division. The BDU has been set up as per the directions of the Railway Board to enhance the freight business. “The focus of the newly set-up unit is to double the freight carried by the railways by 2024, with particular focus on strengthening the railway’s share in the existing traffic,” said Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas. Senior Divisional Operations Manager V. Anjaneyulu would act as a coordinator of the divisional-level multi-disciplinary BDU and Senior Divisional Commercial Manager P. Bhaskar Reddy, Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer K. Srinivas and Senior Divisional Finance Manager Chandrasekhar would be the members of the unit, the DRM said “We conducted a virtual meeting with major customers recently. Officials of Krishnapatnam Port Company Limited (KPCL), Kakinada Port, Vimla Siding, Ramco Cements, Andrew Minerals and other companies and the customers expressed happiness over the development,” Mr. Srinivas said. Round trip tariff The railway authorities explained about different policies on rail booking, especially the new ‘round trip tariff’ policy which was being availed of by Bharathi Cements and Jindal Steels from KPCL siding to their units. The customers assured the railways of extending their support in increasing the freight loading, he said. “We loaded 24 million tonnes of freight and generated Rs. 2,600 crore revenue last year. KPCL and Kakinada Port are the major contributors of freight business in railways. We are loading coal, cement, granite, foodgrains, fertilizers and other goods to Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and other States,” the DRM told The Hindu on Wednesday. South Central Railway (SCR) General Manager Gajanan Mallya said the railway officials would hold frequent interactions with the traders to explain to them about the existing pattern of goods transportation and explore the possibility of attracting more freight traffic. Indian Railways has been taking many policy initiatives for the benefit of the freight customers and the officials should ensure that the new policies should reach the trade and industry. The newly set-up Business Development Unit would serve as a nodal point for speedy operation of the new traffic proposals, the GM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railways-set-to-increase-freight-loading/article32097300.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramesh Kumar assumes office as State CIC||Former IAS officer P. Ramesh Kumar on Wednesday assumed charge as the State Chief Information Commissioner and R. Srinivasa Rao as Information Commissioner. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney administered the oath of office to them at a simple ceremony on Wednesday in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The government has already appointed a few Information Commissioners to the SIC. Mr. Ramesh Kumar and Mr. Srinivasa Rao were appointed recently to fill the vacant posts. Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Principal Secretary (General Administration Department) Shashi Bhushan Kumar, Commissioners M. Ravi Kumar, B.V. Ramana Kumar, Katta Janardhan and Ilapuram Raja were among those present. Going digital The State Information Commission, meanwhile, has taken the digital route to dispose cases in view of the lockdown due to the pandemic. Using technology like Google meet, the Commission has been dealing with cases, which has been saving time and expenditure for the appellant, the Public Information Officer (PIO) and the First Appellate Authority (FAA). According to the information, the SIC has received a total of 11030 appeals and complaints as on June 30 this year. Of them, it has disposed 4,951 appeals and 1,690 complaints while 2,695 appeals and 1,694 complaints are pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ramesh-kumar-assumes-office-as-state-cic/article32097282.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discharge from barrage continues as inflows increase||With the increasing inflows to the Prakasam Barrage from the reservoirs upstream due to continuous rainfall, the discharge of floodwater into the sea continued for the third day. As of Wednesday afternoon, over 14,000 cusecs of water was discharged through 20 crest gates of the barrage. Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said the water level in the reservoir was being maintained at 12 feet. By late evening, the barrage would receive over 30,000 cusecs of water and it would be discharged by lifting 42 gates. Further, about 5,000 cusecs would be released into the main canals. Officials and the public in the low-lying areas downstream had been alerted about the increasing outflow from the barrage. Meanwhile, the city received moderate to heavy rain in the morning leading to flooding of several areas. Colonies waterlogged Rotary Nagar in Vidyadharapuram area was waterlogged following the rainfall. Rain also troubled people who visited IGMC Stadium to offer swab samples for COVID-19 testing at the mobile testing centres. As the bus was placed in the playground, people had to walk through the slush to reach the testing kiosks. The city received 35.8 mm rainfall during the past 24 hours as of 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday. Later in the day, about 10 mm rainfall was recorded across the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/discharge-from-prakasam-barrage-continues-as-inflows-increase/article32096756.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers stage protest, cry foul over transfers||Teachers representing various organisations staged a State-wide protest on Wednesday to oppose what they called 'favouritism’ in teacher transfers. In Vijayawada, teachers under the banner of the Federation of Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Organisations (FAPTO), staged a demonstration wearing black masks. Braving heavy rain, they raised slogans in support of their demands. Federation’s State executive committee member and State general secretary of the UTF P. Babu Reddy said teachers had been waiting for transfers for the last three years. Instead of releasing the schedule, the authorities were resorting to unlawful practices. Only those with political influence were being given transfers, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-stage-protest-cry-foul-over-transfers/article32097284.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC to foot treatment bill of employees||Several employees of the A.P. State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC), which has been running a few buses since May 21, have contracted COVID-19. The management has announced that it will foot the bills of the employees undergoing treatment at private empanelled hospitals as per the rates fixed by the government. In a statement, Executive Director (Administration) A. Koteswara Rao said RTC had also cleared dues of Rs. 12 crore to the employees under different heads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-to-foot-treatment-bill-of-employees/article32097283.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retired tahsildar, one more held in CRDA land scam||The police probing the CRDA land scam in the Legislative Capital region arrested retired tahsildar (Mandal Revenue Officer) A. Sudhir Babu and another person, G. Suresh, for allegedly resorting to irregularities. Sudhir Babu, who worked as Thullur mandal tahsildar during 2014-17, collected land from the farmers under land pooling for the capital. He allegedly showed some assigned lands as ‘patta lands’ in Rayapudi and Peddalanka villages by allegedly tampering the records with vested interests. Produced before court Thullur DSP Y. Srinivas Reddy arrested the retired tahsildar and Suresh, who got allegedly benefited in the scam, and produced them before the court here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/retired-tahsildar-one-more-held-in-crda-land-scam/article32097301.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||77 new cases in Krishna district||Krishna district reported 77 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday up to 6 p.m. According to District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, 34 cases were reported in Vijayawada city and 43 in other parts of the district. In Vijayawada, Krishnalanka witnessed eight new cases, the highest in the city. It is followed by Machavaram (4), Vidyadharapuram (3), Gunadala (2), Moghalrajpuram (2), Satyanarayana Puram (2) and Ajith Singh Nagar (2). L IC Colony, Patamata, Ayappa Nagar, Labbipet, Ramalingeswara Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Bhavanipuram and Kothapeta areas reported one new case each. Three cases were reported elsewhere in the city. Machilipatnam reported 11 new cases while Nuzvid reported six, Gannavaram reported five, Prasadampadu reported three and Yanamalakuduru and Poranki reported two cases each. One each case was reported in Gollapudi, Tadigadapa, Kanuru, Vanukuru, Adavinekkalam, Komaravolu, Kondapalli, Challapalli, Choragudi, Mantada, Vellanki, Musunuru and Chatrai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/77-new-cases-in-krishna-district/article32096758.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP MPs’ team to meet Kovind today||A delegation of the Telugu Desam Parliamentary Party (TDPP) will meet President Ram Nath Kovind in New Delhi on Thursday at 11 a.m. The delegation comprising Kesineni Srinivas (Nani), Galla Jayadev, K. Rammohan Naidu, and Kanakamedala Ravindra will draw the attention of the President to the developments in the State during the last 13 months. They would submit a memorandum with supporting documents and “evidence” on violation of fundamental rights, human rights, freedom of speech and the Constitution, etc. The TDP MPs would also complain about “the atrocities” of YSR Congress Party leaders, foisting of cases on social media activists and workers of Opposition parties, etc. Meanwhile, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu demanded that the AP government pay ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore to the next of kin of the deceased in the fire that broke out at Visakha Solvents located in the Pharma City developed by Ramky group, on the lines of the compensation paid to the victims of styrene vapour leak at LG Polymers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-mps-team-to-meet-kovind-today/article32097074.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nod for filling 9,712 posts in health dept.||The Cabinet meeting held on Wednesday resolved to fill 9,712 posts (5,701 newly created posts and 4,011 existing vacancies) in the Medical and Health Department to give a fillip to COVID-19 control measures and to improve the services in government hospitals in the long-term. The Cabinet gave its nod for the establishment of a veterinary polytechnic college at Kommamarri in Kurnool district at an estimated cost of Rs. 9 crore. It will have an initial intake of 30 seats from the academic year 2020-21. A sum of approximately Rs. 146 crore has been sanctioned for the rehabilitation of people displaced by the Gandikota project in Kadapa district. Cases withdrawn The Cabinet sanctioned 210 teaching and 89 non-teaching posts each for the IIITs at Srikakulam and Ongole. Further, it consented for the withdrawal of cases booked on some Muslim youth who attacked the old Guntur police station. Its also allowed withdrawal of cases on employees who participated in agitations opposing CPS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nod-for-filling-9712-posts-in-health-dept/article32097285.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister reviews fibernet project||Minister for Industries and Commerce and Information Technology Mekapati Goutham Reddy has reviewed the progress of A.P. State FiberNet Phase-I project. At a meeting with Special Chief Secretary R. Karikal Valaven and APSFL MD M. Madhusudhan Reddy at the Secretariat on Wednesday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said there was potential for the APSFL to increase the subscriber base from the present 10 lakh to 60 lakh in two to three years owing to the surge in demand. The network was created with a subscriber capacity of five lakh in 2016. APSFL Phase-I network consists of 23,000 optical fiber cable with multi - protocol label switching and Gigabit passive optical network technologies. The project was being implemented in partnership with the Department of Telecommunications and Bharat Broadband Network Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-reviews-fibernet-project/article32097287.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm loan mela from July 20||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Revenue Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose said on Wednesday that a farm loan mela would be organised from July 20 to August 7 to provide institutional credit (crop loans) to the farmers. Tenant farmers too would be given loans, Mr. Bose stated at a press conference he addressed along with Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu at the Secretariat. Mr. Bose said the guidelines pertaining to the credit facility being extended to the tenant farmers were finalised in consultation with the officers of the Agriculture and Revenue departments, and bankers who were asked to give loans on liberal terms. Cultivator cards Mr. Kanna Babu said loans would be sanctioned to all the farmers possessing Crop Cultivator Right Cards, which were so far given to 4,02,229 persons. Another 1.50 lakh CCRCs would be given to the eligible soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farm-loan-mela-from-july-20/article32097286.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayawada students excel in CBSE exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday declared the 10th class results and a few schools in the city achieved 100% result. In a statement, VPS Public School said all the 193 students who appeared for the examination passed. H. Lalitha emerged the topper in the school by securing 482 out of 500 marks. Nikhil, Bhavisha and Yogita achieved 100% marks in mathematics and Geethika secured 100/100 in social studies. Similarly, in Telugu and Science, the highest marks was 99, in English 94 and in Hindi 97. As many as 126 students achieved distinction, while 184 of them secured over 60 % marks. Students of Narayana School, Kanuru branch, also achieved 100% result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijayawada-students-excel-in-cbse-exams/article32096764.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM decides to expand scope of ‘YSR Cheyutha’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has decided to expand the scope of ‘YSR Cheyutha’ to women belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes and minorities who are drawing pensions under the ‘YSR Pension Kanuka’ scheme. A sum of Rs. 75,000 will be given to each one of them in four years as an added benefit under the ‘YSR Cheyutha’. This was cleared in the Cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. According to an official release, the ‘YSR Cheyutha’ scheme would benefit over 8.21 lakh women (widows, single women, physically challenged, weavers, toddy-tappers and fisherwomen) aged between 45 and 60. ‘YSR Cheyutha’ was one of the promises made by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy during the 2019 election campaign. Applications would be accepted from July 28. The financial burden entailed by the scheme on the exchequer during the next four years would be about Rs. 6,165 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-decides-to-expand-scope-of-ysr-cheyutha/article32097281.ece
16 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more held in drugs scam||Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested Thota Janakiram, the then Lay Secretary-cum-Purchase Officer in the office of the Directorate of Insurance Medical Services (DIMS), Vijayawada, in drugs scam on Wednesday. Janakiram, who is accused-7 in the scam, is now working as an administrative assistant at the ESI Hospital, Tirupati. He allegedly obtained indents from ESI dispensaries for drugs and surgical items illegally. He was produced in the ACB Court, Vijayawada, and was remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-more-held-in-drugs-scam/article32097302.ece
16 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourist spots in district to reopen from August||Tourism activity is set to resume in the district from August 1, after a gap of four months. The tourism sector has suffered losses of over Rs. 12 crore due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and is now gearing up for a cautious restart. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao announced that visitors would be allowed to tourist spots from August 1 across the State, and asked officials to finish pending works within these two weeks. Officials are now chalking out plans to ensure stringent social distancing at all tourist places in the district. Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) Divisional Manager T.G. Prasada Reddy said that all APTDC hotels and restaurants have been opened to the public following instructions from the Central government from June 8. Social distancing “With Mr. Srinivasa Rao’s announcement, we are preparing to open all destinations under our circle,” he said, adding that from August 1, all beaches including Rushikonda, which were barricaded, will be thrown open. All tourist places under APTDC, including Borra Caves, parks, and waterfalls, will also be opened. Mr. Prasada Reddy said that a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the government is already being implemented at the hotels and restaurants. The APTDC will also strictly implement COVID-19 protocols at the tourist spots too. In the case of Borra Caves, authorities have decided to allow not more than 300 tourists in an hour. Earlier, nearly 1,000 tourists used to visit Borra Caves in an hour. “While buying tickets, we will issue a time slot for their visit and we will also provide disposable gloves. Wearing a face mask will be mandatory. Apart from providing sanitisers, we will also conduct temperature checks before allowing the visitors entry. We will also encourage cashless transactions at the tourist spots,” Mr. Prasada Reddy told The Hindu . Apart from the tourist destinations that come under APTDC, there are other tourist attractions like Kailasagiri, Visakha Museum, Thotlakonda, VMRDA Central Park, NTR VMRDA Park, Tenneti Park and others, which are under the purview of the Visakhapatnam Metro Region Development Authority (VMRDA). VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao said that they will reopen the facilities after receiving guidelines from the State Government. Boating operations Meanwhile, boating operations will also resume at the beaches. “We have a strict SOP issued by the State Government and the activities will be monitored by the Boating Control Rooms. Social distancing will be implemented on the boats too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tourist-spots-in-district-to-reopen-from-august/article32097076.ece
16 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag airport witnesses steady growth despite pandemic curbs||The Visakhapatnam International Airport has witnessed a slow but steady growth in the number of passengers during the last two and a half months, despite the restrictions imposed on operation of flights in the wake of COVID-19. Even as the domestic flight services have been restored partially, international flights are yet to be resumed. However, the airport continues to receive passengers from different countries who arrived here by repatriation flights as part of the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) and chartered flights. The domestic flights were partially restored in May after the lockdown norms were relaxed and the airport handled 7,369 passengers during the month, with 3,934 arrivals and 3,435 departures. The corresponding figures for June are 20,212 arrivals and 17,111 departures, taking the total passenger count to 37,323. During the lockdown period in April, the airport handled 24 domestic passengers through non-scheduled domestic flights, 48 domestic and 541 international passengers (non-scheduled) in May and 116 domestic and 2,594 international passengers (non-scheduled) in June this year. The frequency of domestic flights increased from 118 in May to 406 in June, while the non-scheduled movements included six domestic flights in April, 19 domestic and four international flights in May and, 41 domestic and 25 international non-scheduled flights. The 27 repatriation flights handled by the airport between May 19 and July 6 brought 3,558 passengers to Vizag and 163 passengers left the city by return flights.  Meanwhile, the linear expansion works undertaken at the airport are nearing completion. “The erection of structures has been completed while the flooring works are in progress. Additional elevators have arrived, but they are yet to be installed. Once the civil works are completed, the elevators will be installed,” airport Director M. Raja Kishore told The Hindu . The airport authorities have placed order for a conveyor belt and it is yet to arrive from abroad. N 5 taxi track “The N 5 taxi track work has been completed and the clearance has been obtained from the Navy. A team of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security is expected to issue the final clearance for operation of the taxi track soon. It is being delayed due to the pandemic,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-airport-witnesses-steady-growth-despite-pandemic-curbs/article32097295.ece
16 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus testing suspended at GHCCD||The Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD), which is at full occupancy, is struggling to handle the large number of people arriving every day to get voluntarily tested for COVID-19. As a result, the district administration has taken a call to suspend testing for the public at the hospital from Wednesday. Scores of people have been turning up at the hospital to get tested for coronavirus in view of a rising number of positive cases in the city. This was reportedly putting immense pressure on the GHCCD hospital staff, prompting the district administration to suspend testing. According to sources at the GHCCD, the OPD is witnessing 170 to 200 persons on average for COVID-19 testing. Rising worry According to the doctors, many are coming in for tests worried at the steep rise in cases in the city. “Some claim that their area has reported a large number of cases, and they want to get tested as they are diabetic or suffering from other health issues. Some say that they have to regularly go out of their home on work, which is why they want to get tested as a precautionary measure. While their concerns are genuine, we are short of staff to conduct testing,” a doctor said. “For those having only fever, cold or some health issues, we are assuring them that it can very well be just the common flu, and recommend that they take basic precautions. We ask them to keep monitoring their health,” said another doctor. Meanwhile, patients allege that even though they have some symptoms like high fever, or cold, or both, the hospital staff are reluctant to admit them or conduct tests. Staff crunch “I have been suffering from fever and cold. But the hospital staff said that it could be normal fever as this is a common time for seasonal diseases. They say only a fever with constant high temperature might be considered as a sign of COVID-19,” said a person who had gone to the GHCCD for testing. According to medical staff, there are just 22 contract nurses and five permanent nurses working at GHCCD. Out of them, four are unwell and are not attending duties. The nurses say that there is a dire requirement of additional nurses as the spike in cases is putting a lot of additional pressure on them. New testing centres The district administration will now be conducting testing at ENT Hospital, Rani Chandramani Devi (RCD) Hospital, Regional Eye Hospital (REH) and Government Hospital for Mental Care. Rapid tests are being conducted at containment zones by medical teams, said District Medical & Health Officer (DMHO) S. Tirupathi Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coronavirus-testing-suspended-at-ghccd/article32097320.ece
16 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Probe will reveal cause of accidents’||A detailed investigation will alone reveal the real cause of industrial accidents, and we have to wait till the reports are submitted, YSRC Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has said. Addressing the media here on Wednesday after visiting Visakha Solvents at J.N. Pharma City, where an employee died and another was injured in a major fire that broke out on Monday night., Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said, “There can be multiple reasons, from mechanical problems to human error. Most importantly, we have to see how things are handled in the factories post lockdown. At the same time, we are also looking into the conspiracy angle.” Visakhapatnam has seen a series of industrial accidents in the last three months – styrene vapour leak at LG Polymers on May 7 that killed 12 persons and hospitalised over 580 people, gas leak at Sainor Life Sciences on June 30 that claimed the lives of two persons and hospitalised four others, and fire at Visakha Solvents in which one person died and another was injured. Referring to the accidents and the conspiracy angle aimed at damaging the image of the city put forth by Gudivada Amarnath, party MLA, Mr. Vijaya Sai said, “We are not ruling out the sabotage angle, and everything will be revealed in the investigation. But such incidents will not dent the image of the city.” Dig at Naidu Asking TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu not to politicise the accidents, he said, “Instead of comforting the family members of the victims, he is trying to gain political mileage. We all know that he (Mr. Naidu) is trying his best to stop Visakhapatnam from becoming the Executive capital of the State, but he will not succeed. Compensation After visiting the family members of the deceased and the injured, he said a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh would be given to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs. 20 lakh to the injured. It would be borne by the company and the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-will-reveal-cause-of-accidents/article32097289.ece
16 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector orders opening of ‘fever clinics’ from July 20||Collector V. Vinay Chand has instructed officials to open ‘fever clinics’ in all wards from July 20. One fever clinic each should be opened in each ward in urban areas and doctors should be posted there, Mr. Vinay Chand said at a review meeting with GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, Joint Collector-II P. Arun Babu, Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar and VIMS Director K. Satya Vara Prasad on Wednesday. The services of RMPs can be utilised as required at the fever clinics. The 104 ambulances can be utilised in GVMC limits for conduct of tests on the spot in ‘very active clusters’, the Collector said, advising the JC to organise divisional-level meets in rural areas and create awareness among MPDOs and ward/village secretaries. He asked Dr. Vara Prasad to ensure that all doctors and staff members attended duty without fail. “Attendance should be taken without fail and protocols followed at the hospital. The contact details of the relatives of patients admitted into VIMS should be taken,” the Collector said. He also ordered provision of oxygen line (single) at all hospitals and repair of faulty electrical equipment. Patients should be tested with pulse oximeter immediately after being admitted to hospital, he said. The Collector also asked the coordinator of 108 ambulance services to make the ambulances available at short notice and to ensure that the staff respond promptly to calls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-orders-opening-of-fever-clinics-from-july-20/article32097309.ece
16 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fisherman feared drowned||A fisherman reportedly went missing after a fishing boat capsized in the sea due to high tides, at Pentakota in Payakaraopeta mandal of Visakhapatnam district, on Wednesday. The missing fisherman has been identified as M. Jagannadham (39), a resident of Payakaraopeta mandal. “Jagannadham, along with five others, had gone for fishing at around 5 a.m. on Wednesday. After some time, the boat capsized reportedly due to strong tides. While the other five fishermen managed to swim to safety, Jagannadham went missing,” said Vibhishan Rao, Sub-Inspector of Police at Payakaraopeta police station. “Search and rescue teams have been deployed in the area. We have also alerted the marine police,” police said. A missing case has been registered, Mr. Vibhishan Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fisherman-feared-drowned/article32097321.ece
16 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrest Ramky Group founder: CITU||CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao has demanded the arrest of Ramky Group founder Ayodhya Rami Reddy, holding him responsible for the accident at Visakha Solvents on July 13, at the Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC), which the group developed. Addressing the gathering at a protest staged at the Gandhi statue near the GVMC here on Wednesday, Mr. Narasinga Rao demanded payment of Rs. 1 crore as compensation to the next of kin of K. Srinivas, who died in the fire accident. Condemning the arrest of CITU leaders who went to meet the family members of the victim, Mr. Narasinga Rao attributed the frequent accidents to lack of adherence to safety norms. Lack of inspections and safety audits by the Central and State government agencies was also responsible for the frequent industrial accidents, he said. CPI(M) district secretary K. Lokanadham, city secretary B. Ganga Rao, city general secretary M. Jaggu Naidu, and party leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrest-ramky-group-founder-citu/article32097275.ece
16 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag city reports five more deaths||Eighty-one new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally to 2,456 here on Wednesday. Five more persons succumbed to the virus in the same period, taking the death toll in the district to 40. In the last 12 days, 35 persons have died due to COVID-19 in the district. On the bright side, 166 persons who were undergoing treatment at various hospitals were discharged. With the new cases, the total number of active cases is now 1,034 while the number of persons discharged stands at 1,382. With the new cases from Bhanu Nagar, Burma Camp, Hindu Muslim Colony, Jangalapalli, Minumuluru, P. Gummuluru, PNR Peta, Pulagali Palem, Santhipuram, Sapthagiri Nagar, Sramik Nagar, Vasavanipalem, and Yellamamba Nagar, a total of 13 new clusters have been formed, said Special Officer for COVID-19 and Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-city-reports-five-more-deaths/article32097323.ece
16 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cancel final exams: MLA||TDP Urban district president and Visakhapatnam South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar has demanded cancellation of the degree, PG and Engineering final semester examination in view of the corona pandemic. He told reporters here on Tuesday that holding the examinations could pose a grave threat to students, teachers, parents and staff members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cancel-final-exams-mla/article32097311.ece
16 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu damaging city’s image with allegations’||Telugu Desam Party chief and Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu is tarnishing the brand image of Visakhapatnam by making false claims about the mishaps that occurred at Pharma City, YSRCP official spokesperson and MLA Gudivada Amarnath said. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Amarnath said that Mr. Naidu’s statements are sowing doubt in people’s minds about the role of the TDP behind the mishaps. “At a time when YSRCP leader and MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy had gone to console the victims of the accident, Mr. Naidu’s reaction over the issue raises doubts,” Mr. Amarnath said. Mr. Amarnath also alleged that a section of the media that is favourable to Mr. Naidu was also towing his line. The MLA pointed out that the way Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy reacted after the LG Polymers gas leak clearly indicates the CM’s intentions. “He not only visited the victims in the hospital but also announced an ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore to the next of kin and compensation to others. Moreover, the incident was thoroughly investigated and the people responsible were arrested,” Mr. Amarnath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-damaging-citys-image-with-allegations/article32097325.ece
16 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Review petition filed in SC on G.O. No. 3: Minister||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Tribal Welfare P. Pushpa Srivani has said that a review petition has been filed in the Supreme Court on behalf of the Tribal Welfare Department seeking a review on the Supreme Court’s order on G.O. no. 3. In a statement, the Tribal Welfare Minister recalled that G.O. no. 3, issued in combined Andhra Pradesh, provided for 100% reservation to local tribal candidates in the recruitment of teachers in the Agency areas. The G.O. was invalidated by the Supreme Court in April 2019. This was depriving the tribals of their benefit. Saying that the government was committed to protecting the rights of tribals, the Minister said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had held a meeting with the State Advocate-General and discussed with him on a legal remedies available to find a way out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/review-petition-filed-in-sc-on-go-no-3-minister/article32097276.ece
16 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quarantine norms at airport revised||The new quarantine policy, issued by the State Government, is being implemented at the Visakhapatnam International Airport with effect from Wednesday. The new policy provides for random testing of 10% of domestic air passengers. The policy gives preference to those aged over 60 and children below 10 years of age for conduct of the swab tests. The swab tests will be done at the airport itself. All passengers have to observe home quarantine for 14 days, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quarantine-norms-at-airport-revised/article32097310.ece
16 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC fines 72 shopkeepers for violating plastic rule||Officials from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) imposed fines amounting to nearly Rs. 25,000 against 72 shopkeepers in the city for using single-use plastic weighing less than 50 microns, here on Thursday. According to officials, the GVMC teams imposed fines on 44 establishments in Zone I. A fine of Rs. 14,900 was slapped against the shopkeepers. In Zone II, a fine of Rs. 10,200 was imposed on 28 establishments. Around 25 kg of plastic bags were seized during the raids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-fines-72-shopkeepers-for-violating-plastic-rule/article32097324.ece
16 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited for course in defence studies||The Centre for Defence Studies (CDS) of Andhra University has invited applications for admission into M. Sc programme in Defence Strategic Studies and Management of International Relations from eligible candidates. Students who have completed B.Sc or its equivalent degrees are eligible to apply at the office of the CDS on the premises of AU Women’s Engineering College.  60 seats available Priority will be given to defence personnel during the selection. Classes will commence in online mode from August. The intake for the programme will be 60 and local students with NCC ‘C’ certificate will be given priority, a statement issued by the CDS said here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited-for-course-in-defence-studies/article32097292.ece
16 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Militia member surrenders||A militia member surrendered before Chintapalli ASP V. Vidhya Sagar Naidu, in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The militia member has been identified as Gemmeli Keshava Rao, son of former Maoist Gemmeli Narayan Rao alias Jambri. “Keshava Rao is an active militia in Mettaguda and Veeravaram areas under the Chintapalli police sub-division limits. He allegedly aided the Maoists to conducting their activities,” said the ASP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/militia-member-surrenders/article32097296.ece
16 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Voluntary lockdown’ set to take a toll on businesses||A proposed ‘voluntary’ lockdown from July 16 to 21 is expected to take a toll on textile and jewellery markets in Vizianagaram, as the period coincides with the auspicious ‘Sravanam’ month. Many traders were hoping to do brisk sales by offering ‘Ashadam’ discounts to women shopping for saris and garments. However, the proposed lockdown by the district administration has come as a rude jolt for the traders. “A voluntary lockdown is not a solution to the coronavirus crisis. Government authorities should stringently implement social distancing norms and wearing of face masks, while allowing traders to operate on the condition that they too strictly abide by COVID-19 protocols,” said a merchant in Ulliveedhi. In fact, government officials are unable to declare a fresh lockdown officially since Unlock-2.0 is being implemented across the country. After the district reported nearly 400 COVID-19 positive cases, the Vizianagaram Chamber of Commerce came forward to observe a voluntary lockdown for five to six days and another lockdown from August 1 to 11. Vizianagaram Balaji Textile Market has also agreed to abide by the proposal to control the spread of COVID-19 in markets. “Many traders and employees have already been victims of COVID-19. So, a lockdown might be a solution although it will have an impact on business. Lives are more important than business,” said Praveen Kumar Anchalia, president of Balaji Textile Market of Vizianagaram. Meanwhile, markets in Srikakulam have also geared up for a voluntary lockdown from July 15 to 31, heeding a suggestion of the district administration. Srikakulam Hotels Association leader P.V. Ramana urged the government to announce a special financial package for hotels, restaurants, bakeries and other eateries in the district. He said that hotel managements were unable to pay electricity charges and wages to employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/voluntary-lockdown-set-to-take-a-toll-on-businesses/article32097304.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain-soaked reverie||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-soaked-reverie/article32097327.ece
16 July 2020||B. PradeepNALGONDA,TELANGANA||As COVID cases rise, private sanitisers are filling the gap||Gone are the days when legislators to local leaders enthusiastically drove sanitiser-fitted tractors or flew drones over residential colonies to spray sodium hypochlorite. Disinfection tunnels to fight COVID-19 spread were also prominent in the town junctions. From April, when the positive numbers in the district were under 50, to 268 now, corresponding disinfection measures by authorities only suggest an inverse relationship. However, like private hospitals for treatment, private agencies offering sanitisation services, at a per-square-foot price in Nalgonda, come as no surprise. Gunda Venkatesh, 23-year-old and unemployed till recently, is a busy man taking calls for home sanitisation these days. Banks, offices and retail stores are prospective customers, he says. Tied up with a paint manufacturer-distributor, which started producing surface and hand sanitisers during the pandemic, he offers the service, with pricing based on size of the space. Flyers circulated by Venkatesh are self-explanatory, showing a fixed price for residences and ranging between Rs. 1.40 and Rs. 2 per square foot for commercial spaces. According to him, “A lot of people call for enquiries, but only a few confirm. The fear is that only people who tested positive get their premises sanitised,” he says. And so, to reassure, the person using the electrical equipment to spray the ‘anti-virus protection’ will be in a personal protective equipment kit, for each single use, he explains. Among the customers till now, banks branches, which receive diverse footfall on a daily basis, were the first ones to get the protection. For Venkatesh, who purchased an advance equipment for the process, prices are slightly negotiable. “The discounted package, like Rs. 1,200 for the entire 1 BHK, includes the company-produced sanitiser bought at MRP, application work for about 30 minutes and the PPE kit. It is the same process as a paint job, which is also certified by the company,” he adds. Not only private persons, government offices, like a police office in Vemulawada which was sprayed recently, are among the list of customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/as-covid-cases-rise-private-sanitisers-are-filling-the-gap/article32097069.ece
16 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Kinnerasani reservoir filled to the brim||The Kinnerasani reservoir situated in the vast wildlife sanctuary near Palvancha town has almost reached the brim following continuous heavy inflows from the catchment areas of the dam on Tuesday night. Heavy rains lashed the upstream areas of Kinnerasani river for the consecutive second day on Wednesday, pushing up water levels in the Kinnerasani reservoir to 404 feet against the full reservoir level of 407 feet. The dam authorities opened three crest gates of the reservoir late on Tuesday night and let out surplus water downstream after alerting people living in habitations along the river course, sources said. The entire surroundings of the reservoir attained a scenic splendour with surplus water gushing out of the gates. The deer park in the Kinnerasani wildlife sanctuary limits surrounding the dam site continues to remain out of bounds for the visitors due to its closure on account of restrictions in force to curb the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kinnerasani-reservoir-filled-to-the-brim/article32097079.ece
16 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Tourism infra works hit||The COVID-19 crisis has cast a shadow on various tourism infrastructure development works including the budget hotel at Kothagudem and cottages at Kinnerasani reservoir near Palvancha, the works of which came to an abrupt halt several months ago due to shortage of funds. The pandemic induced economic crisis is likely to affect the much delayed tourism promotion projects. Works on construction of a glass house, nine cottages and a food court at the picturesque Kinnerasani reservoir site in Palvancha mandal have come to a standstill. Development works worth Rs. 23 crore were taken up at the popular tourist site abutting the deer park in the wildlife sanctuary near the Kinnerasani dam more than three years ago under eco-tourism development project. While the Centre has sanctioned Rs. 7 crore under the National Institution for Transforming India (NITI) Aayog, the State government has allocated Rs. 16 crore for the tourism promotion projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tourism-infra-works-hit/article32097077.ece
16 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Constable hurt in Mallepallithogu encounter||One police constable was injured in a major exchange of fire between police and Maoists in Mallepallithogu forest area of Karakagudem mandal on Wednesday morning. As many as ten Maoists, who were believed to have sneaked into the district after crossing Godavari river from the forests spanning along the inter-State border with Chhattisgarh, escaped from the encounter site, police sources said. Acting on a tip off about the movement of armed rebels in Mallepallithogu forest area, a large posse of about 500 policemen, split into 25 teams, launched a combing operation in the forest region in the early hours of the day. The gun battle broke out when a police party came under fire from the rebels on the fringes of forest near Mallepallithogu at about 9 a.m. The police returned the fire following which the armed ultras retreated into the forests amid heavy rain, leaving some kit bags and other belongings at the scene of encounter, police said. A constable of the special police party sustained a bullet injury on his right elbow during the exchange of fire. He was immediately rushed to the Government Area Hospital in Bhadrachalam. A massive manhunt was launched by the police by deploying additional forces to scour the entire forest area in Karakagudem mandal to track down the escaped rebels. Police suspect that some senior Maoists cadres were among those who escaped from the encounter and that the rebels were moving in the forest areas in Karakagudem, once the bastion of the then PWG naxals, to revive their activities. Search has been intensified in the Mallepallithogu forest area in Manuguru subdivision following the exchange of fire to nab the Maoists who fled from the encounter site, said Kothagudem Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt. The injured constable has been shifted to Hyderabad for better medical care and he is out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constable-hurt-in-mallepallithogu-encounter/article32097065.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Muck flows into OGH, patients wade and watch||The unhygienic situation at Osmania General Hospital worsened on Wednesday as the stormwater drains overflowed and gushed into the in-patient (IP) ward. Undergoing treatment in this ward are patients with compromised immunity and for them, the risk of contracting COVID-19 is higher as the virus is known to easily spread through droplets. On Wednesday afternoon, murky water flowed under the beds of patients who were being administered saline. The situation, which persisted at least till the evening due to the rain, has left even the doctors and hospital staff appalled, let alone the patients and attendants. This has raised concerns over the heightened risk of transmission of infection among patients and other staff. Patients had to be ferried on wheelchairs and their attendants had no option but to wade through the dirty water, said hospital staff. Videos of the situation went viral on social media even as politicians and general public demanded that the issue be addressed immediately. “Critically-ill patients such as those recovering from heart attacks, kidney failure or paralysis are admitted to the general medicine’s IP ward and have murky water flowing under their beds. There is always a risk of contracting COVID or other infections. Rather than recovering at the hospital, they might catch some infection,” said a senior doctor at the hospital. OGH has three blocks on its premises: the IP block, out-patient (OP) block, and Quli Qutb Shah block. The IP block is more than a century old and has always been in need of repairs. COVID quarantine wards are in the OP block. ‘Patients shifted’ In-charge superintendent of the hospital R. Pandu Naik said they alerted the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation authorities, who tried to pump out the water. “The patients were shifted from the ground floor to first floor of IP block to avoid inconvenience to them,” he said. Stormwater pipelines from surrounding localities where heavy commercial activity takes place runs through the hospital premises. “When it rained, the stormwater pipelines overflowed and gushed into the IP block. Staff members tried to prevent further entry by pushing away the water. Bathrooms on the second floor of OP block, where COVID-19 suspects are admitted, are in urgent need of repairs,” sources at the hospital said. When water was receding, black sediment was seen on floor of the IP block where patients and attendants were present. Health hazard Apart from the threat to the health of patients and their attendants, the morale of healthcare professionals at the hospital has taken a serious hit. They have been left wondering how to continue working in such an unhealthy environment. “We do not understand why the State government and senior officials in the Health department don’t want to address these recurring, years-old problems at the hospital. We took up many protests hoping the issues will be addressed, but in vain,” said another doctor at the hospital. Senior doctors said it was only around 10 days ago that sewage water entered a section of the IP block, which was cleared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/muck-flows-into-ogh-patients-wade-and-watch/article32097028.ece
16 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CBSE Class X results out; city students pass with flying colours||City schools registered excellent results in CBSE Class X exams that were declared on Wednesday. Abhinaya Otikunta of Meridian School, Banjara Hills, scored 494 out of 500. The school secured 19 centums and 100% passes, said principal Dr. D. Usha Reddy. She said students have performed exceedingly well with outstanding 100 marks in Mathematics and Information Technology and a remarkable 99 in all other subjects. Head mistress Rajkamal Matthews said 18 students bagged 100 in Information Technology and Bhargava Nimishakavi scored 100 in Mathematics. Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur, continued its exemplary performance registering 100% success. Out of 162 students, 108 scored distinction. Akhila Dantu was the school topper with 97.2% followed by Anushka Indurkar with 97% and Akshat Kumar with 96.6%. Toppers this year have been with the school since Class 1 and are also very active in co-curricular activities, said principal S. Narsimha Reddy. He said that a few students who were down with severe health issues too scored more than 95%. Prasanjeet got 96.4% including 100 in Mathematics despite suffering spinal infection due to which he could barely stand on his feet. Maharishi Vidya Mandir, Kondapur, secured 100% passes this year with 32% of students securing an aggregate of 90% and above marks. It was a momentous occasion for the school when 10% of students, who appeared for exams, secured 100 in Mathematics while 16% scored 99 in the same subject. B. Keerthi was the school topper with 97.4%, said principal Vasanthy Parasuraman. It was another day of jubilation at Army Public School, Bolarum, with 100% passes this year too. Payal Singh with 97.8% marks was the school topper closely followed by Tapesh Lalotra with 97.4% marks and Anshika Singh with 97.2%. V. Naga Sai Kartik and Khushi scored 100% marks in Mathematics and Anshika Singh in Social Science. Principal Smitha Govind said that 59 out of the 216 students scored above 90% marks. Students of Jubilee Hills Public School have scaled yet another height by securing 100% results. Poonam Pai and Oleti Modit Sri stood school toppers with 97.1% followed by Samridhi Kanwar (96.5%) and Gnana Trishala Suri, Srikeertika Gogineni and Rohan Saini (96.3%.). Chairman A. Murali Mukund, academic director G. Sreedevi and in-charge principal G. Durga said that two students secured 100 in Mathematics. Out of the total strength of 178 students 78.1% students secured distinction. Gitanjali Devashray continued its success securing 100% results with all 63 students passing. Among these, 23 secured above 90% while 27 students were placed above 80%. School topper Disha Jain secured an overwhelming 97% while Apoorv Dubey secured 96% and Gurtejbir Singh scored 95%. Disha Jain topped in all the subjects while 10 students made it to perfect 100 score in Information Technology. Johnson Grammar School, Nacharam, continues its triumphant run with 100% results and the topper was Sahil Mishra with 97% followed by R. Sriharshini, K. Sonalija and T. Tanishk Dharanidhar with 96%. More than 40 students secured above 90%, with centum marks in Mathematics and in IT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cbse-class-x-results-out-city-students-pass-with-flying-colours/article32097050.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ryots told to grow crops in demand||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has asked farmers of areas surrounding Hyderabad to give up cultivation of traditional crops like paddy and instead, go for the ones that have demand in the city. The Minister also asked the officials of the horticulture and agriculture departments to create awareness among the farming community around the city about profitability in raising crops that are much in demand in the city. Along with Minister for Labour C. Malla Reddy, Mr. Niranjan Reddy laid the foundation stone for the construction of Rythu Vedika buildings at Keesara and Yadgarpalli in Keesara mandal of Medchal-Malkajgiri district on Wednesday. Speaking after the ground-breaking ceremony at Yadgarpalli, the Agriculture Minister said that food demand would keep on increasing along with population and would be a commodity in demand as long as mankind existed on the globe. Stating that cultivation of crops was necessary for sustenance of many forms of life on earth, he said that irrespective of technological advancements, which reduce time consumption for any work, production of foodgrains has to come from the soil itself. Mr. Niranjan Reddy also said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has been giving priority to agriculture since most of other economic activities would be strong only if the farming sector is sound. Accordingly, the State government had paid extended Rythu Bandhu benefit of Rs. 7,253 crore at the rate of Rs. 5,000 per acre in spite of difficulties arising out of coronavirus pandemic. Construction of Rythu Vedikas was aimed at mobilising and uniting farmers to work towards the common goal of making the activity profitable by dictating markets, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ryots-told-to-grow-crops-in-demand/article32097041.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||It’s that sinking feeling again||Rainwater flooding Osmania General Hospital’s in-patient ward where critically-ill patients are admitted is not the first such incident. And it will not be the last. The in-patient (IP) building is over a century old and in a dilapidated condition. Beyond repair Some portions of the building have been declared unsafe for patients, and drainage lines which run through the worn-out walls cannot be repaired. Built in 1917 by the seventh Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan, the building is now in a fragile condition due to years of neglect and lack of repairs. On multiple occasions, chunks of lime mortar from the IP’s block ceiling have crashed to the ground, including in the superintendent’s chamber. On one occasion, it fell on a patient admitted to the orthopedic ward. Bathrooms are so untidy that people who go there have a revolting experience. In fact, stench from the bathrooms on the ground floor hits the nostrils when one passes by. Some of them are non-functional. The old building’s dome is riddled with holes and rain water falls through it. All these issues lead to repeated problems of flooding and may continue in future too. For the past several years, doctors and other staff at the hospital have staged novel protests to draw attention of the State government towards the issues. The TRS government in July 2015 had announced that new buildings will be constructed for the hospital. In fact, steps were taken to shift the patients in the IP block to other hospitals. However, the construction work was never initiated. The protests resumed after promises were not fulfilled. An OGH Joint Action Committee was formed to demand new buildings for the hospital. The protests launched in 2018 continued for over 90 days. On one occasion, junior doctors wore helmets while attending patients to indicate it is unsafe to undergo treatment or to work at the hospital. Multiple blueprints for the construction were drawn. Ministers checking the plans were circulated to the media back then. Yet, no works were initiated and the issues persist to this day. On Monday, the news of rainwater flowing into the IP ward went viral. On Wednesday, rainwater from stormwater drains flooded the IP ward. “This issue has to be addressed. There are problems at the out-patient block too. A new building has to be constructed. That is the only solution,” said a senior doctor from the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/its-that-sinking-feeling-again/article32097030.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gandhi outsourced staff end stir as govt. gives in to demands||The strike taken up by over 800 outsourced employees of Gandhi Hospital was called off on Wednesday after Health department officials assured them daily incentives of Rs. 300-500 apart from alternate weeks of work and quarantine. Besides, outsourced nurses were promised a hike in salary and can expect to be paid Rs. 25,000 a month. While over 210 outsourced nurses working for the past five to 10 years at the hospital are paid around Rs. 17,500 a month, recently-appointed outsourced nurses were offered Rs. 25,000 which triggered protests. Two days after the 210 nurses boycotted duty demanded job regularisation and salary hike, over 600 outsourced nurses in different jobs joined their protest. They included 110 patient care providers, 200 sanitation staff, 100 security staff and over 200 Class-IV employees who draw a salary of Rs. 9,500 per month. With that, the strength of protesters went up to over 800, all of whom were involved in COVID-19 duty. With their boycott, medical services at Gandhi Hospital were badly hit. Regular employees and newly-appointed outsourced employees were pushed into work. Besides, regular employees who were on quarantine were also asked to attend duty as a stopgap solution. Despite that, services and hygiene at the hospital took a beating. “Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) which is dumped in bins in the corridors were not cleared for an unusually long time. Other services for patients were also hit,” said doctors at the hospital. The protesters led by employees’ unions met Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy and superintendent of Gandhi Hospital M. Raja Rao on Wednesday evening to discuss their issues. Outsourced employees from other hospitals also attended the meeting. “Officials have assured salary of Rs. 25,000 per month to the nurses and incentive of Rs. 500 per work day. The salaries of sanitation staff, patient care providers, security personnel and Class-IV employees will continue to get Rs. 9,500 per month, but have been assured Rs. 300 per month as daily incentive. All of them will be offered one-week quarantine followed by one week of work. Everyone has called off the strike,” said All India Trade Union Congress Hyderabad City Council general secretary M. Narasimha. Sources in the Health department said an anomaly in GO 14, which assures minimum pay, will be corrected to work in favour of the over 210 outsourced nurses. “There is a favourable response to the file. Besides, another file related to daily incentives too is under circulation,” sources said.  Officials have assured salary of Rs. 25,000 per month to the nurses and incentive of Rs. 500 per work day. Sanitation staff, patient care providers, security personnel and Class-IV employees will get Rs. 300 per month as daily incentive. M. Narasimha, General secretary, AITUC Hyderabad City Council||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gandhi-outsourced-staff-end-stir-as-govt-gives-in-to-demands/article32097032.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Garbage collectors steer clear of many COVID-affected homes||Garbage disposal is proving to be a rankling issue for COVID-19 patients and their family members spending mandatory amount of time in home isolation. The Swachh Auto Tipper (SAT) drivers mandated by GHMC for door-to-door garbage collection are terrified to lift trash from the households with COVID-19 patients. Majority of them are refusing to collect waste from such homes, while some others are insisting that the family members empty trash into the vehicle by themselves. “Six members of our family have tested positive and have fever and body ache, and there was only one person looking after all of us. The garbage collector had stopped visiting our home, after learning about it from neighbours. Upon repeated complaints, he did visit, but insisted that we ourselves empty the barrel into his truck, whereas none of us was in a condition to do that,” related Radhakrishna (name changed), a patient from L.B. Nagar zone. One more patient staying alone in Musheerabad too had a similar experience, and he says he chose to venture out in the middle of the night to dispose of the garbage in the nearest dump. Some others, it is learnt, are recklessly throwing the garbage out on the street when it is not collected. In apartment complexes, where the SAT drivers would earlier visit each flat, they are now asking for the garbage to be pooled and kept outside the complex from where they can collect it. “We had to oblige for the fear that he would otherwise choose not to visit the complex at all. He is coming only after assurances that garbage from our flat is not being included,” informed Saravanan (name changed), a patient from Habsiguda. Chinna Ranga Swamy, a SAT driver from Kharkhana area of Secunderabad, confirms this and says they have stopped collecting garbage from COVID-19 affected households. “We get to know about such homes from neighbours in the same locality, and refrain from visiting them. After all, we too are human beings and cannot risk our lives,” he says. Zonal and circle level officials from GHMC, however, say that they are working with SAT drivers to ensure proper disposal of garbage. Colour-coded covers are being distributed for garbage collection from all the COVID-19 affected households, which may be shifted as they are into the trucks. “When there was a complaint, we ensured that the driver visited the home by supplying him with gloves, masks and other safety gear,” a deputy commissioner said, while admitting that the safety gear is not supplied to all SAT drivers. Officials from GHMC headquarters have informed that kits including masks, safety jackets, rain coat, gloves, safety shoes, soaps, towel, cap, sanitiser and coconut oil were distributed to Sanitation and Entomology workers, while six reusable masks have already been distributed to each of the SAT drivers and workers, and four more will be distributed this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garbage-collectors-steer-clear-of-many-covid-affected-homes/article32097036.ece
16 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Couple end lives at hotel room||A 21-year-old woman was found dead, while her male friend was lying unconscious in a hotel room at Medipally on Tuesday. The victims, Dorenkala Sravani, a salesgirl at a supermarket, and Thummala Ajay (23), a supervisor at a Bajaj showroom, both from Peerzadiguda, consumed pesticide after their parents refused to accept their love and proposal for marriage. While death was instant for Sravani, Ajay, who hailed from Kolkonda in Warangal district, succumbed while undergoing treatment at a private hospital on Wednesday evening. According to police, the couple checked into a hotel in the area and around 7.30 p.m. when a housekeeping staffer opened the room door after hearing constant water leaking sound, he found them lying unconscious on bed. They were rushed to a nearby hospital where Sravani was declared dead, while Ajay succumbed on Wednesday. “Before taking the extreme step, Ajay called his friend Kiran and informed him about their decision,” Medipally police said.   (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/couple-end-lives-at-hotel-room/article32097043.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Will build mosque in new Secretariat complex’||The State government on Wednesday assured the Telangana High Court that it would construct a modern mosque on the campus of the proposed new Secretariat complex. Government counsel stated this before Justice A. Abhishek Reddy who heard a writ petition seeking a declaration on the demolition of two mosques while bringing down the old Secretariat buildings. The judge instructed government counsel to file a memo giving assurance to build new mosque. A lawyer M. Jakeer Hussain Javid, who filed the petition, stated that two mosques, Jamia Masjid and the Masjid-e-Hashim, were demolished while pulling down old Secretariat building. He appealed to the court to declare the action of the government illegal and issue an appropriate order. ‘Diet scam’ In a separate PIL petition, the bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy issued notices to the State government over alleged ‘diet scam’ in Niloufer hospital. The petition was filed by P. Bhagvantha Rao of Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsava Samithi. He charged in the petition that the contractor who was supplying diet to the patients in the hospital indulged in malpractices and siphoned off money released by the government. The bench instructed Advocate-General B.S. Prasad to secure instructions on the points raised by the petitioner and explain if any action was taken against the diet contractor. Hearing on the petition would be held after two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-build-mosque-in-new-secretariat-complex/article32097057.ece
16 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Maoists regrouping in State||Exchange of fire between police and Maoists in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts on Tuesday night and Wednesday respectively have buttressed the fact that the movement of Left-wing extremist cadre has increased recently in Telangana. Senior police officers confirmed that the ‘red rebels’ are trying to gain foothold again in the former Naxal bastions, in the wake of change of guard in the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). It was since March that their movement was noticeable, especially in Asifabad-Mancherial and Kothagudem regions, an officer told The Hindu on condition of anonymity. “We were constantly tracking their movements in the Naxal-infested districts of north Telangana for the past few months. As greenery returned, the movement intensified in the last week of June and first week of July, and they escaped couple of times. But, the ‘hide-and-seek’ game won’t last long, we will flush them out soon,” he said. COVID-19 situation With the police tied down with COVID-19 situation, the Maoists feet it’s a right time for them to penetrate into the interior villages by taking up the issues of tribals, the officer said. “Now, the Maoists are having a tough time in getting sympathy of tribals. The current situation is different from what it was 10 years back,” he said. When asked about the new strategies adopted by the rebels, a police officer who is leading the combing operation, said: There is no new strategy. They are just trying to test the waters. Speaking on Maoist recruitment from Telangana, another officer said that the new commander-in-chief of the banned outfit, Nambala Keshava Rao aka Basavaraj, wants to regain the ground and secure strongholds in the State by recruiting more people. “At present there is shortage of force and the State committees and other leaders, especially those working underground, were given the task of recruitment to strengthen the cadre,” he said, adding that in the past couple of months a few youngsters from the bordering districts were ‘motivated’ and taken to the forests of Chhattisgarh for training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maoists-regrouping-in-state/article32097060.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Policy to aid IT sector across city soon: KTR||The Telangana government is coming up with a policy for dispersed growth of the information technology (IT) sector across Hyderabad, Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao said on Wednesday. The Minister announced this at a Hyderabad GRID (Growth In Dispersion) Development programme at Uppal, in which he also handed over approval letters to five entities that had applied for conversion of their existing industrial parks to IT parks. The eastern side of the city already has companies such as Infosys and Genpact apart from a number of large, medium and small scale enterprises. With the Hyderabad GRID initiative, “We will see more enterprises and investments coming towards this part of Hyderabad,” he said. Assuring government assistance for companies that come forward to set up their operations in east Hyderabad, Mr. Rao pointed out that the government was creating infrastructure facilities in the region. The east has Metro connectivity. It is fast developing, he said, adding that the road network is being bolstered by the government with the construction of skyway from Uppal to Narapally and a flyover from Amberpet to Ramanthapur. A release from Mr. Rao’s office said the Minister also held a review meeting with officials on the upcoming programmes to strengthen the IT sector on the eastern side of the city. The extent of land of the five industrial parks that are to be redeveloped into IT parks is about 35 acres. The five companies that received the conversion letters are: Hyderabad Distilleries and Wineries Ltd in IDA-Uppal (12.40 acres); Minacto Chem in IDA-Uppal (2.66 acres); Swamy Soaps and Oils Pvt Ltd in IDA-Uppal (2 acres); Gokuldas Exports Ltd, Mini Textile Park, Nacharam (8.93 acres) and Bakelite Hylam Ltd in IDA, Nacharam (8 acres).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/policy-to-aid-it-sector-across-city-soon-ktr/article32097042.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vana Mahotsav: SCCL to plant 35 lakh saplings||As part of Vanamahotsav being organised by the Ministry of Coal and Coal India Ltd later this month, Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has decided to plant 35 lakh seedlings/saplings out of the total target fixed for all public sector coal companies. Secretary of Coal Anil Kumar Jain held a video conference with the public sector coal companies on Wednesday asking them to participate in the plantation drive as part of their social responsibility to protect the environment. SCCL Chairman and Managing Director N. Sridhar said they were planning to organise the plantation drive at 15 different locations at once on July 23. Mr. Jain asked the eight public sector coal companies affiliated to Coal India to plant at least 40 lakh saplings as part of the drive. Mr. Sridhar stated that Singareni was planting 65 lakh to 70 lakh saplings every year on its own and distributing another 30 lakh saplings in nearby villages as part of Telanganaku Haritha Haram for the last five years. This year, Singareni was planting 35.47 lakh saplings in 804 hectares of its lands by raising plants in 11 nurseries. Advisor (Forestry) K. Surendra Pandey, Director (P&P) B. Bhaskar Rao also participated in the video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vana-mahotsav-sccl-to-plant-35-lakh-saplings/article32097071.ece
16 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Ditched’ by boyfriend, woman ends life||A 26-year-old woman working for a Telugu news channel was found dead at her residence in Gandhi Nagar on Tuesday night. Police said that the victim committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan. “Her boyfriend Shiva, who works in the same news channel, refused to marry her, and as a result, she resorted to the extreme step,” Gandhi Nagar police said. They were in a relationship for almost two years and she planned to marry him. “He sexually assaulted her on several occasions but refused to marry her later,” police said. Based on the complaint lodged by the victim’s parents, a case was booked against Shiva.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ditched-by-boyfriend-woman-ends-life/article32097044.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||WhatsApp for complaints against private hospitals||People facing issues at private hospitals can lodge complaints through WhatsApp. The number (91541-70960) was announced by Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday. Of late, many complaints of overcharging for COVID treatment at corporate hospitals have surfaced. This despite the State government capping prices for COVID treatment with some exclusions. Till Tuesday, people could lodge complaints by dialing ‘104’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/whatsapp-for-complaints-against-private-hospitals/article32097033.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Courier and cargo services turn money spinner for TSRTC||In less than a month since its official launch, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation has found several takers for its parcel and cargo services. While the service spluttered with a few thousands on the first day, it saw a manifold increase and is now transporting approximately 4,000 parcels per day across the State. Formally called TSRTC Parcel, Courier and Cargo (TSRTCPCC), it was launched on June 19. According to an official, the first day saw approximately Rs. 15,000 as revenue. But as on July 15, the per day revenue soared to Rs. 4.45 lakh. “We are operating from 147 bus stations, with a staff of around 500 people. The main business centres are the Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station and Jubilee Bus Station. We are seeing a lot of traffic to places such as Karimnagar, followed by Warangal and then Nalgoda,” said TSRTCPCC Special Officer S Krishna Kanth. “The earlier per day revenue of Rs. 2.36 lakh was surpassed today (July 15). The decision to start the service was taken by the Chief Minister,” he said. The cargo services have raked in over Rs. 2 crore thus far. The major clients are government agencies like the Telangana State Seed Development Corporation. According to the Special Officer, revenues are bound to increase with inter-state services being restored. “Inter-state services see a lot a traffic to Andhra Pradesh and Bengaluru in Karnataka. Once these services are restored, the revenue will increase,” he said. The services have 126 vehicles running and it is likely that the fleet will be augmented by another 24. Additionally, 50 mini cargo vehicles with a capacity of 3 tonnes each are also in the offing. The larger vehicles have a nine tonne capacity. The TSRTC is also mulling door delivery and pick up of parcels. “Our services reach interior parts like Mancherial and Asifabad. This gives us an added advantage,” Mr Krisha Kanth said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/courier-and-cargo-services-turn-money-spinner-for-tsrtc/article32097080.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP leaders visit Gandhi Hospital, OGH||Given the flooding inside the wards of the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) and the ongoing strike at the Gandhi Hospital, top BJP leaders visited both State-run facilities treating COVID-19 patients to highlight the manpower and infrastructure deficiencies. BJP city president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao went to Gandhi Hospital to listen to the grievances of the striking employees like staff nurses and others seeking hike in their monthly pay on par with the newly recruited staff for the hospital. Expressing his solidarity with their cause, Mr. Rao criticised the government for turning a blind eye to the problems associated with the public health hospitals, the only succour for the poor. The contract nursing staff claimed that they were being paid just Rs. 17,000 a month despite being working for the last 15 years without any sign of regularisation whereas the newly recruited nurses were being paid about Rs. 25,000 a month. The patients’ attendants stated that they were being paid Rs. 7,500 a month only despite putting in long hours of work after the pandemic broke out. “These healthcare workers are putting their lives at stake, working round the clock in taking care of COVID-19 patients but the government’s apathy and dereliction is clear in not listening to their woes and forcing them to come out to strike. The situation is explosive yet the focus of the ruling class is on demolition of Secretariat which is a big waste of money,” he alleged. The MLC demanded the government to concede to the workers’ demands and improve facilities in the public health hospitals. A day earlier, lone BJP MLA Raja Singh had visited OGH..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-leaders-visit-gandhi-hospital-ogh/article32097034.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HPS-B gets 100% results in ISC, ICSE||Hyderabad Public School, Begumpet, announced 100% results in both ISC (12th) and ICSE (10th) results, declared a few days ago. Shreyashi Chattoraj topped ICSE with 98.50% followed by Akshaya Swaminathan and Rithika Balusu with 98.20% and with 97.80% respectively. About 249 students appeared for the ICSE examinations out of which 65 students scored more than 90% and 186 of them scored a distinction and 242 first class. In ISC exams, Isha Gandham of Science stream scored 96% and topped, Ananya Malani of Commerce stream secured 91.80% and Sanksar Singh got 90% in Humanities. Of the 84 students who appeared for the examinations, seven scored more than 90%, 46 secured distinction and 76 scored first class. School Principal Skand Bali congratulated the students. DAV Public School, Safilguda, registered 100% success in CBSE 12th exams with all the 120 students clearing the papers. The school toppers are Chada Sree Manish 96% (MPC), L. Srimathi 97% (BiPC) and Ramya Ramesh 96.8% (MEC). In the science stream, 30 students scored above 90% while in the Commerce stream 12 students crossed 90% mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hps-b-gets-100-results-in-isc-icse/article32097039.ece
16 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||One held with 87 oxygen cylinders||A 62-year-old businessman from Musheerabad was apprehended by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (Central Zone) team on Tuesday night for procuring and selling oxygen cylinders illegally. The police recovered 87 oxygen cylinders from the accused, Shaker Hussain, after raiding Raas Agencies. “He was selling the cylinders to family members of COVID patients under home quarantine at a very high price without any valid licence from the authorities concerned,” said DCP (Task Force) P. Radha Kishan Rao. The accused along with the seized material was handed over to Musheerabad police for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-held-with-87-oxygen-cylinders/article32097045.ece
16 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Complete Rythu Vedikas soon: CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar directed the officials concerned to complete sanction of works of Rythu Vedikas, the integrated platforms for farmers. He wanted works on the construction of the Vedikas to be grounded by July 18. The Chief Secretary held a video conference with district Collectors on Pattana Pragati and Rythu Vedikas with special emphasis on newly merged villages with municipalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/complete-rythu-vedikas-soon-cs/article32097055.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seven new Ekalavya model schools for State||The Central government has sanctioned seven new Ekalavya model residential schools for tribal children in the State with an intake of 840 and cost per head of Rs. 1.09 lakh per annum. They will be in addition to the sixteen schools already functioning under the aegis of Telangana State Ekalavya Model Residential Schools Society with a strength of 5,250, and an annual budget of Rs. 57.22 crore. The new schools were sanctioned by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs at Indervelli in Adilabad district, Cherla, Dummugudem and Mulkalapalle in Bhadradri Kothgudem district, Singareni in Khammam district, and Kothaguda and Gudur in Mahbubabad district. All of them will have an admissible strength of 120 each, a release said. It added that each of the seven schools would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 33 crore. The State government has renewed the contract of 1,950 residential teachers of the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seven-new-ekalavya-model-schools-for-state/article32097061.ece
16 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Zoo celebrates chimp’s birthday||Nehru Zoological Park, on Wednesday, celebrated the birthday of an inmate, a chimpanzee ‘Suzi’, on its premises. Suzi was gifted to the zoo by Sahara Group in the year 2011, and turned 34 on Wednesday. On this occasion, zoo management organised a small celebration in Suzi’s enclosure with the animal keeper and veterinary staff in attendance, a statement from the zoo informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/zoo-celebrates-chimps-birthday/article32097073.ece
16 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Heavy machinery for demolition of illegal structures||GHMC Town Planning wing is deploying heavy machinery for pulling down illegal structures on the Gurukul Trust land near Ayyappa Society, Madhapur. The corporation, on Wednesday, deployed long reach excavator that can reach the floors at 22 metres height.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-machinery-for-demolition-of-illegal-structures/article32097051.ece
16 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Narrow escape for IPS officer||Senior IPS officer and State level Police Recruitment Board Chairman V.V. Srinivasa Rao had a narrow escape after his official SUV skidded and turned turtle on the Nehru Outer Ring under Narsingi police station limits on Wednesday evening. Mr Rao suffered a leg fracture. The vehicle skid due to rain, while he was returning home from the State Police Academy around 9 p.m. He also holds charge as the director of RBVRR Telangana State Police Academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/narrow-escape-for-ips-officer/article32097059.ece
16 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||One COVID-19 fatality in Khammam||The district has reported one COVID-19 fatality on Wednesday, taking the death toll from the deadly virus infection to 10 so far. The number of persons infected with the coronavirus in the district has risen to 199 with the detection of nine more COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, according to official data released in a bulletin here late on Wednesday evening. As many as 65 coronavirus affected persons were discharged following their recovery from the infection across the district till date. There are a total of 124 active cases and the test results of as many as 16 COVID-19 suspects are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-covid-19-fatality-in-khammam/article32097066.ece
16 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Heavy rain in Sangareddy district||Heavy rain was witnessed at several places in the district, including in the district headquarters. Kangti mandal headquarters reported heavy rain, and water over flew the bridge at Kangti for about an hour, even as traffic was stopped for more than an hour. Degulvadi, Bhimra,Chukampally, Turkavadagam and Ramthirth witnessed heavy rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-rain-in-sangareddy-district/article32097063.ece
16 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Sanction loans to street vendors: Collector||Collector M. Hanumantha Rao directed officials to sanction loans to street vendors. At a meeting with municipal officials, district agriculture officer, district panchayat officer and district forest officer here on Wednesday, he said that street vendors must be identified and financial aid must be extended to them. “We took up avenue plantation in municipalities but the programme was not implemented properly in Sangareddy town. Speed up the works of Rythu Vedikas,” said the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sanction-loans-to-street-vendors-collector/article32097062.ece
16 July 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Don’t opt for pricey private hospitals: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said the best medical facilities are being provided to COVID-19 patients in the State and the number of cases here are “less” as compared to “other States” in the country. Addressing a gathering after formally inaugurating a 100-bed isolation block at the old building of the general hospital premises on Wednesday, the Minister urged citizens to be careful but not panic. He also asked them not to get admitted to private hospitals where the treatment costs are high. ‘Can increase staff’ “This facility was created as per directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. There are 20 beds in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) with supply of oxygen to each bed and 80 are with general facilities. As many as 28 doctors and 150 nurses are appointed to treat the patients. Depending on the requirement, we are ready to increase the staff strength. Those with mild and moderate symptoms will be treated here while those asymptomatic will get treatment as part of their home isolation,” said Mr. Harish Rao, adding that those with severe symptoms will be sent to Gandhi or Chest Hospitals at Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-opt-for-pricey-private-hospitals-harish/article32097038.ece
16 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Vinay begged gangster to spare complainant’s life||Vinay Tiwari, the SHO of Chaubeypur who was suspended and arrested after the Bikru shoot-out, had allegedly begged Vikas Dubey and invoked their Brahmin caste honour to spare the life of Rahul Tiwari, who had filed an attempt-to-murder case against him two days before the killing of eight policemen. Coming out of hiding, Mr. Rahul on Wednesday claimed this as he narrated the events that led to the raid of July 2-3. It was on his complaint that the police teams had gone to Bikru to arrest Dubey. Beaten by Dubey’s men He said that on June 27, while he was returning to his village, men linked to Dubey surrounded and thrashed him and took away his motorcycle and cash. Following this, Mr. Rahul went to lodge a police complaint. SHO Tiwari, however, summoned him on July 1 and first went with him to the spot of the assault but later took him to the house of Dubey in Bikru village. “Vikas Dubey and his henchmen thrashed me and put a rifle against my chest threatening to kill me,” Mr. Rahul told a Hindi TV channel. The SHO was also threatened and scolded by Dubey, he said. Mr. Rahul then said that the SHO, fearing Dubey could kill him [Rahul], asked Dubey not to take any drastic step. “SHO sahab then took off his janeu (sacred thread) and said to Dubey, ‘Brother, please consider the honour of Brahmins’,” said Mr. Rahul. After this, Dubey called for some Gangajal and gave it to both, and made them take vows. “Dubey was also made to promise that he would not kill me,” said Mr. Rahul, adding that his two-wheeler was returned to him and he was sent home. However, Mr. Rahul approached the Kanpur SSP and an FIR was lodged. The original dispute between Dubey and Mr. Rahul was over the latter’s in-laws’ ancestral land in Mohini Nawada village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vinay-begged-gangster-to-spare-complainants-life/article32096994.ece
16 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Virus has reached very close to me’||There has been an uncontrolled outbreak of COVID-19 inside the Nagpur Central Prison and the virus has infected hundreds, including prisoners and jail guards, Prof. G.N. Saibaba told his wife on Wednesday. Prof. Saibaba (53) is wheelchair-bound with 90% physically disability, and he was convicted in March 2017 for his alleged Maoist links and sentenced to life imprisonment. Explaining the condition of the jail to his wife A.S. Vasantha Kumari on a phone call, Prof. Saibaba said on July 8, all 20 prisoners of the Anda cell, where he is lodged, underwent COVID-19 swab tests and one prisoner was found positive. “The disease has reached very close to me,” he told his wife, adding it was only a “matter of time” since it had reached his cell and that the officers who used to roam the barracks had contracted the infection as well. Ms. Kumari said her husband is weak and has existing co-morbidities, which makes him more vulnerable. “This is a certain death sentence for him, as he is one of the most sensitive to infections in his current conditions.” She said when he called on July 6, he said his health was not in good condition and that the jail authorities had taken him to Nagpur Government Super Specialities Hospital two times during the COVID-19 lockdown. “He was taken to five various departments in the hospital and advised to undergo more tests and prescribed some pain killers. The hospital conducted MRI scan and some other tests, but the reports have not been given so far,” Ms. Kumari said. She said hospital doctors on June 25 had advised him to undergo a surgery to remove the gallbladder but under his deteriorated health conditions and the COVID-19 pandemic, the surgery is not advisable as the chances of infections are more. “So the doctors had suggested using cold and hot packs regularly, and that he should be provided with a medical bed to sleep, with six side pillows (to relieve continuous shooting pain), which have not been given yet.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/virus-has-reached-very-close-to-me/article32096992.ece
16 July 2020||Mumbai,||State to form panel to fix rates of masks, sanitisers||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday said it will be forming a committee to fix the rates of masks and sanitisers, which are in high demand owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The government will be appealing to the Centre to include these two items in the list of essential commodities, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said after a meeting of the Food and Drug Administration Department. Mr. Tope said the panel is being formed to control the prices of the two items and the Law and Judiciary Department has been asked to immediately provide its inputs on capping the rates. “Common citizens of Maharashtra should be able to buy these items at reasonable rates,” he said. Mr. Tope said in the absence of a vaccine, prevention is the best medicine against COVID-19. “All advertisements from government bodies and private agencies have been appealing to citizens to use masks and sanitisers to protect themselves against the virus,” he said. The government had capped the rates of COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals after complaints of overcharging. “We have also controlled the prices of COVID-19 tests and ambulances transporting infected patients,” Mr. Tope said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-to-form-panel-to-fix-rates-of-masks-sanitisers/article32097158.ece
16 July 2020||Mumbai,||Sheena Bora: court rejects Indrani’s bail plea||A special Central Bureau of Investigation court on Wednesday rejected the 45-day interim medical bail plea filed by Indrani Mukerjea, prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case. Ms. Mukerjea (48) was arrested in August 2015 and has been lodged at Byculla jail. She moved for interim medical bail in June-end citing spread of novel coronavirus inside the prison. Her application mentioned that she was suffering from chronic ischemic changes in her brain arteries which could affect supply of oxygen to her brain. The court said all her medical needs are taken care of and in case of any complications, authorities are competent to handle it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sheena-bora-court-rejects-indranis-bail-plea/article32097157.ece
16 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Centre urged to stop release of film on Islamic Prophet||The State Home Ministry has urged the Centre to stop the release of Mohammad-The Messenger of God on video streaming platforms on July 21, after Raza Academy submitted a complaint to the cyber cell, seeking a ban on it. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said, “We have written to the Electronics and Information Technology department of the Central government, urging it to stop the release of the movie, and also its telecast on any of the social media platforms, including WhatsApp, Telegram, Facebook, YouTube and Snapchat. The Maharashtra cyber cell too has written to the Centre in this regard.” Saed Noori, founder-president of Raza Academy, has said in the application that ever since the news of its release broke, there has been an uproar in the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-urged-to-stop-release-of-film-on-islamic-prophet/article32097159.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Priyanka slams U.P. govt. over law and order||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday targeted the Yogi Adityanath government over the deteriorating law and order situation and the handling of the novel coronavirus pandemic in U.P. In a Facebook post, Ms. Vadra cited the instance of the kidnapping of a young man in Kanpur where miscreants allegedly asked his family for ransom. “The family collected Rs. 30 lakh by selling their house and wedding jewellery. At the behest of the police, the family handed over the bag full of money to the kidnappers and the police could neither catch the miscreants, nor their son could be freed,” Ms. Vadra wrote. “This is a case from Kanpur where such a big incident had taken place a few days ago. Now you can imagine the state of law and order in U.P. from this.” In a tweet, she also attacked the government over its handling of COVID-19 in the CM’s constituency citing media reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/priyanka-slams-up-govt-over-law-and-order/article32096993.ece
16 July 2020||Pune,||7,975 new cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally breached the 2.75 lakh mark, with the State reporting a massive surge of 7,975 cases on Wednesday. The State’s cumulative case tally now stands at 2,75,640, of which 1,11,801 are active cases. The State also recorded 233 more deaths, pushing its toll to 10,982. With 1,374 new cases, Mumbai’s total case load has touched 96,474. The city recorded 62 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 5,467. State Health Department officials said 3,606 patients were discharged on Wednesday, taking the tally of recoveries to 1,52,613. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate stands at 55.37%, while its case fatality rate has marginally reduced to 3.96%. Pune district reported a surge of over 1,500 cases, raising its tally to 44,202. The district also reported 48 more deaths, pushing its toll to 1,200. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 679 new cases as the district’s total case tally nudged past the 25,000 mark. The district also reported 12 deaths, taking its cumulative toll to 788. Kalyan-Dombivli recorded another massive spike of 561 cases, taking its case load to 16,071. The civic body reported 15 fatalities, pushing its death toll to 239. While Panvel recorded 180 new cases, Navi Mumbai reported 356 fresh cases, its second-highest single-day spike, taking its case load to 10,273. The death toll in Navi Mumbai has risen to 318, with eight more fatalities being recorded on Wednesday. Raigad district reported 463 new cases, its highest single-day surge yet, taking its tally to 8,858. The district also recorded eight more deaths, pushing its toll to 230. As many as 250 patients were discharged on Wednesday, taking its tally of recoveries to 5,206.  (With additional inputs from Raina Assainar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/7975-new-cases-in-maharashtra/article32096991.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||HSC results today||State Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad on Wednesday announced that the results of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education’s Class XII examinations will be declared at 1 p.m. on Thursday. The exams were held in February and March, before the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed in the State. “The results will be declared at 1 pm tomorrow. I extend my best wishes to the students and their parents,” Ms. Gaikwad tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hsc-results-today/article32097160.ece
16 July 2020||Washington,||U.S. govt. rescinds restrictive rule on international students||The U.S. government has rescinded its policy that foreign (F-1 and M-1 visa categories) studentstaking all their courses onlinewould have to depart the country. This order, issued on July 6 by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), encountered strong opposition from voices in academia, industry and politics after it left many of the more than 1 million foreign students in the U.S in a precarious situation. It is, however, unclear what the status of students waiting abroad is and whether they will get visas in time for the fall semester given the U.S. missions abroad are not functioning at full capacity. The government’s decision was announced by judge Allison Burroughs during a brief hearing in a U.S. District Court in Massachusetts, where MIT and Harvard had brought a lawsuit against the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the ICE. The lawsuit asked for the government’s policy, announced by the ICE on July 6, to be “set aside.” Amicus brief Tech companies and industry associations, including Google, Facebook and Twitter as well as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, filed an amicus briefin support of the Harvard-MIT lawsuit, citing, “significant harm” to U.S. businesses from the administration’s policies. The Optional Practical Training (OPT) and Curricular Practical Training (CPT) programmes were cited as important recruitment avenues for American businesses. Separately, on Monday, Massachusetts Attorney-General Maura Healey announceda lawsuit against the DHS and the ICEon behalf of 17 States and the District of Columbia against the same policy. A number of other universities had also filed suit in federal court. MIT President L. Rafael Reif told the MIT community that the government’s decision to walk back the policy brought “enormous relief.” “This case also made clear that real lives are at stake in these “bureaucratic” matters, with the potential for real harm. We need to approach policy making, especially now, with more humanity, more decency — not less,” he said. In March last, the Trump administration permitted international students to take online classes during the pandemic. This special policy for the spring and summer semesters was to be dropped for the fall semester, as per the July 6 announcement. The ICE had also required schools to tell the federal government by July 15 whether they planned to offer only online courses for the fall semester. They were also required to certify by August 4, for each international student, that he or she would have a course-load that was either in-person or “hybrid” (part online and part in-person) so the student could maintain visa status. Distress to students Stories of distressed students from a wide range of nationalities across the globe emerged after the July 6 rule was announced. For some, it meant having to go back to unsafe countries. Others were faced with the prospect of being separated from their families if they were already in the U.S., or having to work during the night for months at a stretch if having to take classes online from abroad. A number of U.S. lawmakers had written to the administration since July 6, asking it to rescind the order. The issue of foreign visas had been raised by India last week at virtual Foreign Office Consultations led by Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and U.S. Undersecretary of State David Hale. There are some2,00,000 Indian students in the U.S. Tuesday’s court announcement will likely bring a great measure of relief for many international students. “The Administration surrendered pretty quickly after the higher education community and allies mobilised and resisted through litigation,” Greg Siskind, an immigration lawyer, told The Hindu via email. However, it is unclear whether new F-1 visas will be issued to those not yet enrolled in educational programmes. “There is still uncertainty for new students who may still end up stuck abroad if their schools remain online. That group was not covered under the March 2020 guidance and we knew that was a problem for them,” Mr. Siskind said. “Perhaps the administration will decide it’s easier to treat all the students the same and walk away from this unpopular, counterproductive policy.” There is also another logistical issue: even if the law permits a new F-1 visa for those outside the U.S., American Consulates and Embassies around the world may not be able to cater to demand due to staffing shortages. Routine visa services were suspended in March last with embassies providing only mission-critical visa services. “The resumption of routine visa services will occur on a post-by-post basis,” a State Department spokesperson told The Hindu on Wednesday. “As post-specific conditions improve, our missions will begin providing additional services, culminating eventually in a complete resumption of routine visa service.” However, the State Department was not able to commit to specific dates on which processing of specific visa categories would resume.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-govt-rescinds-restrictive-rule-on-international-students/article32096660.ece
16 July 2020||Washington,||Trump ends HK’s special trade status, backs sanctions||U.S. President Donald Trump on Tuesday stripped Hong Kong of preferential trade treatment and authorised sanctions on banks over China’s clampdown in the financial hub, infuriating Beijing that vowed to retaliate. In a discursive news conference dominated by attacks on his domestic rivals, Mr. Trump declared himself to be the toughest President ever on China, a country he is increasingly positioning as his nemesis ahead of the November elections. Mr. Trump announced that he had issued an executive order on Hong Kong as he predicted decline for the restless city, on which Beijing recently imposed a tough new security law. “Hong Kong will now be treated the same as mainland China — no special privileges, no special economic treatment and no export of sensitive technologies,” Mr. Trump said in the White House Rose Garden. “Their freedom has been taken away; their rights have been taken away,” Mr. Trump added. “And with it goes Hong Kong, in my opinion, because it will no longer be able to compete with free markets. A lot of people will be leaving Hong Kong.” Targeting banks Mr. Trump also said he had signed into law the Hong Kong Autonomy Act, which authorises sanctions against Chinese officials and Hong Kong police seen as infringing on the city’s autonomy — and, crucially, any banks that make significant transactions with them. Lawmakers hope the new law will force all but provincial Chinese banks to choose between abetting Beijing’s efforts in Hong Kong or being able to conduct transactions in U.S. dollars and operate in the world’s largest economy. “This law gives my administration powerful new tools to hold responsible the individuals and the entities involved in extinguishing Hong Kong’s freedom,” Mr. Trump said. China on Wednesday vowed to retaliate, saying the Hong Kong Autonomy Act “maliciously slanders” its legislation in Hong Kong. “China will make necessary responses to protect its legitimate interests, and impose sanctions on relevant U.S. personnel and entities,” the Chinese Foreign Ministry said. The White House acknowledged concerns that the Hong Kong Autonomy Act, a tougher follow-up to a law last year, limits the President’s leeway to waive sanctions. But the Act enjoyed overwhelming bipartisan support, meaning Congress could likely override any presidential veto. “Today, the U.S. made clear to China that it cannot continue its assault on freedom and human rights in Hong Kong without severe repercussions,” said Senator Chris Van Hollen, a Democrat who spearheaded the law. ‘Swift rebuke’ “The Chinese government’s aggression merits this swift rebuke,” he said. But Julia Friedlander, a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council think tank, said “Hong Kong will suffer and China will likely gain” from the move. She said the U.S. action will have a “devastating impact on Hong Kong as the financial gateway to Western markets” while raising the profile of mainland Chinese markets for foreign firms and governments looking to bankroll global supply chains out of Asia. Beijing defied international warnings by imposing the security law, which criminalises subversion and other offences in Hong Kong, to which it promised autonomy before Britain handed the territory back in 1997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-ends-hks-special-trade-status-backs-sanctions/article32096669.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 vaccine shows early promise||An experimental coronavirus vaccine made by the biotech company Moderna provoked a promising immune response against the virus and appeared safe in the first 45 people who received it, researchers reported Tuesday in The New England Journal of Medicine. Moderna’s vaccine, developed by researchers at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, was the first coronavirus vaccine to be tested in humans, and the company announced on Tuesday that large Phase 3 tests of it would begin on July 27, involving 30,000 people. Half of the participants will be a control group who will receive placebos. This large clinical trial is expected to be completed by late October. But it’s not clear whether it will be possible to prove the vaccine is safe and effective by then. The trial will need to show that those who were vaccinated were significantly less likely to contract the virus than those who got a placebo. The fastest way to get results is to test the vaccine in a “hot spot” with many cases, and the study is looking for people at high risk because of their locations or circumstances. Vaccines and improved treatments are the only hope of returning lives back to anything close to normal, and dozens of companies are racing to develop vaccines. Experts agree that more than one vaccine will be needed, because no single company could produce the billions of doses needed. Immune response “None of us are safe unless all of us are safe,” said Dr. Angela Rasmussen, a virologist at Columbia University. “It’s not just us. It’s everybody in the world.” The Moderna vaccine uses genetic material from the virus, called mRNA, to prompt the immune system to fight the coronavirus. The results are from an early Phase 1 study that was designed to test low, medium and high doses of the vaccine and to gauge their safety and ability to create immunity to the virus. Forty-five healthy adults, ages 18 to 55, received two vaccinations 28 days apart. After the second shot, all of the participants developed so-called neutralizing antibodies, which can inactivate the virus in lab tests. The levels of those antibodies were similar to those in the upper range in patients who had recovered from infections. The vaccine also produced a favourable response involving T-cells, another part of the immune system.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/covid-19-vaccine-shows-early-promise/article32096667.ece
16 July 2020||Dubai,||Tanker sought by U.S. ‘hijacked’ off UAE||An oil tanker sought by the U.S. over allegedly circumventing sanctions on Iran was hijacked on July 5 off the coast of the United Arab Emirates, a seafarers organisation said Wednesday. Satellite photos showed the vessel in Iranian waters on Tuesday and two of its sailors remained in the Iranian capital. It wasn’t immediately clear what happened aboard the Dominica-flagged MT Gulf Sky, though its reported hijacking comes after months of tensions between Iran and the U.S. David Hammond, the CEO of the United Kingdom-based group Human Rights at Sea, said he took a witness statement from the captain of the MT Gulf Sky, confirming the ship had been hijacked. “We are delighted to hear that the crew are safe and well, which has been our fundamental concern from the outset,” Mr. Hammond said. TankerTrackers.com, a website tracking the oil trade at sea, said it saw the vessel in satellite photos on Tuesday in Iranian waters off Hormuz Island. Hormuz Island, near the port city of Bandar Abbas, is some 190 km north of Khorfakkan, a city on the eastern coast of the UAE. The Emirati government, the U.S. Embassy in Abu Dhabi and the U.S. Navy’s Bahrain-based 5th Fleet did not respond to requests for comment. Iranian state media did not immediately report on the vessel and Iran’s mission to the UN did not immediately respond to a request for comment. In May, the U.S. Justice Department filed criminal charges against two Iranians, accusing them of trying to launder some $12 million to purchase the tanker, then named the MT Nautica, through a series of front companies. The vessel then took on Iranian oil from Kharg Island to sell abroad, the U.S. government said. Court documents allege the scheme involved the Quds Force of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard and Iran’s national oil and tanker companies. The two men charged, one of whom also has an Iraqi passport, remain at large. “Because a U.S. bank froze the funds related to the sale of the vessel, the seller never received payment,” the Justice Department said. “As a result, the seller instituted a civil action in the UAE to recover the vessel.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tanker-sought-by-us-hijacked-off-uae/article32096665.ece
16 July 2020||MOBILE,||In defeat, Sessions says Trump is right for nation||Former Attorney General Jeff Sessions took the stage with the same sense of conviction he had displayed in giddier times at a Mobile stadium almost five years ago, declaring once more that President Donald Trump’s vision was right for America. Yet the political circumstances were far different Tuesday night for the longtime Alabama Senator who was the President’s first Attorney General. The boisterous throngs that had greeted Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions at an August 2015 rally were a distant memory as Mr. Sessions conceded defeat in Alabama’s Republican Senate runoff. That vote ended Mr. Sessions’ hopes of reclaiming the Senate seat he abandoned to join Mr. Trump’s administration. Mr. Trump tweeted his joy about the victory by former Auburn University football coach Tommy Tuberville and Mr. Sessions’ stinging defeat. The President has long chastised Mr. Sessions after he recused himself in the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential campaign. “I leave elected office with my integrity intact,” Mr. Sessions said, initially standing alone before his grandchildren joined him in front of reporters. “I hold my head high.” For Trump, the outcome mixed vengeance and vindication. As he sees it, a turncoat, and his preferred candidate won handily. Mr. Tuberville will take on vulnerable Democratic Senator Doug Jones in November. Mr. Tuberville boasts a profile not unlike that of Mr. Trump, the former reality television star turned politician. Mr. Tuberville, 65, has never held public office but comes to the political arena with a well-known brand. He embraces Mr. Trump and sells himself as an outsider, a conservative culture warrior. The President wrote on Twitter on Tuesday that Mr. Tuberville would be a “GREAT senator.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-defeat-sessions-says-trump-is-right-for-nation/article32096662.ece
16 July 2020||Bristol,||Protester’s statue takes U.K. slave trader’s spot||A statue of a slave trader toppled by anti-racism protesters in Britain last month was replaced on Wednesday — without permission — with a sculpture of a black woman who helped pull it down. The new statue, showing Black Lives Matter (BLM) protester Jen Reid with her fist raised, occupies the plinth where the Edward Colston likeness stood before crowds threw it into Bristol harbour in southwest England. Entitled “A Surge of Power” by artist Marc Quinn, the new statue was erected without the knowledge of the Bristol City Council. Ms. Reid attended the unveiling and told The Guardian newspaper that it was “just incredible”. “This is going to continue the conversation. I can’t see it coming down in a hurry,” she said.  Colston was a 17th century slave trader and Conservative MP, whose company forcibly moved large numbers of West Africans. A native of Bristol, his name is commemorated in many landmarks across the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/protesters-statue-takes-uk-slave-traders-spot/article32096671.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Woman killed in Norway stabbings||A suspect has been arrested after a woman was stabbed to death and two others injured in an attack in southeastern Norway, police said on Wednesday. The 31-year-old suspect knew two of the victims, police said, adding that they were investigating whether his mental health was a factor in the attacks on Tuesday in three different locations in the city of Sarpsborg, south of Oslo. “We were watching TV when we heard loud banging on the door. When I opened he tried to stab me, but I got away,” a victim’s husband said. The man then came in and cut his wife on the arm, the paper reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/woman-killed-in-norway-stabbings/article32096663.ece
16 July 2020||Beijing,||China lashes out at U.K. for Huawei ban||Beijing lashed out Wednesday at Britain’s decision to ban Huawei equipment, saying London had become “America’s dupe” and vowing to take measures to protect the interests of Chinese companies. The British government bowed to growing U.S. pressure and pledged on Tuesday to remove Chinese telecoms giant Huawei from its 5G network by 2027, despite warnings of retaliation from Beijing. “China will fully and solemnly assess this matter, and will take a series of necessary measures to safeguard Chinese companies’ legitimate rights and interests,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a routine briefing. “Any decisions and actions (by Britain) must come at a cost,” Ms. Hua said, without elaborating. U.S. officials hailed Britain’s decision, saying it showed a “growing international consensus” that Huawei and other companies allegedly linked to the Chinese state pose a threat to national security. ‘America’s dupe’ Ms. Hua claimed London “(acted) in coordination with the U.S. to discriminate against, suppress and eliminate” Huawei, and accused Britain of becoming “America’s dupe”. Beijing suggested that Britain might face further repercussions for the move. “This is an issue that threatens the security of Chinese investment in the U.K., and is also a question of whether we can trust the U.K. market to remain open, fair and free from discrimination,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-lashes-out-at-uk-for-huawei-ban/article32096658.ece
16 July 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong, July 15, 2020 (AFP) -||Candidates who topped the unofficial Hong Kong pro-democracy polls were in their 40s or younger in every constituency and included prominent activists Joshua Wong and Jimmy Sham, who helped organise many of last year’s anti-government protests that alarmed the Central government in Beijing. The polls were held to whittle the pro-democracy camp’s candidates to field a unified slate in a legislative election in September in hopes of achieving a “35-plus” majority in the 70-seat legislature. The camp has pledged to vote down the budget if they attain a majority.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-july-15-2020-afp/article32096673.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||China’s post-COVID aggression is reshaping Asia||India’s deadly encounter with China in the Galwan Valley is not an outlier in Beijing’s recent behaviour in Asia. China’s coronavirus “mask diplomacy” has given way to tense geopolitical confrontations with a growing array of its neighbours, from stand-offs with Vietnam and Malaysia in the South China Sea to threatening Australia with boycotts of wine, beef, barley, and Chinese students. Catalyst for change Beijing’s blatant aggressiveness is accelerating long-standing debates about the underlying costs of reliance on China and spurring support for closer coordination between other Indo-Pacific partners. The Indian, Japanese, Malaysian, and Australian governments have all taken concrete steps to reduce their economic exposure to Beijing, spanning investment, manufacturing, and technology. India and Australia recently inked a new military logistics agreement in the “virtual summit” between Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Scott Morrison, and a similar agreement between Delhi and Tokyo may follow. The Quadrilateral Dialogue between Australia, India, Japan, and the United States is growing stronger and even expanding. And recently as well, Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Foreign Ministers issued one of their strongest statements to date on the South China Sea, insisting that maritime disputes must be resolved in accordance with the UN Law of the Sea treaty. Other responses are bottom-up. Chinese cyberbullying of a Thai film star spawned a new “Milk Tea Alliance”, thus named after the popular beverage, to forge solidarity between Taiwanese, Hong Kongers, and Southeast Asians online. Overtly rejecting China’s attempts to play up support for the “One China” principle, online supporters quickly propelled a hashtag that translates as “Milk Tea Is Thicker than Blood” to nearly one million tweets in a matter of days. It also garnered the praise of Hong Kong activist Joshua Wong, who called for “pan-Asian solidarity that opposes all forms of authoritarianism”. Asian multilateralism has often been born out of crises. The Chiang Mai Initiative — a financial swap mechanism between China, Japan, South Korea, and Southeast Asia — emerged in the aftermath of the late 1990s financial crisis. The grandfather of all Asian regional organisations, ASEAN, was created in 1967 but did not convene its first heads of state meeting until Southeast Asian leaders were shocked into action by the fall of Saigon in 1976. As Lee Kuan Yew later argued, “The seriousness of purpose came only with the shock of the terrible alternatives.” America and geopolitics If crises and wars tend to be the crucibles in which new orders and institutions are forged, the COVID-19 crisis is likely to be no exception — it may be remaking the geopolitics of the Indo-Pacific. The ongoing crisis seems to have imbued countries in the region with a new seriousness of purpose about the risks of a slow slide toward Chinese hegemony. This is handing the Trump administration openings it has long sought: more credible multilateral coordination among allies, pushback against online disinformation, and the desire to better integrate like-minded economies and supply chains. At the same time, the crisis is also raising renewed questions about the durability of American leadership. Writing as two Americans, the question now facing the U.S. administration is whether it can harness this new regional momentum — or whether President Trump’s anarchic instincts will squander the opening. Thus far, Mr. Trump continues to make unforced errors that create distance with U.S. allies and partners — more often than not, at exactly the wrong moment. For example, the President’s focus on cutting support for the World Health Organization (WHO) and asserting that COVID-19 originated in a Wuhan lab alienated Canberra, right at the moment when Australia was stepping up more forcefully to assert regional leadership, launch an impartial international investigation of the pandemic’s origins, and push back on Beijing. Similarly, the administration’s suspension of various worker visas is a move that will almost certainly have serious repercussions in India. What the U.S. needs to do To improve, the U.S. needs to make two major shifts. First, U.S. policy needs to start supporting, rather than attempting to commandeer, regional efforts to build a less China-centric future for the Indo-Pacific. U.S. leaders need to remember that while Chinese aggression provides a powerful motivation for coordination, U.S. partners are seeking an agenda that is framed in broader terms than simply rallying to counter Beijing. Asian countries have strong, historically-rooted ideas about their own security and the future of the region — American leaders should recall the long-standing resonance of the Non-Aligned Movement in a region that resists a “new Cold War” framing. Australia’s efforts to call for a COVID-19 investigation through WHO, as well as Japan’s desire to take the lead on a G-7 statement on Hong Kong, reflect not just an effort to push back on Beijing. They also reflect concern that the current U.S. administration may box them into an untenable corner. If the U.S. wants to better harness the growing desire to reduce reliance on Beijing and “re-couple” investments and supply chains among allied nations, it is going to have to make compromises — an approach this administration has been loath to embrace. U.S. leadership would be far more effective if it worked with Indo-Pacific partners on the issues that they prioritise and provided them significant space for independent action. Second, while China certainly has the power to coerce, it also has a tremendous ability to be its own worst enemy by pushing too hard on its neighbours. It is often China’s own overreach (rather than Washington’s entreaties) that stiffens the spines of other Asian nations. Washington should avoid repeating Beijing’s mistakes and offer a clear alternative in word and deed to China’s “Wolf Warrior” diplomacy. Moves such as demanding that a G-7 communiqué refer to COVID-19 as the “Wuhan virus” and blocking mask shipments to close allies are the kind of counterproductive bullying that the U.S. should leave to China. For their part, regional partners should see that Beijing’s recent aggression is not an aberration but part of a growing pattern. Asian nations will not be able to avoid making difficult policy choices and investments to preserve their sovereignty and strategic space. As Beijing’s confidence in its growing material and military power solidifies, its neighbours will need to think carefully about the long-term decisions necessary to preserve an open regional order. U.S. versus China Across the Indo-Pacific, the desire for U.S. leadership remains strong, with the U.S. still viewed more favourably than China, according to Pew. Similarly, the U.S. public continues to express widespread support for America’s alliances and partnerships. Facing the unprecedented health and economic crises spawned by COVID-19, the U.S. and Asian partners will need to coordinate more closely than ever. They have a unique chance to build more equal and capable regional partnerships and institutions in the long recovery ahead. Asian countries, too, have an opportunity to continue strengthening their own regional networks, which will challenge and complicate the views of those in both Washington and Beijing who would see the region only as a sparring ground in a bipolar U.S.-China competition. For American and Asian leaders, the choice is stark: encourage and foster this trend, recognising that stronger regional coordination will require more compromises as well as tougher choices, or resist it and risk being left behind. Lindsey W. Ford is a David M. Rubenstein Fellow at the Brookings Institution. Julian Gewirtz is an Academy Scholar at Harvard University’s Weatherhead Center for International Affairs. A version of this piece was published in ‘Foreign Policy’ magazine: https://bit.ly/2WhPMis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/chinas-post-covid-aggression-is-reshaping-asia/article32096646.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Ring-fencing won’t rescue architecture||Recently, the Supreme Court put to rest the decades-old dispute between the professional twins: engineers and architects. To the relief of engineers, it ruled that architects do not hold a monopoly over architectural services and that engineers and others could freely offer them. To the crestfallen architects, it assured them that only qualified candidates registered with the Council of Architecture (CoA), the statutory body, could call themselves ‘architects’. Agitated architects fear that this ruling will dilute standards, decimate businesses, and put their already struggling profession in a greater crisis. Calls to amend the Act that underpins this judgment and ensure that the practice is protected are growing louder. The profession indeed is in deep trouble, but not for the reasons architects attribute. It is because the profession is beset with many problems that are internal to it. Demand for monopoly is only damagingly distracting architects from real issues. Limited clientele First, let us turn to the fears that torment architects. Currently, there are about 1,06,000 professionals registered as architects. Soon, the country’s 463 architecture colleges will add about another 20,000 graduates every year. Even if the market picks up in future, as some optimistically predict, architects do not think that more construction will mean more opportunities. Only a small group of clientele nurtures design talent and is mostly limited to private homes and institutions. The government, one of the largest builders, and the IT sector, the new patrons, have unfortunately not supported best design practices. Given the constraints, architects believe that ring-fencing the practice will enhance the demand for their services. This idea not only reeks of naiveté but, importantly, will never get the sanction. Until 1900, engineers were India’s prevalent building professionals. Subsequently, the colonial government started commissioning designers. Only in 1929, architects organised themselves to form a professional group, the Indian Institute of Architects (IIA), with a meagre 158 members. Inspired by the passing of the Architects (Registration) Act in 1931 in England, the IIA lobbied for their own Act to protect the practice. After many attempts, they finally managed to get the Architects Bill tabled in Parliament in 1968. Fierce debates ensued; engineers and contractors opposed attempts to restrict the profession. A 45-member Joint Parliamentary committee scrutinised the Bill and concluded that spatial design, aesthetic considerations, structural safety and construction were entwined in the making of a building. Architecture appeared as collaborative production and the architect, a team member. The committee decided not to restrict architectural practice but recommended the protection of the title and style of ‘architect’. The Parliament passed the Act with limited scope in 1972. Since then, architects have been unable to convince the state that conditions have changed and the Act needs revision. On the other hand, design and construction services have grown in complexity, and so has the necessity for more experts to collaborate. Besides, society and the state both believe that competition provides better services, and helps purchase them efficiently. In such a pro-consumer and anti-trust climate, demands for restriction will not find support. Fluid boundaries Demarcating jurisdictional boundaries, as Andrew Abbott, the noted sociologist’s seminal work “The System of Professions” explains, is central to the emergence of any profession. However, these boundaries should not be perceived as permanent. Though building design remains with architects and execution with engineers, such divisions are, in practice, in a flux. Some architects continue to venture into exploring structures and construction, while large construction firms employ many architects and offer design services. Clients also play an influential role in blurring boundaries. Many of them prefer to reduce transaction costs and increase efficiency, and thus seek large firms which offer integrated building services. The market is pushing architects and engineers to partner, and the sooner architects take a pragmatic view, the quicker they can focus on the real threats facing the profession. The first concern is the limited constituency for good design. An injunction is neither possible nor will guarantee an increase in demand. The solution lies in exploring and following what architects have done to establish the profession thus far. Competent practitioners have established design value and gained reputation by producing buildings worthy of commendation. India Habitat Centre in Delhi, Ashwinikumar Crematorium in Surat, Jetavan learning centre in Maharashtra, are cases in point. They have also changed the perception that architecture is a metropolitan vocation. Currently, some of the best professionals are in smaller cities, such as Thrissur and Belagavi. The way forward is to keep at it and repeatedly construct exemplar buildings. The second issue is the profession’s diminishing appeal to young talents. Anecdotal evidence indicates entry-level graduate salary is about Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000, which is amongst the lowest. Even the salary growth over a five-year period is low. Given the fact that among the total registered architects, more than 60% are below 35 years old, this is a daunting problem. Fair competition, a gateway for young architects to establish practice, is also unavailable. If neglected, this issue will force prospective students to shun the profession. The failure of architects as a collective is most visible in this regard, and that is the third issue. Failure of professional bodies There are many exceptional architects, but their professional bodies have failed. The IIA and Council of Architecture (CoA) have so far not compiled any reliable data on the state of the profession. No survey of earnings, work demand, employment levels, and future strategies exist. Successful professional organisations around the world do not function like this. The task is to recast the collective to drive excellence, strengthen the knowledge base, and function as an influential think tank. All professions seek to enhance prestige, control, and earnings. However, philosopher Alasdair MacIntyre cautions that these are external goods produced by practice, and are vulnerable to social conditions. What is enduring are the internal goods of practice, which are high standards of excellence, the capacity to achieve them, and the feeling of well-being of practitioners when accomplishing them. Mr. MacIntyre would convincingly argue this is what matters. The final and pivotal task then is to turn inward, strengthen practice and keep architecture relevant. The author is a professor at CEPT University, Ahmedabad. Views personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ring-fencing-wont-rescue-architecture/article32096657.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s time to flatten the pandemic stereotyping||A simple search for the phrase “super spreader” in the LexisNexis database of Indian news sources (from March 1 to June 1, 2020) brings up more than 650 articles. It is an indicator of the relevance of this word during the COVID-19 pandemic. Broadly speaking, the term means an individual who transmits infection to many others than is typical. It emerged in the context of the research on transmission of a wide range of infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, Ebola, and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which shows that 80% of the infections in a population are transmitted by only 20% of those infected — the so-called 20/80 rule. Challenge of containment Why some individuals tend to be superspreaders is a question epidemiologists continue to grapple with, more so in the context of COVID-19, the science around which continues to evolve. Initial evidence indicates that factors such as the mode of transmission through finer aerosols that can be suspended in the air for long, an individual’s ability to shed higher loads of virus than is typical of others, and the presence of an infected individual in indoor, closed spaces could make such persons superspreaders. A particularly challenging aspect of this pandemic has been the large proportion of asymptomatic infected patients who can shed high virus loads before experiencing symptoms and can spread infection to many contacts without their knowledge. Because of this complexity, practices such as universal masking, social distancing, and hand hygiene have become key to containing the pandemic. Varied mix of profiles Our review of the news articles brings up an interesting mix of individuals labelled as superspreaders across geographies. They include a Sikh religious guru in Punjab returning from an affected country, a person who runs a private technical school in Odisha, an employee of a reputed firm in NOIDA, a fruit vendor in Vadodara, a police officer in Jammu, a truck driver in Vijayawada, and a housekeeping staff at a hotel in Bengaluru. More interestingly, as opposed to the focus of epidemiologists on individuals as superspreaders, a number of groups are labelled superspreaders. Prominent examples of such groups include those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation in Delhi, workers providing essential services (vegetable/fruit vendors, pharmacists, garbage collectors, grocery and milk sellers, bus conductors), and migrant workers returning to their hometowns. In the category of essential workers, the vegetable vendors in Ahmedabad city and the Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai have received significant media attention. The labelling of a group — as Howard Becker in his book published in 1963 argued — can lead to stereotyping of the group based on oversimplified images attached to the label and shared widely among the other sections of society. For example, as vegetable vendors are labelled widely as superspreaders, the implicit meaning attached to the label (i.e., an infected individual capable of infecting those the person comes in contact with) becomes a shared belief among sections of the society. This belief creates an image of a vegetable vendor as an infectious superspreader. Subsequently, in evaluating the vegetable vendor, the image associated with the stereotype (i.e., a superspreader) becomes more salient than the image of a vegetable vendor as a service provider. Going further, one may attach the images of the stereotype to a random person whose perceived characteristics match that of a member of the stereotyped group. Research also shows that mass media plays a significant role in creating, and often perpetuating, negative stereotypes, with severe consequences. Stereotyping a group will have undesirable consequences for its individual members, if the label carries negative evaluation. In the discourse on COVID-19 in India, there are signs of superspreader becoming such a negative label. In response to a question in his press conference on May 21, 2020, the Kerala Chief Minister expressed concerns over rising infections in Kerala after the State borders were reopened, but suggested that “it was wrong to dub expatriates as super spreaders”. A local newspaper in Ahmedabad had a headline, “Ahmedabad, beware of super spreaders” while reporting that the number of vegetable vendors and kirana store owners testing positive for COVID-19 in Ahmedabad had been on the rise. The Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu administration banned vegetable vendors from Gujarat to enter the Union Territory with the fear of vegetable vendors being superspreaders. The fallout Research documents a range of negative consequences (direct and indirect) associated with negative stereotyping, such as discrimination and hostility, negative attitudes, and a lingering effect of lack of self-control and aggression. Such outcomes are already visible in India. Incidents of people, particularly Muslims, being harassed for their suspected affiliation with Tablighi Jamaat have been reported. The Orissa High Court, in its order early May (which was stayed by the Supreme Court), required migrants, returning from other parts of the country, test negative before they were allowed to enter the State, without specifying who would pay for the cost of tests and the fate of those who would test positive. The groups labelled superspreaders represent some of the most vulnerable groups in Indian society. Vegetable vendors and others that supply essential services during this crisis are not only more vulnerable for infection because of the nature of their profession but are also more likely to face adverse outcomes, if infected, because of their marginality. These groups are less likely to have access to good health care, more vulnerable to economic shocks caused by the illness, and little voice in the political process to defend their rights. Government support is key The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had urged the citizens to “not label any community or area for the spread of COVID-19”. State and local governments are undertaking testing drives to identify the infected among these groups. But by simply excluding them from their livelihoods, if found positive, and providing them no other form of support, they are failing to protect them from the consequences of negative stereotyping and marginality. Beyond exhortations and free testing, the governments should develop a supportive infrastructure for these groups. For example, the governments could provide them cost-free masks and sanitisers and support the families of infected individuals. Public officials and the media could also refrain from the indiscriminate use of the term superspreaders, when referring to these groups, to avoid the resultant negative stereotyping and its adverse effects on these groups. George Kandathil, Rama Mohana R. Turaga and Joshy Jacob (the third writer) are faculty members at the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/its-time-to-flatten-the-pandemic-stereotyping/article32096649.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Putting victims on trial||In late June, a single bench of the Karnataka High Court granted anticipatory bail to a man accused of rape. One of the first reasons mentioned for granting bail was that the seriousness of the offence alone cannot be a ground for depriving a citizen of her/his liberty. While this is true, the Court ought to have considered that in cases of rape, the issue in granting bail is not just seriousness of the offence, but the very real possibility of intimidation of the complainant, which would prevent her from being an effective witness in the trial. Furthermore, the Court anchored its reasoning in unsubstantiated, damaging inferences drawn from the behaviour of the complainant. While the contentious remarks were subsequently expunged on an application made by the state, the continued and frequent use of these rape myths and stereotypes deserves discussion. Rape myths or stereotypes are widely held, false and prejudicial notions about rape, rapists, and the survivors of rape. The underlying assumption of such stereotypes is that ‘genuine’ victims/survivors can be recognised by the discernibly common patterns of behaviour they exhibit. To begin with, ‘genuine’ victims/survivors of rape are expected not to put themselves in situations which, it is believed, might lead to rape. These situations may include anything that is seen as a social taboo for women: whether it is drinking, partying, or indeed, as stated by the defence in the infamous Nirbhaya case, simply being out at night. The implication here is either that willingness to participate in such activities is equivalent to consent to sex, or that engaging in social taboo is tantamount to inviting rape. Shifting the burden onto the victim Another common stereotype is that ‘genuine’ victims/survivors physically resist their assailants or shout for help. For instance, in Mahmood Farooqui v. NCT of Delhi (2017), the High Court of Delhi had held that the complainant’s ‘feeble no’, even when spoken, would not be sufficient evidence of lack of consent. This case also repeated the widely held belief of Courts that where the victim/survivor had a past sexual history with the accused, her consent would be assumed, and any ‘unwillingness’ or ‘hesitation’ on her part would be disregarded. The greatest evil of rape myths or stereotypes is that they put the victim, rather than the accused and society, on trial. The focus shifts from whether the accused committed the offence to whether the victim/survivor’s behaviour met patriarchy’s exacting standards. With the narrative that the victim/survivor could have avoided the rape, or indeed, asked for it, the blame is conveniently shifted from large-scale social and systemic failures to the victim/survivor herself. The rape law for adults in India, as amended in 2013, specifically states that failure to resist cannot be taken as evidence of consent. In fact, consent, whether verbal or non-verbal, has been defined to mean ‘unequivocal voluntary agreement’. Passive submission (which may arise out of fear or deep-rooted social conditioning) or acquiescence to non-sexual acts such as drinking together, cannot and should not be equated with consent to sex. The 2013 Amendment also laid down that consent would mean willingness to participate in a ‘specific’ sexual act. Therefore, consent given for a particular sexual liaison cannot be read as ongoing consent, given in perpetuity. No universal script It is impossible and unjust to have a universal script against which the behaviour of individual victims/survivors is assessed, because each person and each circumstance is distinct. Unfortunately, however, the reliance on rape myths and stereotypes is painfully common in the Indian criminal justice system. In a country that has abysmally low rates of reporting for sexual offences, and even lower rates of conviction, the continued reliance on such stereotypes raises important questions and concerns. How can we expect survivors of rape to come forward knowing that they will be doubted every step of the way? What is the purpose of enacting purportedly progressive or ‘victim-centric’ legislation when those tasked with implementing them continue to put the victim/survivor on trial? Rape myths and stereotypes echo the deeply entrenched patriarchal biases of the players in our criminal justice system, and of society at large. When used in judgments, they become a permanent part of the legal record. As precedent, they create a chilling effect for all future victims/survivors of rape, making the criminal justice system even more unapproachable than it is. This calls for urgent and renewed efforts towards sensitisation and for the need to make sensitivity in handling sexual offences part of our judicial incentive structure. Shraddha Chaudhary is a Lecturer, Jindal Global Law School, Sonipat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/putting-victims-on-trial/article32096653.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||India should believe in the EU||In today’s fragmented world, the power of any aspiring global player depends on the number and quality of its bilateral and multilateral relationships. In which partner should India invest? The European Union (EU) is one. The EU and India have much in common. Both aim to enhance strategic autonomy and their global standing. Diversifying strategic value chains is also a common interest, as is the urgent need to address climate change. The EU and India can support each other in these endeavours. On purely economic terms, the EU is India’s first trading partner and the biggest foreign investor, with €67.7 billion worth of investments made in 2018, equal to 22% of total FDI inflows. But there is still room for improvement — especially when compared to EU investments in China which, in the same year, amounted to €175.3 billion. Enhanced business cooperation can help both the EU and India diversify their strategic value chains and reduce economic dependency — notably on China. India could succeed in attracting EU investment that might be moving out of China, but to do so, it must address the mutual trust deficit. Facilitating people’s mobility and connectivity is a good way to improve mutual understanding and create opportunities for innovation and growth. Talks on FTA The EU and India must also tackle the elephant in the room: the stagnating Free Trade Agreement (FTA) negotiations. A new study from the European Parliament assesses the potential impact of an EU-India trade agreement at between €8 billion and €8.5 billion gains from increased trade for both sides, with a more significant increase of trade gains likely to flow to India. The study also refers to additional potential gains from enhanced coordination on the provision of global public goods, such as environmental standards. On climate change, the EU is building on its ambitious target to render the continent carbon-emission neutral by 2050, through its new industrial strategy, the Green Deal. “Investing in fossil fuel-driven recovery is a wasted opportunity, and we only have one chance to make it right”, says the Executive Vice President of the European Commission, Frans Timmermans. Should both the EU and India succeed in transforming into carbon-neutral economies by 2050, we all would gain from the investment. In geopolitical terms, India finds itself facing increasingly restive, powerful rivals. The Indo-Pacific region is increasingly the focus of attention, so India should capitalise on its geopolitical leverage there. Stronger cooperation with like-minded, democratic powers can support this effort, especially towards assertive competitors like China. Even India’s strongest bilateral relations with individual EU member states do not come close to the potential of dealing effectively with the EU as a whole. New Delhi must learn how to maximise benefit from this strategic partnership. Ruptures caused by COVID-19 The ruptures caused by COVID-19 have been the occasion for the EU to prove its worth. The measures put in place at supranational level show a strong willingness to buttress the fundamental pillars on which the EU is built. The “Next generation EU proposal” submitted by the European Commission has surprised many by its bold approach. This is indeed a game-changer, not only in its financial implications — as it allows the EU to take on debt — but because it shows that the ties that bind the EU extend well beyond treaties and individual members’ self-interest. But the value of the EU reaches far beyond its economic clout. The EU champions the rules-based international order, which is being increasingly challenged by the proliferation of exceptionalism. The EU and India must join forces to promote sustainable reform of multilateral institutions, with the World Trade Organization (WTO) first in line. Hence, a strong partnership would help both EU and India become global decision-makers. Stefania Benaglia is an Associate Researcher at the Centre for European Policy Studies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-should-believe-in-the-eu/article32096651.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The day of Duda||President Andrzej Duda’s re-election in Sunday’s close run-off was a critical iteration for Poland’s ultra-nationalist government, which has been mired in a stand-off with the EU over the country’s slide into authoritarianism and erosion of the rule of law. The renewed mandate for Mr. Duda, a staunch ally of the ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party that seeks to overhaul Polish society and institutions, comes months after it was returned for a second consecutive term. Mr. Duda, a former lawyer, polled 51.2% of the vote, against 48.7% by his rival, Rafał Trzaskowski, the Mayor of Warsaw. The latter, who was backed by the centre-right Civic Coalition, considerably narrowed the 13% lead he conceded in the first round held on June 28. But that gain could not compensate for the palpable lack of initiative behind the fragmented opposition, as reflected in a multi-cornered contest in the earlier round. Mr. Trzaskowski was catapulted into the race just days before the government decided to defer the polls originally scheduled for May 10 on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. His entry revitalised the election campaign, which had lost momentum as the ratings for the candidate of the Civic Platform, the main opposition party, had dropped to single digits. The opposition pinned its hopes on Mr. Trzaskowski to win and halt the country’s authoritarian slide. But the results dashed those hopes. Meanwhile, the conduct of regular elections was itself no small a triumph considering that the government had passed legislation to restrict the franchise to a postal ballot following the pandemic. The impressive 65% voter turnout during both rounds of the election possibly speaks to the stark choices facing the citizens. One was to return to the open and inclusive model of society advocated by the Civic Coalition that underpinned Warsaw’s 2004 admission to the EU. The other was to continue down the road the Poles chose in 2015 — the politics of ultra-nationalism with an inward-looking emphasis on the country’s Roman Catholic identity espoused by the PiS. Mr. Duda’s first term began in 2015 in the backdrop of such a polarised atmosphere. He rejected the view that Poles should apologise to the Jews for the 1941 Jedwabne pogrom during the Nazi Holocaust, in a reference to the gesture made by the country’s President in 2001 during the 60th year commemoration of the incident. During his re-election bid, Mr. Duda made disparaging comments about Poland’s former communist rulers and LGBT rights to appeal to his conservative constituency. The government’s partisan coverage of PiS electioneering via the state-owned broadcasting houses also came under scrutiny during the campaign. These encroachments on democratic freedoms and the rule of law fall into a broader pattern of political interference with judicial appointments. Now, with Mr. Duda at the helm, Poland’s backward march from democracy is likely to continue unabated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-day-of-duda/article32096641.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Inflation alert||The last thing that India’s pandemic-hit economy needs is accelerating inflation. And, yet, that is precisely what the latest data point to. June’s retail inflation reading of 6.1% is worrying, particularly since it was the first month when the economy reopened from the crippling lockdowns of the preceding two months. While the disruptions caused to the supply of goods and services as a result of the nationwide shutdown can to an extent explain the acceleration in price gains, that this happened despite depressed demand is cause for disquiet. A closer look at the Consumer Price Index reveals that prices in the food and beverages group rose an average 7.3% year-on-year, with the key protein sources of pulses and products surging 16.7%, meat and fish climbing 16.2%, and milk and its derivatives rising 8.4%. Inflation in the food category would have been much faster but for vegetables and fruits moderating the gains as anxious growers likely sold the perishables at distress rates resulting in fruits showing a 0.7% deflation and vegetables posting a marginal 1.9% gain. Transport and communication, which includes petrol and diesel, also posted a 7.1% jump. The recent sustained increase in fuel prices is expected to feed through into higher costs for transporting farm produce and it is therefore hard to envisage food prices softening, at least in the near term. The rapid and timely onset of the monsoon in June, with higher rainfall, does offer some reassurance. If the rains sustain the early momentum and cover the key agrarian heartland adequately, the prospects for a bountiful harvest and a resultant moderation in food prices later in the year are bright. Still, for now, vegetable prices are reported to be surging and providers of goods and services are exploring ways to insulate their businesses financially from the weak demand. Steel companies recently announced they were raising prices in response to rising costs related to iron ore and the COVID-19 pandemic. Researcher IHS Markit’s latest India Business Outlook survey released on Monday paints a dismal picture with sentiment having turned negative in June for the first time in the 11 years since it began polling businesses in the country, and firms reporting a steep drop in confidence. Significantly, the survey shows that while employers are set to cut jobs to cope with faltering demand, companies also plan to raise selling prices over the next 12 months to protect profitability. With inflation already above the RBI’s 6% target upper bound, monetary policy makers face an unenviable choice. A further rate cut to help revive economic momentum risks fanning faster price gains and putting the economy on a path to stagflation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/inflation-alert/article32096640.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Karunanidhi on Autonomy Demand||The Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, Mr. M. Karunanidhi, said here [London] yesterday [July 14], that the States should have more powers to initiate action for economic development and this need not reduce the strength of the Centre “one bit”. A strong Centre and more power for the States for economic development were not mutually contradictory, he said and added, centralisation should not hinder economic development. Mr. Karunanidhi, who was answering questions at a meeting with Indian correspondents, said the present constitutional structure had been predicted on a uniformity of parties exercising power in the States of the Union. The expert committee appointed by the Tamil Nadu Government under the chairmanship of Mr. Rajamannar was examining the question of more functional autonomy for the States, and whether the State Government would propose an amendment of the Constitution would depend on the committee’s report. Mr. Karunanidhi mentioned industrial licensing in particular, as a field where the State should be allowed more initiative. They can now act only through the Government of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/karunanidhi-on-autonomy-demand/article32096654.ece
16 July 2020||Manchester,||Root’s England looks to pull level||England has dropped batsman Joe Denly for the second Test against the West Indies, returning captain Joe Root confirmed on Wednesday. Root missed England’s four-wicket loss in last week’s first Test following the birth of his second child. But the star batsman has slotted back into the side for the second Test at Old Trafford starting on Thursday. Low scores The 34-year-old Denly was always likely to make way after two low scores in last week’s loss at Southampton left him with a modest average of 29.53 from 15 Tests. Denly’s place was put under further threat by an innings of 76 from Kent teammate Zak Crawley at the Ageas Bowl. “It’s never an easy decision, never easy having to leave someone out,” Root said on Wednesday. “With Joe (Denly) over a period of time he’s done a brilliant job for us, he’s helped show our identity as a side and how we played moving forward. It’s a very difficult decision but we’ve gone a different way.” Getting stronger The Yorkshireman added: “You watch Zak’s progression since he’s been involved in the team, his game has continued to get stronger.” Last week’s victory left West Indies 1-0 up in the three-match series, taking place behind closed doors.  The teams (from):   England: Joe Root (Capt.), Rory Burns, Dom Sibley, Zak Crawley, Ollie Pope, Ben Stokes, Jos Buttler (wk), Dominic Bess, Jofra Archer, James Anderson, Stuart Broad, Mark Wood and Chris Woakes.   West Indies: Jason Holder (Capt.), John Campbell, Kraigg Brathwaite, Shamarh Brooks, Shai Hope, Roston Chase, Jermaine Blackwood, Shane Dowrich (wk), Rahkeem Cornwall, Alzarri Joseph, Kemar Roach, and Shannon Gabriel.   Umpires: Richard Illingworth and Michael Gough.   TV umpire: Richard Kettleborough; Reserve umpire: Alex Wharf. Match referee: Chris Broad.   Match starts at 3.30 p.m IST .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/roots-england-looks-to-pull-level/article32096781.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stars assemble for Legends of Chess||Former World champions Viswanathan Anand and now-retired Vladimir Kramnik. alongwith Boris Gelfand, Vassily Ivanchuk, Peter Leko and Peter Svidler are part of a fascinating field in the $150,000 chess24 Legends of Chess beginning on July 21. In this fine mix of greats from past and present, World champion Magnus Carlsen, Anish Giri, Ding Liren and Ian Nepomniachtchi, the top four finishers of the previous leg Chessable Masters, will complete the 10-man field fighting for the winner’s share of $45,000. Anand, making his debut in the million-dollar Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour, said, “I am looking forward to returning to the chessboard and particularly excited to participate in this inter-generational challenge.” Kramnik, who dethroned legendary Garry Kasparov in their 2000 world title-match, said, “I am glad to get a chance to play some chess online during this strange and uncertain time. “I hope my play will not be too disappointing!” Svidler is an eight-time Russian champion. Liren (China), Nepomniachtchi (Russia) and Giri (Netherlands) are the top-ranked players in their country. Round-robin league The event will witness a round-robin league till July 29, with a time-control of 15 minutes plus 10-second increment per move, per player. Each match comprises best-of-four rapid games and if needed, an Armageddon game to break the tie. After the league, the top four players will advance to the semifinals, from July 31 to August 2. The final will be played from August 3 to 5. The winner qualifies for the $300,000 Grand Final scheduled from Aug. 9 to 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stars-assemble-for-legends-of-chess/article32096773.ece
16 July 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI faces scheduling crunch||The fate of the T20 World Cup — and consequently the IPL — continues to hang in the balance. As a result, the BCCI’s apex council will have a challenging time finalising India’s revised international calendar for the remainder of the cricket season when it meets on Friday. Ever since India’s cricket activities were brought to a standstill by the COVID-19 outbreak in March, several international assignments have been cancelled or rescheduled. While the home ODI series versus South Africa was abandoned after the first ODI in March, tours to Sri Lanka in June-July (3 ODIs, 3 T20Is) and Zimbabwe in August (3 ODIs) have been postponed. A proposed tour to South Africa for three T20Is in August has also been cancelled. England series put off On Tuesday, it was confirmed that India’s first home assignment of the season — the limited-overs leg of the split series against England — will not be played as per schedule in September-October. England was supposed to face India in three ODIs and three T20Is between the Asia Cup (which has been cancelled) and India’s tour of Australia for a T20I series followed by the T20 World Cup. It is understood that the England and Wales Cricket Board and BCCI executives have been in discussions about accommodating white-ball games at the cost of one or two Tests during England’s scheduled tour for five Tests from January 2021. All these factors, besides trying to accommodate ODIs against Afghanistan and possibly reschedule South Africa’s abandoned series, are set to be discussed on Friday. Point No. 4 of the apex council agenda states: “Discussion on finalising Team India’s FTP”. It will be interesting to see how the BCCI attempts to honour its commitment to the broadcaster by ensuring the stipulated number of games (17) till next March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-faces-scheduling-crunch/article32096769.ece
16 July 2020||MUMBAI,||‘IPL has completely shifted players’ priorities’||Robin Uthappa and Suresh Raina admitted the Indian Premier League (IPL) has superseded other domestic tournaments and stressed on the need to treat older, seasoned players better. They were speaking during Sportstar’s ‘Star Talk’, a webinar series, on ‘The IPL success story and the road ahead for Indian cricket’. Former Zimbabwe captain and pace bowling coach Heath Streak and Delhi Capitals chief executive Dhiraj Malhotra were the other panellists in the discussion, which was moderated by K.C. Vijaya Kumar, Sports Editor, The Hindu . Underlining how a cricketer who has been “consistently doing really well on the domestic circuit, but isn’t playing the IPL” is overlooked at the expense of “someone who has had a mediocre Ranji Trophy but an excellent IPL”, Uthappa said it has forced players to change their priorities.  Raina hoped the BCCI gives players in his age group clarity about their future. “Look at Mike Hussey, he is the best example of having become tougher, more successful in his 30s. I am not saying Ranji is bad or good. I am saying give us a chance to prove ourselves, on fitness, performance, whatever. If we don’t, don’t even say anything to us. We’ll just switch off ourselves and go home forever.” Streak said the IPL has resulted in an aspirational shift in youngsters. “I have a son who plays representative cricket for Zimbabwe. His aspiration is to play IPL before anything. People are aspiring to play IPL even before their country,” Streak said. Malhotra said the IPL has become the most sought-after event even among the players. “You have global exposure, best experts in terms of physios and trainers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-has-completely-shifted-players-priorities/article32096788.ece
16 July 2020||Washington,||Woods cautious about return ahead of Memorial||Tiger Woods admitted on Tuesday that concern over the coronavirus delayed his return to the PGA Tour as he prepares to play his first event since February at this week's Memorial Tournament in Ohio. The former World No. 1 has not played since appearing in the Genesis Invitational in Los Angeles in February, but will tee off at Muirfield on Thursday, chasing a sixth victory in the Jack Nicklaus-hosted event. The 44-year-old 15-time Major winner said on Tuesday he had contemplated returning to the Tour earlier but had wanted to see how the first few events of the post-coronavirus shutdown fared before coming back. “I just felt it was better to stay at home and be safe,” Woods said on Tuesday. “Coming back and playing the Tour, in my case over the 20-some-odd years I've been out here, that's really hard to say, that I'm used to having so many people around me or even touch me, going from green to tee. “That's something that I looked at and said, well, I'm really not quite comfortable with that, that whole idea.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/woods-cautious-about-return-ahead-of-memorial/article32096890.ece
16 July 2020||London,||FIFA releases Qatar World Cup schedule||The 2022 World Cup will have four games every day in a 12-day group stage, and matches later in the tournament that go into extra time will extend past midnight in Qatar. Ideal for Indian fans FIFA released the schedule for the first World Cup to be played in November and December 2022 on Wednesday, with matches at 1 p.m. (3.30 p.m. IST), 4 p.m. (6.30 p.m. IST), 7 p.m. (9.30 p.m. IST) and 10 p.m. (12.30 a.m. IST). The kick-off times will suit the Indian fans as the first game in the group stage begins at 3.30 p.m. and the last at 12.30 a.m. The final will start at 8.30 p.m. IST, again a peak broadcast viewing time in India. Eight venues in close proximity to Doha will be used at the tournament. Teams and fans will not need to fly around Qatar because stadiums are within a 30-mile radius. Hosts Qatar will open the Middle East’s first World Cup in the Al Bayt Stadium at 1 p.m. on Nov. 21. The final starts at 6 p.m. (8.30 p.m. IST) on Dec. 18 at Lusail Stadium. Both semifinals will kick off at 10 p.m. (12.30 a.m. IST).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fifa-releases-world-cup-schedule/article32096774.ece
16 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Former footballer Hakim tests COVID-19 positive||Former footballer and Olympian S.S. Hakim tested COVID-19 positive last Monday is being treated at a private centre here. The 81-year-old Hakim, who represented India in the 1960 Olympics and is the son of the legendary football coach S.A. Rahim told The Hindu that he first developed viral fever a few days ago for which he got treated. Respiratory problems “Then, after getting treatment for anti-virus, I developed respiratory problems. After that, I had to move from one hospital to the other and even spent a night at the Osmania General Hospital,” Hakim said on Wednesday. “Now, I am in quarantine at a City hotel and am being attended to by my personal doctor,” said the former FIFA referee. “I am relatively much better today and the doctors also felt that I should be able to stand up in a couple of days. Just praying to God that I come out of this,” Hakim said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-footballer-hakim-tests-covid-19-positive/article32097020.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||No pressure on us: Holder||West Indies can make history at Old Trafford by notching up its first series win in England in 32 years, but skipper Jason Holder sought to keep his men grounded. West Indies had last beaten England away in 1988 under Vivian Richards’ captaincy (4-0). “There is no pressure on us; we don’t get caught up in the off-field noise,” Holder said, on Wednesday. “We are just focusing on what we need to do to win the series. Winning the first Test is just the first piece of the puzzle and we don’t want to get ahead of ourselves. Yes, we have won one Test but that doesn’t change our strategy or plans. We are yet to get a 100 though we got starts and a few half-centuries. So it's more for the batters to convert and kick on to get big scores. The bowling has been pretty solid.”  Holder confirmed that John Campbell had recovered from the foot injury he sustained in the first Test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-pressure-on-us-holder/article32096783.ece
16 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Hockey camp may be put off||The training camp for the Indian men’s and women’s hockey teams, which was scheduled to resume on July 19, is likely to be put off. The recent spike in COVID-19 cases, and the imposition of lockdown in Karnataka and other States has made it tough for the camp to resume at the SAI campus here. If the camp is held, the core probable players will face difficulty in reaching the city, as well as the mandatory quarantine imposed on inter-State travellers.  Around a month ago, Hockey India announced that the national team players could leave SAI here to return to their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hockey-camp-may-be-put-off/article32096776.ece
16 July 2020||Kochi,||Blasters rope in Ritwik Das||Kerala Blasters FC has signed midfielder Ritwik Kumar Das for the upcoming Indian Super League. The 23-year-old from West Bengal, who was part of the Mohun Bagan Academy earlier, will be joining the club from Real Kashmir FC. “I feel blessed to be signing for one of India’s biggest clubs for my ISL debut. This is an important turning point in my professional career,” said Das. “This is a great chance for Ritwik to build his footballing career. I hope he puts in his best efforts and showcases maximum passion for the team. KBFC has always focussed on identifying and developing young talent,” said KBFC'’s Sporting Director Karolis Skinkys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-rope-in-ritwik-das/article32097081.ece
16 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Humpy and Harika advance||Koneru Humpy and Dronavalli Harika entered the quarterfinals of the fourth Grand Prix leg of the FIDE Chess.com Women's Speed Chess on Wednesday. World No. 2 Humpy beat Russia's Olga Girya 7-6, while Harika defeated Tatev Abrahamyan of the United States 6-5. Earlier, World No. 1 Hou Yifan came up with the most impressive show of the day, as she demolished fellow Chinese Nina Kaiyu 8.5-1.5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/humpy-and-harika-advance/article32096770.ece
16 July 2020||LONDON,||Chelsea closer to CL spot||Chelsea, on Tuesday, opened up a four-point cushion over Manchester United and Leicester in the race for a place in the Champions League next season despite making heavy weather of beating the already relegated Norwich 1-0 at Stamford Bridge. Olivier Giroud’s header in first-half stoppage time gave Chelsea three points.  The results:   Premier League: Chelsea 1 (Giroud 45+3) bt Norwich 0.   Serie A: Atalanta 6 (Pasalic 2, 55, 58, Marten de Roon 25, Malinovskiy 28, Zapata 30) bt Brescia 2 (Torregrossa 8, Spalek 83) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chelsea-closer-to-cl-spot/article32096775.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||States have to decide on resumption, says Rijiju||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju reiterated the need to bring back on-field sports by the end of this year but admitted it would not be easy, given the spread and scope of COVID-19. On the second day of his online interaction with State sports ministers and officials, Rijiju hoped for a phased resumption of sporting activity, adding that the final decision would rest with the State governments. “The States will have to independently decide when they can start sports activities and training,” Rijiju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/states-have-to-decide-on-resumption-says-rijiju/article32096883.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Decision on Broad ‘not taken lightly’||Joe Root, who missed England’s four-wicket defeat in last week’s first Test in Southampton, will return as captain for the second Test in Manchester. Root backed out-of-form Jos Buttler. “If you look at the way he (Buttler) batted in the first innings, that was technically as well as he played for a long time. I think his game is in a really good place and it’s a matter of time before we see some of those special innings that we’ve seen in white-ball cricket,” said Root. The decision to leave out Stuart Broad in a home Test for the first time since 2012 led to speculation about the veteran’s future. But Root said it was a decision that was “well discussed”. “It (dropping Broad) was a decision that wasn’t taken lightly. That said, it’s not like anyone thinks any less of him. Stuart will be desperate to prove a lot of people wrong when he gets his opportunity again.” West Indies Tour of England will be aired live only on Sony Six channels from 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/decision-on-broad-not-taken-lightly/article32096784.ece
16 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Indigenous bugs help tackle invasive pest||Two types of ladybird beetles are among the three indigenous bugs found to be the biological weapons against a Caribbean-origin enemy of Indian fruit farmers — the woolly whitefly. According to the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), pests damage 30-35% of crops in the country annually. Among the newest of 118 exotic pests troubling farmers in India, particularly fruit growers, is the woolly whitefly first described from Jamaica in 1896 and noticed in Florida, U.S. in 1909. This whitefly ( Aleurothrixus floccosus ) is invasive and polyphagous, meaning a creature that feeds on various kinds of food. ICAR’s National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources in Bengaluru had in 2019 reported the spread of the pest from the Caribbean island through transportation of infested seedlings. Guava at risk That year, the pest was recorded from guava plantations in Kozhikode district of Kerala, Ramanagara, Mandya and Bengaluru Rural districts of Karnataka and Coimbatore district of Tamil Nadu. In what could provide relief to fruit farmers, a team of entomologists from the Centre for Plant Protection Studies at the Coimbatore-based Tamil Nadu Agricultural University zeroed in on three indigenous bugs that can control the pest by devouring them. The research by K. Elango, S. Jeyarajan Nelson, S. Sridharan and A. Aravind was published in the latest edition of Bionotes , a journal for research on life forms. “Management of exotic pests is crucial for India’s farm economy, but it is important to employ economically viable and environmentally sound measures. So we focussed on native predators for natural control of the woolly whiteflies,” Mr. Elango told The Hindu . The entomologists found some indigenous bugs feeding on this whitefly in a guava orchard near Coimbatore. The bugs were collected and studied in the laboratory. “Two of these indigenous predators were ladybird beetles of the Coccinellidae family and one was the green lacewing fly from the Neuroptera order,” Mr. Elango said. These insects having four life stages — egg, grub, pupa and adult — complete their life cycle in 30-40 days. The bugs fed on the woolly whiteflies during the active grub stage for 10-12 days, devouring more of the flies as they grew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/indigenous-bugs-help-tackle-invasive-pest/article32096768.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 07:26 IST,||Sudoku - July 16, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-16-2020/article32097559.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Palm so sweet||The recent application for a GI tag for palm jaggery produced in Udangudi, Thoothukudi district, has refocussed attention on this ancient, natural sweetener that was once exported to Malaysia, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Britain. Commonly used as a kitchen ingredient and a component of Ayurvedic medicines in southern India, in its heyday, Udangudi jaggery was traded in nearly 500 shops in the nearby market towns of Madurai and Tirunelveli. “Udangudi palm jaggery (also known locally as Udangudi panangarupatti ) is a product of its unique topography. Due to low rainfall, the red-dune sand in this area has less moisture. So the sap of the palmyra trees is more viscous. And unlike other regions, where the earthen pots to collect the sap are coated with industrial lime to prevent fermentation, here seashells dissolved in water are used as the liming agent. This gives the jaggery a salty aftertaste,” says Usha Raja Nanthini, associate professor and head, Department of Biotechnology, Mother Teresa University (MTU), Kodaikanal. The academic is a key member of the team along with R Srinivasan, secretary, Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology, and Tirunelveli District Palmyra Products Cooperative, that applied for GI certification for the traditional product earlier this month. Palm growing has been prevalent in this coastal region especially among the Nadar community, once associated with the Chola rulers in the 12th Century, when they migrated down South. The palmyra forests made toddy and non-alcoholic palm sap ( padaneer ) tapping a key profession in Thoothukudi district, and records seen by the GI tag applicants also mention the export of Udangudi palm jaggery on March 7, 1526, by a Portuguese trader through the old Kayal harbour. An era of remixes At present, Udangudi palm jaggery employs around 10,000 families in a cottage industry that is completely reliant on manual labour. “Unlike coconut trees that start bearing fruit within four years, palmyra needs at least 15 years to become useful to the farmer. The trees that are being tapped today are all above 20 years’ vintage,” says Winston Prabhu Immanuel, a 37-year-old palmyra farmer and jaggery manufacturer based in Udangudi. Getting a GI tag would be most helpful to people like Winston, who set up his website udangudikarupatti.com to supplement his family-run store after jaggery adulterated with cane sugar crystals started flooding the market in recent years. While genuine Udangudi palm jaggery costs Rs. 380 to Rs. 400 per kilogram, the remixed ‘originals’ are priced between Rs. 140 to Rs. 150 per kilogram. “Going online has helped us find new customers, but the business is still focussed on offline trading,” says Winston, who sells around 100 kilograms of jaggery per month at his store in Udangudi, mostly to herbal medicine makers. Tapping the sap This year’s lockdown has hit production mainly because of the restriction on inter-State movement of labourers. “Palm tree climbing is a traditional skill that has died out in our area; we have been using climbers from Kerala for tapping the sap during the months of March to August, which has not happened this year due to the lockdown,” says Winston. A climber can scale up to 30 to 40 of these towering palms in a day, first to place the earthen pot at the shaved meristem at the apex of the tree the evening before, and then back the next morning to collect the sugar-rich sap. “Climbers can collect up to 500-1,000 litres on a good day. The juice is boiled in a wide-mouthed iron skillet, on an open fire stove, with dried palmyra branches being used as firewood,” says Winston. The syrup is reduced to a thick liquid after nearly five hours. “One needs to monitor this step carefully, because overcooking can burn jaggery,” he adds. The hot syrup is poured into coconut shells, with a large muslin sheet acting as a strainer. Once cooled, solidified jaggery comes away easily from its mould in a semi-circular dome. Fresh jaggery is crumbly, and dissolves faster than older stock, says Winston. Fight for authenticity What can a GI tag do to improve Udangudi palm jaggery? “Udangudi jaggery is getting adulterated with other varieties and being sold as the real thing,” says Srinivasan, of the Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology. He adds, “a GI tag will help the cooperatives from 15 villages in and around Udangudi that are involved in the production of the jaggery. It will be a mark of standardisation.”  railway with a syrupy past  “After the successful campaign to get a GI tag for the malai poondu (mountain garlic) grown in Kodaikanal last year, I was eager to find a similar product that needed certification to preserve its originality,” says Usha Raja Nanthini, associate professor and head, Department of Biotechnology, Mother Teresa University (MTU), Kodaikanal. “Being a native of Kanyakumari district, I felt Udangudi palm jaggery would be appropriate.”  With the support of MTU vice-chancellor Videhi Vijayakumar and registrar A Suganthi, Usha spent three months researching the origins of this jaggery. “We realised that though it is called Udangudi palm jaggery, the manufacturing is spread out in 10 to 15 villages around here,” says Usha.  According to her research, the Pandyan-era port city of Kulasekarapattinam (approximately 5 kilometres from Udangudi) became the centre of the British sugar company East India Distilleries and Sugar Factories (EID) Parry, which used palm jaggery syrup as the chief raw material of its confectionery plant at Nellikuppam.  In the early 1900s, the company shifted operations permanently to Kulasekarapattinam to reduce the production cost. The jaggery made here was being exported to Britain, says Usha.  As trade increased, an exclusive 46 kilometres-long Kulasekarapattinam Light Railway (KLR) line was laid to collect and transport palm sap and labourers to the factory.  For villages that were off the KLR route, EID Parry built cement tanks to collect the sap. “The enterprise was flourishing until the Indian Independence movement strengthened in the South. The factory was closed down in 1946 due to anti-British sentiment,” says Usha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/palm-so-sweet/article32096634.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A celestial dra ma||The first telescope AM Aravind ever built — in Class XII — was not the first handmade one in his family. “My father had made one too, before I was even born. It still sits in my grandparents’ house in Vellore,” says the Chennai-based enthusiast over the phone, ruing that no one has taken a photo of it in all these years. “Using both the telescopes, we could see craters on the moon, Saturn’s rings, and four of the largest moons of Jupiter (Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto). We used to note down the positions of the moons every night, to observe the changes,” he continues. “[My father’s was] a very basic refractor telescope, with 100 centimetre focal length... And I think a four-inch diameter objective [lens]. He used PVC pipes for the body of the telescope. Initially, we had a makeshift stand, using an old chair that was lying around in the house. Later, he got a very professional-level stand made, based on specifications given by him.” These days, the astronomically inclined family — “My mom always used to say that the reason for my interest in astronomy is because she used to read astro books and stargaze while she was pregnant” — has its eyes set on the comet Neowise. So do others around the country, for the comet is said to be the brightest one visible from the Northern Hemisphere in this quarter-century. It has been visible since July 14, and will be for another 18 days. Even if Neowise eludes you, there is a lot to look out for from your rooftop. Says Gurugram-based astrophotographer Ajay Talwar, “Ever since the lockddown began, the skies above Gurgaon have been so clear. I captured a photograph of Venus in Taurus [the planet is supposed to be passing through Taurus constellation over July and August], and Jupiter and Saturn close to each other.” Talwar is an Indian member of TWAN (The World At Night), an international initiative to present the world through nightscapes, and capture celestial attractions from global landmarks. There are also city-based amateur astronomy clubs you can join, which have been active through the lockdown and where longtime enthusiasts guide new minds. And then, there are Facebook groups like Astronomy and Science (over four lakh members), Astrophotography (74,000 members) and the Maharashtra-based Amateur Astronomy Club (over 4,000 members) to turn to as well. So what do you need to stargaze from home? Not much, if seasoned amateurs and experts are to be believed. Says Neeraj Ladia, business head of Space Chennai, an organisation that works in astronomy education, “The first thing you need, when you look up at the sky, is to know your directions. For instance, Neowise will be visible to the Northwest. You can use a compass on your phone to find it, or look at the North Star.” Besides that, he says, there are a number of stargazing apps which use GPS to figure out where you are standing, and indicate what stars and constellations are before you. “The next step after this, is real stargazing and appreciation. I suggest you go for a binocular before a telescope, because it gives you the freedom of spanning. You can spot galaxies and nebulae with a normal, 60 millimetre hand-held binocular.” If you want to go further still — “to see the craters of the moon, Jupiter’s bands, or Saturn’s rings, you will need a telescope with an aperture of at least five inches, and focal length of around 700 millimetre.” It will cost you around Rs. 20,000, says Neeraj, and, “It won’t appear the way you see them in photos, of course, you have to adapt your gaze and notice, analyse.” “There are three planets to be seen right now,” Neeraj adds, “If you go up to your terrace at 9 pm or 10 pm, you will see Jupiter and Saturn. Around midnight, you will start seeing Mars. Venus will be available in the morning sky, around 4.30 am. These four are the only naked-eye planets.” Capture a star Photographing these wonders is different from seeing them. “You don’t need a telescope for this, you can do it with a decent SLR or DSLR camera and lens,” says Ajay. “Focal length is the least important factor — you can use a 35, 50 or even 85 millimetre lens; I used an 8 millimetre fish eye lens to capture the entire night sky. What is most important, is composition.” In fact, Ajay will be teaching all of this on Friday, at an online workshop organised by Mysore Astronomical Society. Adds Neeraj, “There are additional camera accessories, like connectors, that you can use to attach your DSLR to your telescope. The idea is to put the camera in place of the telescope’s eyepiece, so that the camera’s sensor captures the image. With T-rings and T-adaptors, your telescope basically acts as the lens for your camera. You will have to check brand compatibilities.” It isn’t all that simple, he cautions, but with some practice, and a lot of patience, you will be set to capture the sky.  It’s raining meteors Here are the meteor showers to keep an eye out for this year July 28: Aquarids shower Aug 11: Perseids shower Oct 7: Draconoids shower Oct 21: Orionids shower Nov 17: Leonids shower Dec 13: Geminids shower   Resource check Jayanth Murthi, senior professor at the Indian Institute of Astrophysics, says there are star charts, star trail-image creators “and other tools written in python for complicated calculations” available online for free, for beginners If you want to just look up at the sky and recognise constellations, websites of planetariums can be helpful. Not just Indian ones, but also ones worldwide: mainly the tourist-friendly Hayden Planetarium in New York, an 87-feet-diameter sphere that appears to float inside a glass cube. American Association of Variable Star Observers, or AAVSO, is a group of astronomers that follow variable stars (stars with varying brightness). They have centuries-long trails of changes in brightness, and it is available on their website Planet-finding machines like Keplar have websites where you can source data and even help them find more planets (check planethunters.org)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-celestial-dra-ma/article32096625.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Hands that weave the cradle||The weavers of 1010 Colony in Erode took the gloom of the pandemic with their usual stoic silence for the first few weeks. But as orders dried up, they started to look for other means of income. This meant death for handloom in the region: already, of the 1010 weaver families in the colony, only a handful continue to weave. C Sivagurunathan, who gave up a well-paying IT job in Chennai to start Nurpu, an initiative through which he makes work available for weavers in the colony, decided to do something about the situation. “People were not buying clothes as much, and I, too, faced a stagnant situation sales-wise. For a start, we thought of weaving cradle cloths and wraps for newborns,” says 33-year-old Sivagurunathan, speaking over phone from Erode. He designed the cloth as a four-metre-long, breathable yet sturdy fabric of unbleached cotton that can be readily converted into cradle. He paired it with a thicker swaddle cloth, that comes with a tiny hoodie, and a handcrafted teak wood separator that, traditionally, was positioned in between the cradle to let air in. Sivagurunathan first wanted his products to reach people who needed them the most. “Babies born in Government hospitals, for instance, are usually wrapped in thick sleeping bags with synthetic stuffing when they are taken home,” he points out. These are easily available and are inexpensive as well. “But they are not suitable for delicate skin, especially in the summer months,” he says. The first cloth that a baby is wrapped in, according to Sivagurunathan, is more than just a utility item. “It is the first fabric the baby’s skin touches, and I know of families that keep this piece of fabric as memorabilia for years. A friend, for instance, told me that his family still has the cloth his father was wrapped in as a baby.” To kickstart the initiative, Sivagurunathan took the crowdfunding route. “The idea is to give away 100 sets for free, to babies born in Government hospitals. We have got enough funding for 40 so far, and our weavers are on the job, working six to seven hours a day,” he says, adding that around six families in the colony are working with him at present. The sudden spurt of activity has the weavers energised. “All they want is some work on their hands to keep them going,” Sivagurunathan feels. The cradle cloth kits come in thick cardboard boxes, hand-made by visually-impaired artisans who are also from Erode. “The wooden separators too are locally-produced,” explains Sivagurunathan. Meanwhile, orders from friends who want to gift the sets have started coming in. So things are looking up for the weavers of 1010 Colony, who are working to the rhythmic clackety-clack of the hand-loom to produce around five metres of the precious cloth a day, as you read this. Says Sivagurunathan, “We hope that through the new-born, the message of our home-grown handloom reaches parents too.”  A box with a four metre-long cradle cloth, a one metre-long swaddle cloth, and a teak wood separator is priced at Rs. 1,100. For details, visit http://www.nurpu.in/.        liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hands-that-weave-the-cradle/article32096639.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Scripting will change to suit controlled environment’||Gautham Menon has been among the busier filmmakers this lockdown, having directed a short film ( Karthik Dial Seytha Enn )  and putting out a few music videos (‘Oru Chance Kudu’, ‘Karuvizhiye’ and ‘En Kaadhal’) on his YouTube channel. This week, he is set for a new beginning. He will debut as a narrator in Discovery Plus’ documentary, COVID 19: India's War Against the Virus . In a virtual chat with MetroPlus , the director reveals what he has been upto these days and how the pandemic will affect the working pattern of the film industry. Excerpts: How have you managed to put out content, despite the challenges of the pandemic? There have been lots who have either suffered or have been displaced. But despite all those happenings, most of us have found that space at home with our loved ones, and got back to doing things that we should have. The uncertainty about the current situation is what is bothering. Whatever I did was not because I thought ‘let me do something’ but because I woke up feeling passionate about something. A lot of writing has changed keeping in mind the situation. As they say, when the going gets tough, the tough gets going. What were your key learnings from the documentary?  I sort of weaned myself away from TV news, because there were so many things floating around. To learn is why I said ‘yes’ to narrating this documentary which was filmed across the country and brought forth multiple perspectives. It talks about the origin of the virus from Wuhan; how Kerala managed to contain the spread, and how health experts handled it. It was lovely to sit back and watch, and step in to do the Tamil narration for an English script. You are known for your (surprise) voice-overs in feature films. How different was this??  We wanted it as straight-forward and personal as possible. But it shouldn’t sound too colloquial as well. So, it was a nice balance we tried to strike. As a feature filmmaker, how do you view documentaries?  I’ve been fascinated by documentary filmmakers than the films themselves. I love that they have stuck to that and kept away from the lure of showbiz. Since we filmed Queen six months ago as a web-series, and now, having put out shorts and music videos to audiences, I’ve been open to the idea of coming away from being invested in a feature film, and exploring such content. What changes do you foresee on the filmmaking front?  Nobody wants to explore or experiment much, because they want to be safe... I feel a lot of scripting will change to suit controlled environments. Producers are actually calling and saying, ‘Quick ah edha pannalama? Is there something we can finish in a controlled space in 30 days?’ With social distancing norms and masks being the new normal, how do you plan to shoot?  I’m open to change and adjustments. Also, I’m not a big-budget filmmaker as such. We’re already in a writers’ rooms and creating content for OTT platforms, and there is work happening on existing feature films. I’m trying to not let the writing be affected too much; I’ve a foreign schedule planned soon, and I’m hoping things will get back to normal. Do you factor in the pandemic and lockdown while you are creating content?  When you are setting up a new scene, you’re always thinking, ‘Will the audience wonder if this was before or during COVID-19?’ That bothers me, honestly. I wrote a half-hour short recently, and I wasn’t sure if I should set it in the middle of masks and less crowds. I ended up not using masks nor mentioning timelines. Finally, what is the status of your upcoming projects?  We’re waiting to get back to filming. For Joshua Imai Pol Kaakha , I have 10 days left, mostly involving action and chase sequences. Then, there is Dhruva Natchathiram which we’re editing currently. We have seven days of shoot without Vikram sir, and it will hopefully be one of the event films that will bring audiences back to theatres this year. COVID-19: India’s War Against the Virus will premiere on Discovery Plus today, followed by telecast on Discovery Channel on July 20 (8pm)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/scripting-will-change-to-suit-controlled-environment/article32096603.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||All buttered up||Let’s face it. It is going to be a while before you manage to score an invite for an elaborate wedding lunch. Fortunately, despite the pandemic, popular citycooks have been able to cater to enthusiastic diners via delivery apps. In Chennai, of course,biryaniis an emotion. There is rarely a consensus on what the city’s “best” version is. Basmati or seeraga samba ? Ambur or Awadhi? Mutton, chicken, prawn or fish? At least we agree on tea time: bun-butter-jam FTW.   The man who refereed the city’s biggestbiryaniwars has jumped into the fray. M Mohamed Ali, who runs the Food Consulate in Velachery, has hosted a face off between the city’s most popularbiryanibrands for the past five years. This year, he launched Sahibs. “We make Chennai wedding style dhum biryani,” says Mohamed, explaining that they deliver it in packs of 2.5 kilograms, which can serve up to five people. Sahibs currently makes three types of biryani — chicken (Rs. 2,000), mutton (Rs. 2,500) and prawn (Rs. 3,000). The pack also includes raita, brinjalthokkuand bread halwa.Using long grain basmati rice, this version of the iconic dish is inspired by Mohamed’s hometown, Patemanagaram, which is about 30 kilometres away from Thoothukudi. There is a focus on sourcing quality spices. Mohamed uses three kinds of chillies: “one for colour, one for heat and one for body. Everything is stone ground in a traditional mill,” he states. Of course, launching during a pandemic means that there is a special focus on hygiene. “Our kitchen looks like a surgery theatre, with all the cooks in PPE.” The packaging may look “rather industrial” but he states that the food is delivered hot, safe and sealed.  Sahibs delivers lunch on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Orders need to be given by 5 pm, a day ahead. Call +91 89992 66662.    Pumpkin Tales focusses on tomato tales this month. Chindi Varadarajulu has been using the lockdown to explore indigenous produce, and is thrilled about recently discovering heirloom Kasinapatnam tomatoes, which she is using in salads. These bright, knobbly tomatoes come from seeds preserved by tribes in Andhra Pradesh’s Arauku valley, she says, adding that she plans to visit them as soon as it is safe to hop on planes again. Inspired by seed saver and agriculturist Prabhakar Rao, of Bengaluru-based Hariyalee farm, Chindi is using this downtime to learn about local, underused vegetables so she can incorporate them in her menus. “To me it is a history, an heirloom we have saved,” she says. Also, if you’re sick of cooking dinner, Pumpkin Tales just released a range of preservative-free food to stock your freezer. There are chicken and vegetable pot pies, made with puff pastry and as well as lasagne and wheat enchiladas. While cooking can be fun, sometimes it’s a relief to do nothing more than defrost and bake for a hot meal.   For decades Gopaul dairy (9952954965) has had a cult following, despite its tiny space in Parry’s Corner, because of the buns generously filled with Uthukuli butter. The butter, which arrived on the night train, now travels by lorry so that there is no glitch in the mechanics set in place in 1953. Gopaul is currently run by 66-year-old V Krishnaraj, whose grandfather started the business, and his 29-year-old son, Pramoth. Lockdown hit them hard — Pramoth says they used to serve 300 to 400 buns everyday. Now they make about 150, most of which are sold via delivery apps. The buns, which have always been sourced from the same cottage industry in Mylapore, are tasty, but it is the white butter that is the star. Whipped till fluffy, it is generously slathered between the bread along with a quick smear of regular Kissan jam. They’re delicious, and deceptively light. Eat these fresh, as soon as they arrive. Each bun, priced at Rs. 25, is endearingly wrapped in butter paper and then newspaper, all tied together with twine. One of the few surprises of 2020 that is all joy. This weekly column tracks the city’s shifting culinary landscape. Heard of a new food venture? Tell me: shonali.m@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/all-buttered-up/article32096614.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Heart of the matter||A few days before the nation-wide lockdown, Hriday Gattani got on a flight from Chennai to Mumbai. He had no particular purpose of visit then. “I don’t know if it was some intuition,” he says, “I just came back home, and the lockdown began.” Since then, it has been good going for the musician, who has used the time to re-invent himself. “I did a lot of working out and yoga. I also had a lot of time playing and practising my instruments and working on my production skills.” The last few days, especially, has seen a flurry of activity in Hriday’s life. He has been receiving appreciation for the two tracks he has sung in the AR Rahman-composed Dil Bechara , which released last week. “For me, this journey started two years ago. I remember wanting to assist Rahman sir on a project, and he gave me the brief for a couple of songs. At that point, I didn’t even know what the project was. But in the first two weeks that followed, he had cracked all the melodies,” recalls Hriday, “He was excited about this from day one and wanted it to be special.” A fitting farewell From there on, it was giving time to the tunes to “let it become bigger than what it is”. Hriday himself has a double association with the film: as a music supervisor and as the voice behind two songs (‘Mein Tumhara’ and ‘Maskhari’). “The first was among the initial set of tunes, but ‘Maskhari’ came almost after the entire film was done. I did the scratch version for the song, and am glad that it was used in the final list.” The bigger challenge, for Hriday, was his role as the music supervisor, overseeing the title track, composed and sung by Rahman. “As a supervisor, you have to be objective and not be star-stuck. Rahman sir had recorded the title himself, sitting in a room all by himself. But when he came out and played it to us, it sounded fabulous,” says Hriday. Hriday is almost 30, but still considers himself part of the ‘cassette and CD generation’. “Back then, when we had radio and tapes, music was a ‘primary activity’,” says the musician, who has done a course on vocal techniques in Chennai’s KM Music Conservatory. “Now, that has changed because we’re working and listening to music. This makes the song hooks and catchy lyrics very important.” That seems to have been cracked with the title track of Dil Bechara, whose music video has clocked more than 40 million views on YouTube. Most of the project was filled with love and happiness, until the recent news of the death of lead actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “Though I’ve never met him, I felt like I was a part of his life, having watched rushes of the film multiple times while working on the music. It’s very unfortunate, but all we can do now is to give our best to the film, to give him a fitting send-off.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/heart-of-the-matter/article32096605.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Playing his cards right||“Do you play poker?” asks Arjun Rampal. “No? Well, then we have to convert you,” he laughs over a phone call from Mumbai. Rampal is partner and brand ambassador for PokerHigh.com, a licensed poker site that is now aiming to raise funds for smaller, deserving charities in India. “There was a big surge in the number of people logging in to play [poker] during lockdown. We thought why not use this skilled game to give back to smaller NGOs that have not been getting recognition,” he explains. There are different teams representing the charities and people can decide which one they wish to play for. The initiative, which Rampal says has been “successful”, started two months ago when the group began sending food parcels to around two lakh people. “This is our third month and we get players from all over India. The winners get to keep what they win. Whatever stake the ‘bank’ makes goes to the NGOs,” he says. Other than Chennai-based Pudhiya Udhayam, there are also NGOs that serve animals such as CUPA in Bengaluru and Humanity for Animals in Kochi. “Human life is important but so are the lives of animals,” says Rampal, adding that during phase one they managed to generate Rs. 2.11 lakh, of which CUPA received a little over Rs. 72,000 (it took care of the feeding of over 150 dogs at the centre for a month) and Pudhiya Udhayam received Rs. 1.38 lakh, which took care of dry rations for over 500 families in Chennai. The actor plays too, as a part of PokerHigh. “My game is decent. But there is room for improvement,” he laughs. Rampal has used time during lockdown to play a lot more poker. “This time has been amazing as it allows you to introspect, pause and have a lot more clarity. Lot of things in life seem unnecessary and you can put them out of your list,” he says. The pandemic, Rampal believes, is a huge wake up call. “We have to be far more compassionate and be open to change. Panicking is not going to help. It is important to adapt and adjust. We need to stick with the new norms, maintain social distance, wear a mask. A lot of people are just careless in the way they move around. If the pandemic has not shaken them up, then you should panic,” he says. Lockdown has also affected those in the film industry and although film shoots are yet to resume, Rampal says that it has altogether been a great year for him. “I was working on three films and two web series.” This includes The Big Battle of Bhima Koregaon , Aparna Sen’s The Rapist, an unnamed action film he was shooting for in London, Abbas Mustan’s Penthouse. He was also set to start shooting for the second season of The Final Call. “I was working 350 days of the year but God had other plans. He said go home and spend time with the family, and that’s what I am doing with (partner) Gabriella [Demetriades], my daughters Mahikaa, Myra and my son Arik,” he adds.  “I was doing three films and two web series just before the lockdown came into effect.” Arjun Rampal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/playing-his-cards-right/article32096608.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Mark my words||Post lockdown, when you enter Silent Signs restaurant in Velachery, you will be ordering your food using Indian Sign Language. This newly-opened city restaurant, currently under the brand Salem RR Biryani by Tamil Selvan, is being run entirely by a team of people with varying degrees of hearing impairment. The project was kick-started by Voice for the Voiceless Indian People Foundation, a three-month-old organisation. “At present, we have three women and four men working at the restaurant. I met them through some common friends and found out that they were wonderful cooks,” says M Karpagam, an advocate specialising in disability rights. The employees at this restaurant are local sportspersons who have fallen on hard times, reveals Karpagam. “There are eight others in different districts of Tamil Nadu who might join once the lockdown lifts.” The restaurant will serve South Indian dishes such as dosa, idli, poori, uthappam, paniyaram, pongal and so on, and is currently delivering. Once it opens to diners, after the lockdown, the menu will be specially designed. “Next to the names of the food items, it will have the signs you can use to order them,” she explains. Though their signboard says RR Salem right now, with time they hope to brand themselves as Silent Signs. Admitting that though with the pandemic scare, it will not be easy to run business she adds, “We are relying on funds by VVIPF and Tamil Selvan sir currently. It took us a month to convince him, he agreed after trying the food they made and will help the restaurant sustain itself for the first six months.”  The restaurant is on Velachery Main Road, opposite Phoenix MarketCity. Call 9176045578 for an interpreter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mark-my-words/article32096620.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The horses of Pulicat||They stand facing the sea, silently watching the waves. They will remain there — their terracotta feet digging into the sand, under rain and sun, some crumbling with age. Terracotta horses are a permanent fixture in the hamlets that dot Pulicat, a seaside town in Thiruvallur district, 60 kilometres from Chennai. If you walk past the hamlets, you will see terracotta herds standing next to one another, a stone’s throw away from the sea. Xavier Benedict, the founder- trustee of AARDE (Art & Architecture Research, Development and Education) Foundation, whose office is in Pulicat, recently shared images of these horses on Facebook, generating a renewed wave of interest in the tradition. “The practice is prevalent in one particular fishing community in the region,” explains Xavier, adding that he shared the photos to “reinstate their identity during these tough times.” The pandemic has been hard on all of us, and more so on fishermen who are not able to go to sea. “There are around 35 fishing hamlets in the region and the images I posted are from Goonankuppam,” he adds. The ritual of placing terracotta horses is connected to deaths in the family. “I’ve seen families get a horse or a human statue made and placed by the seaside after the death of a loved one. They believe these departed souls will protect villages from natural disasters,” he says. Over the years, the practice turned into an annual one, in which families got together to install the statues during Pulicat’s Pongal festival. “They positioned the statues in the North or South of the village, and believed that this protected the village, and helped them prosper by ensuring a good catch,” explains Xavier. Made by local potters, the horses feature a blend of sand from the village and clay. Now, the practice is rarer. But the herds still stand, facing the waves. As Pulicat demonstrates, when times are tough, it does us good to call upon all our resources. And maybe, the sturdy horses by the seashore are listening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-horses-of-pulicat/article32096629.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad zoo chimpanzee Suzi will have a special lockdown birthday||It was Suzi’s birthday yesterday. The popular female chimpanzee at Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad, who turned 34-years-old, celebrated with zoo officials, staff and her caretakers Prasad and Raju. Usually, the team orders her favourite chocolate cake for the occasion. However, this year the zoo curator, N Kshitija says, “Due to the pandemic we did not take chances and order any food from outside. Thankfully there is another favourite dish of hers which was prepared by the staff — mixed fruit salad. She also loves mosambi (sweet lime) juice and got extra helpings of that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hyderabad-zoo-chimpanzee-suzi-will-have-a-special-lockdown-birthday/article32096627.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Palm so sweet||The recent application for a GI tag for palm jaggery produced in Udangudi, Thoothukudi district, has refocussed attention on this ancient, natural sweetener that was once exported to Malaysia, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Britain. Commonly used as a kitchen ingredient and a component of Ayurvedic medicines in southern India, in its heyday, Udangudi jaggery was traded in nearly 500 shops in the nearby market towns of Madurai and Tirunelveli. “Udangudi palm jaggery (also known locally as Udangudi panangarupatti ) is a product of its unique topography. Due to low rainfall, the red-dune sand in this area has less moisture. So the sap of the palmyra trees is more viscous. And unlike other regions, where the earthen pots to collect the sap are coated with industrial lime to prevent fermentation, here seashells dissolved in water are used as the liming agent. This gives the jaggery a salty aftertaste,” says Usha Raja Nanthini, associate professor and head, Department of Biotechnology, Mother Teresa University (MTU), Kodaikanal. The academic is a key member of the team along with R Srinivasan, secretary, Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology, and Tirunelveli District Palmyra Products Cooperative, that applied for GI certification for the traditional product earlier this month. Palm growing has been prevalent in this coastal region especially among the Nadar community, once associated with the Chola rulers in the 12th Century, when they migrated down South. The palmyra forests made toddy and non-alcoholic palm sap ( padaneer ) tapping a key profession in Thoothukudi district, and records seen by the GI tag applicants also mention the export of Udangudi palm jaggery on March 7, 1526, by a Portuguese trader through the old Kayal harbour. An era of remixes At present, Udangudi palm jaggery employs around 10,000 families in a cottage industry that is completely reliant on manual labour. “Unlike coconut trees that start bearing fruit within four years, palmyra needs at least 15 years to become useful to the farmer. The trees that are being tapped today are all above 20 years’ vintage,” says Winston Prabhu Immanuel, a 37-year-old palmyra farmer and jaggery manufacturer based in Udangudi. Getting a GI tag would be most helpful to people like Winston, who set up his website udangudikarupatti.com to supplement his family-run store after jaggery adulterated with cane sugar crystals started flooding the market in recent years. While genuine Udangudi palm jaggery costs Rs. 380 to Rs. 400 per kilogram, the remixed ‘originals’ are priced between Rs. 140 to Rs. 150 per kilogram. “Going online has helped us find new customers, but the business is still focussed on offline trading,” says Winston, who sells around 100 kilograms of jaggery per month at his store in Udangudi, mostly to herbal medicine makers. Tapping the sap This year’s lockdown has hit production mainly because of the restriction on inter-State movement of labourers. “Palm tree climbing is a traditional skill that has died out in our area; we have been using climbers from Kerala for tapping the sap during the months of March to August, which has not happened this year due to the lockdown,” says Winston. A climber can scale up to 30 to 40 of these towering palms in a day, first to place the earthen pot at the shaved meristem at the apex of the tree the evening before, and then back the next morning to collect the sugar-rich sap. “Climbers can collect up to 500-1,000 litres on a good day. The juice is boiled in a wide-mouthed iron skillet, on an open fire stove, with dried palmyra branches being used as firewood,” says Winston. The syrup is reduced to a thick liquid after nearly five hours. “One needs to monitor this step carefully, because overcooking can burn jaggery,” he adds. The hot syrup is poured into coconut shells, with a large muslin sheet acting as a strainer. Once cooled, solidified jaggery comes away easily from its mould in a semi-circular dome. Fresh jaggery is crumbly, and dissolves faster than older stock, says Winston. Fight for authenticity What can a GI tag do to improve Udangudi palm jaggery? “Udangudi jaggery is getting adulterated with other varieties and being sold as the real thing,” says Srinivasan, of the Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology. He adds, “a GI tag will help the cooperatives from 15 villages in and around Udangudi that are involved in the production of the jaggery. It will be a mark of standardisation.”  railway with a syrupy past  “After the successful campaign to get a GI tag for the malai poondu (mountain garlic) grown in Kodaikanal last year, I was eager to find a similar product that needed certification to preserve its originality,” says Usha Raja Nanthini, associate professor and head, Department of Biotechnology, Mother Teresa University (MTU), Kodaikanal. “Being a native of Kanyakumari district, I felt Udangudi palm jaggery would be appropriate.”  With the support of MTU vice-chancellor Videhi Vijayakumar and registrar A Suganthi, Usha spent three months researching the origins of this jaggery. “We realised that though it is called Udangudi palm jaggery, the manufacturing is spread out in 10 to 15 villages around here,” says Usha.  According to her research, the Pandyan-era port city of Kulasekarapattinam (approximately 5 kilometres from Udangudi) became the centre of the British sugar company East India Distilleries and Sugar Factories (EID) Parry, which used palm jaggery syrup as the chief raw material of its confectionery plant at Nellikuppam.  In the early 1900s, the company shifted operations permanently to Kulasekarapattinam to reduce the production cost. The jaggery made here was being exported to Britain, says Usha.  As trade increased, an exclusive 46 kilometres-long Kulasekarapattinam Light Railway (KLR) line was laid to collect and transport palm sap and labourers to the factory.  For villages that were off the KLR route, EID Parry built cement tanks to collect the sap. “The enterprise was flourishing until the Indian Independence movement strengthened in the South. The factory was closed down in 1946 due to anti-British sentiment,” says Usha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/palm-so-sweet/article32096963.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Not your average cuckoo||The Crow Pheasant, now more commonly called the Greater Coucal, does not belong to the crow family, Corvidae , but is a large species (48 cm) belonging to the Cuckoo family, Cuculidae . It does have a large crow-like appearance though, unlike a cuckoo, and the bird’s non-parasitic behaviour is contrary to a majority of cuckoos, who display brood parasitism, a behaviour involving laying eggs in other bird (host parents) nests. The Greater Coucal ( Centropus sinensis ), called Bhardwaj in Hindu, is a widespread resident bird in the Indian Subcontinent and the Southeast. Its plumage is black, with a purple gloss and deep rufous coloured wings. The overall look is rigid, with the feathers on the forehead bristly and strong, and the feathers of the neck and breast have strong shiny shafts. It has a long black tail, hence was often mistaken for a pheasant, as pheasants generally have long tails, though it never belonged to the pheasant-family. One of the most captivating features of this bird is its bright blood-red eyes. On nature trails, we usually find the bird, but it is not easy to come by. Considering its shy nature, we locate it by its typical sonorous whoop, whoop, whoop call, while basking singly or sometimes in pairs with wings spread out, on tree-tops. You may catch them by the typical inflating of the throat, bending of the head and the elevation in their tail while they call. The Greater Coucal is sluggish, and a low and weak flyer, possibly why it was once hunted quite conveniently before and during the British era. Clambering through dense foliage swiftly, it’ll enter one end and hop from branch to branch, make its way out the other. You’ll see it walking inconspicuously and silently with its tail elevated, on the ground, between hedge-rows and trees, it forages on the ground for unfortunate beings like large insects, centipedes, scorpions, lizards, and small snakes, slugs, caterpillars. It’ll occasionally pilfer eggs from nests of other birds. I once saw a Greater Coucal feeding on a juvenile Checkered Keelback snake at the Basai Wetlands in Gurugram. Before their breeding season between June and September, the courtship display of these monogamous birds involves the male trying to woo a female by chasing after her on the ground and bringing her gifts of food. If she accepts, with a droop of wings, they bond and go into the nesting process. According to research and observations made by British naturalists, they make nests of twigs, grasses and leaves, domed at the top, forming a cup. These nests are usually made in the most dense and inaccessible thickets to avoid predation. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/not-your-average-cuckoo/article32096967.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Hands that weave the cradle||The weavers of 1010 Colony in Erode took the gloom of the pandemic with their usual stoic silence for the first few weeks. But as orders dried up, they started to look for other means of income. This meant death for handloom in the region: already, of the 1010 weaver families in the colony, only a handful continue to weave. C Sivagurunathan, who gave up a well-paying IT job in Chennai to start Nurpu, an initiative through which he makes work available for weavers in the colony, decided to do something about the situation. “People were not buying clothes as much, and I, too, faced a stagnant situation sales-wise. For a start, we thought of weaving cradle cloths and wraps for newborns,” says 33-year-old Sivagurunathan, speaking over phone from Erode. He designed the cloth as a four-metre-long, breathable yet sturdy fabric of unbleached cotton that can be readily converted into cradle. He paired it with a thicker swaddle cloth, that comes with a tiny hoodie, and a handcrafted teak wood separator that, traditionally, was positioned in between the cradle to let air in. Sivagurunathan first wanted his products to reach people who needed them the most. “Babies born in Government hospitals, for instance, are usually wrapped in thick sleeping bags with synthetic stuffing when they are taken home,” he points out. These are easily available and are inexpensive as well. “But they are not suitable for delicate skin, especially in the summer months,” he says. The first cloth that a baby is wrapped in, according to Sivagurunathan, is more than just a utility item. “It is the first fabric the baby’s skin touches, and I know of families that keep this piece of fabric as memorabilia for years. A friend, for instance, told me that his family still has the cloth his father was wrapped in as a baby.” To kickstart the initiative, Sivagurunathan took the crowdfunding route. “The idea is to give away 100 sets for free, to babies born in Government hospitals. We have got enough funding for 40 so far, and our weavers are on the job, working six to seven hours a day,” he says, adding that around six families in the colony are working with him at present. The sudden spurt of activity has the weavers energised. “All they want is some work on their hands to keep them going,” Sivagurunathan feels. The cradle cloth kits come in thick cardboard boxes, hand-made by visually-impaired artisans who are also from Erode. “The wooden separators too are locally-produced,” explains Sivagurunathan. Meanwhile, orders from friends who want to gift the sets have started coming in. So things are looking up for the weavers of 1010 Colony, who are working to the rhythmic clackety-clack of the hand-loom to produce around five metres of the precious cloth a day, as you read this. Says Sivagurunathan, “We hope that through the new-born, the message of our home-grown handloom reaches parents too.”  A box with a four metre-long cradle cloth, a one metre-long swaddle cloth, and a teak wood separator is priced at Rs. 1,100. For details, visit http://www.nurpu.in/.        liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hands-that-weave-the-cradle/article32096964.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||A new sheen to the SWORD||One of the most requested settings for the historical series of games, Assassins Creed, is in Japan. Yet, it was Sucker Punch who delivered on that request, not Ubisoft. Ghost of Tsushima is the spiritual embodiment of several games, from The Witcher to Sekiro, while forging its own somewhat untrodden path. The game releases on July 17, globally, so keep your sword — or controller — ready.  History and homage  By the 13th Century, the Mongol Empire had taken over much of Asia, when they began their conquest of Japan with the island of Tsushima. Ghost of Tsushima is a fictional story set in those troubling times, centred around Jin, a lone surviving samurai holding out against the invaders. After a bitter defeat Jin, realises his honour as a traditional samurai does not work against an enemy that fights without those same rules. Ghost of Tsushima is an homage to classic samurai movies, especially those of legendary director Akira Kurosawa (Seven Samurai , Rashomon , Throne of Blood ) , from the camera movements, to the lamp-lit noir lighting, to the exaggerated, pantomimic acting is a treat for a fan of such movies. There is even a Kurosawa Mode, which converts the game into this black and white classic film. Foregoing a queue of linear quests like most open world games do today, Tsushima’s narrative feels curated. The world recognises you as a noble and samurai, and does not assign you to merely handle people’s fetch-quests. People bow with respect as you pass or meet them. You feel like a warrior and a freedom fighter, and every bit of writing adds up. The world is reacting to you and never breaking pace, which adds a lot more to an already engaging premise. An unpredictable system The game sets itself apart in the action, and the biggest mistake is to take an Assassins Creed approach to gameplay, which is just a quick path to frustration. Put yourself in the mind of a patient samurai; anticipate enemy attacks, parry and slice, ending the fight quick. However, the lack of a ‘lock-on’ button is annoying, making evasions a fight to try and get the camera facing the right way — yet, when mastered, the fighting system just flows. By learning enemy tactics, you unlock new fighting styles that take classic samurai tactics and blend it with an unpredictable system. As the game progresses, your reputation as a ghost — a bogeyman, to those who fear you — grows too. The action and stealth do feel a bit stiff sometimes, with uneven enemy AI that seems to lose sight of you all too easily, and then hunts you down all too effectively — something which needs to be fixed. The world of Tsushima is a treat to lose yourself in, with everything set to maximum beauty. The Photo Mode is a button press away and you can capture motion stills of the world’s lush greenery, adding to its Instagram-worthiness. When you’re not mobbed by Mongols, the game is an ASMR feast, with its glorious particle effects comprising fireflies, petals, and autumn leaves. Once again, Sony has proved it is capable of making excellent first-party games for the PlayStation 4, and Ghost of Tsushima does push the PS4 Pro to its limit with quick loading times and excellent graphics. The writer is a tech and gaming enthusiast who hopes to one day finish his sci-fi novel  Ghost of Tsushima  Developer:Sucker Punch Productions  Publisher:Sony Interactive Entertainment  Price:Rs. 3,999 on PlayStation 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-new-sheen-to-the-sword/article32097142.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||The horses of Pulicat||They stand facing the sea, silently watching the waves. They will remain there — their terracotta feet digging into the sand, under rain and sun, some crumbling with age. Terracotta horses are a permanent fixture in the hamlets that dot Pulicat, a seaside town in Thiruvallur district, 60 kilometres from Chennai. If you walk past the hamlets, you will see terracotta herds standing next to one another, a stone’s throw away from the sea. Xavier Benedict, the founder- trustee of AARDE (Art & Architecture Research, Development and Education) Foundation, whose office is in Pulicat, recently shared images of these horses on Facebook, generating a renewed wave of interest in the tradition. “The practice is prevalent in one particular fishing community in the region,” explains Xavier, adding that he shared the photos to “reinstate their identity during these tough times.” The pandemic has been hard on all of us, and more so on fishermen who are not able to go to sea. “There are around 35 fishing hamlets in the region and the images I posted are from Goonankuppam,” he adds. The ritual of placing terracotta horses is connected to deaths in the family. “I’ve seen families get a horse or a human statue made and placed by the seaside after the death of a loved one. They believe these departed souls will protect villages from natural disasters,” he says. Over the years, the practice turned into an annual one, in which families got together to install the statues during Pulicat’s Pongal festival. “They positioned the statues in the North or South of the village, and believed that this protected the village, and helped them prosper by ensuring a good catch,” explains Xavier. Made by local potters, the horses feature a blend of sand from the village and clay. Now, the practice is rarer. But the herds still stand, facing the waves. As Pulicat demonstrates, when times are tough, it does us good to call upon all our resources. And maybe, the sturdy horses by the seashore are listening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-horses-of-pulicat/article32096962.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||Playing his cards right||Arjun Rampal is partner and brand ambassador for PokerHigh.com , a licensed poker site that aims to raise funds for small, deserving charities in India. “There was a big surge in the number of people logging in to play [poker] during lockdown. We thought why not use this skilled game to give back to smaller NGOs that have not been getting recognition,” he explains. There are different teams representing the charities and people can decide which one they wish to play for. The initiative, which Rampal says has been “successful”, started two months ago when the group began sending food parcels to around two lakh people. “This is our third month and we get players from all over India. The winners get to keep what they win. Whatever stake the ‘bank’ makes goes to the NGOs.” The actor plays too, as a part of PokerHigh. “My game is decent. But there is room for improvement,” he laughs. The pandemic, Rampal believes, is a huge wake up call. “We have to be far more compassionate and be open to change, stick with the new norms, maintain social distance, wear a mask,” he says. Although film shoots are yet to resume, Rampal says, “I was working on three films and two web series.” This includes The Big Battle of Bhima Koregaon , Aparna Sen’s The Rapist, an unnamed action film he was shooting for in London, Abbas Mustan’s Penthouse. Now, he is spending time with partner Gabriella Demetriades, daughters Mahikaa, Myra, and son Arik.  “I was doing three films and two web series just before the lockdown came into effect.” Arjun Rampal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/playing-his-cards-right/article32096969.ece
16 July 2020||July 16 2020 00:00 IST,||An outsider who made it||Growing up in Assam, acting was a distant dream for Priyasha Bhardwaj. Although the actor hails from the family of a theatre icon in Assam, the late Satya Prasad Baruah (a Sangeet Natak Akademi awardee), growing up she did not see herself being a part of the film industry. Pursuing dance as a hobby slowly nudged her in the direction of the performing arts. And later, theatre helped her hone the craft of acting. When she moved to Mumbai from Delhi about two years ago though, her goal was simple: to become a character actor. The journey began with doing several commercials: it was through these assignments that she managed to audition for Soundarya Shekhawat, the character she plays in the Disney+Hotstar series Aarya, headlined by Sushmita Sen. As Soundarya, Priyasha essays the role of Aarya’s sister — “Soundarya is one of the emotional anchors that pushes the narrative forward.” The series, a crime drama, begins with her character having a royal wedding in Rajasthan, and ends on a tragic note. “In a way, my character forms the arc in the series, it is beautifully written with a definite tone that is distinct from the other grey characters in the show,” she remarks.  A blessing for outsiders  Online streaming platforms have been a blessing for aspiring talent with no godfathers to back them in the industry. “Even if one ends up in a movie, you are mostly going to be typecast as the sidekick of the heroine with no flesh and blood. With a series, however, the characters have more space on-screen, and are layered,” says Priyasha. However, the road to Aarya wasn’t a cakewalk. What worked was having precision and perseverance, she states. She adds, “In an industry where actors are easily replaceable — as there are hundreds trying for the same job — there is always uncertainty. You can be a great actor and yet not get a role. Now when one is considering you for a job, they not only look at your craft, but also see how many followers you have on Instagram, what your ‘saleability’ is and so on. It’s competitive and so much more than just acting. So, it’s good to have a plan B and learn to accept rejection.” Priyasha is currently shooting “lockdown ads” from home and eagerly waiting for Mirzapur Season 2to drop on Amazon Prime Video. “I have transformed into a character I have never played before for the series.” Aarya is currently streaming on Disney+ Hotstar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/an-outsider-who-made-it/article32097149.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||Situation much better in Delhi, says CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said Delhi was in a “much better position” than had been estimated amid rising cases of COVID-19 in June, but this should not be a reason for complacency. He said both active cases and deaths had reduced in the city because of the “Delhi Model”, which had also been praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Around June 1, when the number of coronavirus cases was rising, we had presented the projected number of cases on June 30, July 15, and July 31. This projection was done as per the Central government’s formula of identifying the number of cases in the future according to the trend at that time,” he said. According to the Centre’s formula, he said, there was a prediction of 2.25 lakh and total cases and 1.34 lakh active cases by July 15. Around 34,000 beds would have been needed in Delhi for the COVID-19 patients, according to the estimates in the first week of June. “But due to the collective efforts of the Delhi government, the Central government and the two crore people of Delhi, the actual number of cases is half of what we had projected till July 15. There are 1,15,000 coronavirus cases in Delhi, out of which only 18,600 are active cases,” said the Chief Minister. ‘Don’t be complacent’ “We had arranged for 15,500 beds for the treatment of COVID-19 patients, out of which only 4,000 beds are occupied and the rest remain vacant. The situation is under control, but as I said, we should not be complacent. The number of cases can surge any moment,” he cautioned. Mr. Kejriwal thanked the people, the doctors, nurses and the “corona warriors” who had risked their lives and worked day and night to control the situation. The Delhi government had worked on three principles: teamwork, identifying and addressing systemic issues and not losing hope. “First, we learnt that the novel coronavirus is such a huge pandemic that no one can fight it alone. We would have failed in our efforts to contain the virus if we had thought that we could fight it alone. We appealed to the Central government. I also want to thank all the parties, the BJP and the Congress, for supporting us at such a time,” he said. “Our second principle was that instead of being hostile or aggressive towards any agency, be it the people on the social media or the media pointing out lapses, we should correct our mistakes. Third, we did not lose hope,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said everybody was appreciating the “Delhi Model” and Mr. Modi had said it should be implemented in other locations. The foundation of the Delhi model, he said, was collectivity, teamwork and togetherness. For instance, he said, to increase testing in Delhi, the Centre was asked for help and that is how rapid antigen testing was started in the city. The second important factor behind the Delhi model was home isolation. “We introduced home isolation where people could easily recover in the comfort of their homes. Around 80%-90% people are recovering under home isolation. Because of the home isolation model, testing in Delhi has increased. Earlier, people were scared to get tested because they thought they would be put into quarantine centres if they tested positive,” he said. “In many States, this is the actual reason why people are not getting tested. Nobody wants to go for the test until they have serious symptoms, and because of no testing they also infect other people in their vicinity,” said the Chief Minister. ‘Response time reduced’ According to Mr. Kejriwal, the AAP government was trying to reduce the number of deaths due to COVID-19. He said the response time of ambulances had reduced to half an hour, arrangements had been made to take patients to holding areas in hospitals soon after arrival and more beds had been arranged in addition to the creation of plasma bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/situation-much-better-in-delhi-says-cm/article32096986.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi region scores 85.86 pass percentage in Class 10 exam||Students from the overall Delhi region secured a pass percentage of 85.86% in the CBSE Class 10 examination, the results of which were announced on Wednesday. The all-India pass percentage this year was 91.46%. In 2019, the pass percentage of the Delhi region was 80.97%. This year, the Delhi region was split into two – Delhi East and Delhi West. In the regional rankings list, Delhi West and Delhi East regions were placed 14th and 15th respectively out of a total of 16 regions. Last year, Delhi was in the 9th spot among 10 regions. Education Minister Manish Sisodia congratulated the students and said that after the improvement in the Class 12 results, the upward graph of Delhi education continues in Class 10. This year, the overall pass percentage of schools under the Delhi government improved to 82.61% from 71.58% last year, he said. “Compulsory board exam for Class 10 was introduced in 2018, since then#DelhiGovtSchoolshv an upward graph each year 2020: 82.6% 2019: 71.6% 2018: 68.9%. Our schools recorded highest improvement. Congrats to students, parents &#TeamEducationto keep giving reasons to celebrate [sic],” he tweeted. The national pass percentage in government schools this year was 80.91%, while it was 71.91% in 2019.  “The average Qualitative Index is 265.31 this year; it was 259.60 last year with 789 students scoring 90% and above marks in aggregate,” the government said. Commenting on the performance of Delhi public schools, the government said that 147 schools achieved 100% result against 60 in 2019; and 474 schools achieved 90% and above pass percentage against 226 schools in 2019.  The CBSE Class 10 exams were scheduled to be conducted from February 15 till March 20, but owing to the outbreak of COVID-19 and the riots in north-east Delhi, several scheduled exams had to be postponed and later cancelled. The CBSE said that for those students who appeared in the exams for more than three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in best three performing subjects were awarded in the subjects for which exams were not conducted. For students who wrote examinations for only three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best two performing subjects were awarded in the subjects for which examinations were not held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-region-scores-8586-pass-percentage-in-class-10-exam/article32096951.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||Capital showing positive trends in COVID-19 fight||As many as 1,647 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,16,993, according to a Delhi government health bulletin released on Wednesday. Also, 41 more deaths have been reported, taking the toll to 3,487.    Since June 23 — when the daily tally touched a record 3,947 — the number of new cases has been dropping and the city has been reporting fewer than 3,000 daily cases for the past 19 days. The number of new cases is less compared to the spike in June, but of the total 22,528 tests done in the past 24 hours, over 70% of the tests were rapid antigen tests, which have shown low positivity rate compared to RT-PCR tests.   Of the total cases in the city, 95,699 have recovered, reducing the number of active cases to 17,807. On July 1, there were 27,007 active cases — this is a dip of 34.06% in just two weeks. Besides this, the number of people admitted to COVID-19 hospitals has also been steadily decreasing for the past 14 days. On July 1, a total of 5,892 beds in COVID-19 hospitals were occupied but it has decreased to 4,021 on Wednesday.    The number of positive people in home isolation has also decreased from 16,703 on July 1 to 9,943 on Wednesday. Also, the positivity rate has dropped from 12.2% on July 1 to 7.3%. The number of containment zones has increased to 659.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-showing-positive-trends-in-covid-19-fight/article32096982.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Service in their blood, Delhi police constables turn plasma messiahs||Two Delhi Police constables have been trying their best to save the lives of critical COVID-19 patients by coordinating for blood plasma. The duo has managed to help at least 20 patients so far. Constables Ravinder Dhariwal of 2012 batch and Amit Phogat of 2010 batch, posted in 6th battalion and outer district respectively, have been relentless in their life-saving mission. The latest donor was a constable who donated for a police officer’s relative at a private hospital on Wednesday. Not just to COVID-19 patients, Mr. Ravinder and Mr. Amit have been donating and coordinating donation for blood and platelets to all since 2018, they told The Hindu. They  added that they often get the help of their colleague Krishan Phogat. Interestingly, Mr. Amit has donated platelets 64 times, the latest on Monday and Mr. Ravinder has donated 48 times. Since March 19, the duo has coordinated for 280 platelets donations and about 20 plasma donations. Most of them have been for civilians, including family members of Delhi Police officers. “Recently, we arranged blood plasma for a 68-year-old man, who recovered. Fortunately, all the people we have arranged plasma for have recovered,” said Mr. Ravinder.  Helping humanity What drives them to undertake this work voluntarily? To be able to help a miniscule number of people they can out of the country’s 1.3 billion population. “Yes, because there are millions of people who need this kind of help and if we are able to touch the lives of a few of them, then why not?” said Mr. Amit, who started donating in 2015 and gathered his friends to form a group of youths who donated whenever required. Mr. Amit and Mr. Ravinder met during their posting in south Delhi’s Kotla Mubarakpur and Mr. Ravinder became the entrant in the donors group. However, in December 2017, an incident led Mr. Ravinder to take coordination and donation more seriously. “I got a call from the family of a 14-year-old boy, who was diagnosed with blood cancer. I remember I was on duty at the time. I went and donated platelets. Stayed in touch with the family thereafter. But the boy passed away in four months. This incident has stayed with me since then,” Mr. Ravinder recollected.  Facebook page In 2018 January, the two decided to start a Facebook page ‘Delhi Police Jeevandayini’ where they inform users about the requirement and those in need can get in touch with them. The officials said that they especially help people from other States and have come to Delhi for treatment as they might not have many contacts in the city. “All the plasma donors we have contacted are Delhi Police officers who have recovered from the virus. Some of them have donated twice. Sometimes, they take special permission from their seniors and travel long distances to donate. For instance, an official who recovered from COVID-19 travelled 42 km to donate plasma,” he said. For Mr. Amit, an incident stands out, something he says he is proud of. “In January, a woman from Kabul who was diagnosed with blood cancer needed blood. I donated. She recovered and left for Afghanistan. After reaching, she called me and praised India and its people. I felt really happy that day,” Mr. Amit said. “ Humain kuch milta thodi hai iske liye. Man ki shanti hai bas [We don’t get any rewards for this. It only gives us inner peace],” Mr. Ravinder smiled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/service-in-their-blood-delhi-police-constables-turn-plasma-messiahs/article32096977.ece
16 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam anti-CAA activist gets bail||A special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday granted bail to Bittu Sonowal, a member of anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act activist Akhil Gogoi’s group. Mr. Gogoi, the chief advisor of Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), could not be produced before the special court as he was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. The date of his production has been rescheduled to August 5.  Virus outbreak in jail The KMSS leader was among 55 inmates of the Guwahati Central Jail who had tested positive a week ago. Among them was Mr. Sonowal, leader of the organisation’s student wing. He was, however, granted bail by the NIA court. Mr. Sonowal is expected to walk out after completing his treatment for COVID-19. The legal counsel of the KMSS leaders said Mr. Sonowal was released with a bail bond of Rs. 30,000 and a surety. The bail order hearing of another jailed KMSS leader, Dhaijja Konwar, is scheduled on July 17. He had tested COVID-19 positive too. Manas Konwar, the fourth member of Mr. Gogoi’s group was released from jail on July 13. He had escaped infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-anti-caa-activist-gets-bail/article32096987.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||Not relying on Pushkar’s tweets, Delhi police tell High Court||The police on Wednesday told the Delhi High Court that it was not relying on Sunanda Pushkar’s tweets made on micro-blogging site Twitter in the case related to her death in which her husband Shashi Tharoor is facing abetment to suicide and cruelty charges. The police said Pushkar’s tweets were not part of the chargesheet, but clarified that the Congress MP may rely on them in putting up his defence as they are already in public domain. The submission was made in response to a petition filed by Mr. Tharoor seeking direction to Twitter India to preserve the account and tweets made by his deceased wife. Mr. Tharoor said that the Twitter timeline and tweetswere of utmost importance in the case. Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Mr. Tharoor, argued before Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri that perusal of the tweets would reflect Pushkar’s actual frame of mind, which is contrary to the prosecution case. ‘Positive frame of mind’ “The tweets of the deceased from the Twitter timeline show without any pale of doubt that the deceased was not having any ‘suicidal ideations’ as is sought to be alleged by the prosecution,” Mr. Tharoor’s plea said. On Delhi Police’s submission that the tweets are not on record as it has not seen them, Mr. Pahwa argued that the investigating agency cannot choose to close its eyes when it comes to the evidence that dilutes its case. The High Court, after hearing the submission, asked the police to make its submissions on the points raised by Mr. Tharoor and posted the case for hearing on September 18. In his petition, Mr. Tharoor said he intends to bring on record the timeline and Pushkar’s tweets during the trial to exonerate himself from the false charges. “Rather the deceased was in a positive frame of mind and was quite optimistic about her relationship with the petitioner,” the plea said. It added that despite overwhelming material, the police sought to conclude that the deceased allegedly took her own life due to differences with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/not-relying-on-pushkars-tweets-delhi-police-tell-high-court/article32096990.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia forms panel to create education board||Education Minister Manish Sisodia constituted two committees on Wednesday, one to prepare a framework for formation of a Delhi Education Board, and another to work out details for curriculum reform. In its 2020-21 budget, the government had announced plans for curriculum reform and a new board of education for Delhi. Mr. Sisodia said government schools had exemplary performance in CBSE Class 12 exams, “which is a reflection of the work done in the last five years”, but the aim is to “redefine the education system and prepare students for the challenges of the 21st Century”. “Pass percentage of 98 in Class 12 is not enough, we have to work together to take education to the next level,” Mr. Sisodia said, adding that the panels will help the government transform the education system over the coming years. The panel on education board will study global best practices in learning assessment, re-imagine current assessment practices, and provide a road map for an innovative, student-friendly scheme of assessment to be followed by the new board. The committee on new curriculum will study globally-renowned best practices in curriculum and reforms and recommend what is best for Delhi. “The panel is mandated to re-imagine current curriculum, pedagogical practices and provide a road map for an innovative, student-friendly curriculum for pre-primary, primary and upper primary stages,” the government stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-forms-panel-to-create-education-board/article32096953.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||Land pooling policy: DDA issues draft guidelines for forming consortiums||The Delhi Development Authority has issued draft guidelines for the formation of consortiums under the land pooling policy, to assist stakeholders in completing relevant paper work. “The DDA decided to issue the draft guidelines so that landowners can complete background work till the time the government completes the verification process,” said a senior DDA official associated with the project. Following verification, landowners will be able to form a consortium once the DDA issues relevant notifications. The policy, which aims to provide dwelling units for 76 lakh people, requires accumulation of 70% contiguous land in a sector. “Sectors that achieve 70% contiguous land after verification shall be taken up for development. The DDA will issue a notice to constituent landowners to form a consortium as a single legal entity under the policy and prepare an implementation plan,” the urban development body stated. According to the latest data, seven sectors have achieved the 70% mark while another 10 sectors have accumulated 68% or more, said DDA officials “A draft guideline for road networks has also been issued to guide stakeholders in planning,” an official said. The Centre had approved the policy in October 2018 and the online portal for registration was launched in February last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/land-pooling-policy-dda-issues-draft-guidelines-for-forming-consortiums/article32096947.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 test for pregnant women not mandatory for admission: govt.||It is not mandatory for pregnant women to undergo COVID-19 test for admission in hospitals for in-patient care, surgeries or childbirth, the Delhi government told the High Court on Wednesday. Even if a pregnant woman meets the criteria for COVID-19 testing as per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, she should be tested, but obstetrics (childbirth and midwifery) management will not be delayed, it submitted. “In emergent situations, treatment must not be denied for want of COVID-19 test results... and it can conducted simultaneously,” the government stated. On the issue of time taken for testing and declaration of results, the Delhi government stated that Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) for pregnant women could be done in the health facility itself with the report being available within 30 minutes. In cases with a high index of suspicion, if the RAT test is negative, the healthcare provider can do an RT-PCR tests, in which case the report will be available within 24-48 hours. “A pregnant woman, if found infected, will be transferred to a dedicated COVID-19 hospital once immediate required care has been provided and she is stable and fit to to be transferred,” it further said. Taking note of the affidavit, the court said it was not going to further monitor the case in view of the clear guidelines issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-test-for-pregnant-women-not-mandatory-for-admission-govt/article32096961.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||Class 12 students credit teachers, school infrastructure for stellar performance||The pass percentage achieved by Delhi government schools in Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 exams was 98%, the highest bagged by these schools in the last five years. The results were declared on Monday. In 2019, the pass percentage was 94.24%. One of the mainstays of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government policies, the Education Sector in Delhi, according to results, has seen progressively better results. The pass percentage of the first batch of Class XII students was 85.9% in 2016, 88.2% in 2017, 90.6% in 2018 and 94.24% in 2019. Students who scored well chose to praise their teachers, school infrastructure and said they believed government schools were no longer behind private ones. Chetan Sharma, who stays in Kotla Mubarakpur and scored 85.6% in Class XII CBSE examination from SV Rani Durgavati School under the Delhi government, wants to become a Chartered Accountant. ‘Learning over rote’ “I have been in government schools since nursery and they are no longer how they used to be earlier. Teachers are more regular to class and they ensure students attend all classes. The buildings and infrastructure have also improved. Government schools have fared better than private schools and the results speak for themselves.” Yogita Balyan, a resident of south-west Delhi and a student of School of Excellence in Dwarka, scored 97% and wants to study History Honours. “I studied in private schools one after another before I switched to a government school in Class XI. I didn’t want my parents to spend too much on the fees and I think teachers in government schools are more qualified than in private ones. Teachers here encouraged analysis and learning over rote.” Gagan Panchal, a resident of Yamuna Vihar and a student of RPVV Yamuna Vihar, scored 97% and wants to become an engineer. “I studied in government schools from Class VIII onwards and shifted to this one in Class XI. Both private and government schools are the same now. The teachers are great and there is no need for tuition classes either. My teachers were very supportive throughout.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/class-12-students-credit-teachers-school-infrastructure-for-stellar-performance/article32096959.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||Child rights body to form health, nutrition division||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on Wednesday decided to constitute a ‘health & nutrition’ division within the commission to ensure accessibility, availability, and adequacy of health and nutrition to every child in the city. The division will ensure adequate steps that shall be taken to monitor, review and take action on the implementation of mid-day meal scheme in schools, provision of supplements for children (0-6 years), provision of supplements for pregnant and lactating women under Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), neonatal care and screening in hospitals and immunisation of children, an official statement said. “It is high time Delhi demonstrated that curbing child malnutrition and infant mortality rate is possible through honest, transparent, and committed governance,” said Women and Child Development Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam. Anurag Kundu, chairperson of DCPCR, said that this was a long-pending move which was needed to fulfill the “government’s commitment to the spirited implementation of the United Nation’s Convention on the Rights of the Child”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/child-rights-body-to-form-health-nutrition-division/article32096979.ece
16 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Chautala rules out curfew in four border districts||A day after Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij hinted at the possibility of imposing curfew in its four districts bordering Delhi, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday said the State government might consider it only after the Delhi government opts for it. Speaking to the media persons at his office, Mr. Chautala said, “Even Delhi has not opted for the harsh step. If Delhi does it, then the Haryana government might discuss and decide accordingly.” In a press statement on Tuesday, Mr. Vij had said that infection was spreading fast in four districts in the State because of Delhi and imposing curfew was the only way to stop it. He had said that Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonipat had 80% of the State’s cases. Mr. Chautala, however, said that Haryana had one of the best recovery rates and the COVID-19 situation in the State was far more under control compared with the rest of the country. He said the State had adequate infrastructure and testing was also increased. He emphasised the need to take precautions such as maintaining physical distancing and asserted that “we need to learn to live with it”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chautala-rules-out-curfew-in-four-border-districts/article32096989.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||Police’s job is to see charges are proved in court: HC||“Every person will say he or she is wrongly accused... it is the police’s job to ensure that those allegations are not false and proved in court,” the Delhi High Court remarked on Wednesday to Delhi police’s submission that a press note issued to the media relating to Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita was done to present corrects before the public. The observation of Justice Vibhu Bakhru came while hearing a petition by Ms. Kalita accusing Delhi police of selectively leaking information about her case to media. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi, representing Delhi Police, argued that the press note was issued to media to correct the facts, put out by the Pinjra Tod members on the social media, as accountability of the institution was attached to it. The ASG submitted that some of the statements made by the group was “uncivilised” that will do damage to the country, “which has to be checked”. He read out a statement made by Pinjra Tod seeking release of all anti-CAA protesters, in which the group said, “Fantastic narratives of Jihadi-Feminist-Communist conspiracies propagated by the massive Hindutva machinery have been seeking to make women, students, workers and members of marginalised communities seem like dangerous enemies of the State.” “This is an uncivilised comment in the extreme,” Mr. Lekhi said. Responding to this, Justice Bakhru said, “This is not against any organisation.” Mr. Lekhi argued that the details of the case against Ms. Kalita was not revealed by the investigating agency first and that it was the members of the group who disclosed the details on social media. The High Court will hear Ms. Kalita’s side of the argument on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/polices-job-is-to-see-charges-are-proved-in-court-hc/article32096945.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||31 arrested for partying in restaurant||Thirty-one people, including two owners of a restaurant, have been arrested for taking part in a social gathering in violation of COVID-19 restrictions, the police said on Wednesday. The police said that brothers Lavish and Kashish Khurana, owners of the restaurant where the gathering took place, were produced before the court as they were charged with non-bailable offences. The others have been released on bail. Liquor and beer was also being served without licence, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/31-arrested-for-partying-in-restaurant/article32096974.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. to hire private firm to monitor news||The Delhi government has floated a tender to hire a public relations agency, a private company, for real-time “tracking and monitoring” of news, according to the tender document. The agency will also do fact-checking and content creation. “A dedicated team of media professionals for real-time tracking, monitoring, documenting and reporting of news media coverage on electronic news platforms. Separate teams of media professionals to be engaged for similar daily exercise for print and digital news media, [sic]” the tender document of the Department of Information and Publicity (DIP) of the Delhi government read. This is in addition to the eight units of the DIP. “The directorate accomplishes the information dissemination and publicity functions through its eight units,” the document said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-to-hire-private-firm-to-monitor-news/article32096980.ece
16 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Teams for social media outreach||The Punjab government on Wednesday decided to expand its social media outreach by setting up 15 expert social media teams on outsourced model. An official statement said that an annual budget of Rs. 7 crore has been approved by the Cabinet for these teams, which will be constituted by engaging professionals and experts. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh termed the move as vital for expanding the State’s reach and strengthening the public relation department’s efforts in disseminating information regarding COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/teams-for-social-media-outreach/article32096983.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||UGC response sought on final year exams||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response from the University Grants Commission (UGC) on a plea challenging the guidelines making it mandatory for colleges to conduct final-year exams by September-end.  Centre, DU stand Justice Jayant Nath also asked the Centre and the Delhi University (DU) to submit their responses within two weeks and listed the matter for further hearing on August 4. The petition was filed by a third-year DU student seeking directions to the university to promote final-year students on the basis of average of marks obtained in previous years and internal assessment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ugc-response-sought-on-final-year-exams/article32096984.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP chooses 14 supervisors for feedback||Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta held a meeting on Wednesday during which 14 supervisors and 28 co-observers were chosen to seek feedback on appointment of district presidents. BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, national president of Mahila Morcha Vijaya Rahatkar, and State general secretary (organisation) Siddharthan gave necessary guidelines to the supervisors, who will visit their respective districts seeking public opinion about potential district presidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-chooses-14-supervisors-for-feedback/article32096949.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Court denies bail to Pinjra Tod activist||A Delhi court on Wednesday denied bail to JNU student and Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal for her alleged role in the conspiracy behind communal violence that broke out in north-east Delhi in February. Additional Session Judge Amitabh Rawat refused to grant bail to Ms. Narwal, who had been charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and mentioned that the investigation in the present case is still going on. “Every person involved in the said riots would be equally liable for all the actions done/committed or they knew were likely to be committed as a result thereof in prosecution of common object and in pursuance of the conspiracy,” the order stated. The order copy also mentioned that there is a disclosure of co-accused Shahrukh against applicant Ms. Narwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-denies-bail-to-pinjra-tod-activist/article32096954.ece
16 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU to release datesheet for online OBE exams today||Delhi University on Wednesday released a notification regarding the conduct of examinations for the final semester/term/year students of all undergraduate and postgraduate courses between August 10 and August 31 in online open book mode . The university said that for those students who, for any reason, are not able to appear in the examinations in OBE mode remotely, the university has decided to conduct an additional phase of examinations in OBE mode through online/offline/blended mechanism about two weeks from the date of conclusion of the examination in OBE mode remotely, subject to the prevalent situation of COVID-19 and any further notification/guidelines from University Grants Commission (UGC). The notification said that the final datesheets for undergraduate courses shall be available on the DU website by July 16 and for postgraduate courses and professional courses by July 22. Students have been requested to access the examination portal on the DU website between July 21 and July 26 to verify their examination forms and for those who have not filled their forms will have to do so between July 21 and July 24. DU said that it will be organising mock tests in two phases to make the students familiar with the procedure of OBE to be conducted remotely and students must visit the DU website for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-to-release-datesheet-for-online-obe-exams-today/article32096955.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||Minister launches affordable COVID-19 diagnostic kit||An RT-PCR based COVID-19 diagnostic kit ‘Corosure’, developed by IIT-Delhi and approved by the ICMR and DCGI, was launched by Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Wednesday. Stating that India requires cheap and reliable testing to control COVID-19, Mr. Pokhriyal said that Corosure is a step towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of a self-reliant India. IIT-Delhi said the kit was developed indigenously. The base price of the RT-PCR assay is Rs. 399 and will bring down the cost of COVID-19 RT-PCR testing, the institute said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minister-launches-affordable-covid-19-diagnostic-kit/article32096978.ece
16 July 2020||New delhi,||DCW rescues 16-year-old girl from Hari Nagar||The Delhi Commission for Women on Wednesday said that a 16-year-old girl, who hails from Jharkhand, was rescued from Hari Nagar where she was being forced to work as a domestic help. It said that action was taken following a tip-off received on its helpline number. It said the minor was counselled and shifted to a shelter home after a medical test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dcw-rescues-16-year-old-girl-from-hari-nagar/article32096946.ece
16 July 2020||New Delhi,||DUTA writes to Baijal seeking disbursal of adequate financial grants to 12 colleges||DUTA on Wednesday wrote to L-G Anil Baijal seeking disbursal of adequate financial grants to 12 DU colleges. “Salaries, pensions and other financial dues of employees of these colleges are totally dependent upon the grants of the Delhi government. For the past one year, the Delhi government either does not readily sanction grants or sanctions inadequate grant-in-aid. We appeal to you to urgently intervene,” the letter read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/duta-writes-to-baijal-seeking-disbursal-of-adequate-financial-grants-to-12-colleges/article32096948.ece
