01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 128 new coronavirus cases, one death||Chandigarh on Tuesday reported 128 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 17,537, while one more fatality pushed the death toll to 278.There are 1,086 active cases as of now in the UT, according to a medical bulletin.A total of 103 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 16,173, as per bulletin.A total of 1,44,204 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,25,856 tested negative while reports of 95 samples are awaited, it stated. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-128-new-coronavirus-cases-one-death-178529
01-12-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports three coronavirus fatalities||Mohali reported three more coronavirus deaths and 129 new cases in the past 24 hours, officials said on Tuesday.The development takes the district’s fatality count to 282 from 15,598 cases.Mohali Urban reported 112 of the 129 new cases. Gharuan (9), Khara (6),Dera Bassi (1) and Dhakoli (1) all reported new casesOfficials also said 192 patients were released from hospitals after recovery.The district now has 2,003 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-three-coronavirus-fatalities-178528
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Second wave less severe due to better testing: Chandigarh||Despite violation of the social distancing norm during the festive season, the second surge of Covid witnessed in November was of lesser magnitude than the one in August and September.Experts attribute this to better testing strategy, including the use of rapid antigen on the random population, which, they say, proved effective in controlling the spread.From 28 cases recorded on August 1, the Covid cases doubled in just four days with 64 cases on August 5. The tally touched the 100 mark in 12 days (August 17) and further escalated to 175 cases on August 25. The highest number of cases observed on a single day was 261 on August 29.In September, the city witnessed the highest single-day peak of 449 cases (September 13). After this, a declining trend was seen in the last two weeks of the month.During the downward trend, the lowest single-day infection in October was 40 cases per day. Covid cases reported in a single day again rose to 155 on November 19, marking the second surge.In contrast to the first surge wherein cases spiralled from 28 to 261 in 25 days in August, the second surge seen in November has been less severe.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said: “The spread is controlled due to liberal testing approach of the UT . Till September, we were only testing asymptomatic people through the rapid antigen test. Now, we are testing the random population with the rapid antigen test using mobile testing vans. Earlier, there was a backlog of cases due to which there was a delay in tracing as well. We have scaled up our testing capacity to 1,600 tests per day and contract tracing from four per positive person to 10.”Testing up 17%The month of November witnessed an 18 per cent rise in the Covid cases with 2,991 total cases as against 2,480 in October. Testing also increased during the month by 17 per cent as 35,311 tests were conducted in November as against 29,526 tests in October. However, the number of deaths has decreased by 21 per cent this month. From 64 deaths in October, the toll came down to 51 this month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/second-wave-less-severe-due-to-better-testing-chandigarh-178176
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cops extorted Rs12K each from 8 liquor vends, says owner||The liquor contractor on whose complaint police personnel have been booked on a charge of extortion, has alleged that he owns eight vends in the city and cops used to extort Rs12,000 from every vend.The liquor contractor, in his complaint, has alleged that the suspects, who introduced themselves as crime branch sleuths, used to extort money on a monthly basis.Paid Rs96,000 ona monthly basisA police official said the complainant alleged that he gave a total of Rs96,000 every month to the police personnel.He alleged that the police personnel were extorting money from him for the past few months.The police said the CCTV footage provided by the complainant was hazy. They had an idea of the suspects seen in the footage, which was being scrutinized, the police said.A case of extortion and under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered in this regard at the Sector 39 police station.Meanwhile, an investigation on similar complaints received from other city-based liquor contractors has been initiated. “We are verifying the evidence based on which further action will be taken,” said another police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-extorted-rs12k-each-from-8-liquor-vends-says-owner-178178
01-12-2020||Mohali||Man stabbed  to death at  Phase 6 market||A 35-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death by an unknown person following a scuffle at the Phase 6 market last evening.The victim has been identified as Kuljinder Singh Dhillon, a resident of Balongi. Kuljinder was staying in a rented accommodation here with his wife. He was into the liquor business in Sector 56, Chandigarh, said the police.SP (City) Harwinder Singh Virk said Kuljinder was in Phase 6 near Shivalik Public School with his friends when he had heated arguments with another party. An unidentified person took out a knife and attacked him. The suspect fled the spot. The victim was rushed to the Civil Hospital by an auto driver where doctors declared him brought dead. “The killer will be nabbed soon,” said Virk. The postmortem of the victim was conducted today and the body handed over to his family. A case of murder has been registered on a statement of the victim’s wife, Nisha, at the Phase 1 police station. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-stabbed-to-death-at-phase-6-market-178179
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 67 new cases, 1 death||The city on Monday recorded 67 cases of Covid-19 and one death due to the contagion. The coronavirus tally now stands at 17,409 and the toll at 277. A 54-year-old man from Sector 37 died of Covid at the PGI. He was suffering from kidney and chronic liver disease as well.The city now has 1,062 active cases, while 16,070 patients have been cured, including 144 recoveries on Monday. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-67-new-cases-1-death-178181
01-12-2020||Panchkula||No death for 4th day in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-death-for-4th-day-in-panchkula-178182
01-12-2020||Mohali||2 deaths in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-deaths-in-mohali-178183
01-12-2020||Zirakpur||On strike, MC workers take out march||The MC workers’ union struck work for the fifth day running with civic amenities taking a hit in Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru.Members of the MC Employees and Sweepers Union, Zirakpur, took out a protest march this morning to highlight alleged anomalies in their salaries.They now plan to protest in front of the Dera Bassi SDM’s office soon. They say they are not getting the salary amount as promised.The protesting employees said according to a notification of the Punjab Labour Department, issued on June 21, 2019, Rs9,978 had been fixed as the salary for sanitation workers in municipal bodies. Despite this, they were being paid Rs8,700 per month. The authorities were wilfully not following the rules, they alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-strike-mc-workers-take-out-march-178184
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh expect a clear sky for 3 days||The city is likely to witness a clear sky for at least the next three days.As per the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, the start of December will see a clear sky.The minimum temperature is likely to hover between 8°C and 9°C, while the maximum temperature is expected to be around 24°C.The maximum temperature recorded today was 24.3°C, while the minimum temperature fell to 9.1°C, one degree above normal. Some parts of the city witnessed mist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-expect-a-clear-sky-for-3-days-178186
01-12-2020||Panchkula||Submit names by Dec 2, BJP asks aspirants||As the State Election Commission is expected to announce the schedule for the Panchkula MC elections soon, the BJP today asked its workers interested in contesting for the seat of councillor to submit their names by December 2.They can submit their names to district BJP president Ajay Sharma till Wednesday evening. Even those who have earlier expressed their interest in contesting the poll will have to submit their names again in writing.Meanwhile, several Residents Welfare Associations have written to the election body to postpone the civic body poll due to Covid. The MC poll is expected to be conducted by the end of the next month or early 2021. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/submit-names-by-dec-2-bjp-asks-aspirants-178188
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||No hourly charges at Chandigarh parking lots for now||Hourly parking charges will not be applicable from tomorrow at 89 paid parking lots in the city due to the failure of contractors to turn them into “smart” ones, as agreed upon in an MoU.The Municipal Corporation had earlier set November 30 as the deadline for incorporating “smart features” in the parking lots as a precondition to start the hourly parking system from December 1.The civic body will decide the further course of action after December 31. “We will ask them to add smart features to the parking lots by December 31. The hourly charges will be applicable only after that,” confirmed a senior official. He said the firms reasoned they could not do the needful as some items were to be imported from China.The civic body, at its House meeting on November 27, has already given the licence fee relaxation for the third time in a row due to Covid. It was done after the two firms had contended that it was not practical to run the parking lots at 100 per cent fee due to losses during the pandemic.RK Garg, president of a city-based senior citizens’ association, said: “Smart parking has eluded the city, but the companies are being allowed relaxation. It is unacceptable. Action should be taken against the firms for their inability to make smart parking lots.”Lack of attendants to manage vehicles, all staff members not wearing a uniform, no boom barriers, rampant haphazard parking and no display regarding the 10-minute free parking facility are some of the issues ailing the parking spaces.The parking contract was awarded in January this year. At present, parking rates for two and four-wheelers are Rs 5 and Rs 10, respectively. It was agreed that after the parking lots are made smart in May, the rates would be doubled after the first four hours. In the third slab, after 12 hours, the parking fee would be doubled again till 24 hours. There would be no charges for the first 10 minutes.Meanwhile, MC Commissioner KK Yadav was unavailable for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-hourly-charges-at-chandigarh-parking-lots-for-now-178189
01-12-2020||---||Punjab Governor opens Museum of Trees after which many Sikh gurdwaras are named||Chandigarh, November 30“Climate change is an immediate crisis for humanity. To meet this challenge, people will have to come forward with initiatives like Museum of Trees to mobilise public opinion,” warned Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore while inaugurating the Museum of Trees — a unique environmental project for the conservation of sacred trees of Sikhism after which many Sikh gurdwaras are named.About the museumThe Museum of Trees has India’s most modern mist chamber facility and a glass house conservatory, with 16 air-conditioners, to preserve and propagate rare and endangered species, which grow at high elevations.The inauguration was done online because of Covid-19. Former Member of Parliament and chairman, Minorities Commission, Tarlochan Singh, and PHDCCI president Karan Gilhotra participated in the web inauguration.Extending Gurpurb greetings on the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, the Administrator said this was the most appropriate day and most appropriate manner of remembering Guru Nanak whose hymns are replete with references to nature, environment, trees, plants and animal life.He complimented DS Jaspal for patiently working for 10 years to clone 12 sacred trees. He hoped that work on the remaining trees would also be completed soon.Tarlochan Singh thanked the Administrator for supporting the cause of conservation of sacred trees of Sikhism.He pointed out that Guru Nanak was the most widely travelled religious preachers of the world. The Guru interacted with common people in the open under the shadow of trees. That was why most sacred trees were associated with Guru Nanak.He praised the Government of India for supporting this project for the conservation of sacred trees. In many gurdwaras, the sacred trees had been cut or had died due to improper care.DS Jaspal, creator and curator of the Museum of Trees, thanked the Administrator for supporting the project, which, he said, would be a source of attraction not only for Sikhs but for all nature lovers.Jaspal pointed out that most of the sacred trees also have botanical significance. For example, the beri tree of Gurdwara Ber Sahib in Sultanpur Lodi is unique because it has few spines. Similarly, leaves of the peepal tree at Gurdwara Pipli Sahib have a unique yellow pigmentation.Jaspal also disclosed that the trees are protected by entirely in-house organic spray of garlic, chillies and heeng mixed with water. As a result, the trees are healthy and bearing rich fruit.Over a period of 10 years, the museum has been successful in reproducing genetically true replicas of 12 sacred trees, including Dukh Bhanjani ber tree of the Golden Temple; Ber tree of Gurdwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodi; Ber tree of Gurdwara Babe-di-Ber, Sialkot, Pakistan; and peepal tree of Gurdwara Pipli Sahib, Amritsar.The Museum of Trees has India’s most modern mist chamber facility and a glass house conservatory, with 16 air-conditioners, to preserve and propagate rare and endangered species, which grow at high elevations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-governor-opens-museum-of-trees-after-which-many-sikh-gurdwaras-are-named-178191
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||High inflammatory parameters predicted severe illness: PGI study||A PGI study has found that high inflammatory parameters and deranged creatinine predicted severe Covid illness among virus-infected patients admitted to the hospital for treatment.The study was conducted by 32 PGI doctors, including Dr GD Puri, Dr Pankaj Malhotra, Dr Ashish Bhalla, Dr Vikas Suri, Dr Mini P Singh and Dr Vipin Koushal.Results“High inflammatory parameters, hypalbuminaemia (low level of albumin in blood) and deranged creatinine (kidney function test) predicted severe Covid illness,” said the study.According to the study, significantly higher levels of inflammatory biomarkers at admission were found among patients with underlying comorbidity as compared to those without comorbidity.Abnormal lab findings of patientsDuring the study period, 114 patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection were admitted.Hypertension, diabetes common comorbidityOut of the total admitted patients enrolled in the study, 29.8 per cent patients had associated comorbid condition of varying severity. These included hypertension (16.6%), diabetes (14.9%) and chronic renal disease (2.6%) patients. Besides, 8.7% also had multiple comorbidities.Though symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection was encountered in 42 per cent patients, severe illness was seen in 15.7 per cent patients only who were critically ill at the admission and thus required intensive care services.Nearly half with respiratory symptomsAs per the study, fever was noted only in three-fourth of the patients and respiratory symptoms in nearly half of them. Around 17 per cent of total patients had hypoxia (low oxygen supply) at presentation, 31 per cent had tachypnoea (abnormally rapid breathing), 1.7 per cent patients required noninvasive ventilation and 2.6 per cent were mechanically ventilated.‘Follow asymptomatic patients closely’Fifty-eight per cent of the patients in the study were asymptomatic at admission and only two became subsequently symptomatic during the hospital stay. The study found abnormalities in laboratory parameters in 25 per cent of the asymptomatic patients. “These observations reiterate the fact that asymptomatic patients need to be followed closely as some of them may progress to severe disease,” said the study.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-inflammatory-parameters-predicted-severe-illness-pgi-study-178194
01-12-2020||Panchkula||History-sheeter, 3 aides arrested for bike thefts in Panchkula||The Crime Branch, Sector 26, of the Panchkula police has arrested a history-sheeter and his three aides for allegedly committing a series of bike thefts in the city. They recovered a stolen bike and Rs4,500 from them.Main accused Rajiv, a native of Badaun in Uttar Pradesh, who is presently living in Sector 23, and three other suspects, identified as Shambhu from Khark Mangoli, Mangal from Khark Mangoli, and Gurpreet from Nada Sahib, were arrested for their involvement in three theft cases.These FIRs were lodged under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station between October 16 and November 19.The suspects were today produced before a court, which sent them to judicial custody.They used to steal two-wheelers from various parts of the city and sell spare parts of the stolen vehicles, according to the police.A police spokesperson said Mangal was a scrap dealer and he used to purchase spare parts from Rajiv.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/history-sheeter-3-aides-arrested-for-bike-thefts-in-panchkula-178195
01-12-2020||Panchkula||Beware of rising cyber fraud cases, warn Panchkula cops||Witnessing an increase in cyber crime, including SIM swap frauds, the Panchkula police today urged the public to beware of cyber fraud cases and steer clear of suspicious calls from unknown persons.What cyber experts sayThe advisory issued by the police spokesperson reads, “With the arrival of android smart phones, cyber crime has increased and SIM swap fraud is the latest in it. Such crime can only be prevented by being vigilant. People attempting to commit this fraud generally create a disturbance in the signal being received by the SIM card and then issue a new one with the same number for themselves. Then, they easily transfer money from the bank account of the person who has been given the new card through UPI.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beware-of-rising-cyber-fraud-cases-warn-panchkula-cops-178196
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Arjunveer’s 5-wicket haul helps Youngsters Club win||A five-wicket haul by Arjunveer Singh helped Youngsters Cricket Club (YCC) to beat Lakshaya Cricket Academy (LCA) by nine wickets in the Inspirational Cup 2020 held at Pinjore today.After putting to bat first, LCA boys were restricted to 68 runs in 18 overs. Ankan (19) and Mukul Wadhwa (16) were the two noted scorers for the side. Arjunveer claimed 5/9 to remain the pick of the bowlers, while Gulnaaz Grewal took 2/18.In reply, the YCC scored 69/1 in 14.4 overs with the help of Arjunveer Singh (18), Saad (18) and Gulnaaz Grewal (17). Arjunveer Singh was adjudged the man of the match.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/arjunveers-5-wicket-haul-helps-youngsters-club-win-178197
01-12-2020||Mohali||Finally, Mohali-Kharar flyover to open by January 15||After missing six deadlines in a row for two years, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is poised to throw open the Mohali-Kharar flyover by January 15, giving the much-needed respite to commuters.After opening 1-km stretch of the much-delayed Mohali-Kharar flyover starting from Balongi (called as Balongi flyover) a month ago, the NHAI would complete the final phase of the flyover by January 15.According to information, the NHAI is going to complete a stretch of the flyover on the Kharar side, which connects the Ludhiana road, in the second week of December.Confirming the same, Sub-Divisional Magistrate Himanshu Jain said the work on the project was going on in a time-bound manner. While the flyover towards Ludhiana would be thrown open for public by December 15, the final stretch of the flyover towards Ropar would be completed by January 15. Vehicles going towards Ludhiana would be allowed on the flyover, which would decongest the traffic on the Mohali-Kharar road.It is pertinent to mention here that the deadline for the completion of the flyover was September this year, but the work on the project was delayed due to the lockdown. The work was restarted after the district administration gave nod on April 19. Earlier, the project had missed several deadlines. The NHAI had handed over the Rs368-crore project to Larsen and Toubro (L&T), which began the construction of the flyover in November 2015. The project was initially planned to be complete by December 2018. From delay in land acquisition to other administrative hurdles and workforce issues amid the pandemic were the main reasons for the delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-mohali-kharar-flyover-to-open-by-january-15-178198
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Cricket Academy victorious||Chandigarh Cricket Academy defeated Champions Cricket Academy, Kharar, by six wickets to win the 2nd Panna Lal Memorial U-21 Cricket Tournament, organised at IVCA Cricket Academy, Dera Bassi.Batting first, Champions Cricket Academy posted 202/9 in 40 overs. Sukhman Singh (60) was the main scorer for the side, while Sahil Kumar (25) and Kalish Thakur (22) also contributed to the total. Anmoldeep claimed three wickets and Luvpreet Saini claimed two wickets for the bowling side. Anurag Sharma and Nehal Pajni took one wicket each for the bowling side.In reply, Chandigarh Cricket Academy posted 204/4 in 35.5 overs with the help of Ayush Sikka (69), Naman Bansal (36), Arjun Azad (34) and Nehal Pajni (32). Anmol Rana took two wickets for the bowling side, while Sahil Kumar and Pawan Kumar claimed one each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cricket-academy-victorious-178199
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Crackers burst despite ban||Scooterist hit by vehicle, diesFatehgarh Sahib: An unidentified vehicle hit a scooter on the Sirhind-Patiala road near Madhopur Chowk on Monday morning, resulting in the death of the scooterist on the spot. Sashvir Kumar, ASI, Sirhind police station, said the deceased had been identified as Baljit Singh (54), a resident of Husainpura village. He said the victim was coming from his village to Sirhind on the scooter and as he reached near Madhopur Chowk, an unidentified vehicle hit his scooter and crushed him. The vehicle driver sped away from the spot. He said the police had registered a case against the unidentified vehicle owner. The body was handed over to the family after a postmortem.Man held with 140-gm opiumChandigarh: A Hallo Majra resident has been arrested by the police with 140 gm of opium. The police said Vijay Kant (38) was nabbed from near the Poultry Farm chowk on November 29. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against him at the Sector 31 police station. TNSHostels unlikely to open todayChandigarh: Local colleges are unlikely to open hostels for final-year students from Tuesday as instructed by the Director Higher Education (DHE) amid low attendance in the ongoing physical classes, which restarted on November 23. “Hostels are unlikely to open from December 1 as we are yet to receive consent from students and their parents. For the time being, physical and online classes will continue as per schedule,” said a college principal. “The process to allot seats in hostels will also take time. At present, not many students are willing to stay in hostels,” said a teacher. TNSProtest by NSUI at Panjab varsityChandigarh: A protest was held at Panjab University to support the ongoing farmers’ agitation. NSUI national media in charge Manoj Lubana said, “Many students came together to support farmers’ call because members of their own families living in Punjab and Haryana are related to farming.” “We appeal to all people to come forward in support of the farmers’ cause,” he added. TNSConstitution Day celebrated at PUChandigarh: Panjab University celebrated the 71st Constitution Day by organising a webinar on “Fundamental rights and duties” on Monday. Prof Jyoti Rattan introduced the theme of the webinar. Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, welcomed chief guest Justice Surya Kant, Judge, Supreme Court, who talked about the success of the Indian Constitution in establishing the ideals of universal justice and democracy. Prof RK Singla, DUI, Vikram Nayyar, FDO and officiating Registrar, Dr Jagat Bhushan, officiating CoE, DSWs, chairpersons, directors of regional centres, college principals, teachers and students attended the event. TNS500 boxes of sweets giftedChandigarh: On the occasion of Gurpurb, Sukhjit Singh Gill, president of Rotary Club, along with other members, gifted 500 boxes of sweets to police personnel at the Police Lines, Sector 26, here as a mark of gratitude and appreciation to the brave and vigilant. TNSTwo arrested for theft incidentsZirakpur: With the arrest of two persons, the police claimed to have solved three theft incidents in Baltana here on Monday. The police also recovered Rs90,000 and 27 gold and silver jewellery items worth Rs 9 lakh from the suspects. Household items, bed sheets and clothes were also recovered from them. Hari Das was arrested on November 26 while Manna, alias Raju, was caught red-handed while stealing Rs1 lakh and jewellery worth Rs5 lakh from a house at Harmilap Nagar on November 23. The suspects are residents of New Indira Colony, Mani Majra. One of their accomplices is on the run. TNSNew spokesperson of Ramgarhia BoardPatiala: Manmohan Singh, under secretary, public relations, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, has been appointed spokesman-cum-press secretary of the All India Ramgarhia Board. Mohan Singh, president, All India Ramgarhia Board, said Manmohan would provide his services as spokesman-cum-press secretary of the board. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crackers-burst-despite-ban-178201
