02-12-2020||New Delhi||Student moves SC against scrapping of law entrance test by PU||A student from Chandigarh has moved the Supreme Court challenging a Punjab and Haryana High Court verdict dismissing her plea against scrapping the UGLAW entrance test by Panjab University.The university has instead decided to go for admission to its five-year law course on the basis of marks obtained in 12th standard considering the COVID-19 situation. The university authorities on October 2 scrapped the entrance examination for five-year integrated course as also the three-year law course for the session 2020-2021.Assailing the November 16 verdict of the high court, petitioner Shruti Nayar contended that the university scrapped the UGLAW entrance test “wrongly and illegally” and in violation of principles of natural justice.To go for admissions based on 12th standard examination results only was arbitrary and liable to be set aside.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/student-moves-sc-against-scrapping-of-law-entrance-test-by-pu-179009
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||No transport allowance for government staff who worked from home during COVID-19 lockdown||The Central government has stated that no transport allowance would be paid to employees who did not attend office during the nationwide lockdown that had been imposed earlier this year to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 pandemic.“The Central government employees who could not attend office in a whole calendar month during the lockdown period are not eligible to draw transport allowance for that month as these employees had not incurred any expenditure for commuting to office,” a circular issued by the Department of Expenditure on December 1 states.Transport allowance is granted to Central government employees as per prescribed rates to compensate them for the cost incurred on account of commuting between their residence and office.The Ministry of Finance had received several references regarding admissibility of transport allowance during the lockdown period that was enforced from March 23 to April 20 and then extended further up to May 20, 2020. Non-essential movement of individuals during this period was prohibited. Many government offices had functioned on reduced staff strength and where possible, employees were given the option to work from home through online means.Physically disabled employees and pregnant women employees, who were exempted to attend office and were directed to work from home during exempted period as per instructions issued by Department of Personnel and Training, are also not eligible to draw transport allowance during exemption period as these employees have not incurred any expenditure for commuting.Non-entitled officials who were temporarily provided with the facility of official car for commuting between office and residences throughout the whole calendar month on account of unavailability of public transport facility due to COVID-19 pandemic, are also not eligible to draw transport allowance, the circular adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-transport-allowance-for-government-staff-who-worked-from-home-during-covid-19-lockdown-178967
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab approves development of Amity University Campus in Mohali||Punjab Cabinet has approved the establishment of a world-class university campus by the Amity Education Group in Mohali's IT-city, thus paving it as a major educational hub.This decision was made during a Cabinet chaired by Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, here, through video conferencing.The Cabinet also gave a nod to the draft of "The Amity University Ordinance 2020", and authorized the Chief Minister to approve the final draft prepared by the Legal Remembrancer, without placing it again before the Cabinet.An official spokesperson said after the meeting, that the self-financed private "Amity University Punjab", being established as a high research and innovation-driven university on a 40-acre state-of-the-art campus, which would be developed at a prime location in Mohali, SAS Nagar, with an investment of Rs 664.32 crore over 5 years.The university would become functional from the next academic year with its first session set to commence in June-July 2021.This would be located 10-minutes away from Chandigarh-Mohali airport.The upcoming university would be instrumental in imparting world-class higher education to the students to empower them to compete globally, and be gainfully equipped.It would have an annual intake of 1,500-2,000 students.Besides being a hub of high-end research and international collaborations, the university will diverse job-oriented graduate, postgraduate, PhD and post-PhD programmes within the framework of the UGC and Punjab State’s regulations.In line with the New Education Policy 2020, it will encourage interdisciplinary approach beyond boundaries.Expected to bring quality education to Mohali, and usher in the overall development of the region, it would be a multi-disciplinary University, with various departments like Engineering Computer-IT, Communication, Commerce, Management, Psychology, Liberal Arts, English Literature etc.The Punjab government has made it mandatory to reserve 15 per cent of students from Punjab, 5 per cent of the total number of students would be given free education as part of the ordinance, and its terms and conditions.The university would be recruiting teaching and non-teaching staff as per UGC Guidelines.Notably, the state govt had formulated "Punjab Private Universities Policy, 2010" to promote quality hight education.Accordingly, the Ritnand Balved Education Foundation, New Delhi, had submitted a proposal for setting up Amity University at Block-D in Sector-82 Alpha, IT City, SAS Nagar (Mohali).After considering the proposal and adopting the required procedure as per the aforesaid policy, the Letter of Intent was issued to the sponsoring body on February 18, 2020, by the Higher Education department.The university in Mohali is the tenth university to be established by the not-for-profit Amity Education Group, one of India's leading global education groups with over 175,000 students and 6,000 faculty across its 9 universities and 26 schools, and campuses in 16 countries worldwide.As a commitment to establish the world-class institutions in the state of Punjab, Amity will invest Rs. 700+ Crore for its recently established Amity International School, Mohali and its forthcoming Amity University in Mohali, Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-approves-development-of-amity-university-campus-in-mohali-178936
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Water cannons used to stop Congress workers from marching to Haryana CM Khattar's home||Police used water cannons on Wednesday as Punjab Youth Congress workers jumped barricades trying to march to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s home here, protesting over the new farm laws.Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon and several others were taken into custody by the Chandigarh Police.The activists wanted to ‘gherao’ Khattar’s home to protest against the use of water cannons and teargas against Punjab farmers last week, when the Haryana Police had tried to stop them from entering the state to continue their “Delhi Chalo” march.“We came here to wake up the Khattar government,” Dhillon told reporters.“We will continue to fight till the farmers get justice,” he said, appealing to all sections of society to support the agitation.The Chandigarh Police first used water cannons against the Congress workers at barricades set up about three kilometers ahead of Khattar’s official residence.But some activists managed to reach closer to the CM’s home after jumping over police barricades. Again, water cannons were used to stop them.Police took several of them in custody. Some activists claimed police used canes to disperse them.Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Chahal was present on the spot.The roads leading to Khattar’s home were sealed and there was heavy police deployment near it.The protesters had earlier gathered near the Chandigarh headquarter of the Punjab Congress. They raised slogans against the BJP government at the Centre and in Haryana, calling them “anti-farmer”.Thousands of farmers, most of them from Punjab, are now gathered at Delhi’s borders protesting against the three new laws enacted at the Centre in September.Farmer unions claim the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving farmers to the mercy of corporate houses. But the government says the system will continue and the laws will give farmers more options to sell their crops.Farm leaders met Union ministers on Tuesday, but the two sides failed to break the deadlock. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-cannons-used-to-stop-congress-workers-from-marching-to-haryana-cm-khattars-home-178926
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||HC puts brakes on move to privatise Power Department||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today applied brakes to the move to privatise the functioning of the electricity wing of the UT Engineering Department.Taking up a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, a Division Bench stayed the tendering process regarding privatisation of the wing. A copy of the order was not yet available.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Vivek Puri, senior advocate Sunil Chadha and Akshay Chadha contended on the petitioner’s behalf that the union was aggrieved by the decision to privatise the electricity wing by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The Bench was also told that the process of privatisation of the wing could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the wing was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power.It was also contended that the transfer scheme without calling for objections from all stakeholders could not be legally sustained and acted upon. As per Section 131(2) of the Act, the power could not be transferred to a totally private entity with no stake or control of the government.“The entire action of the respondents in privatising the electricity wing of the Engineering Department, UT, and the entire process being carried out pursuant thereto, including office memo dated June 10, the decision taken during a meeting of the privatisation of the power department/utilities held on May 12 as far as the UT, Chandigarh, is concerned, the notice inviting bids and the documents prepared in relation thereto, is not only illegal, unjust, arbitrary and unconstitutional, but also in violation of the provisions and the principles of law...,” it was added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-puts-brakes-on-move-to-privatise-power-department-178735
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration to file review petition||The UT Administration has decided to file a review petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against its order that stayed the privatisation of the Electricity Department. UT Adviser Manoj Parida said they wouldcontinued on page 2 first file a review petition in the High Court, failing which they would move the Supreme Court.The UT Engineering Department had invited bids for privatisation of the Electricity Department on November 9. As many as 17 intended bidders, including Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited and Adani Transmission Limited, were issued request for proposal (RFP) to take part in the privatisation process of the department.The Centre had decided to privatise electricity distribution in the UTs to provide better service to consumers.Meanwhile, AAP has welcomed the stay granted by the High Court.Questioning the rationale behind privatising the department, local AAP convener Prem Garg said even in Punjab and Haryana, though the erstwhile electricity boards were divided into different utility companies, the control of the companies by and large remained with the respective state governments. “What’s the tearing hurry to privatise, when the department isn’t incurring any losses,” he questioned. The Administration should first consult all stakeholders and consider their opinions and objections and decide accordingly by taking care of the ground realities, he said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-file-review-petition-178736
02-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||Coldest November nights in decade||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1Nights in November remained the coldest on an average in over a decade.As per the data available with the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, the average minimum temperature in November was 11.3°C. In November last year, the average minimum temperature was 14.0°C, while in November 2018, it was 12.7°C.December temp likely to be below normalA Met official said the temperature in December was expected to remain below normal. “It is expected to be .5° to .6° below normal,” said the official. For the next two days, the sky is expected to be clear."There can be many reasons for it such as a persistent cloud-free sky, which causes the mercury to rise during the day and fall at night". - MET expertThe data from 2010 onwards showed that the average minimum temperature in November since 2010 remained higher than that recorded this year.“There could be several reasons for it such as a persistent cloud-free sky, which causes the temperature to rise during the day and fall at night. It also depends on the planetary scale,” said a scientist at the Met office here.On the other hand, the average maximum temperature this November was 26.5°C. Last year, it was 26.2°C and 26.9°C in 2018. Last month saw the minimum temperature drop to 8.1°C on November 22, the coldest November night in three years. The lowest maximum temperature during the month was 19.2°C on November 26. It was the coldest November day in a decade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coldest-november-nights-in-decade-178739
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 128 cases, 1 death||89 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district Covid tally reached 8,786 with 89 new cases surfacing during the past 24 hours. There was no fresh death due to the infection. So far, 8,162 patients have been cured of the disease. There are 497 active cases with 127 deaths in the district. TNSCovid kills 3 in MohaliMohali: Three more fatalities due to Covid-19 were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 282. Besides, 129 more persons tested positive for the virus while 192 patients were cured. Among the new cases, 112 were from Mohali (urban), one each from Dera Bassi and Dhakoli, nine from Gharuan and six from Kharar. So far, 15,598 cases have surfaced in the district. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-128-cases-1-death-178744
02-12-2020||Satya Prakash||SC stays order quashing VAT assessment notices||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 1The Supreme Court today stayed a Punjab and Haryana High Court order that had quashed VAT assessment notices, involving crores of rupees, issued to 47 business establishments in Chandigarh.While staying the operation of the High Court’s February 19 order, a three-Judge Bench, headed by Justice DY Chandrachud, also issued notices to the 47 assesses asking them to respond in six weeks to the petition filed by the UT Administration.The order of the top court came after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta pointed out that the High Court erred in setting aside the assessment notices.The cases relate to assessment years 2008-09, 2009-10 and 2010-11. The notices for assessment under Section 29(2) of the Punjab Value Added Tax Act, 2005, were issued and finalised in 2019.On a batch of petitions filed by traders, a Punjab and Haryana High Court Bench of Avneesh Jhingan and Ajay Tewari had set aside the notices mainly on the ground that these were beyond the period of limitation.“As per Rule 40 of the Punjab Value Added Tax Rules, 2005 (as applicable to Union Territory, Chandigarh), the annual statement is to be filed by November 20 of the year concerned. The last assessment year involved in the bunch is assessment year 2010-11. The annual statement was to be filed by November 20, 2011, and six years expired on November 19, 2017. Admittedly, all notices have been issued in 2019,” the High Court had said, pointing out that the notices were beyond the period of limitation. However, after the stay order issued by the top court, the UT Administration can now go ahead with the assessment and subsequent recovery of hundreds of crores of rupees. A single assessment involved Rs60 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sc-stays-order-quashing-vat-assessment-notices-178745
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Police nail gangster, aide||Gangster Baljit Chaudhary and his accomplice Bhavjeet Gill have been arrested by the police in a shooting incident reported from outside the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, in January this year.Both suspects were produced in a court and sent to two-day police remand.The complainant, Jagtar Singh of Ludhiana, had stated that he, along with his friend Samar Bhat, had come to the GMCH to meet a friend, who was admitted in the hospital.Jagtar had complained that he was standing near the Emergency when five persons came there and shouted that they would eliminate Samar before opening fire at him. He saved his life by hiding behind a car. Gurdyal Singh, who was passing by, sustained a bullet injury on his arm.Samar had old enmity with a few persons over the issue of posting videos and comments on the social media. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-nail-gangster-aide-178746
02-12-2020||Mohali||Girl found murdered||The body of a girl was found at an open place opposite a private school in Sector 69 here today.According to the police, the victim, who was yet to be identified, was hit on the head with a brick. The body had strangulation marks too.The police have recovered a blood-stained brick from near the spot. DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal said, “The victim seemed to be around 18 years of age. A case of murder has been registered.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girl-found-murdered-178750
02-12-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||This November, Chandigarh saw 14% less GST collections than previous year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1Despite the festival season, the goods and services tax (GST) collection dipped 14 per cent in the UT in the month of November.According to the Finance Ministry, the tax collection in the UT stood at Rs141 crore in November, which was 14 per cent less in comparison to Rs165 crore, the revenue received during the corresponding period last year.In October, the UT had collected tax to the tune of Rs151.98 crore, which was 3.21 per cent less in comparison to Rs157.02 crore, the collections made in the same month last year.In September, the gross GST collection was 10 per cent lower than what was collected during the corresponding period last year.An official said in October, the Excise and Taxation Department had received over Rs10 crore more than the previous month.The gross tax collection in September stood at Rs141.48 crore, including collection of Rs26 crore under the Central GST, Rs34 crore under UT GST and Rs81 crore under the Integrated GST. Last year, the month had seen GST collections of Rs156.51 crore.The UT got nearly eight per cent more revenue in the form of gross GST collected in September in comparison to the amount received in August.The gross GST collection in August was Rs138.52 crore, which was nearly 13 per cent less than the previous year when Rs160.08 crore as tax was collected.The official said the GST collection in July was Rs137.33 crore. Due to the imposition of the lockdown, the UT had collected a meagre revenue of Rs40.34 crore in April, which increased to Rs103.44 crore in May. However, with selective opening of various business establishments in Unlock 1.0, the revenue collection witnessed a sharp increase and the UT recorded a collection of Rs158.69 crore in June, the highest in this financial year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/this-november-chandigarh-saw-14-less-gst-collections-than-previous-year-178755
02-12-2020||Deepankar Sharda||BCCI Secretary visits Mullanpur stadium||Tribune News ServiceMullanpur (Mohali), December 1Jay Shah, Secretary, Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), visited the new international cricket stadium in Mullanpur today.Rajinder Gupta, president, Punjab Cricket Association (PCA), and Secretary Puneet Bali accompanied him on the tour of the under-construction stadium. Shah’s visit was a low-key affair considering the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Sources said due to this, the media was not informed about his first visit to Chandigarh and Mohali as the BCCI Secretary. The state associations (PCA and UTCA), which usually await such opportunities to gain publicity, tried their best to keep the visit a secret affair.On Monday evening, he had visited the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium in Chandigarh, which is under the UT Sports Department. He interacted with UTCA president Sanjay Tandon and other officials. He also visited UTCA’s another ground— Mahajan Cricket Ground — today.Purpose of visitSources said the BCCI secretary visited these stadiums to see the possibility of creating a bio-bubble for conducting tournaments from January 2021. “Various discussions were held with the stakeholders and suggestions were welcomed by the BCCI Secretary. The associations were aware of Shah’s visit but everyone was asked to keep it a low affair,” said a source.Sources said the PCA and UTCA may conduct a joint domestic event — a first amid the Covid-19 pandemic — in January 2021. “Both associations may jointly host the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. The BCCI has been eager to start domestic cricket after IPL and this visit was part of its planning. “He was here to see if there is a possibility to create a secure bio-bubble for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament,” said Puneet Bali.Sector 16 stadiumSources said the BCCI, through their counterparts, has floated a proposal to the UT Administration for handing over the Sector 16 stadium to them. It has been proposed to name the stadium after former Indian Captain Kapil Dev. The stadium is currently under government’s hold and managed by the UT Sports Department. Shah’s visit has again unlocked the speculations of putting pressure on the UT Administration for handing over the stadium to the BCCI.“The BCCI perceives Chandigarh (rather tricity) as an ideal venue for three major events of its domestic season — Ranji Trophy, Vijay Hazare Trophy and Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy — by creating a bio-bubble atmosphere in view of the pandemic. BCCI officials had visited UTCA’s venues earlier too,” said Sanjay Tandon, president, UTCA“It was a great meeting. And it was great to know his (Shah’s) vision of making this one of the world’s best stadiums. We have learnt a lot,” Rajinder Gupta, PCA, president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bcci-secretary-visits-mullanpur-stadium-178756
02-12-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Panchkula likely to get new Mayor by December-end’||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 1The BJP today asked those interested in contesting the elections for various wards of the Municipal Corporation in the city to file their application by December 2.Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta said the BJP was ready for the elections and the Panchkula city was likely to get the new Mayor by the last week of December. He said candidates would be screened before a final list was released. Meanwhile, aspirants have already started meeting the MLA. Senior party leaders are awaiting the arrival of election observer Captain Abhimanyu, who will hold discussions over the organisational matters and ticket aspirants.In the previous MC elections, only three BJP candidates — CB Goel, Sunil Talwar and Ravi Kant Swamy — had won. Later, Swamy joined the Congress. However, the party increased its tally to three as Krishna Lamba joined the BJP.As the Ward No 3 has been reserved for women, Goel’s daughter-in-law will be contesting the election this time. Former Deputy Mayor Sunil Talwar will be contesting from Ward No 5 while the area of Krishna Lamba has been merged into the Kalka-Pinjore Municipal Council.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-likely-to-get-new-mayor-by-december-end-178757
02-12-2020||---||Take call on fee hike, private schools urge Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1The Independent Schools’ Association (ISA) today submitted a representation to the UT Education Department asking whether the private schools should hike the fee by 16 per cent in the next session.The representation submitted by the president of association, HS Mamik, reads: “As you are aware the Chandigarh Fee Control Act allows the schools to increase the fee by eight per cent every year. However, as per the directions of the Administration, schools had not increased the fee for 2020-21. Now the question arises whether the schools will be permitted to increase their fee for the 2021-22 session up to 16 per cent (i.e. eight per cent for 2020-21 and eight per cent for 2021-22) or only eight per cent?”“We are appealing you to give an early and immediate decision. We would also request an immediate meeting to resolve the difficulties faced by the schools before the new session starts,” the letter concludes.Meanwhile, the UT Education Department today held a meeting to discuss the fee issue but no concrete decision was taken. Director School Education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said: “The matter of fee hike is under consideration and will be soon conveyed to the private schools.”Fee ActAs per the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, the increase in fee should not exceed eight per cent of the fee of the previous year charged by an unaided educational institution. If any unaided educational institution contravenes provisions of the Act, it is punishable with a fine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/take-call-on-fee-hike-private-schools-urge-chandigarh-178758
02-12-2020||Mohali||In Mohali, Rs 1K fine for not wearing a mask||The district administration today ordered the imposition of the night curfew in the district today onward.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan said the night curfew would be imposed from 10 pm to 5 am in the district. He said the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities would remain prohibited between 10 pm and 5 am within the municipal limits of the city and all towns.Dayalan said essential activities, including the operation of multiple shifts in the industry, government and private offices, movement of persons and goods on the national and state highways and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains, and aeroplanes would be permitted.Dayalan said all hotels and other hospitality units, restaurant and marriage palaces, including restaurant/hotels within shopping malls/multiplexes, shall shut down by 9.30 pm. He said the SSP, SDM’s, Civil Surgeon, Commissioner, MC, all EOs, should ensure social distancing for all activities.He said the authorities should also ensure wearing of a mask by residents, not spitting and frequent use of hand wash/sanitiser by all in public places. Regular sanitisation of all public/work places by the authorities concerned would be mandatory and must be strictly observed, he said.The DM further informed that the penalty for not wearing a mask and spitting in public places has been enhanced from Rs500 to Rs1,000 for each violation. Any violations shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-rs-1k-fine-for-not-wearing-a-mask-178759
02-12-2020||Mohali||Ex-councillor, 2 others injured||The police have arrested one person and booked several others on the attempt-to-murder charge for allegedly attacking three persons, including a former Mohali councillor, at Sohana last night.The suspects have been identified as Jagtar Singh, Avtar Singh, Gurmeet Singh, Harpreet Singh, all residents of Sukhgarh village. Around 10 unidentified persons have also been booked. Victim Jarnail Singh told the police that he, his brother Sahib Singh and former councillor Surinder Singh Rajput were cleaning his shop when the suspects came and beat them up. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-councillor-2-others-injured-178760
02-12-2020||Mohali||Club management booked for bursting crackers||The Mohali police have booked the management of Mohali Club in Phase 11 for allegedly playing DJ beyond the permissible limit and for bursting crackers last night. A case has been registered. A case was also registered against a resident, Inderjit Singh, for bursting crackers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/club-management-booked-for-bursting-crackers-178761
02-12-2020||---||CHB to conduct draw for  416 flats at Maloya-I today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will hold the third draw for the allotment of flats in Maloya-I tomorrow. Affordable Rental Housing Complexes SchemeThe UT Administration had decided to relocate residents of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 to EWS flats at Maloya-I. The project is being implemented under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes Scheme of the Centre.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said a computerised draw would be held for the allotment of 416 flats to occupants of pre-fab shelters of Sector 52 tomorrow. “There are 13 applicants who have submitted a copy of the disability certificate and they will be considered for the allotment of a flat on the ground floor,” he said.The UT Administration had decided to relocate residents of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 to EWS flats at Maloya-I. The project is being implemented under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes Scheme of the Centre.The CEO said two draws were held on November 10 and 25 for the allotment of 352 flats and 448 flats, respectively. The physical possession of the flats allotted in the first draw had already been handed over, while the process of giving the possession of flats allotted in the second draw was underway. About 650 pre-fab shelters at Sector 56 and 56 had been demolished and about 400 pre-fab shelters would be demolished in the next few days, he said.To follow the Covid protocol, live telecast of the draw would be streamed on YouTube and at the site of pre-fab shelters through a display van.Immediately after the draw, the result will be uploaded on the website of the CHB. It will also be displayed at the pre-fab shelter site the same day.Garg said the fourth draw would be held on December 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-to-conduct-draw-for-416-flats-at-maloya-i-today-178762
02-12-2020||---||Virtual fashion walk, awareness programmes mark AIDS Day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1To commemorate World AIDS Day, the Chandigarh State AIDS Control Society (CSACS) conducted various awareness programmes in the city today.Cake-cutting ceremonyA cake-cutting ceremony was organised involving small children giving a message “Children are the future and let’s keep them safe by getting every pregnant woman tested for HIV so that the mother to child transmission can be stopped.”A state-level programme was conducted in collaboration with Haryana State AIDS Control Society in accordance with the global theme of “Global Solidarity, Shared Responsibility, wherein a virtual fashion walk, “Walk the RED and talk the RED”, was conducted. Bollywood celebrity Sargun Mehta was the show-stopper. Everyone was dressed up in red, spreading awareness and prevention messages by holding placards. Members of the transgender community joined in the virtual fashion walk.Another programme was conducted in collaboration with Chandigarh Network for Positive People (CNP+) where a cake-cutting ceremony was organised involving small children giving a message “Children are the future and let’s keep them safe by getting every pregnant woman tested for HIV so that the mother to child transmission can be stopped.”Partner NGOs conducted health camps, awareness talks and distribution of masks, medicines and nutrition to the needy to observe the day.Dr Vanita Gupta, project director, CSACS, said all precautionary measures were taken while conducting awareness programmes to mark World AIDS Day. The state programme was conducted physically as well as virtually to avoid gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virtual-fashion-walk-awareness-programmes-mark-aids-day-178763
02-12-2020||Dera Bassi||Fake land deal: 3 held, 5 booked||The police have arrested three persons, including a woman, and booked five others in a bid to dupe a person in a land deal at Janetpur village. The suspects were today produced before a court, which sent them to two-day police remand.Complainant Baljit Singh, a resident of Mauli Baidwan village, alleged that Harjinder Singh, a resident of Dharamgarh, who works as a typist at the Dera Bassi tehsil office, Davinder Singh, a resident of Chadiala, and Harjit Singh introduced him to land owners Ranjit Kaur and Rinku and showed fake documents of a five acre-land to be sold for Rs9 crore. The suspects took Rs5 lakh as advance money from the customer. They were about to take another Rs 3 crore as ‘bayana’ (agreement on a stamp paper) on November 30, but the complainant became suspicious. On confirming their antecedents, he came to know about the fake deal.The police said Ranjit Kaur, a resident of Kapurthala, Rinku and Harjinder Singh had been arrested, while Harjit Singh and Davinder Singh were absconding. Ranjit and Rinku were posing as the mother-son duo residing in Alwar.Dera Bassi police station in-charge Satinder Singh said: “Ranjit Kaur was posing as Kamaljeet Kaur, a resident of Badheri in Chandigarh. We have recovered some documents and fake Aadhaar cards from their possession. Further investigations are on in the matter.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fake-land-deal-3-held-5-booked-178767
02-12-2020||---||2 cops accused of extortion identified||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1The two cops, who have been accused of extorting money from a liquor contractor, have been identified as Pawan and Anil. They are posted in the Crime Branch.A police official said the Crime Branch would be intimated and both cops would be asked to join the investigation.The liquor contractor, in his complaint, has alleged that the cops used to extort money on a monthly basis. He gave a total of Rs96,000 every month to the police personnel. It is alleged that the police personnel were extorting money from him for the past few months.The complainant was provided CCTV footage based on which the two cops were identified. A case of extortion and sections of the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act was registered at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-cops-accused-of-extortion-identified-178768
02-12-2020||---||2 accomplices of Monty Shah held||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1Two accomplices of Monty Shah, who had allegedly accompanied him while he fired gunshots at Burail to threaten witnesses in the Sonu Shah murder case, have been arrested by the UT police.In October, Monty had fired gunshots to threaten deceased Sonu’s brother Parveen Shah and his associate Tirath while they were at their office in Burail.The police said Monty was allegedly accompanied by his cousin Vinay and Mohit. Both were sitting in the car when Monty walked up to the office and fired the gunshots.The police said the trio escaped to Kalka after the incident where they stayed at Vinay’s house. Later, Monty escaped to Rajasthan.Both suspects were produced in a court and sent to two-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-accomplices-of-monty-shah-held-178769
02-12-2020||---||40 LEDs stolen from Sector 29 store||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1Around 40 LEDs, worth several lakhs, were stolen from VK Distributors at the Iron Market, Sector 29, on Monday night.The police said the suspect entered the store after breaking the wall. The suspect is seen in the footage of a CCTV camera while stealing the LEDs, said a police official.The suspect took the LEDs in a pickup, which was parked near the building.The incident came to light in the morning after which the police were informed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-leds-stolen-from-sector-29-store-178770
02-12-2020||Mohali||Repair work on damaged Airport Road begins||Ten days after Chandigarh Tribune highlighted the poor condition of Airport Road, repair work on some of the stretches was undertaken with the active support of the Mohali traffic police here today. Patchwork was done in some of the poorly damaged sections of the road and dangerous potholes were filled to avoid road mishaps.SP (Traffic) Gurjot Singh Kaler inspected the sites on Airport Road where repair work was going on. On November 22, Chandigarh Tribune had highlighted the poor condition of the road and the inconvenience faced by commuters on the stretch from the McDonald point to the Airport chowk.Vishwas Bhardwaj, a Dera Bassi resident, who commutes through this stretch daily, said: “It is a welcome step by the Mohali traffic police that they are ensuring the safety of road users. Airport Road needs a major overhaul.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/repair-work-on-damaged-airport-road-begins-178772
02-12-2020|| Patiala||Sweets infested with insects destroyed in Patiala||Officials of the District Health Department today destroyed 10 kg of insect-infested sweets at a shop in Nabha town of the district.During a raid, the food safety officer (FSO) destroyed 10 kg of ‘rasgullas’ on the spot. However, the district health officer (DHO), issued a warning to the shopkeeper for selling such sweets.The DHO, Shelly Jaitley, said, “We have already issued him a warning after we found insects in sweets. We have destroyed the sweets on the spot.”Shelly said, “Health teams will inspect the shop in the future too. If any negligence is found, we will cancel the owner’s licence. We are regularly conducting workshops to guide food handlers to maintain cleanliness at their shops.”Officials of the Health Department also destroyed three kilograms of ‘cham cham’ at a shop as it was unfit for consumption.Meanwhile, health officials collected food samples of ‘khoya burfis’, ‘rasgullas’, ‘gulab jamun’, milk cake, and ‘mattar’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sweets-infested-with-insects-destroyed-in-patiala-178773
02-12-2020||---||Suspect held in hit-&-run case||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 1The police have arrested a suspect in a hit-and-run case. A 24-year-old woman, Meenu Chauhan, died on November 12 after being hit by a motorcyclist at the Sector 79-80 intersection.The police have not yet disclosed the identity of the suspect.An eyewitness had noted down the registration number of motorcycle and gave it to the police. The woman has left behind two children, aged six and eight.Nowhere to go, the children are now staying with the family of victim Meenu Chauhan’s prospective husband, Dheeraj, who already has four children from her deceased first wife.Dheeraj and his mother Anita want to take care of the children, but they face financial constraints to rear a family of eight persons.Mohali SP (traffic) Gurjot Singh Kaler said: “The suspect has been arrested. The process for the legal adoption of the children has also begun. We have received calls from locals and those living abroad who want to help these children.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspect-held-in-hit-run-case-178774
02-12-2020||Patiala||Only 26 patients show up at recovery clinic in month||In the wake of apprehension of post-Covid complications, only 26 Covid patients showed up at the post-Covid recovery clinic at Government Rajindra Hospital here for treatment in a month.Established by the Department of Medicine, Government Medical College, Patiala, the post-Covid OPD, which operates twice a week — Monday and Friday — saw only 26 patients who reported post-Covid complications.Dr Raminder Pal Singh Sibia, head of the Medicine Department, said the patients reported with complaints of fatigue, weakness, myalgias and arthralgias. However, they were taught muscle conditioning exercises of different muscle groups by trained physiotherapists.“We have also made available all routine and advanced investigations that may be required for these patients for their proper management which includes complete blood count, liver function tests, kidney function tests, D-dimer, CRP and serum procalcitonin levels,” said Dr Sibia.He said the ECG was done in all cases. Imaging studies such as digital X-Ray and high-resolution CT scan of chest had also been made available as per requirement.Meanwhile, Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, Government Rajindra Hospital, said patients who came with psychiatry-related issues during post-Covid convalescence, sleep disturbances, anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress disorders, etc., were assessed by a team from the Psychiatry Department which were made available in the Post-Covid OPD itself. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-26-patients-show-up-at-recovery-clinic-in-month-178776
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bicycle-sharing project to be launched in Chandigarh on Dec 10||After many delays, the bicycle-sharing project is finally set to start on December 10. Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore is expected to launch it from Rock Garden.It is started as a pilot project under the Cycles4Change Challenge. It will have cycles on an half-hourly payment basis.Chandigarh is one of the 95 cities in the country taking part in the challenge designed to make city dwellers cycle-friendly and increase zero carbon mobility. It will be launched with 25 docking stations and 250 bicycles.It is a trial before lunching all 5,000 bicycle/e-bikes at 617 docking stations. Initially, 100 bikes will be made available at 10 stations. Later, it will be doubled in another 10 days.The delayed project will have docking stations at the railway station, bus stands, markets, Panjab University, the PGI, the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Sukhna Lake, Rock Garden and other prominent public places. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bicycle-sharing-project-to-be-launched-in-chandigarh-on-dec-10-178777
02-12-2020||---||Stone laid for railway underbridge in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1MP Rattan Lal Kataria, Minister of State for Water Resources and Social Justice and Empowerment, and Asim Goyal, Ambala City MLA, laid the foundation station for the construction of a railway underbridge at Jhandli Phatak between Ambala Cantonment and Ambala City.The railway underbridge at Jhandli Phatak will replace level crossing at Ambala City between the Ambala Cantonment and Ambala City railway stations.The underbridge will be constructed at a cost of Rs5 crore and it will be completed in around seven months.This railway underbridge will benefit the citizens of Ambala City as it was their old demand.Apart from this project, the Ambala Division is also planning to construct more railway overbridges/underbridges in lieu of various level crossings in Ambala district under the jurisdiction of Ambala Division (Northern Railway).Four railway overbridges and eight railway underbridges will be built and the work is under process, which is expected to be completed by 2021. These works will be completed at a cost of around Rs 73 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stone-laid-for-railway-underbridge-in-ambala-178778
02-12-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||2 get 10-year jail in NDPS case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1Holding them guilty for an offence under Sections 15(c), 18(b) and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the Court of Additional District and Session Judge Dr Ajit Attri sentenced two persons to 10-year imprisonment.The court also imposed a fine of Rs1 lakh each on the convicts, Lakhwinder Singh and Manpreet Singh, both residents of Punjab.While announcing the verdict, the court noted that there is no denying the fact that the instances under the NDPS Act are on the alarming rise and drugs have directly affected the youth and the entire social fabric of society.As per the prosecution, the convicts were arrested by officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) with 3.220 kg of opium and 629.9 kg of poppy husk in 2016 from near a furniture market in Sector 41, Chandigarh.The NCB officials got a tip-off that the duo was coming with the contraband in a truck from Madhya Pradesh. When the NCB team stopped the truck, being driven by Lakhwinder Singh, Manpreet Singh was found sitting in the cabin.During checking, it was found that the truck was loaded with around 28 tonnes of masur dal. The contraband was found in white polythene packets, which were kept in the middle of the bags of pulses loaded in the truck. Around 21 bags of poppy husk were recovered from the truck.The accused were booked under various sections of the NDPS Act. During trials, the defence counsel argued that they were falsely implicated in the case. However, based on the evidence, the court held them guilty and sentenced them to 10-year imprisonment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-get-10-year-jail-in-ndps-case-178779
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||SSP (Traffic) Manisha Chaudhary takes charge||Two passports: Cops book manChandigarh: A Ludhiana resident has been booked on a complaint of the passport officer after it was found that he got two passports issued in different names. According to the police, complainant Amit Kumar Rawat, area passport officer, RPO, Sector 34, reported that Anil Kumar Bedi, aka Rohit Bal, obtained two passports on two names — Anil Kumar Bedi and Rohit Bal — and different particulars. TNSPUTA protest enters Day 12Chandigarh: PUTA executive’s protest against the pending cases of CAS promotions of more than 70 teachers entered its Day 12 on Tuesday. Prof Supinder Kaur, Vice-President, PUTA, presented a detailed report on how “callously the Vice-Chancellor has dealt with the two issues of CAS promotions and ambiguity over Clause 6.3 of UGC Regulations 2018”. It was also announced that PUTA will take out a march on Wednesday at 5 pm from VC’s Camp Office. TNSPurse snatched from girlChandigarh: A motorcycle-borne miscreant allegedly snatched a purse from a girl in Sector 44. The victim, a Sector 44 resident, reported that an unknown person snatched her purse containing Rs350, an ATM card, an iPhone and some documents on November 30. The police were informed following which a case was registered at the Sector 34 police station. TNSTennis c’ship on December 7Chandigarh: Roots Tennis Academy, Zirakpur (Mohali), will organise the All-India Tennis Association (AITA) National Ranking Championship from December 7 to 9. The championship will be conducted for the U-14 category. The interested players can register their names at the tournament venue before December 6. TNSCounselling postponedChandigarh: In view of an interim order by Punjab and Haryana HC, the online counselling for admission to BA LLB (Hons) 5-year integrated course at the PU is postponed. TNSThree-day special enrolment driveChandigarh: The Social Welfare Department, UT, will hold a three-day special campaign for persons with disability (PwD) from December 2 to 4 at Bal Bhawan, Sector 23, in which the Election Department will also enrol persons with disability on the spot. They can fill the claims and objections during the special campaign. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ssp-traffic-manisha-chaudhary-takes-charge-178787
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||High Court stays counselling for Panjab University’s 5-year law course||A day before the counselling for Panjab University’s BA LLB (Hons.) 5-year integrated course was scheduled to be held, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed that the process based on the revised merit list would be kept in abeyance.Notice of motionIssuing notice of motion for December 3, the Bench asserted: “In the meanwhile, the conduct of the counselling based on the revised merit list fixed for December 2 shall be kept in abeyance”.The direction by the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash came on a petition by Malayika Verma through counsel Sandeep Moudgil and after it was told that the decision to award four marks weightage for “Legal Studies” had been withdrawn.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Moudgil submitted the petitioner was a candidate for admission to the integrated course for session 2020-21 against the 90 seats in the general category of the total 180. The admissions were based on the marks obtained in the qualifying 10+2 examination.But the petitioner’s grievance was that the revised merit list for counselling to be held on December 2 for the course was uploaded by withdrawing the award of four marks assigned for passing “Legal Studies” in the 10+2 examination. As a result, the petitioner’s rank was reduced from 86 to 690, beyond the assigned 90 seats in the general category.The Bench observed the decision to award weightage of four marks each, subject to a maximum of 16, to certain subjects for determination of final merit was taken after the issuance of the prospectus for BA LLB (Hons) and BCom LLB 5-year integrated course.It was further evident that a writ petition “Samriti versus PU and others” was filed, challenging the weightage of four marks for “Legal Studies” for admission to the course as it was not provided in the prospectus. “It is, perhaps, in the wake of the writ petition filed, PU has withdrawn the award of four marks in the present case, without according similar treatment to weightage for subjects, including ‘Legal Studies’, for determination of merit for admission to BCom LLB integrated course,” the Bench asserted.It also took note of Moudgil’s contention that the respondent-varsity could not pick and choose, while extending the benefit of weightage for the subjects. As such, the action was discriminatory and arbitrary. That apart, the sanctity of the prospectus stood diluted in view of the varsity’s subsequent decision for admission by abandoning the entrance examination as originally stipulated in the prospectus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-stays-counselling-for-panjab-universitys-5-year-law-course-178661
