08-12-2020||Mohali||Complete bandh observed in Mohali||Complete bandh was observed in the Mohali city as shops and commercial establishments in the city as well as in Kharar area remained shut on Tuesday on the bandh call given by the farmers’ unions and social organisations.The farmers supported by various organisations including the sanitation workers and SGPC workers had gathered in Kharar and held a rally on the main road.Almost all the roads leading to various sectors and phases in the Mohali city, including Phase 7, 3B2, Sector 82, Balongi barrier were blocked as the people sat on the road. Large number of schoolchildren also sat on dharna at various protest sites in the city.The traffic in the city had come to a standstill as the people preferred not to move out of the house in view of the bandh call. The employees of private as well as government offices had left for their duties early in the morning.Only chemist shops were open in the city and all the shops and shopping mall in Kharar remained closed. However, there was no effect on the essential supplies including milk and vegetables.The petrol pumps also remained closed in the district as the petrol dealers had also expressed their solidarity with the farming community.The police administration had deployed large number of police force at strategic points in the city to keep an eye on the anti-social elements in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/complete-bandh-observed-in-mohali-181556
08-12-2020||---||Bharat Bandh: No traffic movement in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, December 8Roads in Zirakpur wore a deserted look as very few people came out of their homes due to ‘Bharat Bandh’ call.There was minimal traffic on the main Chandigarh-Ambala highway and the Zirakpur-Patiala road too wore a deserted look. However, there were no reports of any untoward incident till 1 pm.A group of farmers gathered near a gurdwara on the Patiala road and took out tractor-trolley march in support of their demands. A few policemen on motorbikes followed them.No barricades were put up by the police in Zirakpur and nearby areas. There was no police presence on the roads but a tow-away vehicle was stationed at Patiala chowk.However in Pabhat, roads were blocked by parking tractor trolleys midway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-no-traffic-movement-in-zirakpur-181519
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Shooting for film in Chandigarh till last week, actor Kriti Sanon tests Covid positive||Bollywood actress Kriti Sanon has reportedly tested Covid- 19 positive.However, Kriti is yet to confirm or deny this update about her health.Kriti was in Chandigarh shooting with Rajkummar Rao for an upcoming film till last week, according to a report in filmfare.com.Celebrity photographer Viral Bhayani also shared a photo of the actress on his verified Instagram account with "Covid +" written on it.Bhayani wrote: "Call it bad luck inspite of taking all safety measures. She recently returned from Chandigarh, where she was shooting for an upcoming movie with Rajkummar Rao. She even told us that she would not remove her mask even for a second. #kritisanon." Incidentally, Varun Dhawan and Neetu Kapoor also recently tested positive. They were in Chandigarh on an outdoor schedule for the film "Jug Jugg Jeeyo".Varun recently confirmed in social media that he had tested positive shooting for the film "Jug Jugg Jeeyo" in the city. His co-star in the film Neetu Kapoor and the film's director Raj Mehta also tested positive."So as I returned to work in the pandemic era I have contracted #covid_19 All precautions were taken by the production but still nothing is certain in life especially not covid-19. So please be extra careful I believe I could have been more careful. I see the get well soon messages and my spirits are high taking each day at a time thank u," Varun Dhawan shared on his verified Instagram account on Monday.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shooting-for-film-in-chandigarh-till-last-week-actor-kriti-sanon-tests-covid-positive-181513
08-12-2020||Naina Mishra||66 per cent Covid patients remembered God to cope with illness, says PGI study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 8The Covid-19 patients found myriad ways to cope with the illness and isolated hospital stay, but the most common method used by patients at PGIMER here to handle the disease was remembering God and following religious disciplines. About two-thirds of the patients reported remembering God (66 %) and praying to God (62 %) helped them to a large extent, revealed a PGI study published in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry.The study sample comprised 50 patients admitted to the PGI here.The study  has been authored by Dr Swapnajeet Sahoo, Dr Aseem Mehra, Dr Devakshi Dua and Dr Sandeep Grover from the Department of Psychiatry, Dr Vikas Suri and Dr Pankaj Malhotra from Internal Medicine, Dr Lakshmi Narayana Yaddanapudi and Dr GD Puri from the Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care Unit.When asked about the coping methods used during the hospital stay to adapt to the situation and negative emotions, 34 per cent respondents said listening to religious discourses was quite helpful in overcoming negative emotional states during their stay in the hospital.According to the study, people in India usually turn to God at the time of crisis, and possibly externalising the responsibility to a higher power leads to a reduction in anxiety and distress.The study suggested that clinicians involved in managing people with COVID-19 infection should carefully evaluate the religious beliefs and practices of the patients, and if they find that the person has been successfully using positive religious coping in the past, they should be encouraged to use the same.When asked about the change in perspective in life after surviving the COVID-19 infection, almost all of the participants reported an increased ‘faith in God’ and about one-fourth reported a decrease in their faith in ‘power of money’.Battling depressionThe PGI finding also suggested that despite being provided psychological support, about two-fifth (38 %) of the people diagnosed with COVID-19 infection screen positive for anxiety disorder or depression close to their discharge.“This suggests that going through the experience of COVID-19 infection is very stressful, and despite providing psychological support, many patients go on to develop psychological morbidity,” the study concluded.“There is a need to follow up the patient with COVID-19 infection, even after discharge to evaluate them for ongoing psychiatric morbidity and manage the same adequately,” it added.Covid blues||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/66-per-cent-covid-patients-remembered-god-to-cope-with-illness-says-pgi-study-181502
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||15-year-old girl commits suicide||Webinar on Covid-19Chandigarh: A webinar on "Covid-19: Transformation of Life Sciences" was organised by the department of biotechnology, GGDSD College, Sector-32, and the Chandigarh Forum for Science and Technology Communication (CFSTC). Dr Balraj Thapar, Principal, GGDSD College, welcomed the resource persons and participants. Upkar Krishan Sharma, president, GGDSD College, in his presidential remarks, discussed the role of technology in the education sector during pandemic. Prof RC Sobti, former vice-chancellor, PU, introduced the concept of CFSTC. Prof NK Ganguli, former DG, ICMR, inaugurated the webinar and shared his views on the pandemic. TNSPositive mental health discussedChandigarh: To spread awareness on the need for positive mental health amid Covid-19, Panjab University has launched a series of lectures by eminent psychologists, according to Prof Seema Vinayak, Chairperson of Psychology Department and in charge of mental health under the National Flagship Programme. Professor Indranee Phookan Borooah of Gauhati University addressed a national webinar on the impact of adverse childhood experiences on mental health. She emphasised its long-term effects that can range from physical, emotional or sexual abuse to divorce of parents or captivity of caregiver. TNSPUTA protest continuesChandigarh: The ongoing protest by the Panjab University Teachers' Association against the delay in CAS promotions entered its 18th day on Monday. Dr Amritpal Kaur recited a poem, highlighting the legitimate right of teachers for promotions. Prof Supinder Kaur presented a parody on the elaborate security enjoyed by the Vice-Chancellor. TNSOffice-bearers electedChandigarh: The Chandigarh Athletics Association conducted its annual general body meeting and elected Ramesh Handa (senior vice-president), Jaspinder Singh (secretary) and Dr GP Pal (joint secretary). Various affiliated units of the association attended the meeting. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-year-old-girl-commits-suicide-181247
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Inaaya moves to next round||Top seed Inaaya Mittal defeated Suhani Chaudhary 8-3 to reach the girls’ U-14 quarterfinals on the opening day of the Roots-AITA National Ranking Championship at Roots Tennis Academy, Zirakpur.Second seed Sia Mahajan defeated Tanvi Kohli and Diya Chaudhary ousted Rasha Sood by identical scores of 8-1. Akshdha Sharma defeated Naisha Garg 8-3, Shrawasti Kundliya outplayed Tamanna Walia 8-2 and Mehakpreet Kaur beat Ira Chadha 8-3.In the boys’ U-14, top seed Umang Singh defeated Kanav Bansal 8-5, while third seed Hardik Khanduja defeated Himanish Brinda 8-3.Pre-quarter resultsGirls’ U-14: Sidhak Kaur bt Shaurya Pathak 8-2, Reet Arora bt Gurnaaz Toor 8-2.Boys’ U-14: Daksh Khokhar bt Anish Sharma 8-1, Akshat Dhull bt Samarpit Bhatia 8-2, Anuj Pal bt Advit Tiwari 8-3 and Arpit Garg bt Aryan Jolly 8-5. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inaaya-moves-to-next-round-181235
08-12-2020||Mohali||2 held with pistols, bulletproof jacket||Sleuths of the CIA staff of the Mohali police have arrested two persons and recovered two country-made pistols, seven live cartridges and a bulletproof jacket from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Aiman (33), a resident of Libaspur near Delhi, and Khush Kumar, alias Bholu (20), a resident of Amritsar. They were produced before a court, which remanded them to police custody. The police said Aiman was arrested from Phase 6 here. During checking, the police recovered a .32 bore country-made pistol and five live cartridges from his possession. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against him at the Phase 1 police station.The police said Khush was arrested during checking at Kharar. A .315 bore country-made pistol, two live cartridges and a bulletproof jacket were recovered from his possession. A case under the Arms Act has been registered at the Kharar police station.During preliminary investigation of the suspects, it came to fore that various cases under the NDPS Act, extortion, Section 307 of the IPC and the Arms Act had been registered against them at various police stations. Six cases under the Arms Act were already registered against Aiman in Shalimar Bagh, Mukherjee Nagar, Adarsh Nagar and Hazrat Nizamuddin in Delhi. Two cases were already registered against Khush at the Keema Wala Gate police station and Sultanwind police station, Amritsar, under the NDPS Act, Arms Act and Section 379-B of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-with-pistols-bulletproof-jacket-181236
08-12-2020||---||CRPF inks pact with Haryana Forest Dept||Panchkula, December 7To strengthen the Green India Mission of the Central Government, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between the Haryana Forest Department and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) through video-conferencing in Pinjore here today.Divulging details, Sunil Thorpe, DIG, Group Centre, CRPF, Pinjore, said the MoU was signed by CRPF Director-General Dr Anand Prakash Maheshwari and the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests through virtual conferencing.He said under the mission, the Group Centre, Pinjore, had planted medicinal plants in the Morni area and Yamunanagar and took the responsibility for the protection of these trees for the next five years. In July this year, CRPF officers and jawans had planted trees in Malikpur Bangar village in Yamunanagar district and Bangarghat village and in the hills of Morni.Thorpe said similarly CRPF group centres of Sonepat, Gurugram, Panipat, Faridabad and Nuh had successfully carried out tree plantation work with the cooperation of local people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crpf-inks-pact-with-haryana-forest-dept-181237
08-12-2020||Mohali||Mohali DM orders adequate arrangements||In view of the Bharat Bandh call by farmers and various social organisations across the country on December 8, Mohali District Magistrate Girish Dayalan here today issued orders to ensure adequate arrangements to maintain law and order.Dayalan said efforts were to ensure least inconvenience to general public without obstructing peaceful protests, if any. The area DSP and the SDM would coordinate for crowd management, while executive magistrates and special executive magistrates would be deployed to assist area SDMs.Fire brigades and ambulances would also be deployed at strategic points in coordination with the area SDMs in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-dm-orders-adequate-arrangements-181232
08-12-2020||---||Landowners see red in levy of location charges by GMADA||Mohali, December 7Landowners in Sector 88 and 89 here today showed resentment against preferential location charges and 18 per cent interest as penalty levied by the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) for transferring their land to blood relations.Addressing the media here today, Capt Sardara Singh (retd), a resident of Sohana village, Jaswant Kaur, alias Satwant Kaur, a resident of Sector 35-D, Chandigarh, and Hardeep Singh Uppal, a resident of Sector 88, Mohali, said they had given land for parks and roads for the land acquired under the land pooling scheme. It was wrong to levy location charges on them, they added.The biggest problem was that if landowners wanted to transfer benefits under the scheme to their blood relations, including son, daughter or any other member, the same fee was demanded by GMADA from them, they added.They had reported the matter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in 2017, but no attention was paid to it and alleged looting of landlords by GMADA was continuing, said Sardara Singh.It was surprising that GMADA’s project Ecocity itself did not levy any charges or fee on landlords, he added. Both Ecocity and Sector 88 and 89 projects fell under the same policy, award and agenda, he said.Speaking on the occasion the Mohali District Youth Akali Dal president, Parvinder Singh Sohana, said while farmers were being harassed by the BJP government at the Centre over agriculture Bills, in Punjab GMADA was allegedly looting landowners during the regime of Capt Amarinder Singh led Congress government. He warned that if GMADA did not stop levying charges on landowners of Sector 88 and 89 they would be forced to launch an agitation against the agency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/landowners-see-red-in-levy-of-location-charges-by-gmada-181233
08-12-2020||---||Northern Railway issues travel advisory||Chandigarh, December 7The Northern Railway has issued a travel advisory for passengers in view of the revised timings of some train services. Due to operational reasons, timings or stoppages of some trains have been revised from December 1 onwards. Therefore, passengers are advised to check and verify the revised train timings pertaining to their journeys either with integrated enquiry number 139, National Train Enquiry System website, IRCTC website or authorised person in the nearby reservation counters/railway stations.Passengers have been advised to mention their own mobile number only while filling the reservation requisition form. It will help the Railways to provide train cancellation or change in train operation-related information to bona fide rail passengers through SMS.The Northern Railway seeks the cooperation of passengers so as to ensure a safe and hassle-free travel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/northern-railway-issues-travel-advisory-181240
08-12-2020||---||CBA to conduct U-19, senior championships from Dec 24||Chandigarh, December 7The Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA) will organise the Yonex Sunrise Chandigarh State Badminton Championship from December 24 to 27, at the Sector 38 Sports Complex.The championship will be conducted in the boys and girls junior (U-19) and senior (men and women) categories, strictly adhering to the Covid-19 protocol.Interested players can collect entry forms from their respective coaching centres from December 10, and submit it on or before December 20 at the same venue. Those players, who are registered with the CBA, will be allowed to participate in the championship. Along with the entry form, players will be provided with a set of SOPs, which are strictly to be followed.“The association has decided to conduct this tournament for the interest of players. On the basis of state championships, players get advantage while taking admission to various colleges and universities, while the position holders also get scholarships and gradation from the UT Sports Department,” said Surinder Mahajan, Secretary, CAB.It was also decided that for national championship for the session 2020, the local team will be selected on the basis of performance in this particular championship. However, for the 2021 national championship, separate trials or championship will be conducted to select the Chandigarh team. Meanwhile, the association also announced that it would organise the Yonex Sunrise Chandigarh State Badminton Championship for sub-junior (Under-17) in the third week of January. One player can participate in a maximum of four events of all categories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cba-to-conduct-u-19-senior-championships-from-dec-24-181229
08-12-2020||---||Panels to check violations, illegal water connections||Chandigarh, December 7Mayor Raj Bala Malik has formed two committees to look into the issues of water connections of those staying outside Lal Dora and building violations at rehabilitation colonies in Sector 52 Karson Colony and Mauli Jagran.In the last General House meeting it was decided that committees should be formed to check both the issues. The panel’s recommendation, once ready, will be tabled in the House meeting for the approval.In a temporary relief to 4,298 allottees of the two rehabilitation colonies, the MC House decided not to serve fresh building violation notices on them last month.The corporation had resolved to form a committee to decide whether to give temporary water connections to 2,128 consumers outside Lal Dora, who are currently using the supply illegally. The civic body expects to earn Rs 6.87 crore by giving them water connections.Although the two committees have been constituted, yet two other such panels formed following October House meeting have failed to table their report till now.These committees were to decide whether employees should wear GPS-enabled wrist watches or not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panels-to-check-violations-illegal-water-connections-181230
08-12-2020||The world is confronted with unprecedented mental health problems due to Covid-19. The pandemic has sounded the alarm bell for millions of people all over the world. They are grappling with the disastrous consequences of the deadly virus and problems in the field of mental health have seen a phenomenal rise in the past few months.||Let’s reach out and help each other||Many factors are responsible for this. The economic consequences of the disease have struck people badly. Many have lost their jobs, companies have closed down and businesses have failed. The livelihood of people has been threatened. People have less or no money to make both ends meet. The poor are the worst affected.The social support system of people has weakened. They are afraid of meeting friends and relatives. The enforcement of physical isolation and social distances has increased the loneliness of people. Doctors, nurses and healthcare workers are afraid of going to work as they might bring back Covid with them. They are fearful for themselves and their families. Many precious lives have been lost and the dead have been denied a decent burial. For long, people have been huddled together in small apartments or flats which restricts their movement and makes them irritated, angry and intolerant of each other.Due to all these factors, there has been an increase in mental health problems such as depression, anxiety, irritability, anger and frustration. Likewise, the number of suicides has also gone up. They have no way to give vent to their frustrations and take resort to suicide to “end their suffering”.What coping mechanisms are available to people in these difficult times? On top of the list comes meditation and yoga. Spending time in prayers brings solace to the mind. Any kind of physical exercise such as walking, cycling and playing indoor and outdoor games is highly recommended. Listening to soft soothing music also calms the mind. Getting a good sleep is also important. Talking to friends, relatives and loved ones is extremely cathartic and relieves stress. Laughter therapy also helps fight depression.Every individual has to devise his own strategy for overcoming stress and anxiety. However, if one does get into a problem, it should not be hidden or ignored. Let there be no hesitation in seeking professional help. Taking treatment is better than suffering in silence. Post-Covid, there is greater awareness and acceptance of such mental health issues. Film stars, sportsmen and other well-known personalities have openly acknowledged their mental health issues and sought treatment. Therefore, the theme of World Mental Health Day—2020 was “Mental health for all — Greater investment, greater access”.Let us reach out, support and help each other during these difficult times.—Gurminder K. Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lets-reach-out-and-help-each-other-181231
08-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Covid positivity rate in city dips to 8% in Unlock 5.0, 6.0||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7With an increased testing and the number of fresh cases stabilising, the monthly positivity rate of the city has witnessed a dip, particularly after Unlock 4.0. The positivity rate had been stable at around 8 per cent in the past two months.Till September, the UT had adopted a system of targeted testing, which included testing contacts of Covid patients and those showing symptoms. The testing was restricted to hospitals and private labs.Despite a low number of tests (16,418) conducted in August, the positivity rate was high at 20 per cent. It is also the highest monthly positivity rate in the eight months of the pandemic. The scenario changed with high testing, resulting in the positivity rate dropping to 8 per cent in October and November.In October, the UT Health Department formed five mobile testing teams for random and voluntary testing, covering all dispensaries, major markets, the ISBT-17 and containment zones.The number of tests has increased from 29,000 in October to 35,000 in November while the number of positive reports has been below 3,000.The number of tests conducted in the month of September is the highest. It also includes the backlog of the tests, which were actually conducted prior to September but were added to the ninth month.The positivity rate is the number of patients found positive among the 100 tests conducted. The overall positivity rate is 11 so far.Dr VK Nagpal, Joint Director, Health Department, UT, said, “It has been eight months into the pandemic and it goes without saying that the fatigue can set in among workers. However, the department has been conducting an average over 1,500 tests per day in the past one and a half weeks.”2 deaths, 86 cases in UT Chandigarh: The city on Monday reported two deaths and 86 new cases, taking the toll to 293 and the tally to 18,113. A 72-year-old woman from Sector 47 and a 57-year-old woman from Sector 41 succumbed to the virus. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-positivity-rate-in-city-dips-to-8-in-unlock-5-0-6-0-181218
08-12-2020||---||Illegal digging triggers building collapse||Mohali, December 7A building collapsed near Balaji Enclave on the Zirakpur-Patiala road due to digging of a basement beyond the permissible limit this afternoon. However, no casualty was reported in the incident.The occupants of the collapsed building had moved out of the premises after witnessing cracks in the walls. A chemist shop was on the ground floor of the building.This is the second such incident in the district. On February 8 this year, a building had collapsed in Sector 115 near Kharar due to digging of a basement beyond the permissible limit. One person was killed, while two had sustained injuries in the incident.Says No permission given to dig basementThe owner of the chemist shop, Vineet Kamboj, said he had lost medicines worth lakhs in the collapse. The owner of the collapsed building, Gurpreet Singh, said the digging of the basement had started five days ago and this morning, it was dug up to 10 ft and beyond the permissible limit, exposing the foundation of his building. He said the land started sinking and the walls started developing cracks. The administration and the police were informed and teams of the MC, disaster management and the fire brigade reached the spot. Before the building came crashing down, everyone was evacuated, he added.Action will be taken: DCWe came to know on time that the basement had been dug up beyond the permissible limit, endangering the adjoining building, which was evacuated on time, saving many lives. Legal action will be taken against those found at fault. — Girish Dayalan, DC, MohaliA case under Sections 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC, and Section 21 of the Mining Act for digging the basement without permission has been registered against the owner of the plot, Jyoti Sadana, at the Zirakpur police station.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said an inquiry had been marked into the incident to the SDM, Dera Bassi. He said they had sought a report on the incident. He said said according to the MC records, the building plan was sanctioned for residence only and no permission to dig up a basement was given. The building which collapsed housed a chemist shop, advocates’ office and a non-occupied second floor, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-digging-triggers-building-collapse-181219
08-12-2020||---||BJP to contest MC poll with ally JJP: Gupta||Panchkula, December 7The BJP will contest the coming Municipal Corporation elections in the state jointly with its coalition partner, the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP).Disclosing this, Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker and MLA from Panchkula Gian Chand Gupta said as the JJP was a coalition partner of the BJP in the state government, they had decided to contest the elections jointly. He said the municipal elections would be contested on the agenda of development and added that they were hopeful that the BJP-JJP coalition would win the elections.Gupta said the candidate for the post of Mayor would be from the BJP, while they would decide on the distribution of the ticket after holding consultations with the JJP.He said 16 candidates of the BJP had applied for the ticket for the post of Mayor, while 140 workers had expressed the desire to contest the elections. He said they had forwarded the recommended names to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, organisation general secretary Ravindra Raju and state president Om Prakash Dhankad.Gupta said the party had started preparations for the elections. He said the party would hold workers’ conferences in each ward on December 7, 8 and 9.Meanwhile, former councillor Kanta Devi joined the BJP with her husband Prem Malik and supporters. District president Ajay Sharma inducted Kanta Devi and Prem Malik into the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-to-contest-mc-poll-with-ally-jjp-gupta-181221
08-12-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Fatalities on rise, Airport Road turns motorists’ nightmare||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Airport Road in Mohali has turned a nightmare for road users with several accidents and fatalities being reported from the road.On Friday, a 43-year-old woman and her daughter (13) were crushed to death under the wheels of a tipper near a blind curve near the Sohana gurdwara. It has been more than a month since the crash barriers alongside the road were broken. No signage, pelican lights and speed humps are seen on the approach to black spots on the road.The 17.5-km stretch connecting the Mohali-Kharar road with the Zirakpur-Patiala road has over 10 black spots which snuff out lives recurrently. Trailer trucks, buses, cars and two-wheelers share this road with pedestrians.Accident-prone areasTraffic safety awareness NGO ArriveSAFE founder Harman Sidhu said, “I have never seen or heard any work being done on the ground here. Every year, survey after survey is conducted, one overruling the other, but nothing happens on the ground.”Sidhu said, “Mere straightening the curves from one side may reduce the number of accidents on this stretch, but the authorities are looking at each other, doing nothing.”With the fog set to reduce visibility soon, road safety awareness groups and daily road users want the entire stretch of the road to made safe as soon as possible.It is said that on an average, one person dies in a road accident in Mohali in every 36 hours.I have never seen or heard any work being done on the ground here. Every year, survey after survey is conducted, one overruling the other, but nothing happens on the ground. — Harman Sidhu, founder, ArrvieSAFEFrequent users of this road aver that there are design flaws in the curves near the Sohana gurdwara. Even the traffic police admit that the fatal curves need to be straightened with widening of the road, but the district administration and GMADA have been found wanting. A day after the accident, the SP (Traffic) visited the spot and took stock of the situation.Frequent road users say there is a design flaw in the road here. Even if you are driving within the prescribed speed limit, the driver is taken unawares as the vehicle veers out of the lane. A road user has to change his direction four times on such a short stretch of the road.“Locals know about this risky spot, so they slow down, but people coming from outside are caught unawares. Speeding vehicle drivers at night often become victims here. Neither the alignment nor the bank of the road (near Sector 70) is as per the technical specifications of a busy six-lane road,” said Sidhu, who had sent a representation to the technical adviser to the Punjab Chief Minister on October 9, 2017.Mohali SDM Jagdeep Sehgal said, “We had carried out a survey along with the Mohali traffic police, the Regional Transport Authority and others in which 61 spots were identified in the district and had directed GMADA to take up the work.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatalities-on-rise-airport-road-turns-motorists-nightmare-181222
08-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||Now, MC to hire new firm to run waste plant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Nearly six months after taking over the city’s waste processing plant from the Jaypee Group, the local Municipal Corporation (MC) is looking for a new private agency to run the plant.The fate of the plant had not changed even after the corporation started running it on its own. The plant could not process waste to its optimum capacity under both Jaypee and the civic body. The main reason was machines had completed their lifespan.“We are going to invite an expression of interest from agencies. They will install their own machinery and run the plant. We will also bring an agenda regarding the same before the House,” said MC Commissioner KK Yadav.He said the National Green Tribunal-formed panel led by Justice Pritam Pal today visited the processing plant, three waste recovery centres and other sites. Having seen the condition of the plant, the panel asked the MC to run it to its optimum capacity. Following which, the MC took the decision today.A few months ago, the IIT-Roorkee had also recommended setting up a modern 500-tonne per day (TPD) plant for dry and wet waste treatment after conducting an inspection here. It had found all machines were already 12 years old, which is practically the life of such machines. It was also pointed out that both primary and secondary shredders were not in a working condition. The civic body, however, had continued with the existing mechanism until now.As per the corporation, the city produces 470 metric tonnes (MT) of waste daily, the plant under Jaypee was processing only about 120 MT. After the MC took over, things did not change much. It is alleged that the MC processed even less waste than what the company had been processing.Will bring agenda before House: CommissionerKK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said, “We are going to invite expression of interest from agencies. They will install their own machinery and run the plant. We will also bring an agenda regarding the same before the MC House.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-mc-to-hire-new-firm-to-run-waste-plant-181223
08-12-2020||Mohali||3 die in Mohali, 148 more +ve||Three more fatalities were witnessed due to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 294. The district also reported 148 fresh cases while 147 patients were cured.Among the new cases, 87 were from Mohali (urban), 20 from Dhakoli, 13 from Gharuan, nine from Kharar, seven each from Boothgarh and Dera Bassi and five from Kurali. So far, the district has reported 16,473 cases and 13,902 patients have been cured. — TNSTwo fatalities in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district witnessed two fatalities during the past 24 hours, taking the total count of deaths due to the virus to 135. Besides, 69 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the tally to 9,180.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said a 78-year-old woman from Sector 25 and a 73-year-old man from Sector 21 died of Covid. She said both patients had comorbidities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-die-in-mohali-148-more-ve-181224
08-12-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Rises to 355th place in world rankings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Rising from being a three-year-old kid smashing windowpanes in the backyard of his house to attaining the 355th rank in the world rankings, 21-year-old Karandeep Kochhar has come a long way to take a step further in his golfing career after winning the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational Championship at Chandigarh Golf Course today.With a stunning comeback from tied-76th and winning the play-off tie against former India No. 1 Anirban Lahiri, the youngster has proved that patience is the key to success.In 2016, Kochhar, 17 at that time, became the youngest Indian and the only amateur to win a PGTI event by winning the PGTI Players Championship at the Tollygunge Club in Kolkata. Thereafter, he tried his luck in some major tournaments, before winning last month’s TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship, the first after he turned professional.Today, as he won PGTI”s another event, he earned five Official World Golf Ranking (OWGR) points to rise from 442nd to 355th in the world rankings, a gain of 87 spots.“I have got a good advice from Jeev sir last evening. He told me to believe in myself no matter what the situation is. It means a great deal to me having made such a good comeback after starting with a 76. Winning two events in a row is special and I feel I can continue this winning spree further at the next event in Jamshedpur. Having played 15-under in the last three rounds, I attribute this win to my positive mindset as I trusted my game despite the poor start to the week,” said Kochhar.The perfect startKochhar’s golfing journey started from his home only. His interest in golf was first noticed by his grandfather, a keen golfer and well-known face of the local golfing circuit. He brought his three-year-old grandson a golf kit, including a putter, driver and iron, and asked him to try his hands on it. Two years later, Kochhar was playing in the Indian Golf Union (IGU) events. “I brought him this junior US kit from New Zealand. He tried his hands by smashing windowpanes in the backyard of our house. That moment, I realised it’s better to take him to golf course. He continued to develop his interest and thereafter I handed him over to Coach Jesse Grewal. At the age of five, he was playing in IGU events. Today’s win is really important for him, as he has a long way to go before claiming something big for the nation,” said Dr Gurdeep Singh Kochhar, his grandfather.Leading the money listToday’s win also pushed the youngster up from second to first position in the PGTI Order of Merit as his winning cheque for Rs 24, 24,750 took his season’s earnings to Rs 33, 50,680. “Well a goal of mine at the start of the year was to win the Order of Merit.. I’m now leading the money list,” laughed Kochhar. “I feel I always have an edge over most players here at my home course. I’m always confident of scrambling well here even when I’m not playing at my best. So that contributed to my self-belief this week,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rises-to-355th-place-in-world-rankings-181227
08-12-2020||---||Karandeep pulls off 2nd win at home course||Chandigarh, December 7Local contender Karandeep Kochhar fashioned a comeback to register the second win at his home course, the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC), by prevailing in the playoff against Indian star Anirban Lahiri to lift the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational trophy, presented by TAKE Sports, today.The tournament was decided in a playoff for the third year in succession.The 21-year-old local favourite Kochhar, who began the tournament with a disastrous 4-over-76 to end up tied-76th after round one, made a grand comeback with his next three rounds of 66, 67 and 68 to end up in a playoff with pre-tournament favourite Lahiri after both totalled 11-under-277 for the week.Kochhar (76-66-67-68) and Lahiri (70-68-70-69) were in a deadlock after being tied at the end of the first two playoff holes on Sunday. The match was then extended to Monday due to the fading light.Kochhar’s win pushed him up from second to first position in the PGTI Order of Merit as his winning cheque for Rs 24, 24,750 took his season’s earnings to Rs 33, 50,680. Pune’s Udayan Mane is now second in the PGTI money list with a total earning of Rs 19, 24,150.It was a memorable outing for PGA Tour regular and seven-time international winner Lahiri too, who returned to play an event on the PGTI after over six years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/karandeep-pulls-off-2nd-win-at-home-course-181228
08-12-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Farmers’ stir jacks up city, Delhi flight fares||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 7The farmers’ protest on the Singhu border, which is on the Chandigarh-Delhi road, has forced travellers to go for air travel to reach the national capital. This has resulted in an increase in the air fares besides increasing the occupancy of the flights by 30 to 40 per cent.According to information, tricity residents were booking air tickets only in the case of emergency and avoiding visit to the state capital due to the increase in the air fare by private airlines.A cursory look at the pages of major online travel agencies showed that fares for travel from Delhi to Chandigarh on December 8 have increased to Rs15,700, which is double the price of a ticket for a Delhi-Mumbai flight. The price of a ticket for the Delhi-Mumbai flight for December 8 starts at Rs6,219. The Delhi-Mumbai route has been traditionally the busiest in the country.Air India, IndiGo, Vistara and GoAir operate flights between the city and New Delhi.Air India Chandigarh manager MR Jindal said there was an increase in the passenger traffic due to the farmers’ protest. He said their aircraft were running full, adding that they charged the fare as per the directions of the Ministry of Civil Aviation.A spokesman of the Chandigarh International Airport Authority of India Limited said there was an increase in the passenger footfall at the airport due to the farmers’ protest.It is pertinent to mention here that farmers have been at the Delhi border since November 27, protesting the newly enacted farm laws. The farmers are demanding that the ‘pro-corporate’ laws be repealed. Various meetings between farmer leaders and Central ministers have failed to resolve the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-stir-jacks-up-city-delhi-flight-fares-181241
08-12-2020||Mohali||Amity International School||St Joseph’s Sr Sec SchoolChandigarh: Students of St Joseph's Senior Secondary School excelled in the second level of the SOF olympiads exams of English (IEO), Computer (NCO), Science (NSO) and Mathematics (IMO). Mehak Uppal (Class III), Nimrat Singh Pandher (Class IV) and Arshita Bhatia Class (IV) bagged positions in IEO. Riya Goel (Class V) also won positions in both NCO and NSO. Arshita Bhatia was received a cheque of Rs 5,000 and a gold medal. Armaan S Maurya (Class VI) and Rudraksh Joshi (Class VIII) got positions in the NCO and IMO, respectively. Shaurya Chanana (Class X) and Vaasu Kansal (Class IX) got positions in IEO and IMO, respectively. The position holders were awarded certificates of merit. Mehak Uppal and Vaasu Kansal were presented gift vouchers worth Rs1,000 each, TNSBhavan VidyalayaPanchkula: In an endeavour to foster good health and fitness among students, Bhavan Vidyalaya Panchkula observed "Fit India Week". The week had plethora of events, including virtual assemblies, common yoga protocols, free hand exercises and brain games, wherein every dimension of fitness was taken care of. The highlight of the week-long celebrations was an inspirational talk of Vivek Atray, ex-IAS officer, and motivational speaker on YouTube Live stream. TNSShivalik Public SchoolChandigarh: Students of Shivalik Public School celebrated World Day of the Handicapped by actively participating in a webinar organised by their teachers. Teachers apprised students about the importance of physically challenged persons in a family and in society. They were also told to give due respect and help them. TNSMount Carmel SchoolMohali: With an intent to overcome the academic pressure and mental anxieties experienced by learners in the pandemic situation, Mount Carmel School celebrated its annual function with excitement and enthusiasm. The function started with a virtual welcome speech, followed by various performances such as 'giddha', solo and group dance performances, skits, recitations and much more. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amity-international-school-181244
08-12-2020||---||Vegetable, fruit vendors eat up green space in Mohali||Mohali, December 7Illegal fruit and vegetable vendors in Mohali have been enjoying a free run, thanks to the lax attitude of the Municipal Corporation authorities. They have now started encroaching upon the green area in Phase XI here.Residents said encroachment by vendors on the green area in front of their houses was causing nuisance, especially during the evening hours. The number of vendors increases during the evening hours.Former Deputy Mayor Manjit Singh Sethi said encroachment by vegetable and fruit vendors was a common sight in the city. There was no check on the mushrooming of illegal vendors. He said encroachment by vegetable vendors could be seen near the parks in Phase 3 and 3B1 and open space in front of the Phase 3B1 market.Sethi said more than 200 vegetable and fruit vendors could be soon on the road passing from Phase 1 to the traffic lights near the SSP’s office, causing traffic hazard. Encroachment was being done under the patronage of political leaders. Residents had been regularly complaining about the menace to the authorities concerned, but nothing had been done yet.Surinder Singh, a resident of Phase XI, said encroachment by vegetable vendors near the park area was a nuisance as children could not play or move around the area. If the authorities failed to check the mushrooming of vendors, then there would be hardly any space left where people could have a walk in the morning and evening hours.Municipal Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vegetable-fruit-vendors-eat-up-green-space-in-mohali-181234
08-12-2020||---||In new parking policy, Admn promotes public transport||Chandigarh, December 7To resolve chaotic parking conditions in the city, the UT Administration has notified a new parking policy, which encourages the shift from the use of personal vehicles to the public transport.As per the policy, all government, PSUs, industrial and IT companies with more than 50 employees will ply staff buses to discourage the use of personal vehicles.“Differential timings for schools and offices among Punjab, Haryana and UT Administration will be adopted to reduce the demand for parking during the peak hours,” stated the policy.Measures suggestedInviting public participation, the Market Welfare Associations (MWAs) will be actively involved for the parking management in the commercial areas and members of the Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) will actively enforce all parking laws, including pedestrian and cyclists’ right of way, instead of parking cars on footpaths. However, parking on footpaths will be strictly prohibited and civic agencies or the police will toe such illegally parked vehicles.A lane will be earmarked for unhindered movement of emergency vehicles - ambulance, fire tenders and police vehicle - in all streets. Similarly, an emergency lane will be marked in all the commercial areas as recommended by the Chief Fire Officer.Prioritising pick-and-drop facility over parking facilities, the new policy states that in areas where adequate parking space is not available, on-street parking on a payment basis must be introduced at reasonable safe distance from footpaths or cycle tracks.The policy agrees to the creation of community parking for night in each sub-sector by using neighborhood commercial and institutional parking lots. A provision for two gates in plotted development in the residential areas will be strictly adhered to for providing maximum parking within the plotted premises.The policy states that encroachment by vendors must be removed and they should be shifted to their designated locations by enforcement agencies so as to free the pedestrian areas, parking areas and other such places.Stopping vehicles at bus stops not allowedIn all no-parking zones, only boarding-alighting will be permitted. Halting of vehicle for more than five minutes in the no-parking zone with the driver sitting in the vehicle will not be permitted and it will be treated as violation of no parking regulation. Stopping vehicles at bus stops and on turnings, even for boarding-alighting purposes will not be permitted.Discourage four-wheelers among studentsAll colleges and universities located inside the city will also be advised to discourage the use of four-wheelers among students either by increasing the user fee of the vehicles or by banning them completely. Multi-level parking structuresMulti-level parking structures will be developed to accommodate the existing demand for parking. Multi-level parking will have proper access road and separate entry and exit ramps for the movement of vehicles to all floors. Adequate provision for bicycle parking will be made in public parking lots on the ground floor. A dedicated bus corridor may be experimented on heavy traffic roads connecting Panchkula, Mohali and Zirakpur.Green areas not to be used for parkingTo protect forestry, green areas will not be converted or used for parking as it has adverse impact on the environment and public health. Parking structures will not be constructed in green areas and neighbourhood parks.Shuttle serviceFunctions, melas or gatherings within the sectoral grid of the city and industrial areas attract huge number of cars. Hence, organisers or industrial owner will arrange shuttle service from prominent locations and will be part of the booking permission granted by the authorities concerned.Parking in institutionsAll institutions must be advised to ensure that vehicles belonging to their staff as well as visitors are parked within the campus. Adequate parking as per the norms must be provided within the plot boundaries to avoid spillage on the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-new-parking-policy-admn-promotes-public-transport-181238
08-12-2020||---||At 26.2°C, city sees another warm day||Chandigarh, December 7For the second consecutive day, the city today recorded the hottest December day in four years.The city recorded a maximum temperature of 26.2°C, four degrees above normal. On Sunday, the maximum temperature was 26.8°C, three degrees above normal.In 2016, the highest maximum temperature of the month was 26.8°C. In 2019, the highest maximum temp in December was 25.8°C. In 2018, it was 25.4°C and in 2017, it was 25.8°C.The minimum temperature recorded today was 12.4°C, five degrees above normal. The minimum temperature was same yesterday. This is the highest till now in the current month this year. Last year on December 12, the highest minimum temperature was 13.3°C.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, it is expected to be generally cloudy tomorrow. The subsequent two days are expected to be partly or mainly clear sky. There will not be much change in the minimum and maximum temperature for the next three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-26-2%C2%B0c-city-sees-another-warm-day-181239
