11-12-2020||Chandigarh||92 new COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh, death toll nears 300||Chandigarh reported 92 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus on Friday, bringing the infection tally to 18,502, while one more death pushed the toll to 299, according to a medical bulletin.The city has 838 active COVID-19 cases, the bulletin said.The COVID-19 recovery count rose to 17,365 on Friday as 134 more patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, it said.A total of 1,58,516 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing so far and 1,39,166 of them tested negative while the reports of 157 are awaited, according to the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/92-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-death-toll-nears-300-182952
11-12-2020||Vijay Mohan||From WWII to 1965 war, Colonel with unique distinction of serving all Armed Forces marks centenary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 11Marking a centenary is rare, and rarer still is a veteran, who has had the unique opportunity of having served with not just all three branches of the Armed Forces but also the para-military.As Col Prithipal Singh Gill (retd) celebrated his 100th birthday in the city on Friday, he fondly reminisced his stint in uniform and aura, adventure and elan associated with it.With a twinkle in his eye as felicitations poured in, and he cut the cake amidst a small gathering of family members and close relatives, the World War II veteran recalled his eventful and chequered service life in the cockpit, on the high seas and with the big guns. The demeanour and alertness behind his smile belied his age. Brigadier Ravi Kumar from the Western Command presented him a memento on behalf of the Army and another was also sent by 71 Medium Regiment, the unit he had commanded.It began with him joining the erstwhile Royal Indian Air Force in 1942 as a flight cadet in Karachi, without telling his family. He had just spent a little over a year with the Air Force, learning to fly Harvard aircraft, when his father learnt from a friend that he was a “good flyer” and pulled him out because flying in those days was considered unsafe and his father was afraid that he may die in an air crash.Incidentally, Col Prithipal’s father, Harpal Singh, was a soldier himself, having served as a Captain in the Army.Then at the age of 23, he joined the Navy and served for five years, from January 1943 to September 1948, as a commissioned officer in the gunnery branch. He sailed on minesweepers and escort ships.During World War II, he was assigned to undertake escort duties for maritime convoys proceeding from the Indian mainland to the Persian Gulf.It was during his days with the Navy that then Sub-Lieutenant Prithipal Singh was detailed to attend the Long Gunnery Staff Course at the Army’s School of Artillery in Deolali, where he qualified as an instructor in gunnery.After a brief interlude with a government agency, for which he got service credit, he donned the olive green in April 1951, joining the Regiment of Artillery on account of his previous naval gunnery experience. He was posted to the Gwalior Mountain Battery, then equipped with 5.4-inch howitzers.He then served with 34 Medium Regiment, that had earlier served with distinction in Iraq, Palestine, Egypt and Italy during World War II.Later, he raised and commanded 71 Medium Regiment that saw action during the 1965 Indo-Pak War.“The most eventful part of my service was during the 1965 Indo-Pak War when I was commanding the Regiment,” he said.“During the war, the Pakistanis had enveloped one of our gun batteries. Four of our guns were cut but we went in and got them back. For a gunner, his guns are sacrosanct and revered and just cannot be given up,” the retired Colonel added.On promotion to the rank of Colonel, he commanded as Assam Rifles Sector in Manipur, from where he took opted for retirement in 1970. He also recalled their younger days when he and Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw used to go on hunting and shooting expeditionsBy the time he hung up his boots, the war veteran had not only served in all three dimensions of combat but also in almost all theatres, including Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab and the northeast.Born in 1920 in Patiala, he studied at Government College, Lahore. He got married to Preminder Kaur in 1950. After retirement, he took up farming his family lands near Faridkot, but continued to keep up a healthy and robust lifestyle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-wwii-to-1965-war-colonel-with-unique-distinction-of-serving-all-armed-forces-marks-centenary-182876
11-12-2020||---||Youth murdered in Panchkula brawl||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 10A 24-year-old youth was brutally murdered while another severely injured in a clash that broke out late Wednesday night at Rajiv Colony in Sector 17.2nd murder at rajiv colony in 15 daysThis is the second such incident at Rajiv Colony in 15 days. On November 27, a 30-year-old man was killed and another severely injured in a knife attack by a resident of colony over old enmity.According to an FIR, the incident happened when the victim, Sagar, a resident of Rajiv Colony, and his friend, Mannu (25), were on their way back home around 12:20 am. Three persons, identified as Arun, Rahul and Munna, entered into an altercation with them.Mannu told the police that Arun took out a knife from his pocket and stabbed Sagar in the stomach.“He then took a beer bottle and hit me on the head with it. He attacked me with the knife. As I tried to save myself, my hand got slashed,” the complainant stated. The two friends ran for their lives. However, the assailants blocked their way a few lanes ahead and hit both again. “As I cried for help, Sagar fell on the ground. The assailants fled the scene when Sagar’s brother, Aakash, and two others reached there,” said the complainant.The duo was then taken to the Civil Hospital where Sagar was declared brought dead. Mannu, who suffered grievous injuries in his hand and leg, has been referred to the PGI.A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (act committed by more than one person) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 14 police station. No arrests were made when the reports last came in.Meanwhile, demanding justice for their son, Sagar’s family protested outside the Sector 16 police post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-murdered-in-panchkula-brawl-182733
11-12-2020||---||Man axed to death by cousin after spat at wedding party||Mohali, December 10A 32-year-old man was allegedly hacked to death by his cousin at Kambala village last night. The victim has been identified as Gurvinder Singh, a resident of the village. He was a farmer and also worked as a milkman.The incident took place around 11 pm. Lakhwinder Singh, alias Lakhi (31), also a resident of Kambala, allegedly attacked his cousin near his house. The victim’s cousins rushed him to a private hospital in Sohana where the doctors declared him dead a few minutes after admitting him. The Sohana police have arrested the suspect.According to the police, Gurvinder and Lakhi had gone to a wedding party at their village last night where they got drunk and indulged in heated arguments. While Gurvinder was returning home after attending the function, Lakhi, who was waiting for him on the way, attacked him with an axe and inflicted severe injuries on his neck. He fled the scene leaving Gurvinder in a pool of blood.The police reached the spot on getting information around 1 am and arrested the suspect from his house.Sohana SHO Daljeet Singh said old family rivalry between the cousins as wells as the verbal spat at the marriage function led to Gurvinder’s murder. He said they recovered the axe from the suspect’s possession.The SHO said a murder case had been registered against the suspect on a statement of the victim’s uncle, Kuldeep Singh, at the Sohana police station. He would be produced before the court tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-axed-to-death-by-cousin-after-spat-at-wedding-party-182736
11-12-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||WWF management plan for Sukhna||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10To regulate activities, the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), an international NGO, has agreed to prepare a management plan for the Sukhna Lake.This was decided at a meeting held between UT Chief Conservator of Forests Debendra Dalai and the representatives of the WWF yesterday.Dalai said the NGO would submit a detailed proposal on Monday and give a timeline on the management plan.He said the representatives had given their consent to prepare the management plan, as the NGO was the knowledge partner with the UT Administration in declaring the Sukhna as wetland.Being a knowledge partner, the NGO would not charge anything for preparing the management plan from the UT, said Dalai.Under the plan, the WWF will prepare a manual to regulate activities, like boating, trekking in Sukhna wildlife sanctuary, desilting, fishing and maintenance of lake.The lake area comprising 493 acres was declared as wetland in June this year considering that for sustaining the biodiversity values, the ecological character of wetland ecosystem needs to be maintained by regulating development activities within the wetland as well as within its zone of influence.After declaration of wetland, various activities, including setting up of industries, causing water, air, soil or noise pollution, use or production or storage or disposal of hazardous substances, commercial use of natural water resources, including ground water, feeding of fish, migratory birds, etc, were prohibited in the lake.The activities that were to be regulated in the wetland include existing hotels and resorts to be maintained (no new hotels or resort to be permitted), felling of trees, eco-tourism activities, aquaculture, agriculture and horticulture activities, release of fishes into the lake by the Department of Fisheries, angling a few designated points, etc. However, various activities were to be promoted in the wetland which include rainwater harvesting, use of renewable energy sources, adoption of green technology for all activities, environmental awareness, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wwf-management-plan-for-sukhna-182744
11-12-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Another stretch to be ready by Dec 13||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 10The second phase of the 4.5-km-long Mohali-Kharar flyover connecting Ludhiana will be thrown open to public on December 13.Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain, the police, member of the road safety committee and officials of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) carried out a joint inspection of the project and took stock of the safety measures this evening.The SDM said even though a section of the flyover connecting the Ludhiana road was to be opened on December 15, they had given December 10 as the deadline to the NHAI to complete this stretch of the flyover. He said they had identified small points on the flyover, which needed immediate attention, and ordered the NHAI to carry out these to make the elevated road safe for commuters. He hoped that the section of the flyover would be finally completed soon and thrown open to the public by December 12 or 13.After missing six deadlines in a row for two years, the NHAI is poised to throw open the Mohali-Kharar flyover by January 15, which will give a much-needed respite to commuters.A 1-km stretch starting from Balongi (called the Balongi flyover) of the much delayed project was started a month ago.It is pertinent to mention here that the deadline for the completion of the flyover was September this year but the work on the project was delayed due to the lockdown. The work resumed after the district administration gave approval for starting the work on April 19. However, the NHAI faced a shortage of staff as most of the skilled labour had returned to their native places.The NHAI had handed over the Rs368-crore project to Larsen and Toubro (L&T), which began the construction of the flyover in November 2015. Initially, the project was to be completed by December 2018. From delay in land acquisition to other administrative hurdles and mostly recently, workforce issues amid the pandemic were the main reasons for the delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-stretch-to-be-ready-by-dec-13-182754
11-12-2020||Amit Bathla||Campaigners give Covid norms the go-by||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 10Coronavirus seems to be having no effect during the campaigning for the Panchkula MC elections. Political parties and individuals in the poll race are not observing Covid-19 precautions by not wearing a mask and ignoring social distancing at events and congregations.Norms violated at BJP, Congress eventsSenior BJP leaders, including Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta and party’s poll in-charge Captain Abhimanyu, on Wednesday addressed eight ward-level workers’ conferences or ‘karyakarta sammelan’ in Panchkula, where a majority of those in the crowd were without a mask.Later in the day, Gupta inaugurated a media and IT cell at the BJP office in Sector 2. Again, there were no masks or social distancing.Besides party workers accompanying him, district BJP president Ajay Sharma was also seen without a mask.Pankaj, an aspirant for the Congress ticket from ward number 6, kicked off his campaign yesterday by meeting residents at Rajiv Colony in Sector 17. The congregation, which saw a participation of around 100 people, mostly without a mask, was a testament to a violation of the Covid-19 norms.When contacted, Pankaj said it was a Herculean task to ensure Covid-safety norms at political events. “Elections will come and go. Heath is important than anything else. We don’t want anyone to fall ill. But how can I ask someone not to come?” he asked.The stakes are high for both the BJP and the Congress in the poll slated for December 27. The parties don’t want to leave any stone unturned to woo voters.Though political parties have adopted online mediums to reach out to people, they believe offline mode or door-to-door campaigning has a greater impact and for that, leaders encourage large crowds at political events.Returning Officer for the Panchkula poll and ADC Mohd Imran Raza couldn’t be contacted for his comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/campaigners-give-covid-norms-the-go-by-182757
11-12-2020||---||Badnore launches bike-sharing project||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10In what is anticipated to enhance the cycling culture in the City Beautiful, the first phase of public bike-sharing project kicked off today.To begin with, 225 bicycles, including over 100 pedal-assisted e-bikes, have been made available with 25 docking stations. Residents may pick and drop bicycles at docking stations set up at Rock Garden, High Court, Sukhna Lake, PGI, Sector 17, Sector 22, Sector 34, Sector 35 and Sector 43.How to operate bikesCharges“By April 2021, we will add 1,250 cycles with an increased number of docking stations. We have a target of completing the project of making 5,000 bicycle/e-bikes available at 617 docking stations by April 2022,” said NP Sharma, General Manager, Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL).Sharma said the number of visitors, who opted for the service, is yet to be assessed, but he expressed satisfaction over the fact that around 300-400 downloaded smart bike mobile application. “There may be some teething-troubles. Users may report them on the application and we will fix it,” he added.Earlier in the day, Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore launched the first phase of the project from the Rock Garden docking station.The Governor laid emphasis on making the project successful and reducing CO2 footprint of the city. He took a ride on the bike, along with other officials, from Rock Garden to the Punjab Raj Bhawan.KK Yadav, MC Commissioner and CSCL CEO, said: “The size of the project will make it India’s largest and densest public bike sharing network. All bicycles come with GPS-enabled locking arrangement and will be monitored from a control centre with 24X7 helpline facility.”This project is being implemented and operated by Smart Bike Tech Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad, for 10 years on a public-private partnership (PPP) basis.The users will be able to take bicycle on rent for Rs10 for half an hour and Rs5 for members for half an hour. By paying Rs500 in a year, one can become a member. The membership will start in seven to 10 days.The Commissioner said the users would be able to take the bicycles by downloading and registering through mobile app, ‘Smart Bike’.He said docking stations had been provided keeping in view the first and last mile connectivity to users by bicycles.He said as Chandigarh was participating in India’s Cycle4Change Challenge, an initiative of the Smart Cities Mission, Ministry of Housing and Urban affairs, to inspire and support the cities in implementing cycling- friendly initiatives, the launch public bikes enhances the prospects of winning. The cycles have feature such as display of distance travel, calories burnt, anti-theft and others.Cycle enthusiastshail the move“The project did not work well in cities such as Delhi and Bangaluru due to lack of quality cycles. But the project is a boost for Chandigarh as it already has about 198-km cycle track. Authorities here should encourage people and patronage the project and people should support it,” said cycling enthusiast and promoter Rahul Bedi, a resident of Sector 8“It will draw a good response from people. Residents here are cycle lovers and even those coming from other places will prefer to pedal due to a large network of docking stations,” MC Councillor and cycling freak Maheshinder Singh Sidhu.“It is a good initiative. We should inspire to take to cycling to reduce the increasing traffic. Post-Covid, people can be seen riding cycles in droves. It will be boost for the project provided it is operated run well,” Gurjusjit Singh, a Mullanpur resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-launches-bike-sharing-project-182759
11-12-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Chhatbir zoo reopens, sees 1,100 visitors||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 10Around 1,100 people visited Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir zoo, here today.The zoo, which was closed after the Covid-induced lockdown was announced in the country on March 17, witnessed a dip in the footfall by 33 per cent today. It was thrown open for public for the first time today after being closed for nearly eight months.Divulging details, Arshdeep Singh, Range Officer, Chhatbir zoo, said 1,100 visitors entered the zoo by 4.30 pm. Before the lockdown, around 1,500 to 2,000 people used to visit the zoo on a single day, while the number doubled during the weekends.Arshdeep said the zoo opened with strict guidelines. They only accepted online booking and cashless payments. People above 65 years and children below five were not allowed to enter the zoo.Online booking facility, Wi-Fi hotspot and battery operated carts were effectively utilised by the visitors. Though some visitors faced difficulties in using online booking, QR code and other cashless transaction methods, the overall response of the visitors was positive.Bank of Baroda officials, led by senior manager Kanwardeep Singh, were present in the zoo to launch the online booking and QR code facilities for the visitors.Dr M Sudhagar, Field Director, Chhatbir zoo, said the response ofvisitors was positive.The visitors felt safe in the zoo and were properly informed and guided. They also got an opportunity to see tiger cubs Amar, Arjun and Dilnoor.RK Mishra, Chief Wildlife Warden, Punjab, said the response of the visitors was more than the expected. Accordingly, other zoos in the state - Mini Zoo, Patiala, Mini Zoo, Bir Talab, Bathinda, Mini Zoo, Ludhiana, and Deer Park, Neelon, would also be opened for visitors from next week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chhatbir-zoo-reopens-sees-1-100-visitors-182760
11-12-2020||---||Chandigarh airport gets in-line baggage screening system||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 10Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan inaugurated the in-line baggage screening system installed at a cost of Rs15.8 crore at the Chandigarh International Airport here today.Chandigarh airport is the first airport in the country to offer such incentive in domestic air travel, which would facilitate passengers for not standing in queue for a longer duration.Vini Mahajan said Chandigarh International Airport, in its endeavour to facilitate its passengers, had upgraded itself with technological enhancement in the field of baggage handling with the installation of this in-line baggage screening system. She said it could handle 1,500 bags per hour. With the new system in place, passengers no longer needed to queue up for baggage screening. The system would save an average five to 10 minutes per passenger.Later, Vini Mahajan had a glimpse of the new facilities at the airport. She also held a meeting with officials and discussed about the issues related to further development of the airport. She also reviewed the incentive scheme for airlines to connect new routes/unserved routes from the local airport.Tejveer Singh, Principal Secretary, Civil Aviation, Punjab, Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, Chief Administrator, GMADA, Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, Mohali, Air Commodore Tejbir Singh, DK Kamra, Regional Executive Director, AAI, Northern Region (joined via video link), and Ajay Kumar, CEO, Chandigarh International Airport, among others were present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-airport-gets-in-line-baggage-screening-system-182761
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 88 new cases, 1 death||The city today reported 88 cases and one death due to Covid.A 62-year-old woman from Sector 22, who was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and an acute kidney injury, died at the PGI. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-88-new-cases-1-death-182762
11-12-2020||Panchkula||64 fresh cases in Panchkula||The district today reported 64 new cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 9,340.With no new death, the toll remained 135. While 8,693 patients have been cured so far, 512 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/64-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-182763
11-12-2020||Mohali||One death, 69 cases in Mohali||One more fatality was witnessed due to Covid in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 304. Besides, 69 more persons contracted the virus, pushing up the tally to 16,736. As many as 95 patients were cured.Among the fresh cases, 42 came from Mohali (urban), two each from Boothgarh and Dera Bassi, four from Dhakoli, 10 from Gharuan, five from Kharar, one from Lalru and three from Kurali.So far, the district has reported 14,119 recoveries. There are 2,313 active cases.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan appealed to the people not to be lax in adopting the advisory issued by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-69-cases-in-mohali-182775
11-12-2020||---||SIT to probe Rs55-lakh extortion, fraud case against Panchkula cops||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 10Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Mohit Handa today constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate a case pertaining to an alleged extortion and cheating to the tune of Rs55.50 lakh and involving cops.In his complaint, Kunal Chopra, a resident of Nilokheri in Karnal, stated that he had come to Panchkula with a bag containing Rs55.50 lakh to pay advance for a house deal but two police constables, along with others, took it away from him at a room in a hotel in Sector 5.When he subsequently approached the Sector 14 police station, cops there threatened to file a fake case against him.Chopra then filed a complaint with the Haryana Home Minister, Anil Vij, from where the matter reached the DGP, whose office directed the Panchkula police to file an FIR into the alleged incident.A case was registered in this connection against Sanjeev, Kushbinder Sharma and others under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 384 (extortion) and 420 (cheating and dishonesty inducing delivery of property) of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station on December 8.Chopra had told the police that as he was looking to buy a property in Panchkula, Sanjeev, one of his acquaintances in Delhi, asked him to meet Kushbinder Sharma of Panchkula. When contacted over the phone, Kushbinder offered him a house owned by an NRI at half the market rate. The suspect asked Chopra to pay Rs50 lakh to the caretaker of the house to seal the deal.On November 26, Chopra came to Panchkula and booked a room in Hotel Shiraj 2 in Sector 5 as he had been instructed. About an hour and a half after check-in, Kushbinder, along with two police constables and five unidentified persons entered room number 104, where he was putting up, picked up the bag containing cash and while issuing threats, told him to leave.“Police constables told me you are involved in gambling and betting. If you came here again, we will throw you into the jail,” the complainant alleged. As per the FIR, the suspects left the hotel in a Bolero car bearing a ‘SHO Sec 14 PKL’ sticker. The victim tried to chase them in his vehicle but in vain. The victim subsequently reached the Sector 14 police station, where he met the SHO, who ‘made it clear’ that he didn’t send a team for a raid. The SHO tried to console him till late in the evening. The next day, when Chopra went to the Sector 14 police station, the SHO intimidated him and said they would implicate him in such a case that he would regret, the complainant alleged.This is not the first time that serious allegations have been levelled against the Sector 14 SHO, Inspector Naveen Saharan. Earlier in August, a molestation victim’s father had accused him of refusing to file an FIR and harassment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sit-to-probe-rs55-lakh-extortion-fraud-case-against-panchkula-cops-182782
11-12-2020||---||Suspects met at Mohali market post robbery bid||Chandigarh, December 10Police investigation into the robbery attempt on a goldsmith in Sector 23 has revealed that three suspects, including Jaspreet, met at the market of Phase-V, Mohali, after the incident. Two of them, who are absconding, borrowed a mobile phone from a person to make a call to Jaspreet, a taxi driver, and shot him dead at the market.Meanwhile, the fourth suspect, Rohit, was produced before the court that sent him to three-day police remand.The goldsmith, Dadasho Devgan, was at his shop along with his brother, Sanjay, when the incident happened.Jaspreet, whose bullet-riddled body was found at Sohana a few hours after the incident, had contacted Rohit and told him that someone known to him wanted to sell gold. Rohit, who is an acquaintance of the goldsmith, then asked Jaspreet and the other two suspects to reach the shop. While Rohit waited outside, the three suspects went inside the shop. They fired two shots, one of which hit Dadasho in the left arm. The suspects escaped after the incident while Rohit was apprehended a few hours later.Meanwhile, Inspector Daljit Singh, Sohana SHO, said: “We are thoroughly investigating Jaspreet’s murder. The suspects will be nabbed soon as we have formed a few teams to crack the case.” The post-mortem of Jaspreet’s body was conducted at the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, today and the body was handed over to the members of his family. The police also recorded the statements of his family members, said the SHO.A case has been registered under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at the Sohana police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspects-met-at-mohali-market-post-robbery-bid-182788
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh heritage items to be auctioned  in France today||Heritage furniture from the city will be put up for auction in France tomorrow.Items that are likely to go under the hammer include a small student desk, easy arm chair and a pair of armless easy chair, all designed by Swiss architect Pierre Jeanneret. The items are likely to fetch over Rs35 lakh.In a letter to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Ajay Jagga, Member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, has sought an inquiry into the auction of heritage furniture being organised by Maison RC, Marseille, France, on December 11. Jagga stated that the Indian Embassy in France should be asked to step in and with the help of law-enforcing agencies there, initiate an inquiry into the auction of heritage items from Chandigarh. It should be probed as to how these banned items had gone beyond the territory of India, he added. “The UN may also be approached reminding its international commitment to the UNESCO to combat trafficking of cultural objects,” he said. He requested the minister to look into the matter so that the auction of smuggled heritage items could be stalled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-items-to-be-auctioned-in-france-today-182789
11-12-2020||---||Honour for PU Prof Emeritus||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10Professor Emeritus Jitendra Mohan, Panjab University, received ‘The ISSP Honour Award’ for 2021. The ISSP is the oldest and largest global society of sport psychology, with thousands of members across the world.The award is presented every four years in recognition of significant contributions to national and international sport psychology through leadership, research, and/or other professional service.Since its inception, this award has been bestowed on only 15 distinguished people. Mohan will receive this award during the 15th World Congress of Sports Psychology scheduled from September 30 to October 4, 2021, at Taipei.He has served two terms as a member of the managing council of ISSP from 1989-1993 and 1993-1997.He also played a pivotal role in establishing sports psychology in India.He is the founder president of the Sports Psychology Association of India founded in 1985 and has served two terms as its president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/honour-for-pu-prof-emeritus-182794
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Conduct physical meeting of Board of Finance, official to PU||Rahul Bhandari, Secretary, Higher Education, Punjab, has written to the Panjab University authorities for conducting a physical meeting (scheduled for December 15) of the Board of Finance.The letter was written by Bhandari on Tuesday and it was suggested that the meeting should be organised with the Covid-19 protocol in place.The meeting of Board of Finance is also attended by representatives of the Punjab Government. The meeting is important for approving the Panjab University’s estimated budget and to take clearance from the members on the balance sheet.The PU authorities are already at loggerheads with Syndicate members on the issue of conducting online or offline meeting. While the authorities have been wanting to conduct offline meetings, Syndicate members have been demanding a physical one.Syndicate to VCMeanwhile, members of the Board of Finance — Prof Navdeep Goyal, Ashok Goyal and Prof Rajat Sandhir — have also written to the PU Vice-Chancellor for conducting a physical meeting. “Regarding holding online meeting of Board of Finance on December 15 at 11 am, we will like to submit that budget, being a critical component in the financial management of the university, requires discussion and participation of the members, which can be done more effectively in an offline mode. Furthermore, since the members of the Board of Finance are limited, the meeting can be conveniently conducted through offline mode by taking proper precautions,” stated a letter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/conduct-physical-meeting-of-board-of-finance-official-to-pu-182795
11-12-2020||---||Residents irked over compost pit at garden, approach authorities||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10Some of the residents in Sector 36 have objected to the compost pit being constructed inside Dahlia Garden at Sector 36-C.They have lodged a complaint with local councillor Sunita Dhawan, MC Commissioner KK Yadav and other officials.Aditya Vikram, a resident, wrote to the Commissioner: “A compost pit is being constructed right inside Dahlia Garden, just next to the walking trail. Besides being a nuisance for public, it will ruin the aesthetics of the park. Many residents are aggrieved at the construction in the middle of a beautiful small park.”“The Horticulture Department has an office right next to the garden in the large utility area. The boundary has been arbitrarily delineated without any official notifications; there is a lot of vacant space available in the utility area. The compost pit should be moved there,” he added.Residents said the compost pit in Fragrance Garden, Sector 36, was away from the public area.Meanwhile, the area councillor said: “The compost pits are being built in gardens as per the NGT guidelines. The compost pit here will have painted wall and shrubs. Besides, it will be ensured that there is no foul smell.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-irked-over-compost-pit-at-garden-approach-authorities-182796
11-12-2020||Ravneet Singh||Patiala MC to start plot allotment today||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 10Patiala city’s much-awaited dairy-shifting project is set to see the light of day as the Municipal Corporation will start the allotment of plots at the new site in Ablowal village tomorrow. The Municipal Corporation will shift 120 dairies to the new site in the first phase. Meanwhile, the civil work at the site is on.June 30 was the earlier deadline for the project, but the MC failed to meet it due to Covid. Officials said the conveyance deed allotments would be carried out for plots of different sizes. The MC will provide the land at Rs3,500 per square yard. The allotment will be forfeited if allottees use them for any other purpose. As per the record, 257 milk dairies come under the ambit of the MC. The government had allocated Rs13 crore for the project which was earlier a self-financed project.The dairies have been a major reason for choking of sewer pipes and small nullahs in the city and the stray cattle menace. The dairy farmers have continuously been accused of throwing dairy waste into nullahs. The unpleasant smell emanating from dumped cow dung is another problem for residents.Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said: “There are 230 plots at the new site for allotment. Of these, we will allot 120 in the first phase tomorrow. The allottees will be given sufficient time (June next year) to shift to the new site while the process for the allotment of the remaining plots will continue simultaneously.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-mc-to-start-plot-allotment-today-182797
11-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC for modification of compassionate employment policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the Punjab Department of Personnel would be well-advised to consider modification of its policy of compassionate employment and assistance.Justice Sudhir Mittal asserted a situation may arise where an employee suffering from mental aliment was unable to continue in service. In such a situation, his dependent would be entitled to grant of compassionate appointment in equity. “Presently, the scheme for grant of compassionate employment/assistance does not cater for such a situation,” Justice Mittal added.The Bench also made it clear that the son of an employee afflicted with a neurological disorder cannot seek government employment on compassionate grounds if his parent has continued in service.“Either the employee continues in service till the date of superannuation in accordance with his rights under the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunity, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act or his dependent is granted compassionate appointment. Both reliefs are not permissible,” Justice Sudhir Mittal asserted.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after request for a son’s compassionate employment was turned down. The state’s stand in the matter was that the employee was permitted to continue in service till the date of his superannuation in accordance with Section 47 of the Act. He was retained in service and was being paid his full salary. As per instructions August dated 25, 2000, dependents of employees, who retired on medical ground, were not entitled to compassionate employment.“There is no dispute that the employee has continued in service till his age of superannuation and has been paid his arrears of salary. The claim for compassionate employment is thus misconceived,” Justice Mittal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-for-modification-of-compassionate-employment-policy-182798
11-12-2020||---||e-auction of leftover fancy numbers from December 19||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10The UT Transport Department will hold e-auction of leftover fancy or special registration numbers of the previous series from December 19 to 21.Registration for participation in e-auction of the leftover fancy or special registration numbers of previous series CH01CC, CH01CB, CH01CA, CH01BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS will start from December 12 and will continue till December 18. The e-auction will be conducted from December 19 to 21.Those who purchased the vehicles on Chandigarh address will only be allowed to participate in the e-auction. The owner of the vehicle can register himself or herself on https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy and the link of the same is available on www.chdtransport.gov.in.For any further information and query, the vehicle owner can contact at0172-2700076 or inquiry counter located at the Registering and Licensing Authority, UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/e-auction-of-leftover-fancy-numbers-from-december-19-182799
11-12-2020||---||Van spreads awareness among young Chandigarh voters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10To create awareness among residents, the Election Department has pressed into service a special van to spread voter awareness and registration in the east division of the city.The department has already launched the special summary revision of photo electoral rolls with regard to January 1, 2021, as qualifying date. During the programme, all eligible city residents, especially young voters and those left out, will be enrolled in the electoral roll of Chandigarh.The special van received claims and objections from residents in Sector 7, Sector 27, Sector 28, Sector 29 and Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 here today. Around 500 forms were distributed among the residents.The van will cover the areas of Kishangarh, Indira Colony, Mani Majra and Mauli Jagran tomorrow and Hallo Majra, Ram Darbar, Faidan Nizampur and Daria on December 12 from 10 am to 5 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/van-spreads-awareness-among-young-chandigarh-voters-182800
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration does away with electrical inspection up to 250 kWp solar plants||To achieve the target of 69 megawatt (MW) solar power generation, the UT Administration has decided not to conduct electrical inspection for installation of solar plants up to 250 kWp. The decision was taken in a review meeting chaired by UT Adviser Manoj Parida with head of various departments.The Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy had recently increased the target from 50 MW to 69 MW to be achieved by 2022.Debendra Dalai, Director, Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST), said there would now be no electrical inspection for installation of all solar plants, including residential category, up to 250 kWp. Moreover, the Electrical Department would submit a technical feasibility report within a week so that installation of solar plants could be expedited.The decision was taken to cut delay in the installation of solar plants as generally inspections used to take nearly three months to complete. The UT has so far installed solar plants of 37.5 MW in the city.The Central Government had recently notified a new subsidy scheme for rooftop solar plants. Under the scheme, the amount of subsidy was increased from 30 per cent to 40 per cent for solar panels up to 3 kWp capacity. For solar units from 4 kWp to 10 kWp, the subsidy will be 20 per cent and there will be no subsidy for plants above 10kWp. Earlier, 30 per cent subsidy was given to all applicants irrespective of the capacity of the plant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-does-away-with-electrical-inspection-up-to-250-kwp-solar-plants-182801
11-12-2020||---||Focus laid on ensuring safety of litigants, officers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10In view of the pandemic, a review meeting was held today for taking precautions to ensure the safety of litigants, staff and officers of the court during the National Lok Adalat on December 12.The Punjab State Legal Services Authority has decided to hold National Lok Adalat in the e-Lok Adalat format for the first time in the entire state on December 12.The meeting was held by Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Executive Chairman, State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh. It was directed that all necessary precautions were to be taken to ensure the safety of litigants, staff and officers of the court.It was decided that it should be ensured that not more than 50 cases were to be marked to each court. Not more than two litigants were to be allowed inside the court room at any time and scattered timings should be given to the litigants. Thermal screening to be done at the entrance to the court premises, besides making available adequate sanitisers and providing gloves, masks and other protective material to all staff members. Social distancing should be maintained throughout the court premises, besides deputing additional staff to ensure that all directions are adhered to.During this Lok Adalat, all type of civil cases and criminal compoundable cases will be taken up for amicable settlement. To achieve maximum disposal of cases, 11 Benches have been constituted to take up the cases.In addition to these cases, traffic challans, STA challans, Shop Act cases, Registrar of Companies Act, Municipal Corporation matters, etc., will also be taken up in the Lok Adalat. Of the 11 Benches, four have been exclusively set up for disposal of cases under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act and one exclusive Bench has been set up for the settlement of matrimonial cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/focus-laid-on-ensuring-safety-of-litigants-officers-182804
11-12-2020||---||Housing Board holds draw for allotment of 487 Maloya flats||Chandigarh, December 10The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) today conducted the fourth and last computerised draw for allotment of 487 flats to the eligible occupants of pre-fab shelters.The UT Administration had decided to relocate the residents of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 to the EWS flats at Maloya-I under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said 14 applicants who had submitted their disability certificates had been allotted flats on the ground floor. The draw was held in utmost fair and transparent manner, he said, adding that to follow the Covid-related protocol, live telecast of the draw was streamed on YouTube and it was streamed live at the site of pre-fab shelters through a display van.He said the allotment letters and possession slips would be issued to the successful applicants on Monday. However, physical possession of the flats at Maloya would be handed over from Wednesday in a staggered manner to avoid rush as also ensure compliance of the social-distancing norm, he added.“So far, a total of 1,703 allotments have been made through the four computerised draws, hence all eligible applicants have been allotted flats under the Affordable Rental Housing Scheme as per a survey list of pre-fab shelters,” he said.During the visit of Manoj Parida, Adviser to Administrator-cum-Chairman, CHB, on December 3, at the site of pre-fab shelters in Sector-52 and 56, some persons claimed that they were the genuine occupants of the shelters but as they were away, they could not be included in the survey list. “Accordingly, these requests are being considered and if some of them are found to be eligible, another computerised draw will be conducted for allotment of flats to such persons,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/housing-board-holds-draw-for-allotment-of-487-maloya-flats-182805
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 gets new Director||Immigration agent bookedChandigarh: The UT police have booked an immigration consultant for cheating a Punjab resident. According to the police, complainant Jaswinder Kumar of Jalandhar alleged that Zoya Khan, manager, Fast Immigration Consultant, Sector 34, cheated him of Rs45,000 on the pretext of providing work visa for Singapore. A case under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 24 of the Immigration Act has been registered. TNSYoungsters Club register winChandigarh: A fine performance by Harnoor Singh Nanda (4/18) helped Youngsters Cricket Club (YCC) defeated TBK Cricket Academy by 77 runs in the ongoing GVCA 40-40 Cricket Cup on Thursday. Batting first, YCC posted 192/9 in 40 overs with the help of Harshit Suri (84) and Harnoor Singh (21). Japjot Singh claimed a five-wicket haul for 43 runs. In reply, TBK lads were bowled out for 115 runs in 35 overs. Harnoor claimed four wickets, while Yuvraj Dhawan took three for the bowling side. Shivam (41) and Daksh (21) were the two main scorers in TBK’s chase. TNSApply for PhD till Dec 28Chandigarh: The last date for the receipt of admission forms for PhD courses at University Business School (UBS), Panjab University, has been extended to December 28, said Prof RK Singla, Dean, University Instruction.The department has again invited the applications for admission to the PhD programme for 2020-2021 academic session. Candidates are advised to download the application form/ instructions from the PU website — www.ubs.puchd.ac.in. TNSSidhak wins tennis titleMohali: Third seed Sidhak Kaur overpowered Shrawasti Kundliya in straight sets 6-4 7-5 to win the girls’ U-14 title on the concluding day of the Roots-AITA (Talent Series) U-14 National Ranking Championship today. Meanwhile, Akshat Dhull won the boys’ U-14 final by ousting Umang Singh. TNSResults announcedChandigarh: Panjab University announced the results of MA (Sanskrit) 4th semester, Bachelor of Science 4th Semester, Master of Arts (Philosophy) 4th semester and MSc (Physics) 4th semester. TNSInt’l Human Rights DayChandigarh: The Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development Regional Centre, Chandigarh, observed International Human Rights Day. As many as 59 participants (22 male and 37 female) participated in the event. TNSCity doc gets fellowshipChandigarh: City-based Dr Suresh Bansal has been awarded the prestigious fellowship of the Indian Academy of Neurology for 2020. Dr Bansal pioneered the concept of online neurological consultations during the Covid-19 pandemic, which could go a long way in ensuring better communication between doctors and patients. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-32-gets-new-director-182806
