13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records one more COVID-19 death, 66 fresh cases||Chandigarh on Sunday reported 66 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the infection count to 18,638, while one more fatality pushed the death toll to 301, according to a medical bulletin.There are 766 active cases in the city as of now, the bulletin said.A total of 114 patients were discharged from hospitals in the past 24 hours after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 17,571 in the UT.As many as 1,60,600 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,41,106 tested negative while reports of 91 samples were awaited, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-one-more-covid-19-death-66-fresh-cases-183845
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Fog engulfs Punjab, Haryana||A thick blanket of fog enveloped Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on Sunday, the Meteorological Department said.Fog was dense in the morning at many places, including Amritsar, Ludhiana, Bathinda, Pathankot and Bhiwani. The night temperatures hovered close to normal at most places, the officials said.Chandigarh recorded a minimum temperature of 13 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 11.1 degrees Celsius, Karnal registered 10.5 degrees, while Rohtak’s minimum settled at 11.6 degrees.However, Bhiwani and Narnaul experienced a cold night, recording respective minimums of 6.7 degrees and 7.3 degrees.Amritsar in Punjab recorded a low of 8.3 degrees, followed by 10.5 degrees in Ludhiana, 11.3 degrees in Patiala and 8.6 degrees in Bathinda. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fog-engulfs-punjab-haryana-183767
13-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Mouthwash effective in killing coronavirus||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12Researchers of Panjab University Dental College have claimed that mouthwash could kill 99.9% of SARS CoV2 virus within 30 seconds of being exposed to it in a laboratory.Study supported by Dr Reddy’s LaboratoriesThe study, titled “Chlorhexidine: An effective anti-Covid mouth rinse”, is in the pre-print server and yet to be peer-reviewed. The study has been carried out in collaboration with the Institute of Microbial Technology (CSIR) - Structural Biology Laboratory. It is supported by Dr Reddy Laboratories and the Design Innovation Centre of the PU.The study has been aimed at providing an insight into the effectiveness of the current ‘gold standard’ Chlorhexidine and also Povidone-iodine as an effective mouth rinse, through an in-vitro analysis.It may be mentioned that Chlorhexidine gluconate is a germicidal mouthwash that reduces bacteria in the mouth.The study findings have revealed that the most routinely used mouth rinses, Chlorhexidine and also Povidone-iodine, have proven to be effective against SARS CoV2.According to the study, Chlorhexidine digluconate mouth rinses in 0.2% concentration inactivated more than 99.9% of SARS CoV2 virus, in a minimal contact time of 30 seconds.Dentists across the globe are witnessing a completely unforeseen and uncertain professional situation during these times of the Covid-19 pandemic. Proximity to the patient during dental care, high generation of aerosols and high titers of SARS-CoV2 in saliva suggested the oral cavity as a potential reservoir of Covid-19 transmission.Concern about the use of proper antiseptics and disinfectants is related to the overall health and safety of dental patients, practising clinicians and oral health care team. The use of mouthwashes is recommended as a standard of care to reduce oral microbial loads within the dental clinic and for patient home care.Ashish Jain from Dr HSJ Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital, Panjab University, who has authored the study, said: “We found out that a mouth rinse with a required concentration of Chlorhexidine killed coronavirus within 30 seconds after being exposed in a laboratory. We had used only Chlorhexidine in our present study. However, it is to be seen whether a commercial mouth wash will prove to be as effective as it was found in the study because of the other ingredients found in a mouth wash. These results need to be corroborated in a clinical study to have a correct interpretation of results.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mouthwash-effective-in-killing-coronavirus-183665
13-12-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Another stretch opens to public||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 12In a major relief to commuters, the second phase of the 4.5-km-long Mohali-Kharar flyover connecting Ludhiana was thrown open to public today.The stretch of the flyover from Desu Majra to the tail end at Khanpur was thrown open after a joint inspection by Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain, the police, members of the road safety committee and officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari, who was on his way to Ropar, said he stopped here to check the progress of the work on the flyover, adding that 90 per cent work (8.2 km) on the 10.63-km-long Mohali-Kharar flyover had been completed. The speed limit on the flyover has been fixed at 40 km/hour. Officials appealed to motorists to avoid driving vehicles at high speed on the flyover.After opening a 1-km stretch of the flyover starting from Balongi (called the Balongi flyover) of the much-delayed project a month ago, the NHAI would complete the final phase of the flyover by January 15.It is pertinent to mention here that the deadline for the completion of the flyover was September this year, but the work on the project was delayed due to the lockdown. The work resumed after the district administration gave approval for starting the work on April 19. However, the NHAI faced a shortage of staff as most of the skilled labour had returned to their native places.The NHAI had handed over the Rs368-crore project to Larsen and Toubro (L&T), which began the construction of the flyover in November 2015. Initially, the project was to be completed by December 2018. From delay in land acquisition to other administrative hurdles and most recently, workforce issues amid the pandemic were the main reasons for the delay.After missing six deadlines in a row for two years, the National Highways Authority of India is poised to throw open the Mohali-Kharar flyover by January 15, giving much-needed respite to commuters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-stretch-opens-to-public-183666
13-12-2020||---||UT heritage chair sold for Rs 5.36 lakh at France auction||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12In yet another auction of artefacts belonging to the UT, a heritage chair designed by Pierre Jeanneret has been sold for Rs5.36 lakh at an auction in France.Of the three items, a small student’s desk, easy armchair and a pair of armless easy chairs, listed for the auction, only the easy armchair was auctioned by Maison RC, Marseille, France, on December 11.In a letter to External Affairs Minister S Jayashankar, Ajay Jagga, member of Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, has stated that despite advance intimation, the auction was conducted and of three heritage items of Chandigarh, one item was auctioned for 6000 Euros. “Hence you are requested to look into the matter so that the auction of our smuggled heritage items can be stalled in future,” he requested.In the representation, Jagga has stated that the Indian Embassy in France should be asked to step in and initiate an inquiry into the auction of Chandigarh heritage items and probe as to how these banned items had gone beyond the territory of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-heritage-chair-sold-for-rs-5-36-lakh-at-france-auction-183667
13-12-2020||---||Farmers take over toll plaza at Chandimandir for 6 hours||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 12A large number of farmers, under the banner of Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), today reached the Chandimandir toll plaza on the Zirakpur-Shimla and forced the staff to allow vehicles to pass without paying fee for about 6 hours.The farmers, mostly from Kalka and Pinjore, shouted slogans such as “Long live farmers unity”. Their banners read: “Take back farm bills” and “If you can’t support farmers, stop eating food.”Meanwhile, Gurdwara Nada Sahib organised a “langar” for the protesting farmers.Param Singh, a block-level representative of the Haryana BKU, said: “We have occupied the toll plaza to further pressurise the Modi government for repeal of the anti-farmer laws. On December 14, we will stage a protest outside the DC office in Sector 1 to intensify our protest.”When political workers turned up at the protest site, the farmers expressed their reservation and made it clear that their protest was apolitical.“If any political party wants to back our demands, it is welcome. But we won’t give it our stage. We are very firm on it,” he said.Pawnesh Chauhan, an official of the Chandimandir toll plaza, said: “The free movement of vehicles began at 11:40 am and lasted till 5:20 pm. The plaza witnesses huge Shimla-bound traffic on Saturdays and Sundays but the toll collection drastically came down today with farmers taking over the barrier for about 6 hours and not allowing the staff to collect toll.”Meanwhile, farmers also laid a siege to the Barwala toll plaza on the Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-take-over-toll-plaza-at-chandimandir-for-6-hours-183668
13-12-2020||Panchkula||Two Delhi men held in Rs 55.5L extortion case||The crime branch of the Sector 19 police yesterday arrested two persons in connection with a Rs 55.50-lakh extortion and fraud case involving local police personnel.The two suspects have been identified as Kushbinder Sharma and Ashish Anant, residents of Delhi. A special investigation team, ordered by DCP Mohit Handa, is already looking into the matter.Kunal Chopra of Nilokheri in Karnal had filed a complaint that Kushbinder (with whom he established contact through his acquaintance Sanjeev), two police constables and five unknown persons took away his bag containing Rs 55.50 lakh at a hotel room in Sector 5 where he was putting up.He told the police that Kushbinder had asked him to bring Rs 55 lakh in cash to be paid as advance to finalise a deal for a house owned by an NRI in Panchkula.Chopra had alleged that the police personnel, including those present at the Sector 14 police station where he subsequently went for help, also threatened to implicate him in a false case. A case was registered in this connection against Sanjeev, Kushbinder Sharma and others under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 384 (extortion) and 420 (cheating and dishonesty inducing delivery of property) of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station on December 8. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-delhi-men-held-in-rs-55-5l-extortion-case-183669
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 70 new cases, 1 death||Two fatalities, 52 fresh cases in MohaliMohali: Two persons succumbed to coronavirus in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 307. The district also saw fresh 52 cases till Saturday evening. All cases were from Mohali (urban). As many as 127 persons were cured. So far, the district has reported 16,864 cases. There are 2,235 active cases. TNS36 more infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported 36 new Covid cases, taking the tally to 9,416. With no fresh death, the toll stands at 135. Among the fresh cases, eight were from Sector 15 and three each from Amravati Enclave and Chandimandir. While 8,837 patients have defeated the virus so far, 444 cases are still active. The district’s recovery rate stands at 93.85 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-70-new-cases-1-death-183670
13-12-2020||---||CITCO plans to start boating at Sector 42 lake||Chandigarh, December 12Now, people will be able to enjoy boating at the lake in Sector 42, with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO) going to start the facility soon.The corporation has invited bids to launch the facility in the lake on a revenue-sharing basis.An official said CITCO was planning to start two and four-seater paddle boats in the lake in the first phase to give a boost to tourism. Interested agencies could submit their bids by December 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/citco-plans-to-start-boating-at-sector-42-lake-183671
13-12-2020||Amit Bathla||BJP bets on Kulbhushan Goyal for Panchkula Mayor’s post, gives four seats to JJP||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 12After hours of deliberations by its state election committee at party’s office in Sector 2 here, which saw participation of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and senior leaders, the BJP on Saturday decided to put its stamp on Kulbhushan Goyal, a former Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader, as candidate in race for the Mayor’s post in the forthcoming Panchkula Municipal Corporation (MC) polls. It will be a direct contest between the BJP and Congress. Goyal joined the BJP ahead of 2019 Assembly polls.The BJP also announced its seat sharing pact with the JJP for the Panchkula local body elections, giving four councillor seats to the alliance partner.Sixteen candidates of the BJP are Narinder Lubana (Ward No. 1), Suresh Verma (Ward No. 2), Ritu Goel (Ward No. 3), Sonia Sood (Ward No. 4), Jai Kaushik (Ward No. 5), Swati Malik (Ward No. 7), Harinder Malik (Ward No. 8), Dimple Loomba (Ward No. 10), Vaishali Kansal (Ward No. 11), Sonu Bidla (Ward No. 12), Suneet Singla (Ward No. 13), Sanjay Kumar (Ward No. 15), Rakesh Balmiki (Ward No. 16), Jagjeet Soi (Ward No. 17), Vijay Rani Budhiraja (Ward No. 19) and Satbir Chaudhary (Ward No. 20).The JJP will contest in Ward No. 6,9,14 and 18.Is Ahluwalia Congress’ Mayoral candidate?Even though the Congress has decided to officially announce its candidates for Panchkula MC elections tomorrow, an unconfirmed list suggesting the name of former Mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia for party’s mayoral ticket, is doing rounds in the local media and WhatsApp groups on Saturday.Sources in the party are also betting on her name as mostly likely candidate to get the Congress’ Mayor ticket.Pardeep Chaudhary, Kalka MLA, and party’s consultative committee member for the Panchkula polls, said they had finalised candidates, including for the post of Mayor, and sent the list for state Congress chief Kumari Selja’s approval.“The announcement will be made tomorrow,” he added.Ravinder Rawal, Ranjeeta Mehta, Sudha Bhardwaj, Tarsem Garg and five others have also applied for the Congress ticket.Goyal unsuccessfully contested Assembly pollIn 2014 Haryana Assembly polls, BJP’s Gian Chand Gupta had defeated Kulbhushan Goyal, who then was contesting on the INLD ticket, by a record margin of 44,602 votes. The 60-year-old is mainly a real estate developer. He is the Managing Director cum CEO of Amarnath Agarwal Group of Companies, which owns Amravati Enclave in Panchkula. Goyal’s group has also invested in a real estate business in Baddi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-bets-on-kulbhushan-goyal-for-panchkula-mayors-post-gives-four-seats-to-jjp-183672
13-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh may use schools, community centres as Covid vaccination sites||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12The Chandigarh Administration may use government schools and community centres as Covid vaccination sites when the drive to vaccinate residents is launched. This was stated in an official statement of the UT Administration.Dr Amanjeet Kang, Director Health Services, UT, said, “Since vaccination sites will not be limited to just healthcare facilities, cooperation of the Administration and departments will be required for any additional requirements or sites.”Although there are 59 session sites in Chandigarh as the part of the universal immunisation programme, the Administration has earmarked the Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and all Civil Hospitals as the Covid vaccination session sites. These session sites will have separate entry and exit points.Meanwhile, a virtual meeting of the district task force committee was held under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioner today. Details regarding smooth delivery and implementation of the Covid-19 vaccination programme were discussed at the meeting.Director Health Services shared, “The vaccine will be introduced in a phased manner due to huge demand and as per the Government of India directions. Healthcare workers followed by frontline workers, person above 50 years and the comorbid population will be given priority.”“During vaccination sessions, all beneficiaries will be preregistered with predefined session sites and trained vaccinators. SMS will be sent to beneficiaries for vaccination with details of session site, date and time. All beneficiaries will get online certificate after inoculation,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-use-schools-community-centres-as-covid-vaccination-sites-183673
13-12-2020||Karam Prakash||MBBS students seek extension of Patiala GMC library timings||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 12Following an indifferent attitude of the authorities concerned, MBBS students of the Government Medical College (GMC) continue to demand extension of library timings in order to prepare for the upcoming examinations.Students demanded that they should have 24x7 excess to the library.Notably, the medical college authorities, last month, had issued a circular wherein timings of the library were changed from midnight to 9 pm for undergraduate while up to 11 pm for postgraduate students.However, MBBS students have already written to the college principal requesting him to open the college library round the clock. They cited GMC, Amritsar, where students had 24x7 access to the library.Meanwhile, the college authorities said time restrictions were imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus disease.On the other hand, students claimed that majority of the medical colleges in the state and in the country have given students 24-hour access to the library.One of the MBBS students, said, “Despite the fact that we have exams starting next month, the college authorities reduced the library timings. If not 24x7, they should, at least, allow us to study until midnight in the library.”Another student said, “The decision can affect our preparations because we have got a habit of studying in the library. Therefore, it is difficult to study in the hostel.”Meanwhile, Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, Patiala, said, “The decision of limiting library hours was taken after it came to our notice that students were not following Covid precautions. They don’t wear face masks in library.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mbbs-students-seek-extension-of-patiala-gmc-library-timings-183674
13-12-2020||Deepankar Sharda||PU, BoF members at loggerheads over holding online/offline meetings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12The upcoming meeting of the Board of Finance (BoF) of Panjab University (PU) is likely to witness a series of protests as its members and the university authorities continue to be at loggerheads for conducting meetings offline or online mode.The meeting, which is scheduled for December 15, is important for approving PU’s estimated budget and to take clearance from members on balance sheet.Recently, the PU authorities issued a circular for conducting online meeting on December 15 at 11am. However, many members opposed the decision and urged to call an offline meeting. Their demand was supported by the Punjab Government as it is also part of the BoF.After no meetings of Senate and Syndicate, this meeting is also likely to face the same consequences.“There’s no question of both sides going back on their decision. It happened earlier also with Senate and Syndicate meetings. While Senate got dissolved and Syndicate’s term is also coming to an end this month, stakeholders wanted a physical meeting. This will help them ask for other meeting in a similar manner,” said an official.“On other hand, the authorities in order to avoid any kind of hassle want to hold online meeting. After delay in Senate elections, they are already drawing flak of stakeholders on many issues,” the official added.Earlier, Prof Navdeep Goyal, Ashok Goyal and Prof Rajat Sandhir, members BoF, had written to the PU Vice-Chancellor for conducting physical meeting.“The authorities just cannot avoid meeting stakeholders all the time. We have been demanding a physical meeting since everything is allowed to open. The BoF meeting can be conducted while following Covid-19 protocols. The meeting is also important and cannot be postponed,” said a BOF member.During the pandemic, PU’s income from the examination fee estimated at Rs157.5 crore in the previous budget has reportedly dipped to Rs135 crore. Also, the revised internal income for the next session has been estimated at Rs291.97 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-bof-members-at-loggerheads-over-holding-online-offline-meetings-183675
13-12-2020||Zirakpur||Dera Bassi MLA alleges discrepancy in Zirakpur voter list||The MLA from Dera Bassi, NK Sharma, has alleged that close to 15,000 eligible voters for the Zirakpur Municipal Council elections have either been left out or shifted to other wards at the behest of the ruling party in the state.The SAD leader said, “As per the voter list of January 1, 2021, the total number of voters in 31 wards in Zirakpur is 1,06,606. But, in the latest list the total number of voters is 95,784.” Sharma alleged that votes of 10 to 12 councillors belonging to Shiromani Akali Dal were also cut off so that they could not contest the upcoming elections.Meanwhile, Dera Bassi Congress in charge Deepinder Dhillon said, “The Punjab Election Commission has recently prepared the voters’ list, but has not made it public.” “‘It seems SAD has already conceded defeat,” he added.Addressing a press conference here today, Sharma said he would file a case in the High Court against officials, who flouted rules. “I have also written to the Election Commission and informed the Mohali DC about it,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-mla-alleges-discrepancy-in-zirakpur-voter-list-183676
13-12-2020||---||Sambar strays into Green Park Colony in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 12A Sambar (deer) strayed into Green Park Colony here today morning thereby causing commotion in the area. After scrambling for about 40 to 50 minutes, residents and shopkeepers tied the animal with a rope. Residents alleged that the rescue team of forest officials reached late in the colony.Surinder Khosla, a resident, said, “We called forest officials repeatedly. However, their team reached after three hours. We tied sambar with a rope.”As per residents of the area the animal seemingly strayed and was spotted in the area at around 9 am. However, the rescue team reached colony at around 12 pm.The team had to put in lot of efforts to put a net on the Sambar. The team ultimately took away animal and released it into the wild area.Khushvinder Singh, District Forest Officer, said the team reached colony as soon as officials received the call.“The team reached colony in time. No injury to residents or animal has been reported,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sambar-strays-into-green-park-colony-in-patiala-183677
13-12-2020||---||PUTA’s protest enters 23rd day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12The ongoing protest by Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on delay in holding committee meetings for career advancement scheme (CAS) promotions entered 23rd day today.“It has been observed that some teachers have received letters for meetings of their screening/selection committees. But, these meetings have been scheduled only for two days (December 19 and 20). However, there are more than 80 teachers whose cases of promotion are pending at the moment,” stated PUTA in a statement today.PUTA members also reiterated that their earlier stand on the illegal allocation of accommodation to Dr Devinder Dhawan, former CMO.It was resolved that a representative of PUTA would join delegation of PFUCTO for a meeting with Secretary, Higher Education, Punjab, on December 15 related to issue of implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission. It was unanimously decided to raise voice for holding Syndicate meeting immediately to resolve urgent and pending issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/putas-protest-enters-23rd-day-183678
13-12-2020||---||Vehicle thefts reported||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12Sanjeev Arora, a resident of Sector 35, told the police that an unknown person stole his car parked near Sector 19 on the intervening night of December 10 and 11.A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 19 police station. Another Sector 35 resident reported that someone stole her scooter from the parking lot of Fragrance Garden, Sector 36, on December 6. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 36 police station.In another case, Mauli Jagran Complex resident Siya Ram reported that his motorcycle parked near his house was stolen on November 16. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vehicle-thefts-reported-183679
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Online workshop on Yoga||Lecture on challenges in mediaChandigarh: VIBGYOR, an audio and visual club of the Department of Journalism and Mass communication, Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharama (GGDSD) College, Sector 32, organised an interactive virtual lecture on “Future issues and challenges in media”. News anchor Navjyot Randhawa was the resource person on the occasion. Senior Asst Prof Abhishek Srivastav, India Today Media Institute, emphasised on the need for developing basic computer, written, oral communication and problem solving silks and teamwork among journalism students. Anand Khare, Marketing Manager, ITMI, and Dr Priya Chadha, HOD, Department of Journalism, were also present on the occasion. TNSNational handwashing weekMandi Gobindgarh: Desh Bhagat University observed National Handwashing Awareness Week by conducting various activities like quiz, poster making competition and dance performances. The aim was to spread awareness on the spread of contagious diseases by empowering individuals so that they can educate and help safeguard their communities. Dr Zora Singh, Chancellor, DBU, demonstrated ways of hand washing through various videos and pictures on the occasion. TNSInternational conference at CUMohali: Union Education Minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank virtually inaugurated international conference on “Creating global perspective rooted in local values for sustainability”, organised by Chandigarh University (CU), Gharuan. International dignitaries, academicians and research scholars from 20 countries and 31 universities took part in the conference and reached out to more than 10 million audience across the globe. Prof Mark E Smith, president and Vice-Chancellor, University of Southampton, UK, Dr Deep Saini, president and Vice-Chancellor, Dalhousie University, Canada, and Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor, Chandigarh University, were the guest of honour on the occasion. While delivering his inaugural address, Pokhriyal said, “The New Education Policy will offer vocational and employment oriented education from Class VI onwards and choice of subjects in multi-domains to students.” TNSCricket meet from December 28Chandigarh: The first edition of Krishna Devi Memorial U-23 league-cum-knockout tournament will start from December 28 at IVCA Cricket Academy Ground, Dera Bassi. The participating teams will play a minimum of four league matches. The top two teams will play the final. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-workshop-on-yoga-183680
13-12-2020||---||E-Lok Adalat settles 896 cases in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 12Of 2,066 cases, 896 were disposed of by the e-National Lok Adalat held here today and a compensation of Rs53.33 crore was awarded by different Benches to victims.Cases related to criminal compoundable offences, NI Act, bank recovery cases, MACT cases, matrimonial disputes, labour dispute, land acquisition, electricity and water bills (excluding non-compoundable theft cases), service matters related to pay and allowances and retirement benefits, revenue and other civil issues were taken up.District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman of the District Legal Services Authority (DSLA) RS Rai accompanied by Shikha Goel, Secretary, DSLA, took stock of the activities of all Benches at the district headquarters in Mohali.Rai said the judgments by the Lok Adalat were final and binding upon the parties. “Lok Adalats are a boon to the litigating public as the disputes are settled fast and free of cost,” said he.Rai said 12 Benches were constituted at the district headquarters which were presided over by Rajnish Garg, Monika Goyal, Devinder Kumar Gupta, Girish, Deepika Singh, (all Additional District and Sessions Judges), CJM Amit Bakshi and others.For the successful organisation of the e-National Lok Adalat, Rai had called various meetings of judicial officers, presidents and secretaries of bar associations, officials of other departments such as banking, electricity and labour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/e-lok-adalat-settles-896-cases-in-mohali-183681
13-12-2020||---||12 MACT cases resolved||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12Twelve cases of Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) were disposed of amicably and an amount of Rs38.55 lakh was awarded as compensation during a virtual National Lok Adalat held here today.Rs12.18-lakh relief for industrial workersChandigarh: Around 35 cases pertaining to industrial workers were settled by the National Lok Adalat under the chairmanship of Anshul Berry, Additional District and Sessions Judge. A total of 47 cases were taken up. Advocates, representatives of managements and other unions, along with the workers concerned, were present. As many as 35 cases were settled and Rs12.18 lakh was awarded as compensation to the litigants. TNSA total of 70 cases were listed before the National Lok Adalat — 24 were criminal revisions, one case was under the Hindu Marriage Act, and remaining 45 cases were of the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal category.Two Benches were constituted and presided over by Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi and Justice Lalit Batra. This was the first virtual National Lok Adalat by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. It was held in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and all necessary precautionary measures were adopted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-mact-cases-resolved-183682
13-12-2020||---||Chandigarh records warmest Dec night in a decade||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12The city recorded its warmest December night in over a decade as minimum temperature was recorded at 15.2°C today. This temperature is as much as nine degrees above normal. It is the highest minimum temperature of December since the Sector 39-based observatory came into being in 2010.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, last year, the highest minimum temperature was 13.3° C while it was 12.1°C in 2018 and 12.5°C in 2017.This December the maximum temperature has also remained on the higher side. Today, it was 23°C, one degree above normal. The maximum temperature fell by four notches due to the rain. Yesterday, it was 28.4°C, the highest maximum temp recorded in December since 2014.“There has been mostly clear sky this month. Even the winds were warmer. Thus, both minimum and maximum temperatures have remained higher this December compared to the previous years,” said an official of the department.5.4-mm rainfallThe city witnessed 5.4-mm rainfall last night. Weathermen said it would be partly cloudy tomorrow. The maximum temperature is expected to be 22°C for next few days. The minimum temperature is likely to hover between 9°C and 11°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-warmest-dec-night-in-a-decade-183683
13-12-2020||---||1,177 cases disposed of in Fatehgarh Sahib||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, Dec 12Under the aegis of the National Legal Services Authority, a National Lok Adalat was organised at the Sessions Division here today.Thirteen benches were constituted under the supervision of NS Gill, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA).As many as 1,431 cases were taken up and 1,177 cases were amicably disposed of. Compensation worth Rs10.32 crore was awarded to specially-abled persons and minors.Ashish Kumar Bansal, Secretary, DLSA, said compensation was also granted to the victims in sexual offences cases as per the Punjab Victim Compensation Scheme 2017 and the NALSA’s Compensation Scheme for Women Victims/Survivors of Sexual Assault/other Crimes 2018.Gill handed over requisite letters worth Rs5.43 lakh as compensation to the victims in sexual offences cases. Of the total amount, Rs2 lakh was granted as compensation to a victim who was a minor, deaf, dumb and differently-abled girl. The trials of her case stood abated due to the death of the accused.Gill said despite the threat of Covid-19, litigants as well as lawyers actively participated in the Lok Adalat. He said that Covid-19 protocols were followed and face masks were distributed by the district police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-177-cases-disposed-of-in-fatehgarh-sahib-183684
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two held for cyber fraud||The cyber crime cell of the Chandigarh Police has arrested two suspects in a case of cheating on the complaint of a Sector 20 resident. The suspects had allegedly duped the complainant of Rs2.13 lakh through a website.The accused have been identified as Israil Mohammad and Ashutosh Sharma, both residents of Uniyara, Tonk district in Rajasthan. The police said incriminating evidence has also been recovered from them. The accused were produced in a local court today, which remanded them in police custody till December 14.A case under Section 419, 420, 120B of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 19 police station.The complainant said he was searching for an online part time job and reached a website — www.twoo.com — where he found a number of girls. While chatting on the website, some girls sent him contact numbers and one girl offered to develop physical relations with him and asked him to deposit money. She also sent fake online hotel booking slip on his WhatsApp number. The complainant was allured and deposited Rs2.13 lakh in different bank accounts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-cyber-fraud-183685
13-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||Impasse between collectors, civic body likely to hamper project||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12While the local Municipal Corporation has made arrangements to start the waste collection and segregation through two-bin vehicles from January, door-to-door waste collectors’ opposition to the move may hamper the implementation of the project.The waste collectors, who are presently operating independently, want to collect monthly fee from households and dispose of the segregated dry waste on their own to make extra bucks by selling it. However, the civic body is planning to collect charges through water bills. While the wet waste will go the processing plant, the dry waste will go to the construction and demolition waste plant. It was resolved in the MC House meeting that a part of earnings from the dry waste will be shared with the collectors. Besides their monthly salary, the collectors will get this share every fortnight.The collectors have disagreed to this. “We want to keep the dry waste and collect charges on our own. We are already asking people to give us segregated garbage,” said OP Saini, chairman, Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society.“MC’s plan to lift waste through vehicles is not feasible for every part of the city. There are places like Burail where streets are so narrow that even ‘rehris’ can’t enter,” he added.According to MC Commissioner KK Yadav, they are looking into the objections raised by the waste collectors. The corporation is hiring the existing collectors as drivers and helpers for its vehicles.Naresh Loth, vice-president of the collectors’ association, argued: “We are 3,500 collectors, but the corporation has pegged our number at 1,500. Going by their logic of hiring two collectors each for 390 vehicles, they won’t be able to cover even 1,500. They should move others on a regular job in the sanitation wing.”Mayor Raj Bala Malik said to resolve the problem, she has directed the sanitation committee and officers to hold a meeting with the collectors. The meeting is expected to be held on Monday.Meanwhile, sources said since the solid waste management rules and the NGT guidelines call for proper waste segregation, the MC’s move must be implemented. The BJP-ruled MC is already struggling with tackling the issue of GPS watches for sanitation workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/impasse-between-collectors-civic-body-likely-to-hamper-project-183686
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||MC staff irked over work  on day off||Some of the Municipal Corporation staff members are unhappy over being called to work on their day off.Staff members said when they were doing their job wearing office-mandated smart watches on working days, why were councilors calling them to work on their day off when they have personal engagements?“Councillors are calling us to work on the weekends so that they can show off the residents that they were working for the welfare of wards,” complained an official.MC Engineers’ Association General Secretary Angrej Singh said: “It is unfair to call the staff to work on holidays. We will raise the issue with the MC Commissioner.”Today, councillor Devinder Singh Babla reportedly called the MC staff to his ward for sanitation. “A complaint will be filed against those who do not report to the duty,” read a message in their WhatsApp group. While residents seemed happy that development works are being done in a phased-manner, employees insist on doing them on their working days only.Babla said: “I do not think that they have their off on Saturdays. And no one has ever complained to me even as I have been holding this campaign for about three-four months. If they share their concern with me, I will call them on Fridays.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-staff-irked-over-work-on-day-off-183687
13-12-2020||---||Jain for election of Mayor by residents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12Former Mayor and BJP leader Satya Pal Jain has urged the UT Administrator to take a concrete decision on amending the MC Act regarding various issues, including electing the Mayor directly by all electors, as is prevalent in Haryana and other parts of the country.He also requested the Administrator to make provision for making Anti-Defection Law applicable to the MC members.Jain said the term of the Mayor needs to be increased to either two-and-a-half years or five years. He said: “Various states, including Haryana, have adopted the pattern of direct election of the Mayor with five-year term. This needs to be considered for the city also. Similarly, there is a need for dividing the duties and delegating authority between the UT Administration and the MC,” he said.He said this was the right time that the working of the MC be reviewed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jain-for-election-of-mayor-by-residents-183688
13-12-2020||---||Firm fined for failing to deliver commercial unit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed Ansal Properties and Infrastructure Limited to pay a compensation of Rs50,000 to a Mani Majra resident after it failed to deliver the possession of a commercial booth in a project, Golf Links-1, Sector 114, in Mohali.Commission president Justice Raj Shekhar Attri also directed the real estate firm to refund Rs15,93,873 to the complainant, along with 12 per cent interest per annum, from the respective dates of deposit onwards.Rachit Kaushal, counsel for Dhanveer Singh, a resident of Rajeev Vihar, Mani Majra, said his client had booked a commercial booth in a project, “Golf Links-1”, Sector 114 in Mohali. The total cost of the unit was fixed at Rs15,83,175 and the allotment letter/agreement was executed between the client and the opposite party on November 12, 2010.He said though the entire amount was paid by November 12, 2011, the opposite party failed to deliver the possession of the unit within a stipulated period of three years. On August 8, 2019, the opposite party offered the possession of the unit in question, but it was merely a formality. It also offered a compensation of Rs1,09,779 to the complainant for the delay in the possession. On August 14, his client challenged the email of the opposite party by asking them to compensate him on equitable grounds, but to no avail.The counsel for the opposite party said the complainant had concealed material facts from the commission. The complainant was already running an electronics shop in Panchkula and he had not clarified as to for what purpose he had purchased the unit in question. No timeframe was mentioned in the allotment letter to deliver the possession of the unit in question.The commission observed: “A person cannot be made to wait indefinitely for the possession of units allotted to them. They are entitled to seek refund of the amount paid by them, along with compensation. Although we are aware of the fact that when there was no delivery period stipulated in the agreement, a reasonable time has to be taken into consideration. In the facts and circumstances of this case, a time period of three years would have been reasonable for the completion of the contract i.e., the possession was required to be given by the last quarter of 2014….”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firm-fined-for-failing-to-deliver-commercial-unit-183689
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||TBRL staff members hold cleanliness drive||A cleanliness drive was undertaken at Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) Colony in Sector 29 here today under the “Swachhata Pakhwada” launched by the Ministry of Defence.As many as 200 TBRL staff members participated in the campaign, while adhering to the Covid protocols. They cleaned the open space around the residences, community centre and the area alongside the roads.The Swachhta pledge was administered to the employees by Prateek Kishore, Director of the TBRL. Prateek said the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan was a mission that had brought the entire nation together to fight against dirt, garbage accumulation and open defecation to ensure clean India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tbrl-staff-members-hold-cleanliness-drive-183690
