18-12-2020||---||Military Literature Festival: Moving troops ahead in some sectors can fully neutralise China’s advantage||Vijay MohanTribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Stating that India’s pre-emptive moves in the Kailash Range in Ladakh has partially neutralised Chinese advantage in that sector, Lt Gen HS Panag, former GOC-in-C, Northern and Central Commands, stressed that India must not make any compromises because even a stalemate in this situation would be a defeat for China.Speaking at a session on Sabre Rattling in Ladakh during the Military Literature Festival here on Friday, he said that though the overall advantage still lies with China so far, it India can advance troops in some areas like the Indus valley sector and southern sector, the Chinese advantage can be neutralised fully.By carrying out multiple intrusions across the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, China has so far been able to sully India’s military and international reputation, prevented development of border infrastructure and secured key areas that enable it to seize large tracts of territory he said.China’s aims, Lt Gen Panag said, were to re-assert its hegemony over India by undermining its status as a rising power, both laterally as well as internationally as well as to undermine the stong leadership of prime minister Modi who is seen by China as an alternate world leader to Xi Jingpin.China also wanted to ensure that the status on the borders remains on its own terms with no development of infrastructure that can be a threat to it. Neutralising any threat to Aksai Chin and permannently securing areas up to its 1959 claim lines were other immediate objectives of Chinese mobilisation, he added.China had occupied all territory it required by 1962 and it does not require any more land as far as its strategic interests are concerned. It is using such incidents merely as a tool to assert its hegemony over India and embarrass it. Stating that China wants India to be a junior cooperative partner on the world stage and not a competitor, he said that the moment China perceives India’s assertiveness, it will react through border skirmishes.India’s growing relations with the US, Japan, Vietnman, influence in the Indo-Pacific region, aggressive posturing in Dokalam, development of border infrastructure in eastern Ladakh changing the status of Jammu and Kashmir and the Home Minister’s subsequent statement that Aksai Chin and Gilgit-Baltistan areas would be regained, were other triggers for the current stand-off, he said. Lt Gen Raj Shukla, GOC-in-C, Army Training Command, said that tactically our response sto the Chinese have been fairly good, but we need to synergise them in the larger strategic framework. Stating that we need to brace up and act against the strategic squeeze from the LAC to the Indian Ocean Region, he added that a systematic and successful deterrence to China is very much possible. He said that a lot of work is being done in the arena of military education and the syllabus of all institutions right from the National Defence Academy to the National Defence College is being revamped. He also stressed upon making out response mechanism stronger and bolder.Former GOC-in-C, Northern Command, Lt Gen DS Hooda said that it was clear from the level of preparedness that this incident was different from earlier incursions and the level of violence seen was unprecedented. “We were also taken by surprise as to why the PLA was doing it at this time when the entire world was affected by the Covid pandemic and neither ws there any breakdown in Sino-Indian ties or any large trigger,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/military-literature-festival-moving-troops-ahead-in-some-sectors-can-fully-neutralise-chinas-advantage-186171
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 74 fresh COVID-19 cases, 1 more death||Chandigarh on Friday reported 74 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 18,979, while one more fatality pushed the death toll to 305.There are 535 active cases as of now in the UT, according to a medical bulletin.A total of 122 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 18,139, as per the bulletin.A total of 1,66,499 samples have been taken for testing so far, and of them, 1,46,655 tested negative while reports of 127 samples are awaited, it stated. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-74-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-more-death-186162
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Civil war could break out in Afghanistan as it is being handed over back to Pakistan: Christine Fair||Political and military affairs expert Dr C Christine Fair and former ambassador KC Singh discussed looming situation in Afghanistan after the US troops would move out and its repercussions in the session on ‘The Taliban are coming calling: Deep states in Pakistan and India and Role of Media’ during Military Literature Festival 2020 here on Friday.. Dr Fair said after US troops move out of Afghanistan, the real issue would be of air power.“Afghanistan would need air support. Having said this, the troop withdrawal would happen. The problem is we (the USA) are handing over Afghanistan to Pakistan,” added Fair, while pointing out flawed US policy for the last 20 years in the region where no serious effort was made to curtail Pakistan has been made. She also pointed out the issue of funding for Afghanistan. Singh said that once the USSR broke down and couldn’t fund Afghanistan, the government fell down.“India could play a role here. Earlier, India and Iran had supported the Northern Alliance. Emirates and Saudis are upset with Pakistan. The US has to work with Iran but elections are coming up there. These fractures are working in favour of the Taliban,” he said, while highlighting that the Chinese presence in Ladakh would close some options for India.  Dr Fair said that a civil war could break out in Afghanistan.“America is delegitimising democracy in Afghanistan. They want a puppet democracy. They are pushing Ghani (Ashraf Ghani) to give up the election. The Taliban is getting what they want. Pakistan is playing clever. They think that delegitimising democracy would create chaos in Afghanistan. Pakistan is maestro of chaos.”  On the role of media, Dr Fair said over the years the traditional media lost a lot of money.“In the USA, the watchdog media shifted to access journalism. Access is money in India,” she said. Singh pointed out that newspapers run by trusts in India still have credibility.  Dr Fair said a lot of terrorist groups have presence over social media like facebook and Twitter including Taliban through proxies.  On deep state, Dr Fair said that Pakistan did have a deep state but in India military leadership has little say.   But Singh pointed out that Indian intelligence agencies were being used for political ends by the people in power.“In case of the RAW, the oversight is missing. The ED and CBI are being used to go after people which the government doesn’t like,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civil-war-could-break-out-in-afghanistan-as-it-is-being-handed-over-back-to-pakistan-christine-fair-186160
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chinese overseas projects fraught with danger, warns former ambassador||China has embarked on a major outreach programme with other countries for economic gains but has failed to maintain its own domestic markets and is now going through an economic downturn, a former India diplomat said.Gurjit Singh, a former Indian ambassador to Germany, Indonesia and Ethiopia, said at the Military Literature Festival here on Friday that China’s economic engagement with other countries is fraught with danger.“China is building connectivity in different regions across the world, including Europe, Africa and Central Asia through construction of overseas railway lines and ports,” he said, speaking at a session called ‘Strategic Shift in the Pivot of Geography’.“It was procuring raw material from several countries but has now stopped doing so, thereby giving severe economic shocks to the affected countries.”Gurjit Singh also said that the real danger that is that the ongoing Chinese projects in other countries were not economic projects but strategic projects that did not abide by timelines and hence play the great game very effectively.Lt Gen PM Bali, former Chief of Staff, Western Command, said the last three decades have seen the strategic rise of China, which has stared shifting the geographical pivot in terms with the world’s economy.He said that as feared by international experts China has set on its conquest of other countries through its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) to gain control of the host country’s economy. The countries agreeing to BRI claim to have long term capital gains, especially in maritime projects, but the same need to be seen, he said.Elaborating on China’s growing relations with Russia, Central Asia, Eastern Europe and Africa, Brig Praveen Badrinath, Chief Engineer of a Corps, said China was playing out a well synchronised game in pursuit of its interests. He said that through the BRI corridors, smaller countries are falling prey to China road projects. He argued that pattern of events over last few decades indicates China was slowly but surely moving towards debt trapping nations.Moderating the session, Maj Gen AP Singh, General Officer commanding of a Division in the northern sector gave out the historical perspective of the ‘great game’ played out in the eastern hemisphere and China’s growing influence and prominence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chinese-overseas-projects-fraught-with-danger-warns-former-ambassador-186137
18-12-2020||Mumbai||Check out Ayushmann Khurrana's new look for 'Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui'; shares pic from Sukhana Lake||Actor Ayushmann Khurrana on Thursday shared a snapshot for the outdoor location of his upcoming romantic drama, Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui, on social media. Ayushmann is currently shooting for the Abhishek Kapoor directorial in North India.In the picture the actor shared on his Instagram Story, he is seen sitting on a red plastic chair and reading his lines, in a blue track suit and sports shoes at Sukhana Lake, Chandigarh.What catches your attention is his hairdo.The actor wears his hair close-cropped on the sides till the back of his head while making a tiny ponytail. He completes his get-up with designer stubble. Seated on the banks of a water body, Ayushmann is seen enjoying his cuppa."Going through the dialogue sheet #chandigarhkareaashiqui," he wrote on the picture.Ayushmann plays an athlete in the film that also stars Vaani Kapoor. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/check-out-ayushmann-khurranas-new-look-for-chandigarh-kare-aashiqui-shares-pic-from-sukhana-lake-186098
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||IATLIS national conference||Online refresher course at PUChandigarh: A two-week online refresher course on Indian languages will commence at Panjab University on Saturday. More than 35 language teachers from different universities and colleges will participate in this course being organised by the UGC-human resource development centre (HRDC) of the university. The Director of HRDC, Prof SK Tomar, said the Vice-Chancellor of HP Central University, Dharamsala, Prof Kuldip Chand Agnihotri, would be the chief guest at the inaugural. TNSWebinar held at GGDSD CollegeChandigarh: A webinar on "Honor Killing and its Social Implications" was organised by the department of history, GGDSD College, Sector 32. Dr Balraj Thapar, Principal, welcomed the resource person, Prof Anju Suri, from department of history and Dean of International Students, Panjab University, and the participants. Anju highlighted the reasons for heinous crime of honour killing such as female foeticide, girl infanticide, hyper-gamy, caste system, dowry and poverty. TNSResults declaredChandigarh: Panjab University has declared results of Master of Sciences (Pharmacy) 1st semester, MA (Fine Arts) 4th semester, MCom (Business Innovation) 4th semester, Master of Science (TYC) Physics 2nd semester, Master of Arts (Gandhian & Peace Studies) 2nd semester and 4th semester, BSc (Fashion Designing) 2nd semester and Bachelor of Arts 4th semester. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/iatlis-national-conference-186012
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Rotary Club gives ration||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rotary-club-gives-ration-186011
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Woman duped  of Rs 54,500||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-duped-of-rs-54-500-186010
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||One IAS, 2 IPS officers transferred out of Chandigarh||An IAS officer and two 2015-batch IPS officers posted in Chandigarh have been transferred out of the city. The Ministry of Home Affairs today issued their transfer orders.Additional Deputy Commissioner Nazuk Kumar, an IAS officer of the 2016 batch, who was also holding the charges of Additional Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Secretary, Red Cross Society, Director-cum-Special Secretary, Technical Education, and Director, Information Technology, has been transferred to Mizoram.Vineet Kumar, who was holding the charge of SP (City), Operations, and Commandant, Home Guards, has been transferred to Mizoram, while Neha Yadav, who was SP (EOW), Crime against Woman and Cyber Crime Investigation Cell, has been transferred to Arunachal Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-ias-2-ips-officers-transferred-out-of-chandigarh-185840
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh team to leave for Chennai on January 1||The Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, will play in the plate group of Syed Mutaq Ali Trophy in Chennai from January 10.As per the schedule, Chandigarh will face Nagaland on January 11, Manipur on January 13, Mizoram on January 15, Sikkim on January 17 and Arunachal Pradesh on January 19. The team will leave for Chennai on January 1. Quarterfinals, semifinals and final matches of the tournament will be played at Motera Stadium in Ahmadabad.Meanwhile, UTCA president Sanjay Tandon during the association’s apex council meeting, constituted a three-member Cricket Advisory Committee, which will be responsible for the appointment of support staff as well as equally vital in the selection of players.The BCCI had asked all teams to report to their host cities by January 2. Later, team members would have to go through quarantine as per the state regulatory criteria. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-team-to-leave-for-chennai-on-january-1-185841
18-12-2020||---||Ajanta takes over as CAT head, city Bench||Chandigarh, December 17 Former Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General of India Ajanta Dayalan assumed charge as the head of the Chandigarh Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT).  Surinder Kumar, Registrar, in a press note issued today, said Ajanta took charge on Monday. Earlier, Ajanta was posted as Administrative Member at the Allahabad Bench. The Bench exercises jurisdiction over the states of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab, apart from the Union Territories of Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.  Ajanta, a 1978-batch officer of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service, has over 38 years of experience of working in Central and state governments in different capacities. Prior to her retirement, she was the Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General of India and head of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service for two years.  An alumna of the IIT, Kanpur, and Harvard Kennedy School, she has served as Member (Finance) of the Punjab State Electricity Board and also as Founder Secretary of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission. She also served as the Accountant General of Punjab, Haryana and Kerala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ajanta-takes-over-as-cat-head-city-bench-185842
18-12-2020||---||High Court for expeditious decision on compensation pleas||Chandigarh, December 17 Justice Jaswant Singh of the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the legal services authorities to ensure expeditious decision on applications for compensation to victims. Justice Jaswant Singh, who is also the Executive Chairman of the Chandigarh State Legal Services Authority, said speedy disposal was essential, especially in cases where the court had recommended the compensation, as a delay would frustrate the entire objective of the victim compensation scheme. The assertion came as a compensation of Rs9 lakh was awarded in case of a youngster’s murder near Batra Cinema Hall in Sector 37, Chandigarh, by four juveniles and a 26-year-old man. In his judgment dated December 17, CJM-cum- DLSA secretary Ashok Kumar Mann stated: “After examining the entire case and verifying the contents of the claims with regard to the murder of the husband/son of applicants/victims arising out of the reported criminal activity, it is clearly evident that it is a fit case for granting compensation to the victim”. It was added in view of the meagre income of the victim’s family coupled with other factual, social and economic aspects, compensation of Rs9 lakh was awarded to the applicants/victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-for-expeditious-decision-on-compensation-pleas-185843
18-12-2020||---||Video of Chandigarh ASI driving on wrong side goes viral||Chandigarh, December 17 A video of a UT police ASI riding an Activa scooter on the wrong side allegedly in an inebriated condition went viral after he was stopped by commuters for hitting two vehicles with the scooter. Sources said the video was around seven days old and an inquiry into the matter was initiated and a report had been sent to senior officers. ASI Devinder Singh was stopped by people near the Grain Market, Sector 26. A person present at the spot made a video on the mobile phone. The cop was also not wearing a face mask. Police officials said the ASI’s scooter was impounded at the Sector 26 police station and he was also issued a challan for not wearing a mask. “A report for disciplinary action against the ASI was sent to senior officers,” said a police official. The ASI is posted in the PCR wing of the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/video-of-chandigarh-asi-driving-on-wrong-side-goes-viral-185844
18-12-2020||---||‘India home to 10 million heart failure patients’||Chandigarh, December 17India is home to approximately 10 million heart failure patients, said Dr HK Bali, chairman of cardiac science at a hospital in Panchkula.“When your heart muscles become weak and the heart is unable to pump blood efficiently through the body, such medical condition is called as heart failure,” he said.A recent study has shown that heart failure patients in India have mortality rates of almost 23 per cent after 1 year of diagnosis. This is significantly higher than the mortality rates of patients in other parts of the world, said Dr Bali.Common symptoms of heart failure are shortness of breath, fatigue, irregular heartbeat, swelling in legs, persistent cough, lack of appetite and fluid retention, he said.Treatment modalities for heart failure include lifestyle modification, restriction of salt and fluid, regular exercise, weight reduction, control of BP, blood sugar levels and cholesterol and medicines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/india-home-to-10-million-heart-failure-patients-185845
18-12-2020||---||AAP slams Admn for burdening city with Rs 402-crore French loan||Chandigarh, December 17The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today slammed the UT Administration for burdening the city with Rs 402-crore loan from a French firm.In a press statement, AAP convener Prem Garg said: “The Administration is patting its back for getting Rs 402-crore loan from France for augmenting the water supply in the city without realising that the officialdom is burdening the future generations of the city for several decades to come.”“Water tariff has already been increased up to 300 per cent. To repay the loan, the Administration proposes to further increase the tariff from year 2027 to 2042, which naturally will never be rolled back even after the loan repayment. Officials say that interest on loan is just 2 per cent, but what about the effect of currency fluctuations? The price of dollar keeps going up with time, which will result in inflated repayments. Who knows what will be the price of dollar from 2027 to 2042,” Garg said.“The city doesn’t need 24x7 water supply. It will lead to more wastage of water. The Administration should concentrate on checking leakages, wastage and theft of water first,” he opined.“The Administration must be sensitive to public opinion. Any proposal to spend public money must be put in public domain first. There should be a provision for getting online public opinions so that a considered decision can be taken. Details of the project, its cost, timeline and details of the contractor should be displayed at every project site for transparency,” the AAP leader suggested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-slams-admn-for-burdening-city-with-rs-402-crore-french-loan-185846
18-12-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration to hire 40 AC electric buses||Chandigarh, December 17To improve the quality of air, the UT Administration has decided to hire 40 AC electric buses for a period of 10 years.In September this year, the Centre had sanctioned 80 electric buses for the UT under Phase-II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme.After getting approval from the Centre, the UT Administration has started the process for the procurement of the buses. Under the scheme, the Centre will provide Rs50-lakh subsidy for each bus to the seller. 80 buses sanctionedIn September, the Centre had sanctioned 80 electric buses for the UT under Phase-II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme.A senior official of the Transport Department said a fresh tender for hiring the buses on the kilometre scheme for 10 years had been floated.The procurement of the buses will give a major boost to the plan of the UT Administration to replace its entire fleet of ordinary buses of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) with electric buses.At present, the CTU has 514 buses — 361 buses run on local or suburban routes and 153 buses run on inter-state routes.As the buses would not emit any pollution, it would improve the quality of air in the city, said the official.Last year, when the Centre had refused to finance 40 electric buses, the UT Administration had decided to procure these buses on the basis of revenue sharing. The Administration had floated tenders for the purchase of the 40 electric buses in January, but it had to suspend it as the revenue had been hit hard due to the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-hire-40-ac-electric-buses-185847
18-12-2020||---||Club owner, staff booked for serving hookah to customers||Chandigarh, December 17Sending a strong message to clubs serving hookah to customers despite a ban, the UT police today booked the owner and all six staff members, including the manager, of a club, Terminal 7, in Sector 7 after they found that hookah was being served.The police visited the club on the intervening night of December 16 and 17 and found that hookah was being served to customers.The police said club owner Shubham, manager Aditya and five staff members —- Navneet Singh, Amarjeet Kumar, Sukhwinder, Akshay and Aman were booked.The police have been registering cases for the violation. However, this is probably the first time that the entire club staff have been booked.Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO of the Sector 26 police station, said routine checks would be conducted in clubs and restaurants to ensure that the District Magistrate’s orders were followed.On a complaint of ASI Om Singh, a case has been registered against all of them under Sections 188 and 34 of the IPC at the Sector 26 police station.The UT Administration has extended the ban on serving of hookahs at clubs, hotels, restaurants, taverns and bars for 60 days, starting December 14, to curb the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/club-owner-staff-booked-for-serving-hookah-to-customers-185848
18-12-2020||---||Manmohan president of Mohali Lawn Tennis Assn||Chandigarh, December 17 Manmohan Kohli, CEO and managing partner of Aroma Classic & Aquamarine, will head the Mohali Lawn Tennis Association (MLTA).  The general house decided that Prasang Raheja, who currently plays in ITF 35+ category, will be its treasurer while Vivek Atray, an author, will be the chief patron of the association. Tennis coach Gaurav Chadha has been chosen its secretary and Animesh Sharma, Saminder Singh, Gen HJ Singh (retd), Rajeev, Sandeep Sharma, Pala Ram Sehgal, Dr Pranzal Sharma, Dr Rajesh Gulia and Gurpreet Singh members of the executive.  “The main aim of our new team is to promote, encourage and work for the development of lawn tennis and to maintain liaisons with other associations having similar objectives,” said Kohli.  “Organising tournaments is also one of our major goals as it gives players a platform to perform. We are looking ahead for reshaping tennis in the region,” said Atray.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manmohan-president-of-mohali-lawn-tennis-assn-185829
18-12-2020||---||Defence accounts officers felicitate tri-service veteran||Chandigarh, December 17 The Controller-General of Defence Accounts (CGDA), New Delhi, today felicitated Colonel Prithipal Singh Gill (retd), a World War—II veteran and only Indian to have served in the Army, Navy and Air Force, on attaining 100 years of age. Sahil Goyal, Deputy Controller-General of Defence Accounts, Western Command, along with two officers, visited the veteran at his residence in Chandigarh and presented him with the revised pension orders and a plaque. Colonel Gill and his wife also interacted with the CGDA representatives in a jubilant mood. The couple said they took regular morning walk and liked home-cooked food. They recalled that during service, their tenure at Manipur was the most memorable period. The couple was accompanied by their grandson and granddaughter-in-law.  Col Gill turned 100 on December 11. Joining the erstwhile Royal Indian Air Force in 1942, he left it at his father’s behest and joined the Navy, serving on ships detailed for escort duties in the Second World War. He then moved to the Army, seeing action in the 1965 Indo-Pak war with the artillery regiment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/defence-accounts-officers-felicitate-tri-service-veteran-185830
18-12-2020||---||Varsity teachers want salaries on time||Patiala, December 17 The Punjabi University Teachers Association (PUTA) today held a protest on the campus, demanding timely disbursal of salaries. Faculty members said the university administration yet again failed to release salaries on time despite the fact that it is required to be released within the first week of the month. They raised slogans against the university administration. Dr Nishan Singh Deol, president, PUTA, said, “The university has yet again failed to disburse the salaries and pensions. Seventeen days of the month have already passed. The Vice-Chancellor has failed to meet us over our grievances despite the fact that we have written to the office twice.” He said teachers’ representatives wanted to discuss a number of issues with the VC, including pending CAS promotions and pending arrears. The teachers later held a protest march on the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/varsity-teachers-want-salaries-on-time-185831
18-12-2020||---||Golden Peacock Award for DMW||Patiala, December 17 Diesel Loco Modernisation Works (DMW) here has won the Energy Efficiency Golden Peacock Award for bringing about improvements in energy efficiency and implementing various energy conservation techniques. The Institute of Directors, New Delhi, presented the trophy and certificate to the DMW representative. The DMW was earlier declared an energy efficient unit for the second year in continuation at the 21st National Energy Award held by the CII, Hyderabad, this year. Principal Chief Administrative Officer of production unit SN Dubey said they should pursue continuous improvement in energy efficiency in coming years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golden-peacock-award-for-dmw-185834
18-12-2020||---||Science Congress-2020 begins in online mode||Chandigarh, December 17  The 14th Chandigarh Science Congress (online mode), CHASCON-2020, commenced today. The event is being organised by Panjab University in collaboration with the Chandigarh region Innovation and Knowledge Cluster (CRIKC). The congress started with a brief introduction by Prof Deshdeepak Singh. Prof Prince Sharma, Dean Sciences, enlightened the students with his views about the event and its history. Professor Anil Bhardwaj, Director, Physical Research Lab, Ahmedabad, graced the inaugural session and spoke on the topic, Indian Planetary Missions. He included various aspects of Mission Mangal, Chandrayaan 2 and a lot more. Prof Amulya K Panda, Director, NII, New Delhi, talked about the recent vaccines. His talk was focused on the topic, Challenges in the Development of Vaccines. He illustrated with his presentation that normally it takes a decade for the vaccine to come to the market but what could be the major hurdles for the coming of the vaccine in reference to the Covid-19 pandemic. Prof MRN Murthy, AstraZeneca Chair, Institute of Bioinformatics and Applied Biotechnology (IBAB), Bengaluru, discussed “The Structural Biology of Coronavirus”. He emphasised how SARS Cov2 was evolving at a drastic fast rate and why the transmission rate was relatively faster than other viruses. The session for the Pandemic Covid-19 also included another prominent scientist, Prof R Vardarajan, Molecular Biophysics Unit, IISC, Bengaluru. He presented a very informative talk on “Immunogenic Design for COVID Vaccine”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/science-congress-2020-begins-in-online-mode-185835
18-12-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Gurjoat prepares ahead of World C’ship trials||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 17 Just like every other sportsperson, 25-year-old city’s skeet shooter Gurjoat Singh was also worried about effects of Covid-19 on his career, but thanks to NRAI’s Olympics Core Group camp held in New Delhi, he is looking ahead to recovering from this mental anxiety.  Gurjoat attended the second phase of the shooting camp, meant for the core group and reserves for Tokyo Olympics schedule for July 2021, which concluded today.  “I have never thought of attending a bio-bubble camp. Life is just restricted to training and room. The camp will end on December 17. Such platforms are the need of the hour to stabilise performance in these tough times of pandemic when there are hardly any tournaments,” said Gurjoat. The first phase of the camp was conducted in November. “We are not allowed to contact anyone except fellow shooters and coaches.” While talking about his post-camp plans, Gurjoat said he would be appearing for the World Cup trials. “The trials are scheduled to start from January 5, and I am eagerly waiting for this particular championship. Unfortunately, the previous World Cup, which was in Cyprus and New Delhi, got cancelled. I was very confident of bringing back the laurels but the Covid-19 pandemic washed away all my hopes and efforts. The aim for this year’s World Cup remains the same. I have been focusing on this particular championship, as it could be a gateway to win medals in future championships,” he added.  While talking about the ongoing camp, the ace shooter said he did focus on other things. However, getting back to shooting in a protected environment gave him a solid boost. “The Sports Authority of India (SAI) and the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) have made shooters to come back to their comfort zone while Playwrite is keeping a track of my progress,” said Gurjoat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurjoat-prepares-ahead-of-world-cship-trials-185836
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||PEC to scrap MTech, industrial designing||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has decided to discontinue MTech (industrial designing) course.  The decision was taken at a meeting of the Board of Governors today, after it was observed that the course has nil admissions in the past two years, said sources.  Meanwhile, it was also decided to continue with the BTech and MTech Data Science courses in order to help students analyse data in a proper manner. The sources revealed that as many as 27 points were discussed during the meeting. It was also decided to not hire any new faculty for data science courses and teachers from other departments, including computer science, will be indulged for this purpose instead. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-to-scrap-mtech-industrial-designing-185837
18-12-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula MC poll: BJP, Cong step up campaign||Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, while campaigning for the BJP’s mayoral candidate, Kulbhushan Goyal, today trained guns at state Congress chief Kumari Selja, questioning her on what she did when she was an MP for 10 years. Addressing a press conference, Gupta lauded the “developmental works” undertaken by the BJP government in Panchkula, stating that these would go in favour of party candidate Goyal and he would win by a huge margin. Gupta asked former Mayor and Congress candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia to count five things which “she may have done” during her stint as the Mayor of Panchkula. Meanwhile, Chander Mohan, former Haryana Deputy Chief Minister, said, “During her last stint as Mayor, Ahluwalia served with full dedication. Her long experience and capability to carry out work make her the obvious choice for the post of Panchkula Mayor.” “Everyone is aware of her work ethics with no compromise when it comes to development and the welfare of the general public,” he said. He was addressing a public rally at the Sector 21 market here during the inauguration of a poll office of Naveen Bansal, party candidate from Ward No. 13. Stressing the need for hard work at the grassroots level, Chander Mohan said a united effort was needed to win the MC poll with a thumping majority. He, along with Ahluwalia, also released Navin’s poll manifesto. Addressing the meeting, Ahluwalia said she was committed to developing both urban and rural areas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-poll-bjp-cong-step-up-campaign-185838
18-12-2020||Mohali||106 cases, one death in Mohali||One more fatality due to Covid-19 was witnessed during the past 24 hours in the district, taking the toll to 319.Meanwhile, 106 fresh cases surfaced in the district, while 90 more patients recovered from the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/106-cases-one-death-in-mohali-185857
18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 62 fresh infections||The city on Thursday reported 62 fresh cases of Covid, taking the UT tally to 18,905.With no new death, the toll remained 304. A total of 105 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-62-fresh-infections-185858
18-12-2020||Panchkula||50 more positive in Panchkula||The district today reported 50 new cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 9,605. With no fresh fatality, the toll remained 136.Among the new cases, six were from Kalka, four each from the MDC, Sector 5, and Sector 10 and three each from Sector 12-A, 15, 16 and 20. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-more-positive-in-panchkula-185823
18-12-2020||Dera Bassi||Couple killed as car hits mobike||A man and his wife were killed in a road accident on the railway overbridge on the Ambala national highway here this evening. The deceased have been identified as Ram Avtar (45) and his wife Sushila (40), both natives of Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh.According to the police, Ram Avtar was coming from Dera Bassi to Chandigarh on his motorcycle with his wife. An unidentified car, coming from the rear side, hit their motorcycle. Ram Avtar's head hit the road divider, killing him on the spot. Sushila, who also suffered head injuries, was rushed to the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital where she succumbed to her injuries. The car driver sped away from the spot after the accident. A traffic jam was witnessed on the highway after the mishap.Investigating officer Satnam Singh said, ''The deceased were identified from the documents found on them. An investigation is on to find where they lived at present.'' — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/couple-killed-as-car-hits-mobike-185824
18-12-2020||---||Season’s coldest day, night in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 17The city witnessed the coldest day and night of the season today by recording the lowest minimum as well maximum temperature.The minimum temperature fell to 5.1°C, two degrees below normal, while the maximum temperature remained at 14.3°C, seven notches below normal. A Meteorological Department official said in the coming days, the temperature was expected to fall further and foggy conditions were likely to continue. Today, the visibility was below 1000 metres due to fog.Expect dense fog, says WeathermanThe region may also witness dense to very dense fog during the next 24 hours. The Met Department has issued an advisory to commuters regarding foggy conditions on roads. People have been advised to avoid venturing out in the cold to save themselves from cold-related diseases.The department has already issued a forecast of “cold days” and a “cold wave” till December 19 in the tricity.Cold to severe cold wave conditions are likely in the coming days with the minimum temperature likely to be below 4°C at a few places and below 2°C at isolated places in the tricity.The region may also witness dense to very dense fog during the next 24 hours. The department has issued an advisory to commuters regarding foggy conditions on roads. People have been advised to avoid venturing out in the cold to save themselves from cold-related diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seasons-coldest-day-night-in-chandigarh-185825
18-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Mayor, councillors yet to exhaust ward fund||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17While this year the Mayor and councillors did not get even a single penny as a ward development fund owing to Covid-19, they are yet to spend previous years’ fund allotted to them. This has hit the development works in the city.As per the Municipal Corporation records, only three of the total 26 elected councillors could fully utilise their ward funds. They are Kanwarjeet Rana, Asha Kumari Jaswal and Chanderwati Shukla.The exceptionsAs per the MC records, only three of the total 26 elected councillors could fully utilise their ward funds. They are Kanwarjeet Rana, Asha Kumari Jaswal and Chanderwati Shukla.Some councillors have nearly Rs 1 crore of ward development fund unused. Councillor Satish Kainth has the maximum unspent funds (Rs105.57 lakh). He is followed by councillor Farmila, who has Rs 99.05 lakh yet to be utilised on the development of her ward.Kainth reasoned, “I have given work details to the corporation, but administrative approval is still awaited. The main reason is the MC has no funds. It is failure of the ruling BJP’s Mayor, the UT Administration and the MP. They could not get funds from the Centre.”Several councillors said they had given the report of the works to be carried out in their wards, but they have not been approved or carried out by the officials.A senior Municipal Corporation official said, “Earlier, there was 20 per cent cut in our grant-in-aid, due to which development funds could not be allotted to the councillors. Now, since we have got the permission to spend these, we have allotted them Rs30 lakh each. Last year, there was a shortage of funds.”Mayor Raj Bala Malik, who will probably become the first Mayor without any fund, said, “Due to Covid, funds could not be allotted this year. As the situation has improved, we have started the process of allotting funds for ward development.”How much they getThe councillors used to get Rs40 lakh per year to spend in their respective wards during the five-year term. The amount was doubled last year. The Mayor gets Rs2 crore per year, which can be spent in any ward. Councillors’ funds are carried forward for five years while the Mayor’s fund gets lapsed each year.Unspent funds||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-councillors-yet-to-exhaust-ward-fund-185826
18-12-2020||---||Chandigarh imposes curbs in  9 more zones||Chandigarh, December 17To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the UT Administration today declared nine more micro-containment zones in the city.The affected areas declared as micro-containment zones are parts of Sector 7, 15, 20, 23, 26, 35-A, 46 and 63 and Dadu Majra Colony.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue and frequent sanitisation would be conducted there. Residents were advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene, he added.As many as six micro-containment zones were declared on December 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-imposes-curbs-in-9-more-zones-185827
18-12-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Parents oppose norm for entry-level admission||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17Already under stress ahead of entry-level classes’ admissions, parents faced some anxious moments after they were asked to get their wards’ forms attested by a gazetted officer in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Many local schools have asked the applicants to get their forms countersigned and approved by some class-I authority, which has made parents run from pillar to post. The parents alleged that they had to make various arrangements and visit many places to fulfil the criteria for admissions at certain schools.December 16 was the last date to apply for entry-level admission at various schools. “At the time when the world is avoiding visiting public places, we have to get through such risk just for getting a signature. A majority of parents don’t know any officer and in such cases we have to rely on other resources. Instead of easing out the procedure, we were asked to go through a tangled way in this Covid-19 pandemic,” said a parent, seeking anonymity.“The schools could have adopted a simpler way this time. There have been no instructions by the UT Education Department. At the time when a majority of things are solved online, we have been asked to first get documents signed, scan these and upload these. A simple self-attestation was enough for this process. All supporting documents were also submitted then what was the need to cross check,” said another parent.Meanwhile, schools said they didn’t want to take any risk. “This method was particularly adopted for reserved seats and was later extended to the general category. There have been many incidents when we were provided with false information. And in order to safeguard, we have to abide by this rule,” said a teacher of a local school, requesting anonymity.“Not all schools have these criteria. There are certain schools who always adopt this method depending upon their needs,” said HS Mamik, president, Independent Schools’ Association (ISA).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-oppose-norm-for-entry-level-admission-185828
18-12-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh crafts floating islands for migratory birds at Sukhna||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17To perch on during their winter sojourn, the Department of Forests and Wildlife, UT, has crafted floating islands for migratory birds at Sukhna Lake.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said five floating islands had been created for the winged guests to bask, rest and sleep during their winter journey in the lake. Winged guests at lakeAs the mercury dipped further, winged guests from Siberia have started arriving at Sukhna Lake. Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said bar-headed geese, ruddy shelduck, common pochard, common coot, grey heron, mallard, pintail duck, etc..., all common species, have arrived at the lake.On an experimental basis, a bamboo raft was pushed into the lake last year, he said, adding that as a large number of birds used that raft, they had decided to increase the number of such rafts to five this year. Due to the depth of water, birds need mudflats for resting and in the absence of such facility, they had decided to create artificial islands for the birds, he said. These rafts were secured for the birds from all points of view, he said.As the mercury dipped further, winged guests from Siberia have started arriving at Sukhna Lake.Birders have been looking forward to have a glimpse of bar-headed geese and other migratory birds from Siberia that reached the lake after flying over the mighty Himalayas.Dalai said bar-headed geese, ruddy shelduck, common pochard, common coot, grey heron, mallard, pintail duck, etc..., all common species, have arrived at the lake.The arrival of migratory birds was quite encouraging as a large number of birds had reached the lake this time, he said. More birds would arrive in the coming weeks and would stay here till March.However, during a survey conduct last month, the Bird Club had identified 34 species of waterfowl in Sukhna Lake and the adjoining areas. A total of 429 waterfowls were spotted during the survey conducted by members of the club.During the survey, a maximum of 141 birds of the most common species of ruddy shelduck were spotted. Other migratory birds spotted included black-winged stilt (23), Eurasian coot (27), great cormorant (47), Indian spot-billed duck (40) and Northern pintail (23). However, only one bird each of white-breasted waterhen, white-browed wagtail, pied kingfisher, citrine wagtail and common kingfisher were spotted during the survey, which is conducted every year by the club on November 12, the birth anniversary of Dr Salim Ali, an ornithologist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-crafts-floating-islands-for-migratory-birds-at-sukhna-185839
