20-12-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 29 new cases, 2 more deaths in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Sunday reported two more COVID-19-related deaths, pushing the toll to 308 while 29 more cases took the infection tally to 19,073.There are 437 active cases in the union territory as of now, according to a medical bulletin.A total of 84 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 19,073, the bulletin said. As many as 1,68,234 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them 1,48,296 tested negative while reports of 91 are awaited, the bulletin said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-29-new-cases-2-more-deaths-in-chandigarh-187137
20-12-2020||---||e-book on Ladakh, focusing on current standoff launched Military Literature Festival||Chandigarh, December 20An e-book focused on the current standoff between India and China in eastern Ladakh was released on the concluding day of the fourth edition of the Military Literature Festival here.Tilted ‘Ladakh—2020’, the book is a collection of 50 selected articles pertaining to the current situation in Ladakh, delving upon historical aspects, operational nuances, intelligence matters, geo-political facets and the lessons learnt.The articles have been authored by officers who have had a hands-on experience of serving in the tough and rugged terrain of Ladakh, which has seen battles, skirmishes and incursions in the past.Standing-in for Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh at the virtual closing ceremony, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said bearing arms for one’s country is the greatest privilege a citizen can have.Stating that over the past few years the military literature festival has succeeded in creating a buzz around Punjab to motivate youngsters to join the armed forces and check the trend of dilution of Punjab’s tradition of military service, Badal exhorted the youth to strive for high ideals and growth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/e-book-on-ladakh-focusing-on-current-standoff-launched-military-literature-festival-187130
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||In 1996, as VCOAS I was questioned on need of celebrating 25 years of 1971 victory as it would have upset Pakistan: Gen Malik||Experts warned political leadership against bringing communal or ethnic divisions while also cautioning senior officers in military to be alive and sensitive towards such issues during a session on ‘Pluralism, the Armed Forces-and the Question of Who is an Indian’ at Military Literature Festival on Sunday.   Moderator of the session, Lt Gen NS Brar (retd) said that pluralism as against polarisation “is an increasing contentious issue worldwide”.“No country in the world is as diverse as India. The Indian politics couldn’t and possibly cannot be diverse from exploiting this diversity. But the military in a democracy has apolitical ethos and aspire for professionalism. It appears contradictory but it is not.” General VP Malik (retd), who led India to Kargil victory, said, “As an organisation, the armed forces are proud of achieving and maintaining unity in pluralism and diversity.”While commenting on vote bank politics, he said social engineering was being emphasised more than regional or national development and it should be corrected either through courts or Election Commission.  There should be greater emphasis on celebrating national events than religious ones, he said.Citing an anecdote, Gen Malik said in 1996 when he was Vice Chief of Army Staff, they were not getting permission to celebrate silver jubilee of 1971 Indo-Pak war till the last moment.“During a meeting in cabinet secretary’s office, the first question I was asked, ‘why do you want to celebrate it? Where is the need? It will upset Pakistan’. Such was the thinking of the government of that time,” he said, and added that it was the greatest military victories in centuries. “There have been a number of attempts to bring reservation in the Army. Not just during my time but earlier too. All political leaders need to guard against it. When an organisation is working well, why it should be politicised,” he said. Supporting him, Lt Gen Brar said when we had representation from all states based on their recruitable male population, what was the need of reservation in the military.   Adding a word of caution for politicians promoting division, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal said, “We have studied in principles of science that if you boil water at 100 degree Celsius, it will turn into steam. The statecraft is also like science. If you do A, B and C, the country will progress and if you do X, Y and Z, the country will go down. You need peace to progress.” On military ethos, Maj Gen AP Singh (retd) said that in military the drill of ‘Sarv Dharam Sthals’ gets a solider to celebrate each other’s religious functions. He added that a person could be a staunch follower of his religion before joining the military but after imbibing ethos of his “paltan” such differences become light.  Col Shantanu Pande, who is serving in the Army, said, “When a soldier from Jat regiment stands at the Siachen Glacier, his community, village and entire country is standing behind him.” He added, “We (military) are not a melting pot. We don’t try to fuse. We retain flavour.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-1996-as-vcoas-i-was-questioned-on-need-of-celebrating-25-years-of-1971-victory-as-it-would-have-upset-pakistan-gen-malik-187127
20-12-2020||New Delhi||Crossing Meghna led to fall of Dhaka in 1971, share four officers||A narration of personal experiences of four officers,  who took part in the historic and one-of-its-kind crossing of the Meghna river during the 1971 war with Pakistan, was the highlight of the concluding day of the 4th military literature festival on Sunday.The annual event conducted in Chandigarh is being held ‘virtually’ this year due to the COVID-19 protocols.Each officer narrated how the crossing across the Meghna river (Dec 9- Dec 15, 1971) was done while the Indian Army approached to encircle Dhaka (then known as Dacca) from the eastern flank. Interspersed with some thrilling anecdotes of the war and also the conduct of the 4 Corps Commander Lt Gen Sagat Singh, the session was moderated by Squadron leader Rana TS Chinna, who is part of the Centre for Armed Forces Historical Research (CAFHR), under the USI.Dhaka was then the capital of East Pakistan, the river Meghna was crossed by troops using helicopters while tanks forded across the strong currents leading to a hasty fall of the Pakistan Army.Lt Gen SS Mehta who led first tank troop — using PT 76 tanks — into Dhaka termed this as victory of democracy over military rule and a victory of humanism over barbarism.“The game changer was the helicopter-lift for crossing of troops and tanks by fording across the Meghna,” he later told the Tribune. The river has strong currents and is as wide as 15 km.“The war was about liberation over occupation. Pakistan had occupied it (Bangladesh) and we have liberated them. We did not stay beyond 90 days,” said General Mehta, who was commanding the 5th Independent squadron of his regiment, the 63 Cavalry.The General, then a Major, did the task of making his squadron tanks cross the river using them in an amphibious role.The proof is that Bangladesh is a faster growing economy. “We captured Dhaka with just 3000 troops and 30,000 Pakistan Army surrendered”.He recollected how his tank squadron was parked in the grounds of the Dhaka University and at its edge stood a 16th century Nanak Shahi Gurdwara which was damaged by Pakistan Army and its ‘granthi’ was killed. The gurdwara was refurbished and troops got in a new granthi too. The first speech of new leaders of Bangladesh in their officiating capacity was made from the gurdwara.Lt GS Sihota was air operations pilot tasked with Gen Sagat Singh the 4 Corps Commander described how the operation was planned and how the general himself visited each spot to select the best possible location to cross the Meghna after several air reconnaissance sorties.“Sagat Singh could not accept defeat,” he said.Group Captain CS Sandhu, who was commanding the 110 Helicopter unit of the IAF, was tasked with ferry troops across the Meghna said the unit had 10 Mi-4 helicopters supplied by then USSR.“In June 1971, I was told that I would be operating with the 4 Crops and asked to go and see General Sagat Singh, who then advised me to train for night flying.”With just a navigation light, a small cockpit light and with no radio transmission permitted, the task was to coordinate the flying speed of the copters with accuracy to prevent any mid-air crashes. The training was done post-monsoons in 1971.From December 9 to December 15, IAF helicopters lifted 6,000 men from the east bank of the Meghna and dropped them at the west bank of the river for the onward march to Dhaka, he said.Maj Chandrakant Singh, who was in the infantry, described the battle of Akhaura as the toughest battle of the eastern sector. Akhaura is further east of Meghna and close to Tripura, India.By December 6, the troops were moving towards the river line of Meghna.“The planning to heli-drop troops was conveyed over night and it helped us push Pakistan further westwards towards Dhaka. Sagat Singh was clear in his mind that he would use helicopters in an offensive role”.The moderator Squadron Leader Chhina, said these individuals on the panel shaped the destiny of three countries and the operation across the Meghna was a  daring plan which led to the fall of Dhaka.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crossing-meghna-led-to-fall-of-dhaka-in-1971-share-four-officers-187074
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||'Issues of Khalistan movement should have been dealt with politically'||Elucidating upon the events in the 1970s and1980s that led up Operation Bluestar in Punjab, former senior police officers opined that all the issues in those days, should have must have been addressed politically not forcefully as there are no military answers to a political problem. Speaking out his recently published book, 'The Khalistan Conspiracy: A Former R&AW Officer Unravels the Path to 1984', at the Military Literature Festival here on Sunday, the author GBS Sidhu, said that in the late seventies when he was sent to Canada to look into the Khalistani problem, he found no evidence of any large scale movement except for a couple of persons peddling the cause.Sidhu, a former Special Secretary in the Research and Analysis Wing, delved upon a series of interconnected events that led to the subsequent rise of the Khalistan movement and its aftermath. He spoke of the functioning of RAW on this issue, the developments and changes that took place within the agency such as creating new divisions and setting up new overseas stations and the political dimension to the whole episode.He said that his book revolved around a two-phased, top-secret operation, initiated and managed by some senior Congress leaders operating from then prime minister Indira Gandhi's residential office at 1 Akbar Road, New Delhi.Labelling it as Operation Bhindranwale-Khalistan, he said that the first phase involved destabilising the then Badal-led government in Punjab by propping up Jarnail Singh Bhindrawale and creating a fear psychosis, which met little success, while the second phase was aimed at winning the state elections. Sidhu also recalled various aspects related to rising of militancy in Punjab and abroad, especially Canada and other European countries, where Sikhs had migrated to during the 1970s. He also highlighted about the efforts of the union government at that time to settle the issues revolving around militancy. Former Director General of Police, Punjab, GS Aujla, said that the issue was not addressed at the political level at that time and history has given a great lesson that political will was lacking to solve the issue during the period.MPS Aulakh, a former Director General of Police, Punjab who has held prominent positions in the Intelligence Bureau, traced the series of events of that period that began with some incidents of violence in the early 1970s and the role of the establishment in dealing with the emerging situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/issues-of-khalistan-movement-should-have-been-dealt-with-politically-187069
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Now, PGI patients can seek second opinion||Under the new charter of patients’ rights adopted by the PGI, a patient has the right to seek the second opinion from an appropriate clinician of his choice with all records and information being provided to him or her by the treating doctor for the purpose.What the charter saysA charter of patients’ rights and responsibilities will be displayed and followed by the institute, says a communication by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India.It will be the hospital’s responsibility to provide adequate relevant information about nature, cause of illness, proposed investigations, expected results of treatment, possible complications and expected costs to a patient. Besides, the hospital will also provide the patient with information on the rates charged for each type of service provided and facilities available. It is the patient’s right to choose an alternative treatment if options are available.The establishment shall display the charter details at a conspicuous place in the local as well as in the English language. The hospital will ensure the presence of a woman during a physical examination of a female patient by a male practitioner.There will be no discrimination in treatment based upon a patient’s illness or conditions, including his or her HIV status or other health conditions, religion ethnicity, gender (including transgender), age, sexual orientation, linguistic or geographical/social origins.The hospital will have to take informed consent prior to specific tests/treatment (e.g. surgery, chemotherapy etc). The hospital cannot deny release of the dead body of a patient.Some of the patient’s responsibilities mentioned in the new charter includes providing all health-related information, cooperating with doctors during examination and treatment, following all instructions, paying hospital fees on time, respecting dignity of doctors and other hospital staff and never resorting to violence.The Deputy Director (Administration) of PGI, Gaurav Dhawan, said: “We have updated the charter as we want to provide the best possible medical care timely to the needy and also make the patients aware about their rights. At the same time, we want to inform them about their responsibilities as well, which will enable the doctors to provide their patients the right course of treatment.”Vaibhav Gupta, a social worker who is involved in treating poor patients in government hospitals, said: “We face problems on a daily basis in the treatment of poor patients. Many a time, the patient is not satisfied with the treatment. The clause wherein a patient can seek second opinion from a clinician of his choice and choose an alternative treatment, if options are available, will help the patient to avail himself or herself of a satisfied treatment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-pgi-patients-can-seek-second-opinion-186786
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Mayoral poll in Chandigarh on January 8||The stage is set for the 2021 mayoral poll in the city with the UT Administration declaring January 8 as the election date today. This time, the post is open for the general category. It will be the last Mayor of the current MC House as the next civic body elections are scheduled in the end of 2021.Front runnersArun SoodMaheshinder Singh SidhuRavi Kant SharmaShakti Prakash DevshaliThe Mayor is elected from among the elected councillors in General House. There are a total 27 votes, 26 of elected councillors and one of ex officio member, i.e. the city MP. The nine nominated councillors have no voting right. A candidate needs 14 votes to get elected to the post.The elections to the posts of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor will also be held along with the mayoral poll. Nominated councillor Ajay Dutta will preside over the process.Among the front runners for the post are councillors Arun Sood (city BJP president), Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, Ravi Kant Sharma and Shakti Prakash Devshali.According to Sood, “The mayoral candidates have not been decided yet. The party’s local leadership, in consultation with the high command, will decide on it.”Though the saffron party enjoys a stout majority with 20 councillors in the 27-member MC House, chances of cross-voting worry it due to infighting and factionalism.It has a history of infighting especially during the mayoral polls. In 2017, Asha Jaswal was chosen a nominee. But within a few days after getting elected Mayor, she and Sood were blamed by councillor Heera Negi for her defeat in the F&CC elections.Next year when Davesh Moudgil was chosen a mayoral candidate, Jaswal, accompanied by Sood and other councillors, filed separate nominations in protest, though she withdrew later after intervention of the high command.In 2019 when Rajesh Kalia was chosen a nominee, Satish Kainth filed his nomination in protest. He lost poll and things went so wrong that he later joined the Congress.This year when Raj Bala Malik was chosen a mayoral candidate, Heera Negi criticised the move and even showed her annoyance towards MP Kirron Kher in public. Chandrawati Shukla, too, had attempted to choose a path other than the party line, but was dissuaded later.Meanwhile, the Leader of the Opposition, Devinder Singh Babla (Congress), said: “Our party is yet to make up its mind, but it’s certain we will contest all three posts. We will wait and watch.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mayoral-poll-in-chandigarh-on-january-8-186821
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||From December 22, segregate waste in Chandigarh or cough up penalty||Come Tuesday, the residents of Sectors 1 to 30 and the owners of commercial establishments in the entire city will have to pay a fine if they do not segregate dry and wet waste.Quantum of fineMC officials said they would ensure strict compliance and the collectors had been asked not to collect mixed waste from Sector 1 to 30 and commercial areas across the city. Any violation would invite a penalty. It will be Rs200 for each violation in the case of residential unit. For commercial areas, the penalty will be Rs2,000, Rs5,000 or Rs10,000, depending upon the category of the unit. The fine will be imposed and recovered on the spot.The civic body is going to replace the existing system of lifting waste through rehris in these areas. Now, garbage will be collected in two-bin vehicles. The MC is starting off with 97 such vehicles to be deployed in Sector 1-30.Meanwhile, questions are being raised over “not making residents aware” about the move. Leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said, “They should have involved councillors or made public announcements in sectors. People are unaware about it and are not segregating waste at present.”However, MC Medical Officer of Health Amrit Warring said, “On MC Commissioner KK Yadav’s order, we are going to issue a public notice. Besides, we will make people aware through FM radio and newspapers. Waste segregation will be mandatory. We will take care of interests of both the waste collectors and residents.”The corporation is simultaneously registering existing garbage collectors as helpers or drivers for its vehicles. The process of registration will continue at the MC office in Sector 17 tomorrow as well. Officials said the collectors left out would be adjusted in different wings.For the past about three years, the MC has been unsuccessfully trying to launch its waste segregation drive in the city though it claims to have started it in UT villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-december-22-segregate-waste-in-chandigarh-or-cough-up-penalty-186822
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||PUTA writes to CBI against VC||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has claimed to have lodged a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Bureau, CBI, against the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, alleging extension of special favour to a former CMO, PU Health Centre, by permitting him to retain accommodation on the campus beyond his retirement.The plaintThe association has alleged that the Vice-Chancellor permitted Dr Devinder Dhawan to retain his house (T-I/17) on the university campus till the age of 65 years as a special case despite the fact there is no such authority vested with anyone, including the Vice-Chancellor, and there is no such provision for university employees on re-employment/extension.Dr Khullar, also a former CMO at PU Health Centre, was ordered to pay a penal rent for the university accommodation for the period of overstay after his superannuation.The association has also alleged that Dhawan is running his private clinic from his other residence at Sector 48, which is completely illegal. It is further alleged that Dhawan is not entitled even to HRA as per office orders leading to the question how can an employee who is not entitled to HRA can be allotted university accommodation?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-writes-to-cbi-against-vc-186823
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Anumit Sodhi’s party fuels speculations||A dinner party that was hosted today by Anumit Singh Sodhi, Punjab State Information Commissioner and son of Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, wherein presidents and secretaries of all affiliated units of the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) were invited, has led to many frizzy speculations.Anumit, who is also the COA treasurer, is rumoured to be interested in contesting elections for the post of the COA president. His father, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, is already the life president of the COA. However, he denied the rumours and termed the dinner gathering as just a social event.“After I took over as the State Information Commissioner, my friends were seeking a get together. However, due to the Covid-19 restrictions, it was delayed. Some of my dear ones attended it on Friday. It had nothing to do with the COA elections,” said Anumit, who took the charge of the State Information Commissioner in October.“No, I won’t be contesting for the post of the COA president,” he said.Anumit was absent from the last annual general meeting of the COA. Some members had raised objections over association’s expenditure during the meeting.“The expenditure report will be presented in the next annual general meeting. We have audited the reports for everything. The House will be presented a clear record as there’s nothing to hide,” said Anumit.The last meeting of the COA was held on December 4. The House decided to host the next elections before March 31 after solving all disputes, including affiliation to units, presenting expenditure reports and others. Sources said heated arguments took place in the last meeting of the COA. The COA is already facing flak for not conducting any state championship in the past 13 years.The sources added said member of the current House wanted to get reelected, which was opposed by a rival group. They said Anumit was expected to get elevated for the post of the president to reach a unanimous decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anumit-sodhis-party-fuels-speculations-186824
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||‘Translation a transaction where cultural exchange happens’||A two-week online refresher course on Indian languages, organised by the UGC-Human Resource Development Centre (HRDC) of Panjab University, started today.Prof Kuldip Chand Agnihotri, Vice-Chancellor of HP Central University, Dharamsala, inaugurated the course and stressed on the role of translation in society.40 teachers participateAssociate Prof Gurmeet Singh, Department of Hindi, said 40 teachers from different universities and colleges from 10 states were taking part in the course.The key speaker of the inaugural session was eminent journalist and thinker Rahul Dev.He said: “Translation is also a transaction where a cultural exchange occurs and within that process, we interact with our own selves.”Prof Anand Vardhan Sharma, visiting professor, Sofia University, Bulgaria, was the guest of honour.Course coordinator and Associate Professor of Department of Hindi, Dr Gurmeet Singh, said 40 teachers from different universities and colleges from 10 states were taking part in the course. He said that keeping in view the increasing importance of translation and its role in bringing various languages and cultures closer, the theme of the course was ‘Culture of translation and translation of culture’.HRDC Director Prof SK Tomar welcomed the guests and participants. HRDC Deputy Director Jayanti Dutta proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/translation-a-transaction-where-cultural-exchange-happens-186825
20-12-2020||Mohali||Ex-servicemen express solidarity with farmers||Retired IAS officers and ex-servicemen among others staged a massive protest on Airport Road in front of Gurdwara Sahib Singh Shaheedan, Sohana, against the Centre and raised slogans against the Prime Minister and the Union Agriculture Minister.A large number of protesters were senior citizens, who demanded that the government should repeal the three farm laws as they were “anti-farmers” and “anti-people”.Retired IAS officers Kulbir Singh Sidhu, SR Ladhar, Pyare Lal Garg, Olympian Ajit Singh, RPS Mann (retd Brigadier), GP Singh, Subedar Ranjit Singh, Col (retd) Gajjan Singh, Col (retd) Varinder Singh, Col (retd) SPS Sidhu, Col (retd) SS Sohi, Jagtar Singh (retd IRS officer) and Balbir Singh Saini (retd Wing Commander) took part in the protest.Retired IAS officer SR Ladhar said: ‘The three agriculture laws are not only against farmers but also against entire population of the country.’’In the evening, youngsters, under the banner of the Youth of Mohali, came out in support of the farmers in Phase 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-servicemen-express-solidarity-with-farmers-186826
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Day 2 sees session on startups, innovation||Various sessions were held at the PU departments as part of the ongoing Science Congress.For chemical sciences, the key address was delivered by Dr Narinder Singh from IIT-Ropar, Roopnagar, Punjab. Two lectures were delivered by Dr Vipan Kumar from the GNDU, Amritsar, and Dr Ashok Kumar Malik from Punjabi University, Patiala.For engineering and management sciences, two lectures were delivered by Dr Talsimarif Saiyed, CEO, and Director of C-CAMP, Bengaluru, and by Praveen Vamula from Instem Bangalore on ‘Startup and innovation in India: opportunities and challenges.”A talk was delivered by Dr Amit Kulshrestha, Associate, IISER Professor, Mohali, on ‘Image of power maps in linear groups’, which was attended by about 50 participants.The physical sciences session commenced with a talk by Dr Davinder Siwal, BFUHS, Faridkot, on ‘nuclear radiation detectors for imaging science’, followed by Dr Basant K Nayak, BARC, Mumbai, and Dr Arun S Oinam, PGIMER,Chandigarh, on various topic. Prof (Dr) Shalini Gainder, Additional Professor, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, PGI, talked on women’s health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-2-sees-session-on-startups-innovation-186827
20-12-2020||Mohali||Dera Bassi MLA objects to voter lists, again||Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma has again raised objections to the voter lists that was made public on December 17.The SAD leader said he would again submit a memorandum to the State Election Commission (SEC) and the Mohali DC on Monday regarding this. “If the voter lists are not corrected, we will lay siege to the SDM’s office. If no action is taken, I will move court and the officers and leaders involved will be made a party to it,” he said.Sharma alleged that the ruling party had used its influence and colluded with the officers to come up with a list that has glaring errors. Earlier, he had alleged that 15,000 voters have been disenfranchised in Zirakpur alone.Sharma had earlier approached the SEC alleging discrepancies in 21,000 votes in the Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru constituencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-mla-objects-to-voter-lists-again-186828
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||AAP objects to liquor vend at hospital site||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has objected to the construction of a liquor vend on a hospital site in Mani Majra.Prem Garg, AAP convener, UT, said: “The land was reserved for the construction of a hospital. The UT Administration has allowed the construction of a liquor shop and a tavern on this land. This fact was revealed in a reply by the Chief Architect office on December 6 in response to a query by a senior citizen, Col Kulbir Singh.”The AAP strongly objects to a liquor shop on the land reserved for the hospital and calls for the allotment of the land to construct a super-specialty hospital to serve the purpose for which the land was acquired.“The MC should auction this multi-specialty hospital site and add around Rs100 crore to its kitty. Setting up a multi-specialty hospital in Mani Majra will probe to be a boon for patients of this area and boost the economic activity,” he demanded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-objects-to-liquor-vend-at-hospital-site-186829
20-12-2020||Mohali||Experts dwell on NEP at RBU||Dr Dalip Kumar, mission coordinator of the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) Department, delivered a talk on ‘Suitable use of technology — way for Atma Nirbhar Bharat’ at Rayat Bahra University today.Chancellor Gurvinder Singh Bahra welcomed the expert speaker. Prof Parvinder Singh, Vice-Chancellor, talked about the New Education Policy (NEP).Sahila Bahra, Vice-President, Rayat Bahra Group, spoke on the faculty development programme for teachers.Dalip Kumar spoke about the NEP 2020. He said the faculty and students should use the National Digital Library. He laid emphasis on diversification in research areas as suggested under the NEP 2020. He highlighted the importance of technology in the improvement of education process.He discussed artificial intelligence, machine-learning, block chains, smart boards, computing devices and adaptive computer technologies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experts-dwell-on-nep-at-rbu-186830
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents protest move to axe 700 trees||To prevent the destruction of green cover for infrastructure, residents of the city today protested the decision of the UT Administration to axe 700 trees for the construction of a flyover at the Tribune Chowk. ‘Show of solidarity’“The protest was a show of solidarity by the people of Chandigarh to stop the cutting of “only” 700 trees. Flyovers have never been a solution to traffic problem,” said Paveela Bali, who had filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, on behalf of her NGO, The Run Club, against the cutting of the trees for the flyover project.Keeping in view regular traffic jams, the Administration has recently decided to go ahead with the construction of the flyover as all alternatives to the project were found to be non-feasible. For construction of the flyover, the Administration has to axe 700 trees to pave the way for 1.2-km stretch on the Dakshin Marg.About the projectThe Rs183-crore project was approved by the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways in February 2019 to decongest the Tribune Chowk.“The protest was a show of solidarity by the people of Chandigarh to stop the cutting of “only” 700 trees. Flyovers have never been a solution to traffic problem,” said Paveela Bali, who had filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, on behalf of her NGO, The Run Club, against the cutting of the trees for the flyover project.And how does the Administration propose to deal with air pollution after cutting 700 trees to build a flyover! There are many ways in which the flyover can be totally avoided, suggestions were given to the Administration in the last public hearing, plans of a flyover with only 65 trees to be cut was also submitted to them but they chose to ignore it, she adds.“I really do not understand why are those in whom we place so much faith are the ones who fail us. Is environmental degradation okay with the Administration? she questioned.Initially, the UT Administration had planned a 7-km flyover, but the Union Government reduced the length to 3.5 km. Later, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways further reduced the length of the flyover to 1.2 km.The Rs 183-crore project was approved by the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways in February 2019 to decongest the Tribune Chowk.On a petition filed by The Run Club, the High Court had stayed the construction of the flyover in November 2019 and had asked for public opinion to find an alternative to the flyover at the Tribune Chowk.On the directions of the High Court, a public hearing was held in December last year to take suggestions and objections of the public and of experts on the project. However, a majority of residents, professionals and architects opposed the construction of the flyover.After the hearing, a Technical Committee was constituted to examine the technical suggestions on alternatives to the flyover project. Seven models were submitted as alternatives, but the committee termed them as unviable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-protest-move-to-axe-700-trees-186831
20-12-2020||Mohali||3 more die in Mohali, toll 325||Three persons died of Covid-19 while 60 fresh cases were detected in the district today.Among the new cases, 33 were reported from Mohali (urban), nine from Dera Bassi, four from Lalru, seven from Dhakoli, three from Kharar and two each from Boothgarh and Gharuan.As many as 146 patients have recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours.The district has seen 17,463 cases so far and 15,210 patients have already been cured. The number of active cases in the district is 1,928. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-die-in-mohali-toll-325-186832
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 65 fresh cases, one fatality||34 test +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported 34 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 9,677. The Covid toll remained 138. While 9,233 patients have defeated the virus so far, 306 cases are still active. The district recovery rate stands at 95.41 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-65-fresh-cases-one-fatality-186833
20-12-2020||Panchkula||Poll material sales down: Trader||Though two main parties —the BJP and the Congress — have been aggressively campaigning for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections, Omkar Singh, who deals in election campaign material, says he is yet to witness a brisk business as is usual during campaigning.He deals in flags, posters, banners, badges and other paraphernalia for various parties.He says his business had come down by almost 50 per cent compared to the 2019 Haryana Assembly elections – when BJP’s Gian Chand Gupta and Congress’ Chander Mohan were fighting against each other in Panchkula.“We did a brisk business during the last elections. However, the sales are slow this time. Only a few candidates have approached us for major orders. Usually they are buying material worth not more than Rs2,000- Rs3,000,” he says.Omkar believes that big parties such as the BJP and the Congress have altered their campaigning ways. “Sab kuch upar se supply hota h. Sirf jo samaan available nahi hota, vo hamse kharid liya jata hai (The supply of poll material is controlled in a centralised manner. Only the stuff unavailable at the local level is purchased from us),” says Omkar, who originally hails from western Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poll-material-sales-down-trader-186834
20-12-2020||Panchkula||Cong mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia lambasts saffron party for anti-agrarian policies||Hoping to cash in on anti-BJP mood in the country on the farmers’ issue, Congress mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia today held back-to-back public meetings in Naggal Khurd, Moginand, Jaisinghpura, Bhanu, Kishangarh, Mankiyaan, Billa and Jaswantgarh villages and lambasted the BJP for its anti-agrarian policies.“It’s your love and affection that keep us motivated to work for your betterment. During my previous tenure as the Mayor, my prime concern was to provide civic amenities in the rural areas. It will again be our priority to work for you, if you vote and support us again,” Ahluwalia said, adding that she would assure all-round development of their respective areas, if voted to power.Former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan, who accompanied Ahluwalia during public meetings, urged villagers to teach the BJP a lesson for bringing farmers on roads.“It’s karma that pays back. They have played with the sentiments of farmers by forcing them to leave fields and sit on the road in this cold,” said Chander Mohan.Ward coordinators appointedThe Congress on Saturday appointed coordinators in all 20 wards for better poll management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-mayoral-candidate-upinder-kaur-ahluwalia-lambasts-saffron-party-for-anti-agrarian-policies-186835
20-12-2020||Amit Bathla||With limited resources, they vow to give tough fight to heavyweights||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 19Though candidates from the BJP and the Congress have been generating maximum interest and stealing the limelight in the race for the Mayor’s post in the forthcoming Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections, there are several others in the contest, including two independents, who vow to give a tough fight to heavyweights with limited resources and funds.Apart from BJP’s Kulbhushan Goyal, Congress’ Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia, Anil Pangotra from the Bahujan Samaj Party, Sudershan Bansal from the Janral Samaj Party (unrecognised party), Padam Garg (Independent) and Shyam Singh Negi (Independent) are also in the fray for the Mayor’s post.Anil PangotraAnil Pangotra, who once served as the political secretary to former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan, was expecting a ticket from the Congress in return of his “long-term association and service to the party”. As things panned out, Pangotra failed to get the “respect from the Congress”.He says the grand old party’s “bhai bhatijawad” (nepotism) culture compels him to approach the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for the ticket.He says he has been raising several civic issues and had even gone on a hunger strike for shifting the dumping ground away from the residential area and enhancement of HSVP plots in the past few years, but the Congress sidelined and denied him the ticket. Terming the Ahluwalia’s candidature ‘self-destructive’, the 46-year-old businessman says anti-party campaign by the disgruntled leaders’ will sink Congress’ ship, it doesn’t need the BJP.Profession/education: Accountant/MComShyam Singh NegiAn accountant by profession, Shyam Singh Negi says he left his regular job 1.5 years ago in the hope of a councillor ticket from the BJP and had been actively working for the party since then.Expressing his anguish over the BJP’s “superficial and undemocratic” way of distributing ticket, Negi says the BJP had sought names from its workers just to show off. The party had already finalised the names of candidates in every ward for the Panchkula MC elections.“I made them aware of my influence in Ward No. 8 and high prospects of winning the elections. I was sure of my victory and just wanted to contest on the BJP symbol. The party, however, decided not to chose me. Still, I abide by the decision as a true worker of the party. But my family and community insisted that I should contest the elections. So, I filed papers as an Independent candidate,” he says. “I may not able to defeat the BJP candidate, but I will teach them a lesson,” says Negi, who hails from Uttarakhand.Profession/education: Retired from PGI/BSc Nursing (PU)Sudershan BansalA candidate of the Janral Samaj Party (unrecognised), Sudershan Bansal is the second woman mayoral nominee among six candidates and a retired professional from the post of the deputy nursing superintendent, PGI, Chandigarh. Her vision for the city includes revamping potholed-ridden and damaged roads, cleanliness, time-bound delivery of government services with zero corruption and checking stray dogs/cattle menace.On a question of competing with big parties such as the BJP and the Congress, she replies, “It doesn’t mean that if our party is small, we can’t compete with them. Though national parties have lots of funds to campaign, we will try to give them a tough fight with limited resources.”Profession/education: Businessman/MatricPadam GargContesting the elections with a virtual support from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and a city-based NGO, Panchkula Vikas Manch, Padam Garg says his main opponent is the BJP. “Our local MLA and Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta has become the Chief Minister’s stooge. He is stuck in the darkness. He doesn’t even know who is asking for bribe in his name,” he says. He says he will find an alternative to Ashiana flats for the rehabilitation of the poor and give permission to vendors for business during evening hours, if he was elected as the Mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/with-limited-resources-they-vow-to-give-tough-fight-to-heavyweights-186836
20-12-2020||Panchkula||BJP releases manifesto||Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta today released the BJP manifesto or Sankalp Patra for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation in the presence of party’s mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal and district president Ajay Sharma.The manifesto titled “Hamara Sankalp – Swachh, Sundar, Hara Bhara aur Atma Nirbhar Panchkula” begins with a focus on works that have already either been completed in the past six years or underway.In the 27-point manifesto, the BJP promises push for Smart City tag, construction of an iconic tower in Sector 5, end to stray dog/cattle menace, construction of a solid waste management plant in Jhuriwala, gyms and facility of recreation in parks, multi-level parking in sectors, additional routes for better connectivity with Chandigarh, LED and solar lights in rural and urban areas, beautification of Singh Nullah, removal of illegal encroachments, strengthening of fire services, reconstruction of community centres in Sector 7 and 10, laying of gas pipeline, rehabilitation of street vendors, establishing city as medi/education hub, skill development training in schools and colleges, door-to-door effective waste management, maintenance of public toilets in markets, rainwater harvesting, laying of sewerage in Barwala villages and slum-free Panchkula. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-releases-manifesto-186837
20-12-2020||Mohali||Munish retained as Punjab head coach||The Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) has appointed Munish Bali as the head coach for the second successive year for the upcoming domestic season 2020-21. He will be assisted by former Indian fast bowler Manpreet Singh Gony as bowling coach and Sandeep Sawal as fielding coach during the upcoming Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy beginning from January 10.This was decided in a meeting of the senior selection committee held on December 16. The committee included chairman Arun Sharma, Chandan Madan, Love Abhilish, Sameer Mehra and Balbir Singh. The meeting was also attended by Puneet Bali, PCA secretary, and Surjit Rai, PCA joint secretary.It was also decided to appoint Girish Bhanot as the manager-cum-coordinator, Gaurav Sharma as physiotherapist, Sachin Kalra as physical trainer (on call for camps), Avinash as ball thrower, Jitender Billa as fitness trainer, Rahul as masseur and Amit Kumar as video analyst.A 32-probable squad is attending a preparatory camp at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali. Punjab will travel to Bengaluru for its Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy matches. The team will leave on January 2. The probable and the support staff have undergone mandatory Covid tests twice. They will go to Ludhiana on December 21 to take part in the Ludhiana District Cricket Association tournament.The committee decided to hold camps simultaneously during the season for those players who are talented but failed to make it to the senior team. It was unanimously decided that Devender Arora, who was part of the coaching staff of the senior men’s team last season, will be deputed to take these camps in Mohali while the tournament takes place along with Arun Bedi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/munish-retained-as-punjab-head-coach-186838
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||All 49 probables undergo physical fitness, Covid tests||A total of 49 players today underwent physical fitness test at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium for the upcoming Syed Mustaq Ali T20 Tournament (Plate Group) to be played in Chennai from January 10.Newly appointed trainer Sagar Sudan conducted the fitness test. Players also underwent Covid test by paramedics from Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, followed by YOYO test.The Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA) has decided to cancel the trials and last season’s registered senior players and top performers of the U-19 and the U-23 categories were called for the fitness test.The trainer will submit his report to the selection committee on Sunday. Later, the final list of players for the preparation camp will be finalised. The weeklong camp is scheduled to begin from December 23 at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-49-probables-undergo-physical-fitness-covid-tests-186839
20-12-2020||---||Three gamblers in Chandigarh police net||Chandigarh, December 19Three city residents were arrested for gambling in separate incidents on Friday.The suspects have been identified as Sita Ram, Rakesh Kumar and Mohit.Sita Ram was arrested while gambling near Bank of Baroda, Sector 26, and Rs1,100 were recovered from him. A case under Section 13A-3-67 of the Gambling Act was registered in this connection at the Sector 26 police station.Rakesh Kumar was arrested after he was found gambling near the community centre in Mani Majra. The police recovered Rs8,021 from his possession. A case was registered against him at the Mani Majra police station.The third incident was reported form near Balmiki Mandir in Ram Darbar. The police recovered Rs4,350 from the suspect, Mohit.One arrested for drinking at public placeA Sector 43 resident, Vivek Sharma, was arrested for consuming liquor at a public place. He was found indulging in street drinking near the Sector 42/43 rotary on December 18. A case under Section 68-1(B) of the Punjab Police Act, 2007, and Section 510 of the IPC has been registered against him at the Sector 36 police station.Sector 25 youth held with country-made pistolThe police arrested a Sector 25 resident, Sunny, 29, and recovered a country-made pistol and a live round from him near the Sector25/38 light point on December 18. A case under Section 25-54-59 of the Arms Act has been registered at the Sector 11 police station.Two arrested with illicit liquor, let off on bailA Raipur Khurd resident, Deepak Kumar, was nabbed with 30 quarters of country-made liquor near EWS Colony, Mauli Jagran, on December 18. A case under Section 61-1-14 of the Excise Act was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. He was later released on bail. In another case, a Ram Darbar resident, Pankaj Kumar, was found in possession of 58 bottles of liquor near the Hallo Majra dispensary on December 18. A case under Section 61-1-14 of the Excise Act was registered at the Sector 31 police station. He was arrested and later let off on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-gamblers-in-chandigarh-police-net-186840
20-12-2020||Chandigarh||Hookah ban violated, 3 booked||CAS promotion process beginsChandigarh: Panjab University started the interviews for promotions under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) for faculty members in various departments on Saturday. The Vice-Chancellor has assured that the process of CAS interviews will be expedited and completed shortly. All other issues of the teachers are also being addressed as per the rules and regulations. He said PUTA should have trust in the university administration. TNSInt’l folklore festival AT CUMohali: Chandigarh University, Gharuan, conducted the 4th Chandigarh University (CU) Rhythm International Folklore Festival 2020. The event was inaugurated by Alimbayev Yerlan, Kazakhstan’s Ambassador, and noted punjabi singer and actor Satinder Sartaj. Yerlan said: “Organise International Folklore Festival virtually is a commendable job. More than 5,000 students of India are studying in Kazakhstan and more than 2,000 students of Kazakhstan are studying in India.” TNSIllegal travel agency: 1 heldMohali: The police have arrested a person, Varinder Singh Sekhon, for running an illegal travel agency on the complaint of a Sector 42 resident, Ramandeep Kaur. Fake certificates, stamps and other documents have been recovered from the office. A woman employee working at the firm, who is not directly involved in the case, is on the run and the police are investigating the matter further. “The complainant was working as an employee in the firm, but she was not being paid salary for the past some time. Sekhon, in his mid-30s, was running an illegal travel agency, “Goal Achievers”, for the past two months at Phase 2,” said Shivdeep Brar, SHO of the Phase 1 police station. A case has been registered under Sections 406, 420, 120-B and 506 of the IPC and Section 13 of the Punjab Travel Professionals Act - 2014. TNS8 booked for abetting suicideMohali: The police have registered a case of abetment to suicide against eight persons. Bahadur Singh, a resident of Sector 70, consumed some poisonous substance on Thursday night after a discord between the couple. He was rushed to a private hospital in Sohana where he died on Friday. On the complaint of his elder brother, Vikram Singh, the police booked Bahadur’s wife Manmeet Kaur and her seven family members under Sections 306 and 120B of the IPC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hookah-ban-violated-3-booked-186841
20-12-2020||A Class II student of St Teresa Convent||St Teresa Convent, Panchkula||DPS, ChandigarhTeam DPS, Chandigarh, started an initiative to apprise children of the pre-primary wing of the importance of safety. The children were shown a PowerPoint presentation related to staying safe from fire and sharp objects. Through the presentation, they were warned not to play with sharp objects like knives and scissors as they may accidentally harm themselves and others.St Joseph’s, ChandigarhOnline English recitation competition was organised for Kindergarten students of St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44. The little ones got an opportunity to hone their oratory skills and confidence. Children came up with different poems and recited them with zeal and enthusiasm.Mount Carmel, MohaliChristmas was celebrated with enthusiasm by students of Mount Carmel. A series of activities and talent shows were organised virtually for classes from pre-nursery to V. The stunning art and crafts work by students mesmerised the viewers and melodious carols by them were an icing on the cake. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/st-teresa-convent-panchkula-186842
