28-12-2020||New Delhi||Several states in grip of cold wave; North to witness chilly New Year's eve||North India is bracing for a chilly New Year eve as the night temperatures in the region are expected to fall by up to five notches over the next three days, the IMD said on Monday, when a cold wave swept across several states.A cold wave is likely to grip parts of Delhi also over the next four days as frosty winds from the Himalayas have started blowing towards the plains, weather officials said.The minimum and maximum temperatures in the national capital settled at 5.6 degrees Celsius and 20.9 degrees Celsius, respectively.The IMD said cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are also likely in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh. Isolated cold wave conditions are likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal and Odisha on December 30-31.“Fall in minimum temperatures by 3-5 degrees Celsius (likely) over northwest India during the next 3 days (29th-31st December),” the IMD said. There will be a slight rise in the temperature by 2-3 degrees Celsius thereafter.An orange colour-coded warning has also been issued to the states. The IMD said cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and north Rajasthan between December 28 and 30.“Dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and west Uttar Pradesh in the morning hours from December 31 to January 2,” the IMD added.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature dropped by 4 to 5 notches in most parts of Rajasthan due to rain and snowfall in the Himalayan region, a Meteorological department official said on Monday.Radheshyam Sharma, the Director of Meteorological Department, said the present effect of conditions during winter is likely to continue till December 31 in the state.Due to an active Western Disturbance in north India over the last two days along with rains and snowfall in many parts of north India, the minimum temperature dropped by four to five notches in most parts of the state, he said.The lowest minimum temperature in the plains on Monday was 0.6 degree Celsius in Churu in western Rajasthan followed by 1 degree Celsius in Bhilwara in eastern Rajasthan, Sharma said.The lowest minimum overall was minus 0.2 degrees Celsius in Mount Abu.The Met department has issued an alert for cold weather conditions in the districts of Jaipur, Ajmer, Kota and Bharatpur division during the next two days.In Uttar Pradesh, very light rain and thundershowerswere witnessed at isolated places over western parts, but there was no major fluctuation in day temperatures in the state on Monday, according to the weather department.The weather remained dry over eastern Uttar Pradesh and the mercury hovered around normal levels in all divisions of the state, it said.The lowest temperature in the state was recorded at 4.1 degrees Celsius at Churk, while Jhansi registered the highest temperature of 27.6 degrees Celsius.In Jammu and Kashmir, many areas in the higher reaches received fresh snowfall even as there was improvement in the minimum temperature across the Valley, providing some respite from the cold to the residents.Fresh snowfall was recorded in many areas in the higher reaches of the valley and the Jammu region during the night, the officials said.They said the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg, in north Kashmir, recorded two inches of snowfall, while Pahalgam resort, in the south, and Sonamarg resort, in central Kashmir, each received around an inch of snowfall.Many areas in the Jammu region also received fresh snowfall, they said.Meanwhile, piercing cold weather conditions prevailed in most parts of Punjab and Haryana which received overnight rains.Fog reduced visibility in the morning at various places in Punjab including Ludhiana, Patiala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Adampur and Halwara, they said. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/several-states-in-grip-of-cold-wave-north-to-witness-chilly-new-years-eve-190643
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||65 new COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh, one more death reported||Chandigarh on Monday reported 65 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 19,551, according to a medical bulletin.The death of an 86-year-old man pushed the toll to 316 and the city has 379 active COVID-19 cases.Forty-six more patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 18,856, as per the bulletin.A total of 1,77,441 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,56,995 tested negative while reports of 95 samples were awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/65-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-one-more-death-reported-190641
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Rains lash parts of Punjab, Haryana||Piercing cold weather conditions prevailed on Monday in most parts of Punjab and Haryana which received overnight rains, Meteorological Department officials said.Fog reduced visibility in the morning at various places in Punjab, including Ludhiana, Patiala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Adampur and Halwara, they said.As biting cold continued, minimum temperatures at most places settled below normal limits.Bathinda was the coldest place in Punjab while Ludhiana braved a cold night at 2.1 degrees Celsius.Patiala, Adampur, Halwara, Faridkot and Gurdaspur also recorded below normal minimums at 3.6 degrees Celsius, 3.4 degrees Celsius, 3.6 degrees Celsius, 4 degrees Celsius and 5.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.However, Amritsar’s minimum settled above normal limits at 7.2 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Narnaul was the coldest place recording a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius. Hisar also reeled under severe cold at 2.7 degrees Celsius.Biting cold also prevailed in Karnal, Rohtak, Sirsa, Bhiwani and Ambala which recorded respective minimums of 3.6 degrees Celsius, 3.2 degrees Celsius, 3.2 degrees Celsius, 4.5 degrees Celsius and 5 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 6.4 degrees Celsius.Some of the places that received rains overnight included Chandigarh (4.3 mm), Ambala (4.5 mm), Amritsar (4.2 mm), Ludhiana (1.6 mm), Patiala (2.2 mm), Pathankot (1.4 mm), Adampur (0.5 mm), Faridkot (1 mm) and Gurdaspur (4.5 mm). PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rains-lash-parts-of-punjab-haryana-190530
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar held at PU hostel||Girls Hostel No. 6 of Panjab University organised a special webinar on the occasion of Shahidi Dihara under the title “Remembering the greatest sacrifice of Guru Pariwar in Indian history”. Monika, senior research fellow, welcomed the guests. Gurbachan Singh Mokha, All-India executive president of Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, was the main speaker. The Warden, Dr Manisha, presented a vote of thanks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-held-at-pu-hostel-190384
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||PU’s Shatakshi wins Miss South Asia World title||Dr Shatakshi, a bachelor of homeopathic medicine and surgery from Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital, and at present pursuing masters in public health, Panjab University, has won the title of Miss South Asia World 2020, conducted virtually recently.She competed with participants from other countries. She was even crowned as Miss Radiant Beauty and was second runner-up of talent round. “Life isn’t a bed of roses. Besides being a doctor, I am passionate about dancing. I have won medals in horse riding and participated in many beauty pageants,” said Shatakshi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pus-shatakshi-wins-miss-south-asia-world-title-190385
28-12-2020||---||Protesting Mohali residents clang utensils during PM Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’||Mohali, December 27 While Prime Minister Narendra Modi was addressing the nation through his weekly programme, “Mann ki Baat”, a large number of residents gathered in the Phase 3B2 market here to protest against the three farm bills. In a novel way, the residents, who had gathered under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morch, started beating utensils when the Prime Minister started his speech. The protesting residents urged the PM to repeal the three farm laws and resolve the grievances of farmers. Social worker and sports promoter Narinder Singh Kang, Prof Mehar Singh and Amarjit Singh Dhariwal said a large number of people from Mohali district participated in the farmers’ protest. They said Mohali residents, who did not have agricultural land, should keep their conscience alive and criticise the false propaganda of PM Modi. They said the PM, who had termed the protesting farmers as Khalistanis or terrorists, was now inviting farmers to his house to participate in the Kirtan Darbar. Col (retd) GPS Virk, advocate Avtar Singh Sidhu, Mohan Singh and Vineet Verma thanked the people of Haryana for supporting the protesting farmers at the Singhu border. They urged the people to boycott Jio SIM launched by the Ambani’s company and advised people not to damage mobile towers of the company. Instead, they should port their mobile number to other operators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesting-mohali-residents-clang-utensils-during-pm-modis-mann-ki-baat-190386
28-12-2020||---||Abhishek claims three titles, Vrinda two||Chandigarh, December 27Abhishek Saini won three titles and Vrinda bagged two on the concluding day of the Chandigarh State Badminton Championship at the Sector 38 (West) Sports Complex here today. The championship was organised by the Chandigarh Badminton Association.Saini won the men’s singles, doubles and mixed doubles titles, while Vrinda claimed both girls’ U-19 singles and doubles titles.Top seed in the men’s category, Saini won his first title by registering an easy victory 21-15, 21-17 over second seed Sahil Katlaria. He thereafter teamed with Shagunpreet to win the mixed doubles title by defeating Sahil Katlaria and Naina Trehan 21-15, 21-10. In the men’s doubles final, Saini and Rajat Saini, top seed pair, defeated Sahil Katlaria and Varun 21-9, 24-22.Vrinda stuns top seedVrinda won her first title of the day by recording a stunning win 21-18, 21-13 over top seed Arpita. In the girls’ U-19 doubles, top seed duo Vrinda and Arpita ousted Jasmine and Naina Trehan 21-15, 18-21, 21-14 to win the see-saw battle.Second seed Dhruv Bansal won the boys’ U-19 title by defeating Swapnil 21-17, 21-15. Top seed pair of Anushrav and Sanyam won the boys’ U-19 doubles title by defeating Samarveer and Udyaveer 21-15, 21-8.Shagunpreet also registered an upset win over top seed Garima to win the women’s singles title. Shagunpreet registered a comeback victory 20-22, 21-13, 21-11 over Garima. In the women’s doubles final, top seed pair of Garima and Ishita outplayed second seed Nazma Khan and Seema 21-14, 21-12.Samarveer and Rijul Saini won the mixed doubles U-19 final by upsetting top seed Anushrav and Naina Trehan 17-21, 21-9, 22-20.Aashika Jain, ADC, SAS Nagar, Himanshu Jain, SDM, Kharar, and Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, Chandigarh, awarded the winners and congratulated the Chandigarh Badminton Association for conducting a successful championship, following all Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abhishek-claims-three-titles-vrinda-two-190387
28-12-2020||---||Vishal, Neha emerge TT champs||Chandigarh, December 27 Vishal Garg of Tender Heart School, Sector 33, and Neha of Manav Mangal High School, Sector 21, won boys’ U-12 and girls’ U-15 title, respectively, in the ongoing 33rd Chandigarh State Table Tennis Championship for Sardar Gurmeet Singh Grewal Memorial Trophy at the Sector 50 Sports Complex here today. In the boys’ U-12 final, Garg registered a comeback 7-11, 11-6, 11-2, 11-3 win over Vihaan Dhalla of St Kabir School. Earlier, Garg defeated Vadya of Sector 50 Sports Complex 11-9, 11-7, 11-6 in the first semifinals and Dhalla overpowered Saksham Ahuja of DAV Public School, Sector 8, 11-4, 11-3, 11-4. Neha defeats Pelf Neha won the girls’ U-15 final by defeating Pelf of Learning Path School, Mohali, 11-7, 13-11, 11-13, 11-6. In semis, Pelf defeated Teetiksha of Warriors Academy 11-13, 11-6, 11-3, 11-8, whereas Neha overpowered Cherrish Chhabra of Sector 50 Sports Complex 8-11, 9-11, 11-8, 11-4 11-8.  Results (quarterfinals) Boys’ U-12: Saksham Ahuja bt Vardaan 11-7, 7-11, 11-9, 11-2, Vihaan Dhalla bt Nandish Bedi 11-4, 11-4, 11-3, Vadya bt Aditya 11-4, 11-7, 11-2 and Vishal Garg bt Abhinav 11-3, 11-3, 11-5. Girls’ U-15: Pelf bt Paridhi 11-3, 11-6, 11-5, Neha bt Prabhleen 7-11, 11-6, 11-5, 11-4, Cherrish bt Arshia 11-8, 11-7, 11-8 and Teetiksha bt Vani 5-11, 11-9, 6-11, 11-8, 14-12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vishal-neha-emerge-tt-champs-190388
28-12-2020||Amit Bathla||Despite Covid, elderly show up with aplomb||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 27Though overall voter turnout in the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections remained low as compared to the 2013 elections, the pandemic failed to dampen the spirit of elderly voters who exercised their franchise.They came out of their houses when their younger counterparts showed reluctance to show up at polling booths.Before casting their vote, the elderly persons wore masks, gloves, used hand sanitisers and took all precautions to keep Covid at bay.Shakuntala Devi, 89, turned up at Saarthak Government Integrated Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 12-A, before noon with her grandson, Navneet Sharma.She went to the polling booth inside the school campus on a wheelchair.Sharma said his grandmother was insisting him to take her to the polling booth since morning. However, due to some work they could reach the booth around 11 am.Suman Rani Sharma (88), who was on a wheelchair, came out to vote with her son and daughter-in-law.She was taken to the polling booth with the help of a Red Cross volunteer, Sushil Kumar.Suman Rani was finding it difficult to speak due to her old age. She just stated, “It’s important for everyone to vote.”A poll official said he observed that as compared to the youth, elderly persons were more enthusiastic about voting despite their physical difficulties and the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-covid-elderly-show-up-with-aplomb-190389
28-12-2020||Zirakpur||Savitry Enclave residents protest tubewell shifting||Residents of the Savitry group of societies today alleged that a proposed tubewell project of the the Zirakpur Municipal Council had been shifted from Savitri Enclave to Saini Bhawan in Lohgarh under political influence. The residents of Savitry Enclave and the other societies of the group alleged that close to 3,000 residents would suffer due to the shifting of the tubewell project to Saini Bhawan. “We had been pursuing the matter for the past five years, but when the time to sink the tubewell came, it was suddenly shifted from Savitry Enclave to Saini Bhawan, Lohgarh, without our consent,” said Sanjiv Khattar, president, Savitri Enclave.The residents alleged that they had approached ME Mukesh Rai, SDO Daman Davinder, Junior Engineer Kulwant Singh, but to no avail.The residents said they would again take up the matter with the MC officials.The proposed tubewell was to be set up at a cost of Rs28 lakh within six months. Meanwhile, former Congress councillor Kamaljeet Singh Lohgarh and Gurcharan Singh Channi congratulated the residents of Saini Bhawan for launch of boring work at the tubewell site. The duo expressed hope that with the setting up of this tubewell, the water woes of the local residents would be solved to a large extent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/savitry-enclave-residents-protest-tubewell-shifting-190390
28-12-2020||---||One death, 56 cases in Mohali||Mohali, December 27One more fatality due to Covid-19 was reported in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 337. Meanwhile, the district witnessed 56 fresh Covid cases. The total number of cases now stands at 17,966, of which 1,264 are active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-56-cases-in-mohali-190391
28-12-2020||---||Panchkula MC elections: 54% voters turn up, seal fate of 89||Panchkula, December 27The fate of 89 candidates — six for the Mayor’s post and 83 for 20 posts of councillor — contesting the Panchkula MC elections was sealed today.With no incident of violence reported, the voting for the civic body poll was peaceful. The voter turnout was 54.01 per cent. It was 64.1 per cent in the 2013 civic body poll. The polling at all 275 booths began at 8 am and concluded at 5.30 pm. There were 1,85,909 registered voters.Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta and former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan were among the prominent personalities who came out to vote.It is a direct contest between the BJP-JJP alliance and the Congress, with both parties claiming victory. The State Election Commission had made special arrangements in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, allowing only 1,000 voters per booth. Covid-positive persons were also allowed to vote in the last hour of polling — between 4.30 pm and 5.30 pm.However, Covid-positive persons — 231 till December 26 — did not turn up at polling booths. The results will be out on December 30.Low turnout due to CovidCompared with the 2013 poll, the city witnessed a fall of 10 per cent in the voter turnout ratio. Officials cite Covid and the New Year holidays as the reason. The highest voting percentage (84.97) was recorded in ward number 20 and the lowest in ward number 2 (38.95 per cent). The voter turnout in the rural areas was higher than the urban.3 nabbed with illegal liquorThe police arrested three persons with 92 bottles of illicit English liquor a day before the poll. Sanjay, a resident of Sector 20, and Sushil Kumar, a resident of Peer Muchalla, were arrested by the Sector 20 police with 80 liquor bottles. The Chandimandir police team arrested Harinath, a resident of Sector 26 here, with 12 bottles of illegal liquor. FIRs were registered under Sections 61, 4 and 20 of the Punjab Excise Act (Haryana Amendment) 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-elections-54-voters-turn-up-seal-fate-of-89-190397
28-12-2020||Amit Bathla||Polls apart — Posh sectors, rural areas||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 27The “model polling booths” in posh sectors showed a seamless voting experience, while slums and rural areas exhibited a different picture altogether.As opposed to various sectors in the city, where polling booths were equipped with all paraphernalia in view of Covid-19, polling stations in regions with economically weaker population, especially Budanpur, Maheshpur and Abhaypur, lacked arrangements such as sanitisers, temperature check, clean drinking water and wheelchairs for the specially abled.On the contrary, the polling station at Saarthak Government Integrated Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 12-A, had laid down a red carpet with flowerpots on each side for voters. Voters in urban sectors were approaching their respective polling booths in a harmonious manner after sanitising their hands, proper temperature check and entry details. Such sectors even had attendants assisting those on wheelchairs. Baljeet Singh, a block-level officer on poll duty in the school, was on his toes throughout the polling hours. From greeting voters to showing them the way towards their polling booths, the official left no stone unturned to please voters.“We had seven polling booths in the school. All arrangements were intact to ensure a smooth voting experience for everyone,” he said.Voters shared similar experience at Little Flower Convent School in Sector 14.However, in Sector 17, the polling station set up at Government Model Primary School lacked basic facilities such as drinking water and wheelchair for the specially abled, leave alone Covid-related arrangements. In Maheshpur, a polling booth was set up at an an under-construction school.In Budanpur, people in groups were allowed to gather outside Government Primary School with no police intervention whatsoever.Here, too, an official was deployed at the entry gate, but he was taking little or no interest in checking voters’ temperature before allowing them to enter the premises.Haves & have-notsAs opposed to various sectors in the city, where polling booths were equipped with all paraphernalia in view of Covid-19, polling stations in regions with economically weaker population, especially Budanpur, Maheshpur and Abhaypur, lacked arrangements such as sanitisers, temperature check, clean drinking water and wheelchairs for the specially abled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/polls-apart-%E2%80%94-posh-sectors-rural-areas-190399
28-12-2020||Should UT explore other options instead of going for the flyover at Tribune chowk?||Rather than solving traffic issues, flyover at Tribune Chowk will set wrong precedent||Cutting trees is criminal activityIt’s disgusting to know that the UT Administration is planning to axe around 700 trees on Dakshin Marg and Purv Marg for starting construction of the city’s first flyover at the Tribune Chowk. Cutting of old and well maintained trees is a criminal activity . Flyover will destroy originality, beauty, aesthetics and environmental values of the City Beautiful. The Administration should widen roads (wherever possible) and go for mono rail or underground Metro instead of constructing flyover.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliSeriously review the flyover projectThe heritage of the City Beautiful is in danger. The Administration fails to note the fact that the city’s master plan is sacrosanct and should not be violated at any cost. The flyover project is detrimental to GMCH-32 silence zone norms. The Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) undertaken by French firm in 2018 suggested a combination of light rail transit (LRT), the bus rapid transit system (BRTS), modern tram and monorail, but never recommended any flyover. The UT needs to seriously review the entire Tribune flyover project.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurDeploy more cops at Tribune chowkChandigarh is one of the cities know for its green belt. Instead of axing 700 trees the UT Administration could opt for other plans to streamline traffic on the tribune and Zirakpur stretch. More policemen could be deployed on the stretch to ease traffic congestion on the Tribune Chowk. CCTVs are another alternative for implementing traffic rules.Charvi Tyagi, ChandigarhPolitical one-upmanship is the root causeTaking into account residents concern about protecting the legacy of the ace designer of the City Beautiful and its ecological ambience the UT Administration appointed an expert committee to suggest alternatives to the proposed Tribune flyover to decongest traffic. The fact is that this step was just an eyewash. The bureaucracy preferred to follow the beaten track possibly at the behest of the present MP just to conceal the demand for Metro in the city, proposed by her former counterpart.SC Luthra, ChandigarhFlyover will save lives and timeLe Corbusier designed Chandigarh for small population. But with passage of time the population has increased in the City Beautiful. Poor CTU bus service has forced people to commute by their own vehicles. With development of peripheral towns traffic chaos in the city has also increased. Keeping in view the traffic congestion and inconvenience to masses, the UT Administration must go ahead with the Tribune flyover project. It will not only save time, but human lives too.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliFlyover need of the hourOur City Beautiful was designed by Lee Corbusier on a geometric pattern i.e. all roads run parallel and perpendicular to each other with a large number of ornamental trees planted alongside. With increase in the population of the city number of cars, two-wheelers and other vehicles have also gone up. Construction of flyover at the Tribune chowk and other places like Transport chowk near Sector 26 is the need of the hour. It will reduce pollution and improve city's environment. Red lights create lots of pollution as engines of vehicles keep running while wasting fuel and creating pollution.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliDevelopment cannot be stoppedHeritage is our legacy with which we live with today and pass on to the future generations. For preserving heritage progress of society cannot be stopped. There should be balance between preserving heritage and improving infrastructure. In today's world of science-technology and computerisation, we cannot think of landing on Moon if we focus on saving heritage. To match the world class infrastructure and facilities, proper assessment is required. Trees can be replanted, but flyover cannot be shifted to any other place.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhNo trees, no lifeA common phrase often used is "No tress, no life". Residents opposition to the Tribune flyover project is absolutely correct. We need to support them. The move to axe 700 trees is a step towards our end. The UT Administration should find alternative rather than constructing flyover at the Tribune chowk.Harleen Kaur, SangholConstruct short link roadIt really pains to hear that as many as 700 trees will be felled to construct flyover when other cheaper avenues are available to decongest traffic on the Tribune chowk-Zirakpur stretch. A short link road can be constructed through the Phase l or II, Industrial Area, to divert traffic from the Tribune chowk. Already much greenery has been encroached upon, which has adversely affected environment in the City Beautiful.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhIt’s time to move aheadThe population and the number of vehicles have been increasing by leaps and bounds in Chandigarh. To cope with the traffic congestion at the Tribune Chowk constructing flyover or underpass has become a necessity. Don’t create problems for the UT Administration and commuters. Change with the situation is the need of the hour. It’s time to move ahead. Tress felled for constructing flyover can be replanted along the Tribune Chowk and Zirakpur stretch.KC Rana, ChandigarhIt’s mass slaughter of trees in cityAccording to environmental ethics and our ancient wisdom cutting a grown up tree is like killing a helpless innocent human. Imagine, how much time it takes for the tree to grow. Axing 700 trees to facilitate commuters by constructing flyover at the Tribune Chowk is nothing but a genocide of trees. A ring road from Zirakpur joining Airport Road to take heavy transport or an underpass is the best option. Also, the present road could be six laned to ease traffic congestion.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar (retd), MohaliUT should revive Metro projectThere is no need of flyover as it will destroy original beauty of Chandigarh. Flyover will ruin heritage of the City Beautiful. The UT Administration should construct underpasses where required as envisioned by Le Corbusier. The Tribune Chowk flyover will ease traffic snarls at one intersection only. Therefore, the Administration should revive Metro and expedite proposed outer ring road.SC Dhall, ZirakpurKeep character of city intactChandigarh was beautifully designed by Le Corbusier. Any change in its character is not justified. But the designer was not aware about the fact that the population of this beautiful city, besides number of vehicles would increase in the future. Now, to avoid accidents and traffic congestion on the Tribune Chowk and Zirakpur road a solution has to be found. The best alternative to flyover is construction of alternative roads from Transport Chowk to the Tribune Chowk and onwards (if needed) so that people can commute with ease.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliUT will turn into concrete jungleThe UT Administration must find an alternative to flyover at the Tribune Chowk. While planning the City Beautiful, Le Corbusier would have never thought that it will turn into a concrete jungle. Already, a lot of construction has marred the beauty of the city. In the name of development, the Administration has spoiled the original character of the city and ruined its greenery. The beauty of Chandigarh lies primarily in its originality as well as greenery. So, we must safeguard heritage so that Chandigarh remains City Beautiful.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhExplore options for easing trafficChandigarh has been constructed systematically. Its heritage should not be destroyed at any cost. The Administration can explore other options instead of going for a flyover at the Tribune Chowk. Traffic issues are everywhere in the city. Pollution will increase if around 700 trees are axed. The Administration should divert traffic coming to the Tribune Chowk from the four sides. Roads should be widened from the Tribune Chowk to Zirakpur.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliConstruct underpassesTrees add to the beauty of Chandigarh and keep environment clean. Flyover is not a solution for reducing traffic congestion on the Tribune Chowk. Bus service can be improved and tickets be sold at lower rates in the UT. CCTVs can be used to monitor traffic at the Chowk. Cycling infrastructure has to be jacked up. Besides widening roads on the Tribune Chowk-Zirakpur stretch, underground passes can be constructed for heavy vehicles.Anita Tandon, KhararNo flyover in UT master planThe notified Master Plan-2031 envisaged no flyovers or overbridges in the UT. If the Tribune flyover is not torpedoed, a wrong precedent will entail a chain of flyovers at other busy junctions sooner than later. The new 8-km six-lane road around Zirakpur, to be built by NHAI soon, will divert Kalka/Shimla bound traffic from Ambala/Delhi, besides the Chandigarh airport bound traffic from Ambala side avoiding Zirakpur as well as the Tribune Chowk. Once bypass emanating from Kharar to Ambala and terminating at Sectors 20-21 dividing road in Panchkula gets fully operational, the behemoth built at Zirakpur will be rendered redundant.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaDon’t oppose Tribune flyover projectWhile maintaining original character of Chandigarh, we have to change with present day requirements and go ahead with the Tribune flyover as per submitted design. There in no other better alternative than the flyover.Population has increased manifold in the UT resulting in frequent traffic bottlenecks. People waste time in traffic snarls while crossing the Tribune Chowk.People should stop opposing the flyover project. Trees can be planted at alternate places in the city.Charanjiv Singh, ChandigarhDivert traffic coming to the ChowkLe Corbusier’s Chandigarh is known for its proximity to the environment. For keeping its character intact and saving around 700 trees from being axed, the UT Administration must explore other options instead of going for a flyover at the Tribune Chowk. Diverting traffic coming to the Chowk, installing traffic lights and constructing underpasses are feasible alternatives. It takes longer to grow a tree than to cut it.Shobhna Kalra, PanchkulaFind early solution to vexed issueVarious options have been discussed in the past, but no solution except flyover at the Tribune Chowk has been found. Commuters face traffic snarls at this point. Double number of trees can be planted on both sides of the flyover and other vacant spots of the city to make up for the loss. Pollution generated by running engines of vehicles during traffic jams at the Tribune Chowk is more dangerous for commuters and residents. The vexed problem has to be worked out at the earliest.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd) MohaliFlyover will spoil heritage, greeneryFelling around 700 old trees to make way for the city’s first flyover to decongest the Tribune roundabout from traffic doesn’t seem like a satisfactory option. The traffic coming from outside Chandigarh to the Tribune rotary can be diverted via other roads in the tricity. The City Beautiful is beautiful because of its heritage and greenery. The flyover is compromising both. Building first flyover in the city will set a wrong precedent.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhDon’t stop developmentThe wait for city’s first flyover at The Tribune Chowk is getting longer prolonging miseries of commuters. But, axing 700 trees will do no good to the city’s environment. A solution has to be found to this issue. Keeping in view growing population and vehicular traffic flyover is the need of the day. Development should not be stopped. All should cooperate and give a go ahead to the flyover project at the Tribune Chowk.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaA temporary solution for traffic snarlsAfter scraping the Metro project, bureaucrats and politicians got the Tribune flyover sanctioned. This would be a temporary solution to ease traffic congestion at one intersection thus wasting taxpayers money. The proposed Banur-Kurali Greenfield Expressway has been notified by the NHAI. It will divert Delhi-Manali traffic and ease traffic jams at the Tribune Chowk. The Administration should press the Centre for reviving the Metro extendable up to Zirakpur.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhDispensation needs to rollback decisionThe decision of the UT Administration to go ahead with the construction of flyover at the Tribune Chowk is lopsided. It would end up devouring some 700 full grown trees, besides defacement of the city’s heritage character. The UT Administration needs come out with a middle path so that the city’s heritage character could be saved by exploring other options. The Administration may mull over having an underpass instead of a flyover.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhFlyover is the need of the hourTraffic congestion is a big challenge for the Administration in Chandigarh. Around 700 trees will be axed for the flyover at the Tribune Chowk. This will adversely affect the city’s environment and beauty. But, the UT Administration can’t stop flyover construction in the present situation. Completion of this project should be Administration’s priority so that traffic congestion is eased at the Tribune Chowk.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhUnderground options can be exploredEvery city has its own ethics, which should be maintained at all costs. Chandigarh is known all over world as City Beautiful having some unique characteristics and charm. But it is being deprived of these in the name of development. There are many junctions, which face similar issue of traffic congestion. If flyovers are constructed no green cover will be left. Only underground options should be explored as was done in case of Metro to keep originality of Chandigarh intact.Bharat Bhushan Sharma,ChandigarhTribune Chowk is city’s hubThe UT Administration should explore other options instead of constructing a flyover at the Tribune Chowk. This area is a hub where people from Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab enter the City Beautiful. Moreover, the Tribune Chowk is popular not only in Chandigarh, but in the neighbouring states too. The long route traffic entering the city should be diverted via alternative routes.Adish Sood, AmlohDevelopment comes at a costThe cost of flyover at the Tribune Chowk is going to be huge as around 1,000 trees will be felled and green cover removed. Every development has an economic cost and this is also one of those dilemmas, which all have to face, including the UT Administration. Vehicular traffic is increasing in Chandigarh and causing long traffic jams leading to wastage of time and fuel. The UT Administration could plant an equal number of trees cut while going ahead with the flyover.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhProvide reliable public transportThe Chandigarh Administration has conceived a plan to construct a flyover at the Tribune Chowk. To start with this project, the administration will have to axe a large number of trees, which will endanger the city’s environment, besides destroying its heritage. The Administration should provide reliable, affordable and frequent public transport at five to 10 minutes interval from V-5 roads. This is the only alternative to check increasing traffic congestion in the city.SK Khosla, ChandigarhDemolish roundabout, install lightsConstructing a flyover at the Tribune Chowk will spoil the beauty of the City Beautiful. Design of Le Corbusier will also not be retained. Instead of the flyover, the roundabout can be demolished and proper traffic lights can be installed to streamline traffic. The road can also be widened. Separate lanes can be earmarked for small and heavy vehicles.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhDrop such an ill-conceived ideaThe proposed move of the UT Administration to go ahead with the construction of a flyover at the Tribune Chowk and in the process axe around 700 trees could hardly be justified. Truly speaking, going ahead with the trimmed size of the proposed flyover could be akin to serving some half-baked food apart from costing the UT Administration dearly both in the financial and ecological terms. On wishes some wiser counsel soon prevails upon those, who seem desperate to implement the project.SK Gupta, PanchkulaQUESTIONDuring the waste segregation drive started in Sector 1 to 30, it was found that residents were not aware of segregating waste at source. At many places, rehris are still collecting waste even as door-to-door garbage collection vehicles have been introduced by the MC. What steps need to be taken to improve waste collection in the UT?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rather-than-solving-traffic-issues-flyover-at-tribune-chowk-will-set-wrong-precedent-190400
28-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh gets 1.5L syringes for vaccine||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27Chandigarh has received over 1.5 lakh syringes from the Centre for carrying out the mass Covid immunisation in the region.“The syringes have been kept at the district vaccine store at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and will be used as and when the vaccine is made available by the Centre,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services.The vaccine will be procured by the district vaccine store from government medical store depot (primary vaccine store) in Karnal, which is handling cold-chain items such as cold boxes, vaccine carriers, ILR and deep freezers, syringes and cold spares. The registration of a beneficiary is mandatory for Covid vaccination.After the registration, the information regarding the session site and time will be shared with the beneficiary.Following an online registration, the beneficiary will receive an SMS on the registered mobile number and will be updated about the date, place and time of vaccination. After getting the due dose of Covid vaccine, the beneficiary will receive an SMS on his/her registered mobile number.After all doses of the vaccine are administered, a QR code-based certificate will also be sent to the registered mobile number of the beneficiary.A photo identification proof is a must for both registration and verification of the beneficiary at the session site.A total of 187 vaccinators (auxiliary nursing midwifery) in government health facilities will be involved in the Covid-19 vaccination programme in Chandigarh.The Administration has earmarked Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and all civil hospitals as the Covid vaccination sites.FAQs — Ministry of Home and Family WelfareIs vaccine mandatory for all?The vaccination for Covid-19 is voluntary. However, the ministry advises people to receive the vaccine for protection against the virus.Can a Covid-19 patient (confirmed or suspected) be vaccinated?Infected individuals should defer vaccination for 14 days for preventing the spread of Covid.Is it necessary for a Covid-recovered person to take the vaccine?Yes, it is advisable to receive the complete doses of the vaccine.How many doses of the vaccine need to be taken and at what interval?Two doses of vaccine, 28 days apart, need to be taken by an individual to complete the vaccination schedule.When will antibodies develop?Protective levels of antibodies are generally developed two weeks after receiving the 2nd dose of Covid-19 vaccine.Does one need to follow preventive measures after receiving the vaccine?Even after being administered the vaccine, people must continue taking all precautions such as wearing a face mask, sanitising hands and maintaining social distance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-1-5l-syringes-for-vaccine-190402
28-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||SAD to stage walkout during Chandigarh mayoral poll||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27Nearly a fortnight before the city mayoral elections, the Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has decided to stage a walkout from the MC House on the poll day in "support of farmers."It will probably be the first time that the former BJP ally will not vote for any party in the mayoral elections. “We will walk out in support of the farmers. The SAD will not vote for any party. We can never go with the Congress, and we have already severed our ties with the BJP over the farmers' issue,” MC councillor Hardeep Singh, who is also the president of the city SAD, told Chandigarh Tribune.The BJP and the SAD had fought the last MC elections together. Of the 26 wards, the saffron party had contested 22 seats and had won 20 of them, while its former associate fought on four seats and won one.Though the SAD has only one seat in the House, its decision is significant on two counts. One, it is a big symbolic move with regard to the farmers’ issue ahead of the 2021 MC poll (councillors' elections). More importantly, even one vote is crucial in the mayoral elections due to the "factionalism" in the ruling BJP.In 2015, despite a majority in the MC House, BJP candidate Heera Negi lost the Mayor's seat to Congress candidate Poonam Sharma by two votes. There have been several such instances in the mayoral and committee polls in the MC where two or even one vote decided the winner.The mayoral elections will be held on January 8. There are a total 27 votes -- 26 of elected councillors and one of ex officio member (city MP). The BJP has 20 seats and the Congress five. A candidate needs 14 votes to get elected to the post.The SAD has already declared that it will contest from all wards in the in the December 2021 MC poll.Earlier this month, the UT Administration notified the draft notification for delimitation, increasing the number of wards from 26 to 35.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-to-stage-walkout-during-chandigarh-mayoral-poll-190403
28-12-2020||---||Biker killed in hit-&-run||Dera Bassi, December 27A motorcyclist was killed on the Dera Bassi-Ramgarh road after an unidentified truck hit him.The incident occurred around 11.30 am when the victim, Mohan Lal, was going to work from Ambala to Panchkula and met with an accident near Aggarwal Stone Crusher.The deceased, a resident of Baldev Nagar in Ambala, fell on the road and succumbed to a head injury. The truck driver fled from the spot along with the vehicle.The police handed over the body to the victim's kin after a post-mortem. A case has been registered against the unknown driver at the Dera Bassi police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-killed-in-hit-run-190407
28-12-2020||---||Association selects karate team||Chandigarh, December 27The Chandigarh Karate Association has selected local boys and girls teams for participating in the 36th National Karate Championship. The championship will be held in Faridabad from December 29 to 30.Varinder Pahwa has been appointed as the coach and Ashwani Sharma will be the manager.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/association-selects-karate-team-190410
28-12-2020||Panchkula||36 fresh cases, no death in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/36-fresh-cases-no-death-in-panchkula-190411
28-12-2020||Amit Bathla||Differently abled woman forced to crawl to booth||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 27Savitri, a 55-year-old differently abed woman, turned up at the Sector 17 Government Model Primary School polling booth on her tricycle around 11 am to cast her vote as a responsible citizen.To her dismay, the polling station, which was not too far from Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta’s residence, had no wheelchair facility.Savitri subsequently waited for around 40 minutes inside the school premises while hoping for a wheelchair, which would ensure her mobility into the booth.The absence of a wheelchair, however, did not deter her enthusiasm to vote and she crawled with her hands to the polling booth.As Savitri began gasping for air after vigorous physical activity, poll officials in the voting compartment stared at each other as there was no drinking water available to offer her.After casting her vote, she came out and urged, “Everybody should caste his/her vote.”Officials of the Election Commission at the polling booth told Chandigarh Tribune that they were not provided with a wheelchair for differently abled persons.An official, on the condition of anonymity, said there was little or no support from the state Election Commission and the local administration not just for voters, but poll officials as well.“Whether it was providing meals or bedding for the night, they (authorities) failed on all fronts,” he alleged.Savitri was not alone. There were many senior citizens and differently abled persons who had a tough time while casting their vote.Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and other election officials had promised a seamless voting experience for voters, claiming adequate arrangements for all 275 booths for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections.The voters’ experience, however, was not so pleasant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/differently-abled-woman-forced-to-crawl-to-booth-190412
28-12-2020||---||Man riding SUV held with pistol||Chandigarh, December 27A 28-year-old man riding an SUV was held from near a club in Sector 7 while possessing a pistol in violation of the District Magistrate’s order. Manoj, a resident of Rohtak district, who was riding a Fortuner, was arrested with a pistol on the intervening night of December 25 and 26. He had a licence, which had expired in June this year.The police said he violated the District Magistrate’s order regarding not carrying a weapon in Chandigarh. The order was issued on November 19 and was valid up to January 17.A case under Section 188 of the IPC has been registered against him at the Sector 26 police station. He was later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-riding-suv-held-with-pistol-190413
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bag snatched from woman||Woman’s Purse stolen in Sec 41Chandigarh: A ladies’ purse was stolen in Sector 41. According to the police, the complainant reported that she had kept the purse on the bonnet of a car parked near the Sector 41 market from where it was stolen. The purse contained Rs9,700 and documents. A case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNSFB messenger of UT adviser hackedChandigarh: UT Adviser Manoj Parida’s Facebook messenger account was hacked and misused. “Someone is using my account on Facebook messenger and asking bank account details from people for a Covid loan. Please be wary of it and do not respond,” Parida posted on his Twitter account on Sunday. Parida said: “One of my friends in Odisha informed me that he had received a text from my FB messenger, seeking bank account details.” TNS15 arrested for gamblingChandigarh: The UT police have arrested 15 persons while gambling at Shahpur and recovered a sum of Rs1.26 lakh from them. A team, led by ASP (South) Shruti Arora, conducted a raid on Saturday and nabbed the suspects identified as Pardeep Singh, Rajat Singh, Parveen Kumar, Karan, Shiv Shankar Yadav, Balbir Kumar, Ram Kumar, Mohammad Faruk, Shankar, Sajak, Satpal, Mohammad Faraz, Satish, Ashok Kumad and Sikander. A case under the Gambling Act was registered against the suspects at the Maloya police station. All suspects were later released on bail. TNSSevered head of animal foundChandigarh: The UT police have registered a case against an unknown person after the severed head of an animal was found at Mauli Jagran. According to the police, complainant Jitender Dalal reported that the severed head of the animal was found at the Dholki colony on December 26. The police said a case had been registered against an unknown person at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSResidents oppose compost pitChandigarh: A group of local residents and Congress workers protested against the setting up of a compost pit in Sector 22-C here. City Congress president Pardeep Chhabra also joined the protest. The protesters raised slogans against the Municipal Corporation. They said it was not a feasible site to set up the compost pit near the residential area and it would lead to foul smell. Vinod Vashisht, a resident, said this site was not appropriate for the pit. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bag-snatched-from-woman-190414
