29-12-2020||Chandigarh||64 new COVID cases reported in Chandigarh in a day||The COVID-19 infection tally in Chandigarh reached 19,615 on Tuesday with 64 fresh cases reported in a day, according to a medical bulletin.The death toll stood at 316 with no fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, it said.There are 362 active cases in the Union Territory as of now. A total of 81 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the number of cured people to 18,937.A total of 1,78,691 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,58,179 tested negative while reports of 110 samples were awaited, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/64-new-covid-cases-reported-in-chandigarh-in-a-day-191089
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||First in India, PGI Chandigarh starts 3D exoscope surgery||The Department of Neurosurgery at the PGI here on Tuesday said it has started operating patients with 3D exoscope, a first in the country.For two patients with a brain tumour and orbital mass, neurosurgeon Dhandapani and his team performed 3D exoscope surgery successfully, it said.This technology is one of the latest advances in minimally invasive brain and spine surgery. The 3D visualisation is guided by a scope from outside, compared to the usual 2D visualisation from inside in the endoscope.Many centres in India have 2D exoscopes, but 3D exoscope in the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research is the first in India.This is very helpful to deal with problems on the surface of the brain, spine and orbit. Compared to a microscope, the system is lighter, occupies less operating room space and is ergonomically better, a PGI statement said.This procedure would be of great benefit to patients with brain and spine problems, it added.  IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-in-india-pgi-chandigarh-starts-3d-exoscope-surgery-191054
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||As COVID cases decline, no night curfew in Chandigarh on New Year's eve||As Chandigarh witnesses a gradual fall in COVID-19 cases, the administration on Tuesday decided to not impose any additional restrictions, including the night curfew, on New Year's eve.Governor of Punjab-cum-Administrator, UT, held a review meeting in this regard with Principal Secretary of Health, Director General of Police and Deputy Commissioner.Read also: 64 new COVID cases reported in Chandigarh in a dayHowever, the Administrator directed the Director General of Police to ensure, that the existing COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and the restrictions on a number of persons and opening & closing of hotels, restaurants etc. should be strictly enforced.However, as a precautionary measure, the administrator appealed to the residents not to crowd public places, and positively return to the comforts of their homes by 1:00 AM on New Year’s eve.Meanwhile, so far, the city has not reported any case of new strain virus found in the UK.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/as-covid-cases-decline-no-night-curfew-in-chandigarh-on-new-years-eve-191039
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cold wave grips Punjab and Haryana||Cold wave conditions sweeping most parts of Punjab and Haryana for the past few days further intensified on Tuesday with the minimum temperature in Hisar settling at zero degree Celsius.It was the season's coldest night so far at many places including Hisar, Narnaul, Amritsar and Chandigarh.The minimum in Hisar in Haryana dropped by six notches below normal, while Amritsar recorded 0.4 degree, Meteorological Department officials here said.They said that fog reduced visibility early in the morning at several places in the two states.As biting cold conditions persisted, Narnaul in Haryana also reeled under intense chill recording a low of 0.3 degree Celsius, five notches below normal.Among other places in the state which were under the grip of piercing cold included Karnal, Sirsa, Rohtak and Ambala, which recorded respective minimums of 2.6, 2.5, 2.6 and 3.5 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh also reeled under severe chill recording a low of 2.8 degrees Celsius.Among other places in Punjab which braved severe chill included Ludhiana, which recorded a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius.Halwara reeled at a low of 1.3 degrees Celsius while freezing cold swept Adampur, which recorded a low of 1.7 degrees Celsius.Bathinda, Faridkot, Patiala and Pathankot also experienced a cold night recording respective minimums of 2.1 degrees Celsius, 2.9 degrees Celsius, 3.6 degrees Celsius and 3.7 degrees Celsius.Severe cold conditions will continue in the two states over the next two days, as per MeT department forecast. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cold-wave-grips-punjab-and-haryana-190977
29-12-2020||KB DAV Sr Sec Public School||Career-counselling session||Chandigarh: Volunteers attended a career-counselling session at an NSS camp held in KB DAV Senior Secondary Public School, Sector 7 B. Surinder Pal, a city-based career-counselor, counselled them on what career choices they could make once they came across the dilemma. He also answered the queries from volunteers who joined the session online. Shonit Sharma, an alumnus, delivered a motivational talk. TNSBhavan Vidyalaya, ChandigarhChandigarh: Students of Bhavan Vidyalaya began a donation drive for the needy. Called "Main bhi Santa", the drive was jointly undertaken by the Interact Club, Human Excellence Club and the Eco Club of the school. The project involved collection of old woollens, new socks and masks. A team from the school visited Samarpan Foundation to donate the collected items. TNSDav Public School, Sec 8-CChandigarh: DAV Public School, Sector 8C, organised the "Reading Together" activity for the students. The activity continued for 2021 seconds. Students were also involved in the activity virtually. Teachers, non-teaching staff and helpers, all participated in this activity very enthusiastically. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/career-counselling-session-190760
29-12-2020||Mohali||Housing project launched||Gillco Developers and Builders Pvt Ltd today launched its project, Gillco Palms, in Sector 115 on Kharar-Landran Road, Mohali. The project has around 240 two BHK units in the affordable segment on offer.The project, which will be spread over 12 acres, will have facilities such as jogging track, 24x7 security surveillance, round-the-clock ambulance facility and power backup.Tejpreet Singh Gill, executive director, Gillco Developers and Builders Pvt Ltd, said: “The year 2020 has made people realise the importance of health, hygiene and following a healthy lifestyle. We will plant more than 15,000 herbal and medicinal saplings across all our projects in our 20th anniversary year.”The units are being offered in the price bracket starting from Rs23.90 lakh onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/housing-project-launched-190751
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Meet on endoscopic spine surgery held||Two-day first virtual international conference on recent advances in minimal invasive endoscopic spine surgery concluded here today. The 9th World Endoscopic Spine Surgery Conference & Endoscopic Spine Surgery Workshop 2020 was held virtually in which experts from the country and abroad participated.It was organised by Trinity Hospital under the aegis of the World Endoscopic Spine Surgery Society (WESS) and the Trinity Education & Research Foundation. A hand-on workshop was conducted on endoscopic discectomy, lumbar canal decompression and percutaneous spinal fixation, which was attended by 40 international delegates.Dr Mohinder Kaushal, a leading endoscopic spine, knee and sports surgeon, and Medical Director, Trinity Hospital, said the benefits of endoscopic spine surgery over open spine surgery were small cuts, less hospital stay, less medicines, faster recovery and quick return to normal life activity. — TNSBenefits of procedureThe benefits of endoscopic spine surgery over open spine surgery were small cuts, less hospital stay, less medicines, faster recovery and quick return to normal life activity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/meet-on-endoscopic-spine-surgery-held-190728
29-12-2020||Mohali||Five booked on charge of kidnapping||The Nayagaon police have booked five persons in a case of kidnapping on the complaint of High Court advocate Manna Singh.The suspects have been identified as JK Batta, Darshan Kumar, Rajinder Kumar, Binder and Harnek Singh, all residents of village Nadda. The incident happened on December 23 but the case was registered on December 27 under Sections 365, 323, 341, 506 and 34 of the IPC and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Nayagaon police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-booked-on-charge-of-kidnapping-190753
29-12-2020||Mohali||Mandeep Singh to lead Punjab team||Mandeep Singh will lead the Punjab team in the upcoming Inter State T-20 tournament for Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, starting from January 10 at Alur. The team will departing for Bangalore on January 2.Squad: Mandeep Singh (captain), Gurkeerat Singh Mann (vice captain), Rohan Marwaha, Abhinav Sharma, Prabhsimran Singh, Anmolpreet Singh, Anmol Malhotra, Sanvir Singh, Sandeep Sharma, Karan Kaila, Mayanak Markande, Abhishek Sharma, Ramandeep Singh, Siddharth Kaul, Barinder Singh Sran, Arshdeep Singh, Harpreet Singh Brar, Baltej Singh Dhanda, Krishan, Gitansh Khera. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mandeep-singh-to-lead-punjab-team-190754
29-12-2020||---||Arnav, Pelf clinch table tennis titles||Chandigarh, December 28Arnav Aggarwal won the subjunior boys and junior boys singles titles while Pelf won the junior girls (U-18) singles title of the 33rd Chandigarh State Table Tennis Championships for Sardar Gurmeet Singh Grewal Memorial Trophy at Sports Complex, Sector 50, Chandigarh.Arnav Aggarwal beat Samarth Sharma 11-4, 5-11, 11-8, 11-6 in the boys singles (U-15) final. In the boys singles (U-18) final, he beat Ishaan Kapoor 11-2, 11-4, 11-4. In the junior girls singles (U-18) final, Pelf beat Neha 11-9, 7-11, 10-12, 12-10, 11-5.Results of sub-junior boys’ singles (U-15)Quarterfinals: Arnav Aggarwal (Gurukul) beat Vihaan Dhalla (Sec 23) (11-7, 11-4, 11-7) (3-0); Guneet (Warriors Academy) beat Vadya (Sector 50 sports complex) (11-2, 11-13, 11-6, 11-8) (3-1); Vishal Garg (Sec 50 sport complex) beat Pritish Sood (Learning Path School) (11-8, 11-6, 11-9) (3-0); and Samarth Sharma (Gurukul) beat Daksh Vinayak (Strawberry fields) (11-4, 11-6, 11-5) (3-0)Semifinals: Samarth Sharma (Gurukul) beat Vishal Garg (Tender Heart School) (4-11, 12-10, 11-5, 11-8) (3-1); Arnav Aggarwal (Gurukul) beat Guneet (Warriors Academy) (8-11, 11-6, 11-7, 11-7) (3-1)Final: Arnav Aggarwal (Gurukul) beat Samarth Sharma (Gurukul) (11-4, 5-11, 11-8, 11-6) (3-1)Junior boys’ singles (U-18)Quarterfinals: Arnav Aggarwal (Gurukul) beat Harkirat Singh (Warriors Academy) (11-9, 11-6, 11-8) (3-0); Jashan Antal (Warriors Academy) beat Aariv (Gurukul) (11-7, 12-10, 11-6) (3-0); Ishan Kapoor (DAV) beat Krish Gupta (Sec 34 Sports Complex) (11-9, 11-8, 9-11, 11-7) (3-1): and Samarth Sharma (Gurukul) beat Pritish Sood (Learning Path School) (7-11, 11-8, 11-4, 9-11, 11-8) (3-2)Semi finals: Ishaan Kapoor (DAV) beat Samarth Sharma (Gurukul) (5-11, 18-16, 13-11, 7-11, 14-12) (3-2); and Arnav Aggarwal (Gurukul) beat Jashan Antal (Warriors Academy) (11-8, 13-15, 11-7, 11-8) (3-1)Final: Arnav Aggarwal (Gurukul Global School) beat Ishaan Kapoor (DAV Public School) (11-2, 11-4, 11-4) (3-0)Junior girls’ singles (U-18)Quarterfinals: Deevanshi (Warriors Academy) beat Hasrat (Warriors Academy) (11-9, 11-8, 9-11, 11-8) (3-1); Neha (Warriors Academy) beat Himanshi (Sports Complex Sec 34) (11-8, 11-9, 11-6) (3-0); Vani Sharma (Sports Complex Sec 50) beat Bhavika (Sector 23) 11-7, 8-11, 11-9, 11-7) (3-1); and Pelf (Learning Path School) beat Mansi (Warriors Academy) (11-8, 11-7, 9-11, 11-8) (3-1)Semifinals: Pelf (Learning Path School) beat Vani Sharma (Warriors Academy) (11-9, 13-11, 11-9) (3-0)l; and Neha (Warriors Academy) beat Deevanshi (Warriors Academy) (11-8, 5-11, 9-11, 11-3, 11-7) (3-2)Final: Pelf (Learning Path School) beat Neha (Warriors Academy) (11-9, 7-11, 10-12, 12-10, 11-5) (3-2)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/arnav-pelf-clinch-table-tennis-titles-190755
29-12-2020||---||Job lost due to Covid-19, bureau comes to rescue of specially abled||Mohali, December 28Rendered jobless due to the pandemic, a specially abled man from Mohali has now been employed as a data entry operator at Baba Farid University due to assistance rendered by the District Bureau of Employment and Entrepreneurship (DBBE).Ravindernath JatanaBeyond financial gain, the job has restored my son’s self-esteem and prevented him from falling into the abyss of hopelessness.Rajiv Kumar Gupta, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development), said Covid took its toll by rendering Shubam jobless in April this year. Striving for months on his own, Shubam could not get a job and on having read about DBBE facilitating placements, he walked into the Bureau office at District Administrative Complex with his father. He submitted his resume and his options for the type of job that he would like to be enlisted in. Subsequently, the DBEE officials shared his resume with the prospective employers and he was invited to a placement camp. Soon after, he was shortlisted for the post of a data entry operator by Baba Farid University through outsourcing.Rajiv Kumar Gupta said Shubam was elated at being employed and so was his father Ravindernath Jatana, who was all praise for state government’s ‘Ghar-Ghar Rozgaar’ initiative.“Beyond financial gain, the job has restored my son’s self-esteem and prevented him from falling into the abyss of hopelessness,’’ says Ravindernath Jatana, who, in a bid to make his son self-reliant, had not just ensured that deaf and dumb Shubam clears his higher secondary education but also equipped him with computer knowledge through various short term courses.The ADC said that the DBBE facilitated job placement for the youth who register with them on their portal — www.pgrkam.com. The bureau also extends career counseling, facilitation of loans for self-employment, short -term skill courses and placement camps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/job-lost-due-to-covid-19-bureau-comes-to-rescue-of-specially-abled-190731
29-12-2020||---||PSEB offers golden chance to enhance Class X, XII marks||Mohali, December 28The Punjab School Education Board has given a golden opportunity to the candidates who have passed the Class X and XII examinations from 1970 to 2003 to enhance their marks. Controller (Examinations) JR Mehrotra said that this opportunity had been given to the students who had passed the Class X and XII examinations conducted by the Board from March 1970 to March 2003 to enhance their performance. Besides, under the open school system of March 2020, students will now be given another chance to appear for the supplementary examination to be held after the annual examination in March 2021 in lieu of the reappear examination which was to be held in July/August which and could not be conducted due to Covid-19.According to information given by the Controller (Examinations), a fixed examination fee of Rs 15,000 has been fixed for the Golden Opportunity Examination. The syllabus for this exam will be the same as 2019-20. An examination fee of Rs 1,050 has been fixed for the re-appearing candidates under the open school system and the re-appear exam of Class X would be held in the last week of January 2021 along with the golden opportunity examination.The fees could be deposited through online mode, only through debit card, credit card and net banking. More information regarding these examinations has been made available on the website of tegh Board www.pseb.ac.in.For students passing exams from March 1970 to March 2003Controller (Examinations) JR Mehrotra stated that the opportunity had been given to the students who had passed the Class X and XII examinations conducted by the board from March 1970 to March 2003 to enhance their performance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pseb-offers-golden-chance-to-enhance-class-x-xii-marks-190725
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Four booked for serving hookah in Chandigarh||Two owners and two employees of a nightclub in Sector 26 have been booked by the police for serving hookah to customers. According to the police, a patrolling team, led by ASI Mohinder Singh, found hookah being served to customers at a club, Bargain Booze.The police said a case under Sections 188 and 34 of IPC had been registered against Jatin Garg, Abhinav Bansal, Gajender Singh and Rahul. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-booked-for-serving-hookah-in-chandigarh-190762
29-12-2020||---||AAP flays Kirron Kher over extension move for official||Chandigarh, December 28The local unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has criticised MP Kirron Kher over her recent communication to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore seeking extension for the UT Chief Engineer.AAP leader Chander Mukhi Sharma said: “It seems the Raj Bhawan is a puppet of Kirron Kher or an extension counter of the BJP.”Chander Mukhi Sharma, AAP leaderIt seems the Raj Bhawan is a puppet of Kirron Kher or an extension counter of the BJP.The BJP MP had stated that Special Secretary (Engineering) has been engaged with the important project of construction of the flyover at the Tribune Chowk, and that if the officer retires at this point, difficulties could be experienced in the execution of the project.Sharma said neither the Secretary (Engineering) nor the UT Adviser had recommended the official’s extension, proving that the BJP MP was working hand in glove with the official concerned. He said such recommendations should first come from seniors only if they find his work praiseworthy, but nothing of that sort had been done. Such a recommendation from an MP had raised eyebrows, he stated.“Kirron Kher has termed it as her dream project, but it is not just her personal project. It would affect the character of the entire city and is being strongly opposed by the general public of Chandigarh,” said Sharma. He said when the MP said she had been personally attending meetings with the Chief Engineer, she must remember he had been attending meetings on the behalf of the Administration and not as her personal assistant.Sharma said a reply in the case was yet to be filed and was still under the scrutiny of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-flays-kirron-kher-over-extension-move-for-official-190735
29-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||BJP’s National General Secretary to visit Chandigarh tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28Chandigarh BJP in-charge Dushyant Gautam will visit the city on December 30 to take views of all party councillors to decide the candidates for the mayoral elections to be held on January 8. Nominations for the post of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor have to be filed by January 4.After taking councillors’ viewpoint about their choice of candidates, the BJP’s National General Secretary will convey the same to the party high command. The Central leadership will finally give its stamp of approval to the names of candidates.It is expected that the names of candidates will be announced on the final day of the nominations to avoid the chances of rebellion or discontent among councillors. The local BJP has the recent history of rebellion after the announcement of names of candidates.BJP councillor Satish Kainth joined the Congress fold after Rajesh Kalia was named as the mayoral candidate in 2019. Similarly, 10 councillors had revolted against the party and filed nominations in favour of Asha Jaswal after it fielded Davesh Moudgil for the mayor’s post in 2018. Though, Jaswal had later withdrawn from the mayoral race.This time, for now, the ruling party has three frontrunners for the Mayor’s post namely councillor and local party president Arun Sood and councillors Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and Shakti Prakash Devshali. Though there are other claimants as well for the post, final call lies with the high command.At present there are two views emerging in the party. One is to give a chance to an experienced councillor, who can take on the challenges of getting funds for the MC from the Centre and to balance tuning with the bureaucrats. Another view is Sood should not be given two top responsibilities together. However, there have been BJP chiefs in the past, who also remained the Mayor at the same time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjps-national-general-secretary-to-visit-chandigarh-tomorrow-190737
29-12-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Panchkula mayoral candidates exude confidence of victory||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 28After a back-breaking schedule of non-stop electioneering, campaigning and attending to voters’ demands for the past several days, Mayoral candidates in the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections found the voting pattern in their favour and exuded confidence of victory.BJP’s mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal and his wife spent time by sipping tea together besides sharing election experience and the atmosphere during the voting on Sunday. As Goyal’s wife Anju Goyal was also busy in campaigning for her husband, the duo hardly got time to discuss the elections in the past one week. They also discussed the headlines of various newspapers regarding the voting pattern.Later, Goyal attended a party meeting presided over Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta where they discussed about the booth-wise results to be expected in various wards of the Municipal Corporation.Gian Chand Gupta said they would win the mayoral elections by more than 10,000 votes. They hoped that over 15 of the total 20 candidates contesting for the post of councillors would win the elections.However, Congress’s mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia had a busy schedule today. Ahluwalia said she went to the Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh to participate in the party’s foundation day event. Later, she participated in a meeting of party workers at her election office where they discussed about the votes polled in various wards of the Municipal Corporation.Despite the anti-incumbency factor, Ahluwalia is sure of repeating the term in the Panchkula Municipal Corporation. Ahluwalia said she would win the elections by more than 10,000 votes and would get a majority in the House. The party expects that more than 15 candidates would win the elections for the post of councillors.How the leaders spent their dayBJP’s mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal and his wife spent time by sipping tea together, besides sharing election experience and the atmosphere during the voting on Sunday. As Goyal’s wife Anju Goyal was also busy in campaigning for her husband, the duo hardly got time to discuss the elections in the past one week. They also discussed the headlines of various newspapers regarding the voting pattern.Congress mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia had a busy schedule on Monday. Ahluwalia said she went to the Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh to participate in the party’s foundation day event. Later, she participated in a meeting of party workers at her election office where they discussed the votes polled in various wards of the Municipal Corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mayoral-candidates-exude-confidence-of-victory-190732
29-12-2020||---||Chandigarh Congress celebrates foundation day||Chandigarh, December 28The Chandigarh Congress today celebrated the 136th foundation day of the party by hoisting a flag at the Congress Bhawan in Sector 35 here today.Pardeep Chhabra, president of the Chandigarh Congress, said the party leadership had a long history of sacrifice and courage. He said the sense of nationalism and patriotism was ingrained in the hearts of all Congress members.Chhabra said it was sad that present BJP leaders were giving certificate of nationalism and patriotism to others when the BJP or the RSS had no or negligible role in the freedom struggle.He said protesting farmers had been braving cold on roads for the past one month. Instead of listening to their demands, the government was busy in electioneering in some states. This shows the arrogance and dictatorial attitude of the Modi government.Congress leaders and members also held ‘Tiranga Yatras’ in Sector 35, Dadu Majra, Dhanas, Mani Majra, Ram Darbar, Bapu Dham, Kaimbwala village, Mauli Jagran, Rehabilitation Colony in Dhanas and Sector 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-celebrates-foundation-day-190733
29-12-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Commission finds fault with banquet cancellation policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28Finding fault with the banquet cancellation policy of its hotels, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission Chandigarh has directed Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (CITCO) to refund Rs35,000 booking amount to a consumer for a function that was cancelled due to unavoidable reasons.In one of the important judgments, the Commission has also directed the CITCO to pay a lump sum compensation of Rs5,000 to the complainant for mental agony and harassment caused to him. It also directed the CITCO to comply with the order within 30 days from the date of receipt of its certified copy, failing which the amounts will fetch 9 per cent interest per annum from the date of this order till its actual payment.Ramesh Kumar Gupta, a resident of Sector 44-D, approached the Commission after the CITCO management refused to return the booking amount after a marriage function was cancelled due to unavoidable circumstances citing the banquet policy.Gupta, in the complaint, said he made a booking on March 19, 2015 for a banquet hall of Shivalik Hotel for celebration of his daughter’s marriage function, which was to be held on May 10, 2015 by paying advance money of Rs35,000. Due to a mishap in her in-laws’ family, the function could not be held and the marriage was cancelled. Prior information, in this regard, was also made to the booking manager of the hotel.CITCO, in its written statement, claimed that the complainant was duly apprised of the banquet cancellation policy before any deposit was made by him. The banquet cancellation policy was also printed on the menu, which was handed over to the guest prior to the booking of the banquet/deposit of advance money. The banquet of Hotel Shivalik View went vacant on May 10, 2015, on account of the commitment made to the complainant.Later on the complainant’s request, CITCO allowed him two-year time (till December 2017) to conduct any function so that the advance money could be adjusted. Even after that, he failed to conduct any function within the given time. After a prolonged and unexplained delay of three and half years, he asked for the refund of his money for the first time on September 15, 2018, by writing a letter to CITCO or to allow time up to March 31, 2019 to conduct the function. CITCO, in the letter dated February 3, 2020, informed the complainant that refund was not possible.After hearing the arguments, the Commission said CITCO had no right to retain the hard-earned money of the complainant since no services had been availed of by him. In view of this, the present complaint is allowed. The Managing Director, CITCO, and the DGM, Finance, Hotel Shivalik View, are directed to refund Rs35,000 to the complainant and a compensation of Rs5,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commission-finds-fault-with-banquet-cancellation-policy-190734
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bid to break open ATM in Dadu Majra||Some miscreants made an attempt to break open an ATM at Dadu Majra. According to the police, complainant Nirmal Kumar said some unknown persons tried to break open an HDFC ATM near his shop on Sunday. A case was registered at the Maloya police station and an investigation has been initiated. The police said CCTV footage of nearby areas was being scrutinised to identify the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bid-to-break-open-atm-in-dadu-majra-190764
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||2 purses stolen from car at Sukhna Lake||An unknown person stole two woman purses from a car stationed at the Sukhna Lake parking lot. The complainant, a Panchkula resident, told the police that she, along with a friend, had gone for a walk at Sukhna Lake on December 27. She said she had parked her car at the paid parking lot near the lake. When she returned, she found that the car’s window was open and both their purses were stolen. A case was registered at the Sector 3 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-purses-stolen-from-car-at-sukhna-lake-190759
29-12-2020||---||Brace for severe cold wave in tricity||Chandigarh, December 28Brace for cold to severe cold wave conditions in the tricity during the next three to four days. According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, the minimum temperature during this period is expected to be below 4°C at a few places and below 2°C at isolated places.Dense to very dense fog is likely at a few places at night and in the early morning hours. The weatherman, however, said the weather was likely to remain mainly dry over the next five days. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in the city today was 14.5°C, six degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 6.4°C, one degree above normal. The city recorded 4.3 mm of rainfall in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/brace-for-severe-cold-wave-in-tricity-190750
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||A disturbing sight, act against officials: AAP||Reacting to Chandigarh Tribune’s report on a woman who crawled to a polling station for Panchkula MC elections, Prem Garg, Convenor, AAP, said the incident was disturbing. He sought action against officials concerned.In a press statement, he said all officials present on duty at the polling station in Sector 17, Panchkula, must be taken to task for human rights violations. “It’s disgusting and inhuman. How those present there could be so insensitive?” asked Garg. “Instead of being mere onlookers, they could have very easily escorted her respectfully to the polling room. Such things lend a bad image to the nation as they are prominently carried in the international media to defame the electoral system of India. The Election Commission must take note of such lapses,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-disturbing-sight-act-against-officials-aap-190756
29-12-2020||Mohali||2 arrested with Rs 2.5-cr heroin in Mohali||The Mohali police have arrested two persons with 500-gm heroin. “The heroin is valued around Rs 2.5 crore in the international market. A car used for smuggling heroin was also seized from the suspects near Saneta village,” said Mohali SSP Satinder Singh.The suspects have been identified as Vinay and Ankush, both residents of Samalkha village. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against them at the Sohana police station yesterday. The preliminary interrogation of the suspects revealed that the duo was involved in bringing heroin from Delhi and Haryana and they used to supply it in Chandigarh, Mohali and nearby areas. The police said two cases under the NDPS Act were already registered against Vinay in Ambala. He was out on a bail in one of the cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-with-rs-2-5-cr-heroin-in-mohali-190757
29-12-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Clear air on night curfew, Chandigarh hoteliers urge Administration||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28The indecisiveness of the UT Administration over the imposition the night curfew in the city is weighing heavy on the minds of hoteliers.Reeling under heavy losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, hoteliers have urged the UT Administration to clarify the doubts on the issue as any decision to impose the night curfew at this stage would adversely affect their businesses.Man Mohan Singh, chairman, Hotel and Restaurant AssociationHealth indeed is the highest priority, but if the night curfew has to be imposed, the decision should have been taken much earlier.Amid fears of spread of new strain of coronavirus, which has been detected in the UK, the UT Administration has been mulling a proposal to impose the night curfew in the city for a few days during the New Year celebrations.“Health indeed is the highest priority, but if the night curfew has to be imposed, the decision should have been taken much earlier,” said Man Mohan Singh, chairman, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Chandigarh.He said the hospitality industry was slowly limping back to normalcy and any short-notice decision would cause considerable losses to the units endeavouring to organise New Year’s Eve parties. All the same, all laid out precautions must be observed, he added.Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association, and joint secretary, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern India, said: “The hospitality industry has been facing losses, retrenchment and imminent closure of several outlets. We request the Administration not to impose any night curfew during New Year’s time as the industry follows all Covid protocols.”Amid confusion prevailing over the imposition of the night curfew, customers have started cancelling advance booking already made to hotels and restaurants, said Arvinder Pal Singh, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Chandigarh.“There is no justification in imposing restrictions over the fear of Covid spread when thousands of farmers are sitting on the borders of the National Capital,” he said.Amanjeet Singh, a resident of Sector 7, said hardy three days were left and he was yet to decide whether he should celebrate the New Year with friends. The UT should have taken such decisions in advance, he added.Arsh Verma and Paali Sharma, owners of Para Club, Industrial Area, Phase 1, said they had to make a lot of arrangements for the New Year parties. “Amid confusion, we were unable to take advance bookings and now, people have started moving towards hotels in Haryana,” they said.However, a senior official said there was no plan to impose the night curfew till now. Instead, the hoteliers would be asked to strictly follow the Covid-19 protocol, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clear-air-on-night-curfew-chandigarh-hoteliers-urge-administration-190758
29-12-2020||---||Covid-19: 2 fatalities push Panchkula toll to 142||Panchkula, December 28The district witnessed two Covid fatalities during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 142, while 13 fresh cases were reported today, taking the count to 9,919.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said two persons succumbed to the virus in the district. These were a 73-year-old man, a resident of Sector 9 who had comorbidities, and a 34-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 15. Among the fresh cases, one each was reported from Barwala, Sector 10, 11, 20 and 26, three from Raipur Rani and five from Sector 15.The district has so far seen 9,919 positive cases of which 9,568 patients have been cured. There are now 209 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-2-fatalities-push-panchkula-toll-to-142-190752
29-12-2020||---||Covid-19: One more fatality, 52 cases in Mohali||Mohali, December 28One more fatality was witnessed due to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 338.Meanwhile, 52 fresh cases came to the fore, taking the count to 18,018 in the district, while 130 more patients were cured of the disease.Among the fresh cases, 43 were reported from Mohali (urban), two each from Dera Bassi, Kharar and Kurali, and three from Dhakoli. The district has so far seen 18,018 cases of which 16,495 patients have been cured. There are now 1,185 active cases in the district.UT sees 65 new cases, 1 deathChandigarh: The city reported 65 fresh cases of Covid and one death on Monday, taking the UT case tally to 19,551 and the toll to 316. A total of 46 more patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-one-more-fatality-52-cases-in-mohali-190761
29-12-2020||Naina Mishra||For 2nd week in a row, Chandigarh does well on Covid front||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28The positivity rate of the city remained over 5 per cent for the second consecutive week. This week, the number of Covid tests dipped to 7,952 from over 10,000 recorded in the first week of December. Experts attribute it to the city residents’ reluctance to get themselves tested voluntarily.The total number of tests conducted is nearly the same as the previous month. With three days left before December ends, 35,115 tests have been conducted so far. Last month, 35,311 tests were conducted.According to UT officials, not many people are coming forward for voluntary testing despite their best efforts, including mobile teams at various places.“Earlier, when mobile teams were stationed at a bus stand, over 200 people used to get themselves tested voluntarily on a daily basis. The number has now reduced to 50-60. Even in OPDs, we have been receiving requests not to force Covid tests on patients,” said Dr VK Nagpal, Join Director, Health Department. As the daily average of persons tested positive is between 30 and 60 now, the testing has further dipped due to limited contact tracing. “Earlier, a majority of the tests conducted by the UT were the contacts of positive patients. As the cases have reduced, fewer contacts come forward for testing,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/for-2nd-week-in-a-row-chandigarh-does-well-on-covid-front-190745
29-12-2020||Zirakpur||34-year-old man crushed to death in Zirakpur||Water supply to be hit in cityChandigarh: The water supply in the city will be affected on Tuesday due to repair work in some areas. According to the MC, there will be routine water supply from 4 am to 9 am. However, there will be no afternoon and evening supply in Sector 1-12, 14-18, the PGI, Sector 21-A, 22-A and B, 25, the waterworks colony, Sector 39, Dadu Majra village and Maloya Colony. TNSDriver found dead in autoChandigarh: A 23-year-old auto driver was found dead in an auto parked near the Golf Club on Monday. The victim has been identified as Neeraj, a resident of Ram Darbar. A passerby informed the police. He was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police said the body had been shifted to a mortuary and the autopsy would be conducted tomorrow. Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Sector 3 police station. TNSClothes donated to the poorPanchkula: Rotaract Club Chandigarh Himalayan organised Arpan, a cloth donation drive at a nursery, Sector 14, here on Monday. The event was organised by Superheads Siddarth and Rtr Muskan Sagar with their team under the able guidance of Rtr Kanwal Preet Singh. The clothes, collected from donors all over the tricity, were donated to the underprivileged and animals after stitching and washing. TNSWorkshop on heart problemsChandigarh: An arrhythmia workshop for the patients suffering from various heart rhythm problems was held at Mukut Hospital here on Monday. The patients underwent electrophysiological (EP) study radiofrequency (RF) ablation procedure. Dr Devendra Bisht, senior interventional cardiologist and electro-physiologist, stated that many patients with symptoms of palpitations, shortness of breath, fainting, chest pain, paralysis and in extreme cases cardiac arrest were visiting their Heart Clinic. TNSMobile phone snatchedZirakpur: An unknown motorcycle-borne youth snatched a mobile phone from a labourer, Balkaran Sahni, near Lotus Green on Patiala road around 11 pm on Sunday night. The victim, a construction worker, was coming from near VIP Road at night when a motorcyclist came from behind and snatched his phone near a pizza outlet. The police have registered a case and investigation is on. In another incident, a woman alleged that that a bike-borne miscreant snatched her gold chain. The complainant said a man started chasing her on a bike and snatched her gold chain near Lohgarh. Also, in Lalru, three persons took away a car from a taxi driver on Sunday. TNSMentally ill goes missingChandigarh: A 26-year-old mentally challenged person, identified as Randeep, has been missing from Deep Complex, Hallo Majra. He went missing on December 13, after which his family reported the matter to the police. A DDR has been lodged at the Sector 31 police station. TNSCouncil honours Covid warriorsChandigarh: The All Churches Council organised a Christmas get-together at Christ Church, Sector 18, Chandigarh. The council honoured Covid 19 warriors for their contribution to various fields. Those who were honoured are Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, Dr Jaswinder Kaur, Director, Government Medical College and Hospital, Dr Yash Pal, Head of the Cardiology Department, PGI, Shailender Singh, Chief Engineer, Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, and Arun Sood, city BJP president. Anil Masih, president of the council, said they also honoured the medical staff of three main hospitals of Chandigarh - PGI, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/34-year-old-man-crushed-to-death-in-zirakpur-190765
29-12-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali-Kharar flyover thrown open to public||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 28The 4.5-km-long Mohali-Kharar flyover, starting from the Verka chowk, was finally thrown open to the public after the completion of 98 per cent work on the project today.Now, commuters, who used to face traffic jams near the Sunny Enclave crossing, will not face any inconvenience as the flyover from Khanpur to Sunny Enclave has been connected and thrown open to the public.Girish Dayalan, Deputy CommissionerAnother good news of the day! The Kharar flyover project all set to meet the January 2021 deadline. Nearly 98 per cent of the flyover stretch ready; thrown open to the public.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan tweeted, “Another good news of the day! The Kharar flyover project all set to meet the January 2021 deadline. Nearly 98 per cent of the flyover stretch ready; thrown open to the public today.”Divulging details, Himanshu Jain, SDM, Kharar, said commuters would not face any problem now as the flyover from Khanpur to Kharar had been completed and thrown open to the public this morning. He said now work on the 50-metre stretch of the flyover towards the Ropar side was to be completed and the deadline for it had already been fixed as January 15. He said the commuters going towards the Kurali side would have to take the diversion on the Ludhiana road to reach Ropar. The deadline for the completion of the flyover was September this year, but the work on the project was delayed due to the lockdown. The work on the project was restarted after the district administration gave approval on April 19. However, the NHAI faced a shortage of staff as most skilled labourers had returned to their native places.L&T began construction work in 2015The NHAI had handed over the Rs368-crore project to Larsen and Toubro (L&T), which began the construction of the flyover in November 2015. The project was initially planned to be completed by December 2018. Due to a delay in land acquisition and other administrative hurdles, and most recently, workforce issues amid the pandemic, the project ran behind schedule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-kharar-flyover-thrown-open-to-public-190766
29-12-2020||Mohali||Miraculous escape for man as car catches fire in Zirakpur||Gurvinder Singh, a resident of Dyalpur Sodhian near Zirakpur, had a miraculous escape as his Hyundai i20 car caught fire on the Zirakpur-Rajpura road this morning.According to the information, Gurvinder, who was driving the car, managed to come out of the car after breaking open a door. He said he was returning to his shop in Zirakpur after dropping his family at Rajpura. He said after witnessing smoke coming out of the car engine, he parked the vehicle on a roadside and soon, the engine and the dashboard were engulfed in fire. He said he managed to come out of the car after breaking open the left door. He said that he was carrying a bag containing Rs32,000 that was burnt in the fire. He said vehicles’ documents, including the drivers’ licence, were also burnt. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/miraculous-escape-for-man-as-car-catches-fire-in-zirakpur-190763
