03-07-2021||North East||Covid: J.P. Nadda's ‘tourists’ jibe prompts Assam Cong history advice||The Assam unit of the Congress has “advised” BJP national president J.P. Nadda to brush up on his knowledge of history and use Google to know what the Opposition party has been doing for the coronavirus-hit in the state. The trigger for the sharp retort by the Assam PCC was Nadda’s “political tourists” jibe at the Opposition leaders and their “no-show during the second wave of the pandemic” while addressing the working committee meeting of the state BJP unit through the virtual mode on Tuesday. Nadda asserted that the claim he made during his campaigns for the recent Assembly elections about the Opposition leaders acting as “political tourists” had come true. They are only seen during elections, he said. Condemning Nadda’s remark, Assam PCC president and Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora said on Wednesday that such a “denigrating” statement against an Opposition party was not expected of such a senior leader. Bora invoked India’s political history to “remind” Nadda that the BJP was born in 1980 and the Congress in 1885. “How can a party that has been in existence for 136 years, that brought freedom for its people from British domination and that ruled India and contributed towards nation building be termed a party of ‘political tourists’? We were in power in the state till 2016. I advise Naddaji to brush up on his history” Bora said. The Congress MP added: “Does it also mean that wherever the BJP lost elections — in Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu — their leaders have become political tourists? Just because our party lost the elections in Assam, one cannot pass derogatory remarks like that.” The BJP and its allies were re-elected for the second straight term in the Assembly polls. The remarks on “political tourists” and “Opposition no-show during the pandemic” were mentioned in the salient points of Nadda’s speech released by the BJP’s central office in Delhi on Tuesday. “During the second wave of the pandemic, neither the Congress party nor Badruddin Ajmal and his party were seen helping the poor and affected people. The reality is that both the parties have nothing to do with welfare and betterment of the people of Assam. They just want votes of the people of Assam. My words have again proved to be correct that they are just political tourists,” Nadda had said. Bora asked where the BJP leaders were when floods ravaged Assam in 2017 and 2018. “While Prime Minister Narendra Modi could take out time to visit Assam umpteenth times for electioneering, couldn’t he find time to be near the people of the state during the floods? People know what we are doing and whether we are with them,” Bora said. Assam PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma on Monday released photographs of PCC leaders and members distributing relief across the state. “ If they want to know what we did, they can simply Google or check our leaders’ Twitter handles,” Sharma told The Telegraph. The Congress also used the opportunity to highlight the BJP-led Centre’s “faulty” Covid management policy, especially the shortage of vaccines. “People in Assam are suffering for want of vaccines due to the Centre’s faulty Covid policy. Today, 50 per cent of the Covid vaccine centres are shut. Recently, police had to resort to lathicharge at inoculation centres after people became restive over vaccine shortage,” Bora said. He advised Nadda against discussing about the Congress in virtual meetings and instead ensure the safety of the people of Assam by making vaccines available. “Longer the delay, the greater is the threat to people’s lives,” Bora added. Till Thursday, there were 24,390 active Covid cases in Assam and five districts were under lockdown. Since last year, 511,153 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state and 4,577 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
03-07-2021||North East||IIT-Guwahati, Nesac Shillong sign pact  to work for the development of the region||Two premier institutions of the Northeast — the Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, and the North Eastern Space Applications Centre (Nesac), Shillong — have joined hands to work for the development of the region and create a pool of skilled professionals. The two institutions signed a memorandum of understanding on June 28 aimed at launching joint initiatives including internship, joint degree, short-term training and student exchange programmes and joint projects, among others, an IIT Guwahati statement said. Through this partnership, a multidisciplinary approach would be adopted to study disasters as the Northeast is prone to flood, earthquake, landslide and riverbank erosion, it said. These disasters can sometimes become a “roadblock” to the growth of the region and to address these challenges in a “more” meaningful way, these premier institutes felt the need to work together through collaboration. Highlighting the unique aspects of this collaboration, IIT Guwahati director Prof. T.G. Sitharam said there will be “limitless” opportunities for the two institutes to work together and achieve new heights in research, innovation and capacity development for the Northeast. “Joint certificate programmes, visiting professorship for teaching a few suitable courses along with the IIT-G faculty are few of the initiatives that both institutes could take forward,” he said. IIT Guwahati was established in 1994. Nesac director P.L.N. Raju said: “The signing of an MoU with IIT Guwahati and specifically with its CDMR (Centre for Disaster Management and Research), focusing on training education and research, will further enhance Nesac in strengthening capacity building, training and research in this region. I am looking forward for a fruitful and highly successful MoU between IIT-G and Nesac benefiting the society as a whole.” IIT Guwahati had established the Centre for Disaster Management and Research on the “advice” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Sources said the Nesac has also tied up with the North Eastern Regional Institute of Water and Land Management, Tezpur, and the North East Centre for Technology Application and Reach, Shillong, to contribute towards the development of the region. “The whole idea is to see how we can use space technology support along with research for flood management and the development of the agriculture sector, among others. We are also helping the northeastern states in preparing plans of action and their execution for the development of the region,” Raju said. One of the sources said the Nesac is helping the Assam government to prepare the plan of action for 25 projects. The Nesac, a joint initiative of the department of space and the North Eastern Council, provides an operational remote sensing and geographic information system aided natural resource information base to support activities on development/management of natural resources and infrastructure planning in the region, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
