04-07-2021||North East||Over 9,000 pigs die in three months of African Swine Fever in Mizoram||African Swine Fever (ASF) continues to wreak havoc in the livestock sector in Mizoram affecting as many as 10 out of the total 11 districts and killing more than 9,000 pigs in a little over three months, according to states animal husbandry and veterinary science department.  According to data released by the department on Sunday, at least 152 villages or local areas in 10 districts are currently affected by the ASF outbreak causing a loss of over Rs. 36.68 crore.  "Unusual death" of 699 pigs has been reported from even outside ASF-infected areas, it said.  The data also said that 1,078 pigs have been culled so far to prevent the disease from spreading further.  The first pig death due to ASF was reported on March 21 at Lungsen village in south Mizorams Lunglei district bordering Bangladesh.  Though the spread of ASF in Lunglei district has now become "less severe", it began to ravage Aizawl district, which has borne the brunt of the disease with 3,454 pig deaths so far, according to the department joint director (livestock health) Dr. Lalhmingthanga.  So far, the ASF has killed 3,092 pigs in Lunglei district, 684 in Mamit district, 939 in Serchhip district, 320 in Lawngtlai district, 334 in Khawzawl district, 83 in Hnahthial district, 257 in Champhai district, 8 in Saitual district, and 1 in Siaha district, he said.  Only Kolasib district, which borders Assam, is ASF- free at present, he said.  Lalhmingthanga said that a special diseases investigation team, which visited Lungsen village during April 5-8 found that pigs are illegally imported from Bangladesh through villages like Tipperaghat and Khojoysury located near the Bangladesh border.  Illegal pig traders use Lungsen village for keeping the animals there before moving them to Lunglei market, he said.  The senior official said that the president of the Rolui village council had informed that an outbreak of an unknown disease had killed several pigs in Bangladesh villages along the India border in February 2021.  Lalhmingthanga further said that the ASF outbreak in Aizawl district and east Mizorams Champhai district is believed to be caused by pigs or pork imported from Meghalaya and Myanmar respectively.  Mizoram shares inter-state borders with Assam, Manipur, and Tripura and also international boundaries with Bangladesh and Myanmar.  ASF is a highly contagious and deadly viral disease, affecting both domestic and feral swine of all ages.  Experts said that it is not a threat to human health and cannot be transmitted from pigs to humans. No vaccine is available for the virus to date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
04-07-2021||North East||Assam government to decide on employment for exams on record-base and internal assessment||The Assam government will hold discussions with stakeholders over a contentious criteria that makes students, who pass Classes X and XII final examinations on record-based and internal assessment, ineligible for some government jobs. Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday said he was willing to discuss clause 5 of the July 1 notification issued by the secondary education department detailing the steps to be taken for the implementation of the recommendations of the government-constituted expert committee for evaluating/finalising the results of students of Classes X and XII after their exams were cancelled because of the pandemic. Sarma was responding to widespread resentment and criticism of the clause by students and leading student organisations, including the All Assam Students Union, Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad and the All Bodo Students Union. They have objected to the “unjust” clause which only piled pressure on the students who have been waiting since March to write their final examinations only to see them cancelled last month owing to the Covid situation. The AASU wrote to the chief minister and education minister Ranoj Pegu seeking withdrawal of the contentious clause that makes certificates and marksheets issued to those who pass their final exams good enough to pursue higher education but not good enough for some state government jobs. The clause, they said, will affect seven lakh students of the cancelled board exams. Clause 5 states: “ … But for those students who aspire to become teachers/employees in the education department of Assam or any other department under the government of Assam where recruitment of teachers/employees are substantially based on HSLC or HSSLC marks, without there being any scope of written test or interview, shall have to appear in special HSLC/AHM examination to be conducted after improvement of the situation so that they are at par with previous or future batches of HSLC or HSSLC in assessment of merit...”The education department said special examinations will be conducted by the Board of Secondary Education, Assam, (Seba) and the Assam Higher Secondary Education Council for those not satisfied with the evaluation system within September 15 subject to improvement in the Covid situation or even in 2022 to help the students improve their results. A Class XII student wondered what use is a pass certificate that is not valid for state government jobs or how could a student pursuing higher studies take the special exams. “Will he study his new course or his Class X or XII course? The government should scrap the clause,” he said. Sarma asserted none will be deprived of state government jobs except for teachers appointed under the TET scheme where Classes X and XII results were taken into account. He said the clause has been misinterpreted or the notification has not been able to properly convey the government’s intention. According to Sarma, this year’s batches will in all probability get more marks than those in the past or future batches, compelling the latter to move the court as they will not be able to compete with the 2021 batch. “We will discuss this issue. I have informed the AASU. They (2021 batch) will be eligible for all jobs, except for TET teachers… We are staring at a huge social problem. We have to find a solution... have to think about everyone,” Sarma said. AASU president Dipanka Nath told The Telegraph that the chief minister is open to discussing the issue. “We want that the interest of students are protected — now and in the future,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
