08-07-2021||North East||Assam Christian Forum pledge to continue Father Stan’s ‘mission’||Father Stan Swamy is no more but his mission for “peace, justice and reconciliation” will continue. This was the message that emanated from the memorial service organised by the Assam Christian Forum and the North East Regional Catholic Bishops’ Conference at the Peace Centre here on Tuesday afternoon. His demise was widely mourned in the Northeast which has a significant Christian population, about 18 per cent of the over 4.5 crore population, having contributed significantly to the education and health sectors. Nagaland, Mizoram and Meghalaya are Christian-dominated states. The 84-year-old Jesuit priest and the “voice of the marginalised” died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while in judicial custody. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in 2020 in connection with the 2017 Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case. Speaker after speaker, amid paying glowing tributes to Fr Stan’s life-long mission of serving the marginalised and oppressed, the gathering vowed to take forward his legacy. They also wondered why the ailing Fr Stan was denied bail and the “strange ways” of the State and judiciary. Paresh Malakar, educationist and general secretary, Axom Nagarik Samaj, in his tribute, said Fr Stan’s death was a “most tragic” thing, a “sad” commentary on the State and the judiciary. “Till his death Stan Swamy steadfastly stood for the truth and rights for the marginalised people. Now it is up to us how we carry forward his legacy. To uphold his spirits and legacy we should unitedly work for true justice, democracy and peace,” Malakar said. The Archbishop of Guwahati, John Moolachira, who is also the president of the North East Regional Catholic Bishops’ Conference, led the memorial service. The Assam Christian Forum and the United Christian Forum of North East India told The Telegraph that he was “falsely” implicated, imprisoned and made to suffer” because of his mission and work among the Adivasis, Dalits and other marginalised communities, as he believed, that the poor must have life and life to the full, with honour and dignity, as enshrined in the Constitution. Allen Brooks, one of the organisers of the memorial service and spokesperson for both the forums, said community members have “pledged” to recommit themselves to take forward Fr Stan’s legacy and to “work” for peace, justice and reconciliation because “injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere”. Father G.P. Amalraj, deputy secretary, North East India Regional Bishops’ Council, said they “failed to understand” why an 84-year-old social worker, greatly weakened by multiple ailments could “not” get bail for a case in which he claimed “absolute” innocence. “Aside from the pain it has caused to the poor tribal people on whose behalf he laboured, it has shaken the confidence of society in our justice system and tarnished the image of the country at the international level.… May his innocence be established and may more and more young people come forward to dedicate their lives on behalf of the poor,” Fr Amalraj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
08-07-2021||North East||Assam govt to use only hand-woven gamosa and traditional food items during official events||The Assam government will be using only hand-woven gamosa and traditional food items during official functions and events from Thursday in an effort to support and promote locally available products. The decision was taken at the weekly cabinet meeting on Wednesday which also decided to play the state anthem — O Mur Apunar Dex (O my motherland) — at the beginning of all government programmes and the national anthem Jana Gana Mana at the end. The meeting also decided to give a one-year service extension to best-performing non-gazetted employees. “The move will help our weavers and self-help groups involved in the manufacture of gamosas and traditional delicacies such as laroo and pitha. These will be served in government functions and meetings across the state from tomorrow (Thursday),” cabinet minister Pijush Hazarika said. The move will come as a huge relief to those producing and trading gamosas and traditional delicacies because sales have been hit by the restrictions imposed to check the spread of the Covid-19. Gamosa is not only a traditional rectangular cotton cloth with red borders and floral motifs but also a symbol of Assam’s culture and identity. It is used to greet/felicitate/honour guests or invitees or as a towel, decor gift or as part of an attire during religious functions or festivities. The demand for gamosas is high during Bihu festivities but of late it has also emerged as a symbol of protest especially during the anti-CAA protests. There are over 4,000 primary weaver cooperative societies in Assam, producing handloom fabrics, including gamosas which earned the geographical indication (GI) tag in 2019. Last year, Assam had tied up with e-commerce firm Flipkart to promote its artefacts and handloom products. Traditional delicacies such as laroo, pitha, chira and curd are in demand during Bihu but of late these have been available throughout the year, supplied by local self-help groups and sold by grocery shops and restaurants. “These delicacies have a market. This move of the government will help those involved in producing these delicacies, especially in these Covid times. It is an extension of the central government’s slogan of vocal for local,” a self-help group member said. The other cabinet decisions included: ⚫ Deshbhakta Tarun Ram Phukan’s death anniversary on July 28 will be observed as Desh Bhakti Divas. Information and public relations department will organise various activities in the districts and sub-divisions to mark the occasion. ⚫ Death anniversary of Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi on August 5 will be observed as Karmachari Divas. Five non-gazetted employees at the district level and 10 at the state level will be awarded on Karmachari Divas based on their performances. They will get a year’s service extension. ⚫ TET certificates will have lifetime validity. These candidates will also be allowed to write their TET examination for betterment. Upper age limit will, however, apply during recruitment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
08-07-2021||North East||Himanta directs police to file chargesheets in all pending cases ||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has directed the officers-in-charge of all police stations in the state to file chargesheets in all pending rape, murder, drug trafficking and arms cases within six months for speedy trial. Addressing the first conference of OCs here on Monday as part of the government’s efforts to redefine policing standards in the state, the chief minister highlighted the failings of the present policing system to ensure justice and assured all help from his end to help improve the situation to win the trust of the people and curb crime rate. Directing the OCs to strictly deal with crime against women, Sarma said it was important to properly file the chargesheet at the earliest to ensure justice to victims. This will help send the right message to all offenders and would-be offenders before they indulge in any anti-social activities, he said. “The CID will be engaged to train OCs in preparing chargesheets and capable public prosecutors will be hired for ensuring justice delivery and conviction. Engage the computer literate from your team to file a chargesheet. Strengthening law and order for the safety and security of every citizen is at the core of our governance,” Sarma said, adding that all steps must be taken to stop cow smuggling. Apart from filing the chargesheet in heinous cases like rape, murder, drug peddling, women trafficking and molestation, Sarma also directed the OCs to deliver post-mortem reports to the kin of the victims within 15 days. “Police verification reports for jobs and passports should be issued within seven days except in doubtful cases. Death reports too should be issued within 24 hours in road accident cases for hassle-free insurance claims. Such steps will help build trust among the people who will become your sources and help you effectively discharge your duty. Your duty is to deliver the best possible service to the people,” Sarma said. He also took the opportunity to tell the deputy inspectors-general and superintendents of police to help the OCs perform their duty efficiently. “DIGs should ensure post-mortem report collection as soon as possible. Also, steps have to be taken to send samples for testing to forensic labs outside the state for minimising delay as the only forensic lab in Guwahati is not sufficient,” Sarma said. Sarma said he will hold a review meeting of the OCs every six months so they can be prepared with their progress report, adding that zero-tolerance should be shown towards criminals. “There is criticism of policemen shooting accused/criminals who tried to flee or harm others in the recent past. Law allows to shoot them in the leg. If this is the pattern, let it remain so to send the right message,” he said. Though the chief minister’s step was welcomed, some pointed out that Sarma should also look into the deployment of orderlies at the residence of senior police officials. “These orderlies are also policemen. How many have to be deployed and for how long, the chief minister should look into it,” a source said. Sarma also announced a series of measures to help the OCs discharge their duties effectively that included: ⚫ All police stations would receive Rs 2.5 lakh annually as a contingency fund apart from other allocations. ⚫ Source fund to all OCs to gather intelligence. This fund will help pay informers/sources. ⚫ All OCs will be provided with a vehicle for their police station or motorcycles in difficult and inaccessible areas within three months. ⚫ Three computers would be provided to all police stations for streamlining the filing of FIRs and other paperwork. ⚫ Residential quarters to be built within all police station premises. ⚫ One generator would be provided to each police station. ⚫ Health check-ups for personnel in police stations every 15 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
