12-07-2021||North East||Nearly 1,800 hectares of Assam land encroached by Mizoram people, says Himanta Biswa Sarma||People of neighbouring Mizoram have encroached on nearly 1,800 hectares of Assam land spread across three districts, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said in the assembly on Monday.  The chief minister's statement came in the backdrop of tension between the two Northeastern states following alleged encroachment of land in Cachar district by the people of Mizoram.  In a written reply to a query by All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA Suzam Uddin Laskar, Sarma said that a total of 1,777.58 hectares of land in Barak Valley region have been taken over by encroachers from Mizoram.  Out of this, the largest area of 1,000 hectares have been encroached in Hailakandi district, followed by 400 hectares in Cachar and 377.58 hectares in Karimganj, he added.  Sarma, who also holds the Home portfolio, said that various preventive measures like patrolling and area domination have been taken by the Assam Police in order to free the encroached land and protect the people living on the Assam side.  "Altogether nine Border Out Posts (BOP) have been established in Hailakandi, Karimganj and Cachar districts sharing border along Assam-Mizoram. Out of the nine BOPs, six are in Hailakandi, two are in Karimganj and one is in Cachar," he added.  In Karimganj, two temporary camps have been set up at Choto Bhubirbond under Ratabari police station and Medhlicherra under Bazaricherra police station to counter any attempted encroachment of land belonging to Assam.  Besides, two permanent CRPF camps have been set up at Khulicherra and Lailapur under Dholai police station in Cachar, the chief minister said.  "The district administration of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi are maintaining regular liaison and contact with their counterpart districts, mainly Kolasib and Mamit," Sarma said.  He further said that several meetings at different levels between the two state governments have been held to ensure sanctity of the Constitutional boundary.  "Lately, on 09/07/2021, a chief secretary level meeting was held between the State of Assam and Mizoram in New Delhi at the behest of Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India. All lawful steps are being taken to prevent encroachment in the Assam-Mizoram inter-state border," Sarma said.  Mizoram shares about 164.6 km long border with Assam.  The hill state was part of Assam until 1972 when it was carved out as a Union Territory.  It became the 23rd state of India on 20 February 1987 following the historic Mizoram Accord between the erstwhile underground Mizo National Front (MNF) and the Centre, ending 20 years of insurgency in the state.  In a separate reply to a query by the Leader of the Opposition Debabrata Saikia, Sarma said that a total of 209 instances of encroachment of Assam land have taken place since 2016 when the BJP came to power in the state for the first time.  These encroachments were carried out by people from Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram and Meghalaya, he added.  The Assam government has registered 127 cases and arrested three persons for encroachment, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
12-07-2021||North East||Assam government creates new department for tribal affairs||The Assam government on Saturday announced the creation of a new department of indigenous faith and culture, the objective of which will be to preserve and promote the faith and culture of the state’s tribal population. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced the decision after a cabinet meeting held here on completion of two months of his government. Assam has become the second state after neighbouring Arunachal Pradesh to have such a department in the Northeast. The BJP-led Arunachal Pradesh government had created the department of indigenous faiths and cultural affairs in 2017. “We have a lot of tribes like Rabha, Boro, Mising, Moran and Mutack. They have their own faith, customs, rituals and culture. This rich heritage needs to be preserved and promoted. This independent department will do that, not build roads and houses, for which we have the department for welfare of plain tribes and backward classes,” Sarma said. The new department will take the number of state government departments to 55. Sarma added: “The cabinet has requested the finance minister to allot substantial funds to the new department in the budget to be presented on July 16 so that it can carry out its mandate effectively.” The WPT & BC is the nodal department for formulation and implementation of policies and programmes for welfare and development of the Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and other backward classes in the state. The ST population make up for over 12.4 per cent of the state’s population of about 3.2 crore while the SC population is about 7.15 per cent. There are 14 recognised plains tribes, 15 hills tribes and 16 SC communities in the state. “Though details of the new Assam department are yet to be announced, it will be more or less along the lines of the Arunachal Pradesh department. After all, the BJP is committed to the welfare of the indigenous communities who have voted overwhelmingly for it since 2014,” a source said. Besides creation of the new department, Sarma also announced major financial and administrative reforms to end red tape to speed up approval of funds for implementation of development projects. More power has been given to commissioner and chief secretary in financial matters. “It is a major step which will save time and give us more time to monitor implementation of the schemes,” he said. Sarma also said the government will pilot the cow protection bill in the budget session starting July 12. “We will also announce big measures on the population control front like voluntary sterilisation in the budget,” Sarma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
