16-07-2021||North East||Earthquake of 3.4 magnitude hits Assam||An earthquake of 3.4 magnitude hit several districts of Assam on Friday morning, an official bulletin said. There was no immediate report of any loss of life or damage to property, it said. The earthquake took place at 8.39 am and the epicentre was at Nagaon in central Assam, the National Center for Seismology said. The depth of the earthquake was 10 km, it said. According to the bulletin, the place of occurrence was 40 km west of Tezpur on the northern bank of Brahmaputra river. Panic-stricken people ran out of their homes as the quake struck the state. Northeastern states fall in the high seismic zone and earthquakes frequently hit the region. A 6.4 magnitude quake had shaken the region on April 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
16-07-2021||North East||Assam: Himanta vows to continue fight against drug trafficking||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has cited the drug trafficking problem portrayed in the film Udta Punjab to convey the gravity of the situation triggered by the transit of drugs through his state. After veteran AGP legislator Prodip Hazarika raised the issue of drug trafficking during the Zero Hour in the Assembly on Wednesday, Sarma made a strong pitch for the ongoing statewide crackdown against the trafficking and consumption of drugs in his 29-minute speech. The chief minister referred to the 2016 film starring Shahid Kapoor, Alia Bhatt, Kareena Kapoor and Diljit Dosanjh, which showed the devastating impact of drug trade in the northern state, to flag the emerging threat to Assam from drug trafficking and its use. “We had seen the movie Udta Punjab. We had seen the Punjab situation... We were unknowingly moving towards a situation showcased in Udta Punjab. A section is using drugs to destroy our whole society. We are witnessing activities similar to the underworld we see in Hindi movies,” Sarma said, highlighting the challenges posed by drug trafficking on families and youth. Drugs mainly enter Mizoram and Manipur through the bordering areas with Myanmar and pass through Nagaland and Assam to the rest of the country. Assam police have been trying to check their entry with the help of the neighbouring states. Justifying the ongoing crackdown on drug trafficking, Sarma said their availability had increased which was evident from the arrest and seizure of drugs in the past two months. The BJP-led alliance was re-elected for a second straight term on May 2. Sarma took charge on May 10. “There were operations against drug trafficking earlier as well. In 2016 we seized 10kg heroin and in 2020 27kg... In the past two months alone we have seized 27kg heroin. This shows the growing availability of drugs. So far we have registered 1,120 cases, arrested 1,857, seized 27kg heroin, 12,823kg ganja, 41kg opium, 78000 bottles of cough syrup, over 13.1 lakh tablets... fake currency worth Rs 15,000 and Rs 1.8 crore in cash... One drug peddler has been killed in an encounter and seven injured,” Sarma said. He claimed that there will be efforts to derail the ongoing crackdown by attacking the police force because of the “big money” involved in the drug trade. “There will be zero-tolerance towards criminals and drug traffickers. This fight will continue. But there will be no compromise (on checking drug trade) as long as I am the chief minister. There will be zero-tolerance towards drug trafficking,” Sarma said, throwing his weight behind the police accused of being trigger-happy given the rise in encounters involving accused/criminals. Sarma appealed to the MLAs to support the police in this endeavour by being present during the burning down of seized drugs on July 17 and 18 in Karbi Anglong, Golaghat, Nagaon and Hojai districts. “I will be present in all the four functions,” he said. Accusing militant outfits, “except Ulfa (I)”, of being involved in the drug trade and using addicts to do their bidding, Sarma asserted informers/sources will be protected at all costs. He also assured that officers from the assistant sub-inspector to inspector rank or any policeman would receive out of turn promotion for their outstanding performance in the fight against drugs. He said there are a few in the police force involved in the drug trade but there were also people like Borsing Bey, a home guard who was given the job of a police constable for his role in seizure of drugs worth Rs 12 crore. Opposition Congress MLA Rakibul Hussain supported the government’s drive but appealed to the ruling dispensation to ensure the fight is taken to “its logical end and not left midway”. Hussain also said an impression has gained ground that encounters have increased to get publicity for the police but all operations should be conducted within the ambit of law. He urged the government to set up rehabilitation centres for addicts or else the fight against drugs will go down the drain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
16-07-2021||North East||Opposition mounts against Assam govt’s proposed cattle ‘preservation’ law ||Opposition is mounting against the Assam government’s proposed cattle “preservation” law with concerns being raised about the possibility of farmers’ income dwindling because of the planned bans and restrictions. The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, tabled in the Assembly by chief minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday, aims to regulate the “slaughter, consumption and transportation of cattle” by repealing the Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950. The bill proposes to impose stringent restrictions on the sale of beef and the transport of cattle, sharply increases the punishment for cattle slaughter and transport of cattle without permit and appears to suggest that no permit will be given for cow slaughter. Raijor Dal president and Sivasagar MLA Akhil Gogoi on Thursday said he was “out-and-out” opposed to the proposed law because it would adversely affect “our farmers, irrespective of their religion”. “There will be no amendment demand from our side. We are looking for a device through which we can speak against the bill in the House. Let there be an open debate. As a farmer I can only say that the bill in its present avatar will affect our farmers, irrespective of their religion,” he said. The bill is likely to come up for discussion in the Assembly on Monday. Gogoi said: “For a farmer from my village, cattle is big business. He sells at the cattle market the animals that are not productive or if he has in excess. There are big cattle markets in upper Assam. These markets will close down once this bill is passed. If the markets close down, how will our farmers sustain themselves? They sell their cattle to get their sons and daughters admitted to colleges. That will stop. “This is why I oppose the bill out and out. Seeking amendments will mean I support the bill.… How can I support a bill that will affect our farmers? It will also push up the price of all kinds of meat in the state” The bill says beef and beef products will no longer be permitted to be sold and consumed in specified areas. Beef is widely consumed in the region, which has a large Christian population. Assam, which has a 34 per cent Muslim population and where beef consumption is prevalent, is the first northeastern state to propose such restrictions. The bulk of the cattle that is sold at the animal markets is meant for slaughter as they have become unproductive or suffered irreversible injury or deformity. If the farmers fail to sell their cattle because of what appears to be a ban on cow slaughter and the multiple area- and religion-based restrictions on the slaughter of other forms of cattle and the stringent conditions on transit permits, they will lose out on a substantial source of income. Added to this will be the financial burden of feeding the unproductive cattle. Moreover, the instances of cow vigilantism and lynchings in other BJP-ruled states on unfounded suspicion of slaughter and possession of beef are expected to hang heavy on those wanting to sell cattle. A farmer in lower Assam said: “Buyers will not buy cattle for its meat because of the stringent restrictions on the sale of beef and beef products, thereby bringing down the price of cattle….. Although slaughter is not completely banned, the restrictions will be discouraging for the trade. In such a scenario, the farmers and owners will have to either maintain the cattle by paying from his pocket or abandon them — in both cases he loses money.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
