21-07-2021||North East||Pegasus:  ‘Not surprised’, says ULFA leader on name in surveillance list||Leader of pro-talks faction of the banned United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA), Anup Chetia, said on Wednesday that he was not surprised to find his name on the list of those under possible phone surveillance using Pegasus spyware in India. One of the founding members of the outfit formed in 1979, 64-year-old Chetia is part of the pro-talks faction of the ULFA, talking with the Centre for the past few years. “As former members of ULFA, we once indulged in anti-India activities. So, I am not surprised that my name has come up in that list. I am sure my phones are being tracked all the time,” said Chetia. As unearthed by a collaborative investigation involving 17 media organisations, and reported by The Wire, which is one of the 17, the phone numbers of Union ministers Ashwini Vaishnaw and Prahlad Patel, opposition leaders Rahul Gandhi and Abhishek Banerjee, activists, and 38 journalists, including three from HT and one from its sister publication Mint, were among thousands of potential targets around the world. The investigation was based on a data leak of around 50,000 numbers obtained by Amnesty International and Paris-based Forbidden Stories, a non-profit. To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number on the list does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. Amnesty International subsequently forensically investigated 67 of these phones, and found 23 hacked and 14 showing signs of attempted penetration. While NSO Group, the Israeli firm that makes Pegasus, has maintained that only governments are its clients, India’s IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has called the investigation an “attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions”. The fact that Chetia was still in touch with several leaders of the anti-talks faction of the outfit, ULFA-Independent, of which Paresh Baruah is the commander-in-chief and his stance on several issues including the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which he opposed and even threatened in 2018 to walk out of talks if it was not scrapped, were seen as a possible reasons for his name to figure on the list. “I have not indulged in any anti-national or criminal activities in the past 18 years. Because of my past, it is natural that I could be under surveillance. But I’m not bothered about it,” he said. The Pegasus list also had the name of another prominent leader from Assam, Samujjal Bhattacharya, adviser to the influential All Assam Students Union (AASU). Despite repeated attempts, he couldn’t be reached as his phone was switched off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
21-07-2021||North East||CAA, NRC has nothing to do with Hindu-Muslim divide, says RSS chief||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, who is in Assam on a two-day visit, said on Wednesday that the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) have nothing to do with Hindu-Muslim divide and communal narrative surrounding the two issues were being peddled by some to gain political mileage. He further emphasised that no Muslim will face any loss due to the citizenship law. "After independence, the first prime minister of the country had said that minorities will be taken care of, and that has been done so far. We will continue to do so. No Muslim will face any loss due to CAA," Bhagwat said after launching a book here, titled 'Citizenship debate over NRC and CAA-Assam and the Politics of History'. The citizenship law is will provide protection to persecuted minorities in the neighbouring countries, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief underlined. "We reach out to the majority communities, too, in these countries during a calamity.... So if there are some who wish to come to our country due to threats and fear, we will definitely have to help them out," Bhagwat said. Talking about NRC, he stated that all nations have the right to know who its citizens are. "The matter is in the political domain as the government is involved in it... A section of people wants to get political mileage by creative a communal narrative around these two issues," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
