26-07-2021||North East||Six policemen killed along Assam-Mizoram border as violence escalates||A tense situation prevailed along the disputed Assam-Mizoram border as six cops from Assam were killed in violence that broke out along the border. There were reports of fresh firing along the border area close to Assam’s Cachar district and Mizoram’s Kolasib districts. Significantly, the violence broke out along the disputed border two days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah conducted a closed door meeting with the chief ministers of the northeast stated at Shillong. The tension escalated to such an extent that the Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma took on to Twitter to announce that six Assam Police personnel were killed in firing by miscreants from Mizoram along the inter-state border in Cachar district. Following which the chief ministers of the two states got locked in a war of words on Twitter on Monday. As the two leaders traded charges on Twitter, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said he has spoken to his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga and his police force will maintain peace. Zoramthanga accused the Assam Police of resorting to lathi-charge and lobbing tear gas shells while Assam Police claimed that a large number of "miscreants" from Mizoram were indulging in stone pelting and had attacked the Assam government officials. Assam's Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164 km long border with Mizoram's three districts of Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit. Following a territorial dispute, there were clashes along the inter-state border in August 2020 and February this year. Mizoram Deputy Inspector-General of Police (Northern Range), Lalbiakthanga Khiangte, told PTI that at least eight unoccupied farm huts near Aitlang stream in the trouble-torn area were torched around 11.30 PM on Sunday. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had to intervene. According to sources, he spoke to the chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram over the ongoing border row between the two states and asked them to ensure peaceful resolution of the dispute. During his separate telephonic conversations with Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga, Shah asked them to maintain peace along the inter-state border where tension prevails, said sources. The home minister asked the chief ministers to resolve the border issue mutually. Both chief ministers have assured the home minister that the needful will be done to ensure peace and resolve the border issue amicably. Police forces from both states are expected to return from the disputed site, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
26-07-2021||North East||IIM Shillong becomes Arunachal's official think tank||The Arunachal Pradesh government has signed an MoU with IIM Shillong recognising the premier institute as its “official think tank and knowledge partner”. The MoU was signed on Friday between state chief secretary Naresh Kumar and Prof D.P. Goyal, director IIM Shillong, in presence of chief minister Pema Khandu in Shillong. This is a first-of-its-kind collaboration between the institute and any state government in the Northeast, a move many feel could see more and more states tap into expert advice/services offered by institutes such as the IIM for holistic development. According to the MoU, the government of Arunachal Pradesh will recognise Dr APJ Centre of IIM Shillong as an official think tank and knowledge partner of the  government in the frontier state which suffers from connectivity issues and mainly dependent on agriculture. “IIM Shillong will assist Arunachal Pradesh in developing policies and roadmap for business development in the handloom, horticulture, tourism, logistics and BPO sectors. IIM Shillong will also facilitate the state government in implementing some of its flagship projects by providing critical managerial interventions,” the IIM said. Functioning since 2008, the premier institute has also agreed to organise managerial capacity building programs for the state’s newly-recruited officers besides laying emphasis on establishing a satellite or an extension knowledge centre of IIM Shillong in Itanagar, the state capital. This centre will help impart training to youths for entrepreneurship development and promoting start-up ecosystem, amongst others. Khandu, who was in Shillong to attend the meeting between home minister Amit Shah and chief ministers of the Northeast on Saturday, has termed the development as “historic”. “Capacity building is the most important aspect of governance and IIM Shillong is the best in the region... This association will make IIM Shillong the think tank of the state government.… I am optimistic the collaboration would pave way for creating a rich human resource which will augment the state’s development,” Khandu said. He has invited the IIM Shillong team to visit Arunachal Pradesh in August to “explore” potential areas for policy intervention. IIM Shillong director said the frontier state’s administrators would be trained in public policy and governance starting next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
