27-07-2021||North East||Gaurav Gogoi seeks to Amit Shah’s intervention into Assam-Mizoram border dispute||A day after the Assam-Mizoram border clash claimed the lives of at least five policemen, one civilian and left 50 others injured, Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi on Tuesday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, seeking his intervention to ensure peace at the inter-state boundary between the two states. The Lok Sabha MP also said the violence along the disputed border is a failure of the constitutional machinery" to ensure safety of people. “This is not just a failure of peace at the border, but a failure of the constitutional machinery of the state that failed to protect its men,” Gogoi said. At least six persons were killed and 50 others, including an SP, injured in a bloody clash between the police forces of the two states along the Assam-Mizoram border on Monday. The incident came two days after Shah held talks with the chief ministers of eight northeastern states and underscored the need to resolve lingering border disputes. “This (violence) is despite the Home Minister's visit to the northeast barely a few days prior to the incident, promising prosperity in the region and stability with regard to the border issues. Yet these atrocities continue,” Gogoi said in the letter. Shah had spoken to the chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram, Himanta Biswa Sarma and Zoramthanga respectively, and urged them to ensure peace along the disputed border and find an amicable settlement. Gogoi said disputes and instability along the inter-state boundary of Assam with Mizoram have been continuing for a while now, and the recent incidents draw special attention as "both sides claim to have rights over the land historically, which only further aggravates the tensions". The deputy leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, said, “More lives cannot be put in danger. Therefore, I urge you to take the matter into immediate consideration for appropriate action. The government ought to ensure safety and peace at the borders of Assam.” Assam's Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164-km long border with Mizoram's three districts of Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit. After allegations of encroachment of territory by both sides over the past few weeks and skirmishes that escalated tensions between the two states, violent clashes were reported along the inter-state border that ended in the death of at least five Assam policemen and one civilian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
27-07-2021||North East||Assam declares three-day state mourning to condole deaths amid border clash with Mizoram||The Assam government declared a three-day state mourning from Tuesday to condole the death of five policemen and one civilian in a border clash with Mizoram on the previous day, a notification said. During this period, the national flag will fly at half-mast and there will be no public entertainment, the order issued by the General Administration Department said. At least six persons were killed and 60 others, including an SP, injured in a bloody clash along the Assam-Mizoram border on Monday. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has spoken to the chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram, Himanta Biswa Sarma and Zoramthanga respectively, and urged them to ensure peace along the disputed border and find an amicable settlement. Sarma paid floral tributes to the five slain policemen at Silchar on Tuesday. "We are deeply anguished by the loss of lives of our brave @assam police personnel. I visited Silchar SP office and paid floral tributes to the five martyrs and salute their sacrifice," he tweeted. Earlier in the day, the chief minister visited the Silchar Medical College and Hospital and met the police personnel injured in the attack. "Visited SMCH to meet injured officials and directed doctors to ensure best treatment to them. Asked to send seriously injured personnel for higher level treatment by air ambulance on priority," Sarma said in another Twitter post. The chief minister is also likely to visit the inter-state border where the situation was stated to be "tense but under control", officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
27-07-2021||North East||TMC alleges Tripura cops of  putting I-PAC team under house arrest||The Trinamul Congress alleged that a 23-member team of its poll consultant Prashant Kishor had been put under house arrest at a hotel in Agartala by the police of the BJP-ruled Tripura since Monday early morning. The police said they hadn’t detained the members of the I-Pac (Indian Political Action Committee) but got the team tested for Covid-19. “The team members had come from outside and were freely moving across Tripura. Once the test reports come in, they can move around,” a West Tripura police officer said. Trinamul’s Tripura president Ashish Lal Singh said he was ashamed and shocked over the “house arrest” of the members of the I-Pac. “This is not the culture of Tripura. I am shocked and ashamed. They have been under house arrest since 1am (on Monday). This shows that the ruling BJP is scared,” Singh told The Telegraph. He said the IPAC members were divided into six teams and had visited all eight districts of Tripura for an independent political survey. Trinamul national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee took to Twitter to slam the “house arrest”. “The fear in @BJP4Tripura before even @AITCofficial stepped into the land, is more than evident! They are so rattled by our victory in #Bengal that they’ve now kept 23 IPAC employees under house arrest.…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
27-07-2021||North East||Five Assam cops killed in inter-state border clashes with Mizoram||At least five Assam policemen were killed in clashes along the inter-state border with Mizoram on Monday, two days after boundary disputes in the Northeast were discussed at a meeting attended by Union home minister Amit Shah and chief ministers of the region in Shillong. The deaths were announced by Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma who had initially put the toll at six. The figure was later revised to five dead and over 50 injured. Sarma said the policemen were killed while they were “defending the constitutional boundary of our state at the Assam-Mizoram border”. The Mizoram government blamed Assam police, saying “they forcibly crossed the duty post manned by CRPF personnel and overran a duty post manned by 1 (one) section of Mizoram police personnel”. Mizoram was a part of Assam till 1972. Efforts for a breakthrough since 1995 to resolve the border dispute have not made much progress. While the BJP is in power in Assam, the Mizo National Front (MNF) governs Mizoram. The MNF is part of the BJP-led NDA at the Centre but the two parties are not allies in Mizoram. On Monday, sources said, trouble started at a Covid screening centre between Lailapur (Assam) and Vairengte (Mizoram). Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana said in a statement that “around 200” armed Assam policemen led by an inspector-general of police and accompanied by the Cachar deputy commissioner, superintendent of police and divisional forest officer reached an autorickshaw stand at Vairengte around 11.30am on Monday. “The Assam police damaged several vehicles that were travelling along the National Highway between Vairengte and Lailapur,” the statement said. It did not mention any casualties in Mizoram. This resulted in Vairengte residents proceeding to the site but they “were assaulted” by Assam police by resorting to lathicharge and firing tear gas, causing injuries to several civilians, it said. “The confrontation continued and a volley of tear gas canisters and grenades were launched at Mizoram police followed by firing from the Assam side around 4.50pm. Mizoram police responded spontaneously by firing back at Assam police…,” Lalchamliana’s statement said. Assam cabinet minister Parimal Suklabaidya said video footage showed the “aggressive and violent acts” by the Mizoram side towards “our police and civilians despite our people maintaining patience”. Union home minister Shah spoke to both the chief ministers, following which Assam police withdrew from the place and the duty post handed back to CRPF personnel, Lalchamliana said. Seeking the intervention of Shah to stop the flare-up “right now”, Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga had tweeted on Monday afternoon: “Dear Himantaji, after cordial meeting of CMs by Hon’ble Shri @amitshahji (on Saturday), surprisingly 2 companies of Assam Police with civilians lathicharged & tear-gassed civilians at Vairengte auto rickshaw stand inside Mizoram today. They even overrun CRPF personnel/Mizoram police.” Sarma said he had spoken to Zoramthanga and iterated that Assam would maintain status quo along the border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
