28-07-2021||North East||Assam-Mizoram border clash: States agree on deployment of CAPF ||A neutral central force will be deployed along the disturbed Assam-Mizoram border where five policemen and a civilian were killed following a bloody clash recently, officials said Wednesday.  The decision was taken after a two-hour long meeting chaired by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and attended by Assam Chief Secretary Jishnu Baruah and Director General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta and their respective Mizoram counterparts Lalnunmawia Chuaungo and SBK Singh.  Both state governments have agreed for the deployment of a neutral Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) at the disturbed interstate border along the National Highway 306, a Home Ministry official said.  The neutral force will be commanded by a senior officer of the CAPF.  Besides, in order to facilitate the functioning of the force, both the state governments will work out arrangements in coordination with the Union Home Ministry within a reasonable timeframe.  The home secretary also conveyed to the delegations of Assam and Mizoram that the two governments should continue discussions mutually to resolve the border issue in an amicable manner, the officials said.  The chief secretaries and the police heads of Assam and Mizoram were called by the union home ministry to resolve the ongoing border conflict between the two states.  Later, talking to reporters, the Mizoram chief secretary said the situation along the interstate border is currently peaceful and it was agreed in the meeting that everyone will try to maintain peace and there was no point in indulging in violence.  State forces are being withdrawn from the disputed area, he said.  The Assam chief secretary said the CAPF will take over the responsibility of the inter-state border.  The process of withdrawal of state police forces is being worked out, he said.  Earlier, another home ministry official said that the central government was concerned over the border dispute which led to violence and deaths of six people.  The objective of the meeting is to lower the tension, bring peace and possibly find a solution, the official said.  The Director General of CRPF also attended the meeting as the personnel of the paramilitary force have currently been deployed in the Assam-Mizoram border areas where tension is high, the official said.  Five Assam Police personnel and a civilian were killed and over 50 others including a superintendent of police were injured when the Mizoram Police opened fire on a team of the Assam officials Monday.  Assam's Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164-km long border with three Mizoram districts of Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit.  After counter-allegations of encroachment of territory over the past few weeks and skirmishes that escalated tensions between the two states, violent clashes were reported along the inter-state border that ended in the death of five Assam Police men and a civilian.  The incidents came two days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah held talks with the chief ministers of eight northeastern states and underscored the need to resolve lingering border disputes. Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga on Wednesday made an appeal to the people to refrain from any sort of violence amid border dispute with Assam that escalated after a clash between police forces of the two North-eastern states that left seven people dead and over 50 injured. His appeal came when certain organisations of the neighbouring Barak Valley region of Assam observed a 12-hour bandh on Wednesday and have been staging an economic blockade on the National Highway-306 that connects Mizoram with the rest of the country since July 26, disrupting transportation of goods to the state. Zoramthanga's plea is seen as a message to a section of the people who may attack non-Mizos as a fallout of the blockade which, if not lifted quickly, might lead to scarcity of essential commodities in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
28-07-2021||North East||Trinamul Congress leaders to reach Tripura on Wednesday||A high-level Trinamul Congress delegation from Bengal will visit Tripura on Wednesday to assess the northeastern state’s political situation and the party’s organisational strength and to meet its poll consultant Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team members who have been under alleged house arrest since Monday morning. Trinamul’s Tripura unit president Ashish Lal Singh told The Telegraph that three senior party leaders — Moloy Ghatak, Bratya Basu and Ritabrata Banerjee — would reach Agartala on Wednesday. The I-PAC members have been under “house arrest” at a hotel in Agartala since early Monday morning. Police, however, rejected the allegations of house arrest. The police said they had come from outside and needed Covid-19 negative reports to step out “Seventeen I-PAC members arrived here on July 17 and five on July 20. They have been asked to stay put in the hotel till Covid-19 test reports arrive,” said an official. Singh said Trinamul supporters on Tuesday staged demonstrations in the state to protest against the “murder of democracy” under the BJP-led regime and referred to the treatment meted out to I-PAC members, who had been divided into six teams to carry out political survey in the eight districts of Tripura. “We are travelling to Agartala (tomorrow) on Wednesday to stand by those harassed by the BJP regime which is living in fear of Trinamul’s rise in Tripura,” said Ghatak, a Bengal minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
28-07-2021||North East||Assam-Mizoram border clash: Govt convenes meet with senior officials||The Union home ministry has convened a meeting with senior Mizoram and Assam officials in New Delhi on Wednesday to find ways to douse the inter-state border dispute that left six Assam policemen dead and another 45 injured on Monday. The clashes took place two days after Union home minister Amit Shah discussed inter-state border disputes in the Northeast at a meeting with chief ministers from the region. No untoward incident has been reported since Monday night but the inter-state border area is tense. Sources from Lailapur in Assam’s Cachar district and Vairengte in Mizoram’s Kolasib district, the sites hit by the violence on Monday, said no one ventured out with vehicles despite heavy security deployment. Cachar residents have imposed a blockade at Kabuganj, about 26km from the border, disrupting traffic movement. The Barak Democratic Front in Assam has called a bandh on Wednesday. Official sources in Aizawl and Guwahati said the chief secretaries and the police chiefs of both the states have been summoned by the Union home ministry for a meeting with home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla. This will be the second meeting between the Union home ministry and officials from the two states since July 9 on the border skirmishes. The last was inconclusive. Assam and Mizoram have blamed each other for the “unfortunate” developments but those following the skirmishes said it was a tragedy waiting to happen since June-end when a fresh round of flare-up erupted. Mizoram was a part of Assam till 1972. Efforts for a breakthrough since 1995 to resolve the border dispute have not made much progress. While Assam has a BJP-led coalition government, the Mizo National Front (MNF) governs Mizoram. The MNF is part of the BJP-led NDA at the Centre but the two political forces are not allies in Mizoram. A Union home ministry media note on Tuesday said the Centre had been unwavering in its focus on inter-state disputes. It said such problems could be resolved only with the cooperation of the state governments and that the Centre acted as a facilitator for amicable settlement of disputes in the spirit of mutual understanding. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday said in Silchar the state would not concede even an inch of land to Mizoram. He said his government had decided to deploy three commando battalions in Cachar, Karimgaj and Hailakandi districts bordering Mizoram. Sarma said on Tuesday night that one more policeman succumbed to his abdominal injuries, taking the death toll to six since Monday. Some of the injured policemen have been shifted to Guwahati for treatment. The Cachar superintendent of police was airlifted to Mumbai. Sarma announced an ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh to the next of kin of each of the deceased and a government job for a member of each family. The injured police personnel will receive Rs 1 lakh each while those deployed along the 164.6km-long Assam-Mizoram border will get an additional payment equal to a month’s salary. Sarma said clear evidence was emerging that Mizoram police and those backed by them had fomented trouble, adding that Assam would seek the intervention of the Supreme Court for the protection of the inner-line reserve forest from destruction and encroachment by Mizoram residents. “Six jawans laid down their lives to save the land of Assam and save the forests of our country. We will keep dying but will not give away our land. We will resist and retreat but not open fire at our countrymen. Assam is a responsible state and will behave responsibly. I will personally see to it that there is no economic blockade disrupting the supply chain to Mizoram as the state does not have any other gateways,” Sarma said. A seven-member Congress delegation led by newly appointed Assam unit president Bhupen Kumar Borah will visit Cachar to take stock of the border situation on Wednesday. Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana had said on Monday that “around 200” armed Assam policemen led by an inspector-general of police had reached the Variengte autorickshaw stand around 11.30am on Monday and damaged several vehicles travelling along the national highway between Vairengte and Lailapur, a trigger for the subsequent flare-up. On Tuesday, Lalchamliana accused the CRPF, deployed along the disputed inter-state border, of failing to carry out its “responsibility” as a neutral force. Lalchamliana alleged that CRPF personnel had allowed Assam forces to enter Mizoram and forcibly take over a duty post manned by the Mizoram police on the outskirts of Vairengte. Another Mizoram minister, the local MLA and the village council chief of Vairengte levelled similar allegations. Central paramilitary personnel are deployed along the Mizoram-Assam border by the Centre to defuse tension and maintain peace. While the CRPF is deployed on the Mizoram side, the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) is camping on the Assam side in Lailapur. “The central paramilitary jawans (of the CRPF) were not honouring their responsibility as a neutral force to maintain peace and prevent violent clashes,” Lalchamliana said. He claimed that CRPF jawans refused to provide protection to the Kolasib SP and other police officers when they rushed to the camp of the paramilitary force at the time of exchange of fire between forces of Mizoram and Assam on Monday. Lalchamliana has spoken to CRPF inspector-general Sarbjit Singh and urged him to look into the matter and take necessary action, an official statement said. According to the statement, the CRPF will probe the allegation that some Mizoram police officers were denied security during the clash. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
