29-07-2021||North East||Assam issues travel advisory asking people to not travel to Mizoram||Assam government has issued a travel advisory on Thursday to ensure the safety and security of the people of Assam, Assam Tribune reported. The development comes days after six policemen and a civilian were killed, and 50 others injured in an attack allegedly by Mizoram Police personnel and civilians from across the Assam-Mizoram border. The said advisory issued by the Department of Home and Political Affairs, stated that even after the incident, certain Mizo society, students and youth organisations are constantly issuing provocative statements against the state of Assam and its people. Given the critical prevailing situation, people of Assam are advised not to travel to Mizoram as any threat to personnel safety of people of Assam cannot be accepted. It also mentioned that people of Assam staying in Mizoram due to work-related compulsion should exercise utmost caution. An Assam-based organisation, the Bir Lachit Sena, on Thursday said it will enforce an indefinite economic blockade against Mizoram from Saturday, disallowing entry of people from the neighbouring state. The outfit said the blockade will be imposed at Jorabat on the outskirts of Guwahati, and vehicles carrying even essential commodities will not be allowed to pass from Mizoram. Members of the organisation also staged a demonstration in front of the Mizoram House here and demanded its closure.  No one from Mizoram should be allowed to come to Assam. At the same time, we urge the state government to provide protection to people of Assam in Mizoram and, if required, bring them back, a Bir Lachit Sena member said.  Similar economic blockades against the bordering state have been enforced by different organisations in Cachar and neighbouring districts since the day of the violence on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
29-07-2021||North East||Assam-Mizoram border clash: Murder FIR on Mizoram police||Assam police on Wednesday registered a case against “Mizoram police and some persons” over the killing of six Assam cops in the inter-state border clash on July 26, hardening their stand amid efforts by the Union home ministry to ease the tensions. Assam special director-general of police G.P. Singh said the FIR was filed under various sections of the IPC, including Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder). Singh said Assam police had also prepared a picture gallery of the Mizoram cops and civilians who had opened fire. On Wednesday, the chief secretaries and DGPs of Assam and Mizoram attended a meeting chaired by Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla in New Delhi. It was decided that central armed police forces would be deployed on the inter-state border. The two states will work out an arrangement in coordination with the Union home ministry within a reasonable timeframe to facilitate the functioning of the neutral force, a statement signed by Assam chief secretary Jishnu Barua, his Mizoram counterpart Lalnunmawia Chuaungo and Union home ministry additional secretary (Northeast) Piyush Goyal said. Mizo Students’ Union president J. Lalmuanzuala on Wednesday wrote an open letter to Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, accusing him of having “initiated violence against civilians in Mizoram knowing fully well that your actions can hamper the cordial relationship we have with the Indian Union for your selfish motives to take away the land that our ancestors had fought for through blood and sweat. This has led to the unfortunate loss of seven precious lives.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
