30-07-2021||North East||Border clashes: Assam police summons Mizoram MP Vanlalvena, pastes notice at his Delhi residence||The Assam Police has summoned Mizoram's lone Rajya Sabha MP K Vanlalvena on August 1 for questioning over his alleged “threatening statement” in connection with the Monday violence along the interstate border, and pasted a notice at his Delhi residence. The Assam Police also said it will take "lawful action" against Vanlalvena who had allegedly made a “threatening” statement over the border clash in which five policemen and a civilian were killed. Official sources said a team of Assam Police CID, which has arrived in Delhi, visited Vanlalvena's residence and the Mizoram House looking for him without any success. Sources said Vanlalvena is believed to be avoiding the team. The MP was not available for comments. Since the Resident Commissioner of Mizoram reportedly refused to receive any notice served on Vanlalvena to join the Assam Police investigation, the CID team pasted the notice on his residence. “It has come to light that you have given a threatening statement in media targetting civil and police officials in connection with the incident which is a subject matter of investigation. “Therefore, there are reasonable grounds to question you to ascertain facts and circumstances from you,” the Assam Police notice read. The Mizoram MP has been asked to appear before the Officer-In-Charge of the Dholai police station in Assam's Cachar district at 11 am on August 1 “without fail”. Mizo Zirlai Pawl, a Mizo student body, accused the Assam government of “threatening” Vanlalvena, a former president of the outfit. “He has been conspired, blamed and charged against different criminal cases in connection with the Assam-Mizoram border conflict. Any problem should not happen to him. This is also information to Himanta Biswa Sarma, the CM of Assam,” the MZP said in a written statement. Sources said police do not require the approval of the Speaker or Rajya Sabha Chairman to record an MP’s statement, but need their permission, as the case may be, before arresting an MP. Earlier, Special Director General of Assam Police G P Singh had said that a team of the state CID would visit Delhi to take action against Vanlalvena, who is currently in the national capital for attending the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament. On Wednesday night, Singh has tweeted, @assampolice team including officers of CID are leaving for Delhi to take lawful action relating to conspiracy behind the incident in light of media interview of Rajya Sabha MP Sri K Vanlalvena indicative of his active role in conspiracy. The Assam Police is also trying to find out the original recording of Vanlalvena's interview to news channels and plans to examine him on his statements after the clashes. Speaking outside Parliament Wednesday, Vanlalvena reportedly said, More than 200 policemen entered our territory and they pushed back our policemen from our own posts and they gave firing orders first, before we fired. They are lucky that we didn't kill them all. If they come again, we shall kill them all. Five Assam Police personnel and a civilian were killed and over 50 others including a superintendent of police were injured when the Mizoram Police opened fire on a team of the Assam officials last Monday. Singh said the Assam Police has prepared a picture gallery which is being further updated of Mizoram Police personnel and civilian miscreants who fired at Assam Police personnel on July 26 and all of them would be brought to law. His tweeted said, @assampolice also announces a reward of INR 5 lacs for information leading to arrest of each of the individuals involved in the barbaric killing of the Assam Police personnel on July 26th 2021," The incident took place at Inner Line Reserve Forest area of Assam's Cachar district along the National Highway 306. The Mizo MP is likely to be shown photographs of the perpetrators when he appears. The Mizoram Police had said that it had fired in self-defence after personnel from the Assam Police attacked it, but the Assam Police said that post-mortem reports of cops showed that sophisticated weapons, similar to LMG, were used. It has registered a case of murder, attempt to murder, conspiracy, voluntary causing grievous hurt and under the Arms Act. On Wednesday, the central had convened a meeting of Chief Secretaries and DGPs of Assam and Mizoram where it was agreed that a neutral central force will be deployed along the disturbed Assam-Mizoram border. The meeting was chaired by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and attended Assam Chief Secretary Jishnu Baruah and Director General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta and their respective Mizoram counterparts Lalnunmawia Chuaungo and SBK Singh. The neutral force will be commanded by a senior officer of the Central Armed Police Force. Besides, in order to facilitate the functioning of the neutral force, both the governments of Assam and Mizoram will work out arrangements in coordination with the union home ministry within a reasonable time frame, a home ministry official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
30-07-2021||North East||Assam to check all vehicles entering from Mizoram for 'illicit drugs'||All vehicles entering Assam from Mizoram will be checked for "illicit drugs", the Assam government said in a notification on Thursday, days after six men of the Assam Police were killed in a gunfight between the two police forces. The statement follows earlier advisory, also issued on Thursday, where the Assam government advised its people not to travel to Mizoram as any threat to their personal safety cannot be accepted, NDTV.com reported. Justifying its move to check vehicles from Mizoram, the Assam government said that within a span of two months, 912 cases have been registered and 1,560 persons arrested and huge quantities of illicit drugs confiscated. A tweet by a senior Assam Police official, GP Singh, said the government was continuing its "offensive against drug cartels operating from Mizoram and beyond". Singh also urged people to cooperate in the interest of the "Gennext of our country". "During the drive against illlicit drugs, it has been observed that most of the drugs were routed through Assam via Mizoram from across the border," said the Assam order, adding that the "trafficking of illicit drugs via Mizoram causes great concern and threat to society". "In order to check trafficking of illicit drugs, it is felt necessary to check all vehicles entering into Assam from Mizoram. Such vehicles will be thoroughly checked by personnel of Assam Police at the point of entry at all Assam-Mizoram borders," said the order. The vehicles, it said, will be released only after the officer concerned is satisfied that no drugs were carried in them. While there has been no official reaction from the Mizoram government on the latest move by Assam, many social media users from the hill state have hit out claiming the move is intended for harassment of Mizoram residents who can access the rest of the country by road only through Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
30-07-2021||North East||Assam police team reaches New Delhi to initiate 'lawful action' against Mizoram MP ||An Assam police team reached New Delhi on Thursday to initiate “lawful action” against a Mizoram MP for his allegedly incendiary comments on Monday’s border clash that left six Assam policemen dead and further strained ties between the two north-eastern states over a territory dispute. Rajya Sabha MP K. Vanlalvena from the ruling Mizo National Front had on Wednesday accused Assam police of entering Mizoram and pushing back the state’s cops from their post. He had told a TV channel: “And they (Assam police) gave firing orders first.… They are lucky we did not kill them all. If they come again, we shall kill them all.” In a statement issued on Wednesday evening, Assam police had said a team, including CID officers, would leave for Delhi to take “lawful action relating to the conspiracy in light of a media interview of Rajya Sabha MP K. Vanlalvena indicative of his active role in the conspiracy”. The permission of the Speaker or the Chairman of the House concerned needs to be obtained for initiating any action against an MP, including questioning. Assam police sources said their team, led by SSP (CID) B. Das, would first complete all official formalities before meeting Vanlalvena. “We will proceed as per the law,” a source said. Travel advisory The Assam government on Thursday issued a travel advisory asking people not to go to Mizoram and advised people from Assam working or staying in Mizoram to “exercise utmost caution”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
30-07-2021||North East||Bail for 23 Indian Political Action Committee members||A court in Agartala on Thursday granted bail to 23 members of the Indian Political Action Committee (I-Pac) after they were served notices individually to appear before Tripura police on July 31 or August 2 for alleged violation of Covid-19 protocol. The Trinamul Congress had alleged that the I-Pac team had been under house arrest at a hotel in Agartala. I-Pac is helmed by Trinamul’s poll consultant Prashant Kishor. Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb on Thursday said police were doing their work ahead of August 15 in a state with an international border. “The people of Tripura are hospitable…. The state government will not interfere in the work of the police. Others won’t either…. If a group arrives without prior intimation, the administration has a responsibility,” said Deb. “Even in our villages, if a couple of new people suddenly show up, people ask to find out who they are. That’s all that was asked, nothing more. Covid-19 restrictions are in place,” he added.O Thursday, 40-odd Congress leaders, including two former MLAs, joined Trinamul in presence of senior Trinamul leaders who reached Tripura to express solidarity with the I-Pac members. The day also saw police take over 40 Trinamul Congress workers under preventive detention, while they were staging a protest against price rise and the “illegal” detention of the I-Pac members in Kanchanpur under North Tripura district. Sources in the topmost tier of the Trinamul leadership said the party was jubilant with the “hyper-activism” against it by the BJP-led government in Tripura. “Our party has national aspirations and there are plans being worked on for forays outside Bengal’s borders. But, realistically speaking, the Bengali-dominated state of Tripura is the only place right now where we have a sound chance of winning a substantial number of seats,” said senior Trinamul leader, known for his proximity to Mamata Banerjee. “The BJP’s paranoid hyper-activism against us in Tripura has given us cause for glee. This is helping us immensely…. The momentum we have right now, and the edge in the key area of perception, if we are able to sustain and build on that, even coming to power there will not be a pipe dream,” he added. The I-Pac members were served notices under Section 51 (obstruction of discharge of official duty or not complying with official order) of the NDMA, 2005, and Section 188 (disobeying order promulgated by a public servant) of the IPC on Tuesday. “The notice was issued under Section 41 of the CrPC. After hearing both sides, the court granted unconditional bail to all the I-Pac members. There was no case against them before the notice was served to them on Tuesday,” said senior advocate Pijush Kanti Biswas. The NDMA, 2005, is being invoked to check the spread of Covid-19 in the northeastern state. Trinamul has been raising the issue of the “house arrest” since Monday. However, officials have been maintaining that they have not been detained or arrested but were only asked to stay put in their hotel till their Covid-19 test reports came in. “They can move around freely once they test negative,” said an official. All of them have tested negative. Tripura Trinamul’s senior leader Ashish Lal Singh said protesting party members in Kanchanpur were picked up around 11am and released by 4 pm. “We will be holding more protests in the days to come against the alleged misrule of the BJP-led state government,” he said. Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien and Barasat MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar reached Agartala on Thursday to take stock of the organisational matters and express solidarity with the I-Pac members who have been tasked with conducting a survey on the political situation in the northeastern state, where the BJP-IPFT has been in power since 2018. The MP duo strengthened the currently visiting delegation of senior Bengal ministers Moloy Ghatak and Bratya Basu, besides Trinamul’s labour arm leader Ritabrata Banerjee. O’Brien told journalists in Agartala that there would be more visits by senior Trinamul leaders in the days to come. Criticising the detention of the I-Pac members who were on an assignment, he wondered what message Narendra Modi and Amit Shah wanted to send out. Both the MPs held separate closed-door meetings with state and district Trinamul members to know about the organisational strength, weaknesses and what needs to be done to emerge as an alternative force to the ruling dispensation, Singh said. Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee might visit Agartala on Monday, following which the party will intensify its activities in Tripura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
