01-09-2021||Kapurthala||Jaspreet Singh is new IKGPTU registrar||BSF jawan killed in road accidentHoshiarpur: A Border Security Force jawan lost his life in a road accident. The Model Town police have registered a case. Harpal Singh, a resident of Purhiran, had found an unidentified body lying near the bypass. During the investigation, it was found that the body was of Border Security Force jawan Krishna Kumar Pandey, son of RN Pandey, a resident of Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh. In the preliminary investigation, the case appears to be of a road accident. OCMinor kidnapped, two bookedHoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have booked two persons for allegedly kidnapping a minor girl after luring her on the pretext of marriage. The complainant told the police that his minor niece was abducted by Salender Kumar and Jai Prakash, both residents of their village, after luring away on the pretext of marriage. After registering the case, the police have started the search for them. OCTwo arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two smugglers recovering a huge quantity of intoxicating powder from them. According to information, the Mukerian police have arrested Aman Gill alias Mukha, a resident of Khanpur and recovered 40 gram of intoxicating powder from him. The police of Dasuya have arrested Thomas Masih alias Bobby, a resident of Chhagla and recovered 42 grams of intoxicating powder from him. OC1 quintal of iron bars stolenHoshiarpur: The Model Town police have registered a case of theft of iron bars from a godown. According to information, Harish Chawla, a resident of Fatehgarh Road, told the police that unknown thieves stole about one quintal of iron bars from his godown. The police have registered a case. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jaspreet-singh-is-new-ikgptu-registrar-304975
01-09-2021||Jalandhar||Online course certification||National Sports Day observedDIPS chain of schools organised various indoor and outdoor competitions for teachers and students on the occasion of National Sports Day. Pre-wing, primary wing and senior wing students competed in various games like lemon race, hurdle race, spoon race, pick and run, three legged race etc all the winners were applauded and certificates were awarded to them. To mark this day, many competitions are organised and students are apprised of the significance of sports and games. MD Tarwinder Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra encouraged students to participate in sports and games to bring about confidence in their personality and also for the development of holistic personality. This way, students remain focused towards the well being of their health and physical fitness. Games also help in keeping students healthy and maintaining a disciplined life.Janmashtami celebrated virtuallyMayor World School organised virtual Janmashtami celebrations to commemorate the birth of Lord Krishna. The e-celebration flowered into a grand success, owing to the fervent and spirited participation of Mayorities. The array of riveting performances like dance drama, bhajan, poems, shloka, quiz and many more left the audience entranced. The participants adorned as Lord Krishna, Balram, Radha, Devaki, Nanda Lal and Yashoda and put up a mesmerising theatrical enactment exhibiting the life history of Krishna. The harmonious bhajan “Shri Krishna Govind Hare Murari” left everyone transfixed. An intriguing quiz based on Lord Krishna’s life further lifted the spirits of the celebration. The event was graced by Vice Chairperson Neerza Mayor, Director Sarita Madhok, Principal Harjeet Kaur Ghuman, Deputy Vice Principal Charu Trehan and Headmistress Aarti Gulati who blessed all the students on this auspicious day and gave them the message to always move ahead in life and treat everyone with equal respect.CT World SchoolStudents of CT World School venerated the auspicious festival of Janmashtmi by garbing in colourful traditional outfits of the ‘Gopis’ and ‘Krishna’ and enchanted everyone with their charm and innocence. Little Krishna and Radha looked adorable in their colourful costumes and the entire kindergarten was transformed into a land of joy, mirth and celebration. The little children enthralled the audience with their dance performance. A group of girls and boys were thrilled to break the ‘handis’ on the feet-tapping musical background. The audience too enjoyed the show. Later students were given sweets in their classrooms. The festival taught them to be friendly and also the value of sharing. Later everyone took turns to rock the baby Krishna to sleep in a beautifully decorated cradle. Madhu Sharma, Principal CT World School, congratulated everyone on the occasion and inspired them to follow the teachings of Lord Krishna.DAVIET Professor awardedDr Gaurav Kumar Dhuria, Associate Prof and Head of Mechanical Engineering Department at DAVIET, has been awarded with outstanding contribution to Engineering Education Award by Imperial Society of Innovative Engineers (ISIE-India) for the year 2020-21. The award has been conferred as recognition towards exemplary service promoting best practices and excellence in engineering education. The award has been bestowed to Dr Dhuria on the back of some innovative and exemplary initiatives towards enhancing the delivery of quality technical education, prominent among them being regular conduct of industry week to improve industry-academia linkage and to focus on skill development of the students in accord with industry expectations; fostering the alumni-institute relationships by bringing alumni into mentoring and hand holding of current students and regular conduct of faculty development programmes to train the trainers and educators etc. to name some of his initiatives which he continued even during the Covid times with appropriate government guidelines to ensure the quality of the technical education.‘Train the teacher’ programmePhagwara: JCI, Phagwara, GNA University, organised an online session on the topic ‘Train the Teacher’ for the faculty of GNA University. The key objective behind organising the session was to apprise the faculty members of “How to make the teaching Interactive and effective in virtual pedagogy?” which is the need of hour in the present situation. Dr G Subramanian, Business Leadership coach, JCI national trainer and past national president, was invited as the resource person for the session.Dr Kusum coordinated the whole session. Dr Manpreet Kaur, president, JCI, Phagwara, welcomed the guest. During the session, Dr Subramanian shared various aspects of virtual pedagogy and apprised the faculty of idea generation, various tools for searching the relevant material and organising the content for the effective content delivery. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-course-certification-304974
01-09-2021||Kapurthala||71,547 to get hiked pension in Kapurthala||As many as 71,547 beneficiaries in the district will receive an enhanced pension for July this time. Deputy Commissioner Deepti uppal said the monthly pension amount for July 2021 had been increased to Rs 10.73 crore as pension against the earlier Rs 5.12 crore in June 2021. She said that even the number of beneficiaries had increased from 68,294 beneficiaries till June with an addition of 3,253 pensioners in the list.District Social Security Officer Birender Kumar said the special programmes have been organised at 10 different places in the district. They said the remaining beneficiaries to get the pension benefits in their bank accounts on or before September 1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/71-547-to-get-hiked-pension-in-kapurthala-304973
01-09-2021||---||Tributes paid to ex-CM Beant Singh||Jalandhar, August 31Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary paid homage to former Chief Minister of Punjab Sardar Beant Singh on his death anniversary on Tuesday. Along with many political and social dignitaries, he paid floral tributes to the former CM, garlanding his statue at BMC Chowk, Jalandhar. He was accompanied by Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja and Jalandhar District Congress (Urban) President Baldev Singh Dev.Speaking on the occasion, MP Chaudhary said, “When Beant Singh became the CM, he took up the challenge to eradicate terrorism from Punjab. With his sharp vision and good governance, he put the state back on the road to peace, harmony and development. His relentless peace endeavours cost him his life, but he never shied away from taking a strong stand. Due to his efforts, terrorism in Punjab was totally wiped out,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tributes-paid-to-ex-cm-beant-singh-304972
01-09-2021||---||1.74L beneficiaries to get enhanced pension in in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 31A total of 1,74,169 beneficiaries will receive the benefit of enhanced pension in Jalandhar as the Punjab Government on Tuesday kick-started distribution of doubled financial assistance under the social security scheme in the state during a virtual launch event.Participating in the event, Additional Deputy Commissioner Amarjit Bains said the state government had doubled the monthly pension amount from Rs 750 to Rs 1,500 per month, which would further aid in the welfare of about 1.74 lakh beneficiaries enrolled for the benefit as old-age, widow, destitute children and specially-abled in the district.Of these, 1,16,154 old-age persons, 40,791 widows, 6,846 dependent children, and 10,387 specially-abled beneficiaries are enrolled with the social security department for financial assistance. The ADC launched the distribution of doubled pension in the district by on-the-spot handing over pension cheques to 21 beneficiaries during the event. The event was held simultaneously at 22 locations across the district where people’s representatives started distribution of doubled pension benefits worth Rs 50.97 lakh to as many as 3,340 beneficiaries.Pointing out further, District Social Security Officer Varinder Arora said that a total of 4294 new beneficiaries have been enrolled by the department in July taking total registered beneficiaries from 1,69,875 in June 2021 to 1,74,169 in July 2021. He also said that these 1.74 lakh beneficiaries would receive a whopping amount of Rs 16.6 crore as pension for July, which would be credited to their bank accounts within 24 hours. He added that the distribution event was telecast at 297 locations in the district with 55 such locations were connected through webinar.Prominent among present on the occasion were SDM Harpreet Atwal, SDM Dr Balraj Raj Singh and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-74l-beneficiaries-to-get-enhanced-pension-in-in-jalandhar-304971
01-09-2021||---||Chak Sadhu-Chaggran road to be widened to 18 ft: Industries minister||Our CorrespondentHoshiapur, August 31To improve the road infrastructure in Hoshiarpur, the 10-feet wide road from Chak Sadhu to Chaggran will be widened to 18 feet and the construction work would start in a few days.Disclosing this here today, Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora said the project would cost of Rs 8.45 crore and would provide a major relief to the traffic coming from Himachal Pradesh and other areas.The minister said the work would start from Chak Sadhu leading to Chaggran village on Chandigarh Road via villages Mannan, Basi Hast Khan, Malmajara and Bahadur Bahian. Once the road gets completed, the incoming traffic on Una Road will get a diversion for Chandigarh from Chak Sadhu, said the minister.He added that the Punjab Government had already incurred an amount of Rs 22.03 crore for construction of 125.62 kilometre link and urban roads. He said 14 new roads would be made/repaired of which tenders of some roads had already been floated while few another ones were under process to get proposals approved.MLA hands over pension chequesHanding over cheques of increased pension amount to beneficiaries in Chabbewal, Bassi Kalan, Kot Fatuhi and Behibalpur today, MLA Dr Raj Kumar said the state government had fulfiled the promise of doubling the monthly pension amount from Rs 750 to Rs 1,500, which was only Rs 500 during the previous government.Dr Chabbewal said the state had around 27 lakh beneficiaries including old-aged persons, widows, dependent children, and specially-abled persons, who would receive the said amount as the State would set aside Rs 4,800 crore annually for this purpose. He called it a historic step for the welfare of the poor and underprivileged section of the society besides increasing amount to Rs 51,000 under Aashirwad Scheme, which was earlier Rs 21,000 being given at the time of marriage of girls belonging to needy families.Prominent among present on the occasion included Bassi Kalan sarpanch Vidya Devi, Kot Fatuhi sarpanch Gurmail Singh, Behbalpur sarpanch Surjeet Singh, Saidopatti panchayat head Ram Kishan, CDPO Ranjeet Kaur, supervisor Arshdeep Kaur, Raj Rani and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chak-sadhu-chaggran-road-to-be-widened-to-18-ft-industries-minister-304970
01-09-2021||IT was normal in the beginning||My Covid Experience: ‘When ill, consult your doctor at the earliest’||“It was on July 28 when I had the first bout of dry cough. My mother gave medicinal tea so that I could get some relief from cough, but the problem did not abate at all. After two days, I started having headache. I thought I could not contract the virus as I follow a strict fitness regime. However, to my surprise, I contracted the virus as my headache became unbearable. The swab tests confirmed that I was infected.“Even as doctors told me that I was asymptomatic, I isolated myself in the house. Luckily, I did not infect further my family members. Meanwhile, I took proper guidance from health practitioners, who were only a call away. They asked me to take all the necessary preventive measures. Fortunately, I spent most of my time in my room, which must have helped in keeping the virus in check. Good food and amenities such as air conditioner and TV also helped in minimising tension and passing my time on my own. I would spend my leisure time listening to music, meditating, solving puzzles, chatting with family and friends, and they proved to be a great motivation for me. With limited medicine consumption, I built my immunity, with natural food. As a precautionary option, I avoided fried food and consumed medicines,” added Rahul.While he extended his quarantine period to 15 days, he had recovered within 10 days. Remaining free from work also helped him explore his new hobbies.Rahul further advised, “Though the number of Covid-19 cases has reduced, we should never take it lightly, unless the virus disappears from our lives. Every precaution should be taken, but once any symptom is experienced (varies from person to person), one should not generate unnecessary fear and doubts. Consult your doctor at the earliest, so that timely treatment can be started at once.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/my-covid-experience-when-ill-consult-your-doctor-at-the-earliest-304969
01-09-2021||---||Lost her husband to Covid-19, she wants his job to run family||Jalandhar, August 31Pandemic changed the lives of many people in several ways. While the first wave was scary, the second one proved to be even more brutal, taking away the lives of many bread winners of families. Indu (33) of Banga, Nawanshahr, is one such victim. She lost her husband, a computer teacher in a government school, in February this year, to Covid. After this tragedy, another reality hit her — she now needed a job to raise her two children (4 and 6 years of age).Her husband Vijay Kumar was the sole breadwinner of the family. Now, Indu, with a degree of BA and BEd, has been trying to get a job in the same school her husband used to teach. Indu wants a bright future for her kids. Just the way her husband would have imagined for them.This is one of the issues which the computer teacher union has also been raising, they have been demanding jobs for the family members of the teachers after their deaths.Indu had lost both her father and mother-in-law earlier and is now being helped by her parents.“My husband used to earn for us. We have been rendered helpless after his death. I want a job my children. I used to teach in a private school before marriage and left after that. But now, I am approaching the education department so that they give me a job in place of my husband,” she said, adding that she has also done a computer course and would often help her husband in the work whenever he would feel unwell.Harjinder Singh, the district president of the union in Nawanshahr said that the union members have been fighting for the rights of the computer teachers for a long time. “About 70 computer teachers have lost their lives in the state and their families are in trouble,” he said. The union has now planned to hold a huge rally in Patiala on September 5.Members said that their services were started by the state government on July 1, 2011 by giving them the grades of vocational masters in the Punjab information communication technology education society (PICTES) Society. Even after so many years they have not been given their due benefits as termed in notification issues at the time they were regularised.They further added that the computer teachers were not getting major benefits like medical reimbursements, disability allowance, CPF, LTC, etc. Another member said the state government had not paid heed to their demands and if nothing concrete comes out, we will continue with the rallies and dharnas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lost-her-husband-to-covid-19-she-wants-his-job-to-run-family-304968
01-09-2021||---||Youth found dead under mysterious circumstances in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 31A body of a youngster was found near Dharmapura Primary School under mysterious circumstances on Tuesday. After getting the information about the incident, cops from Jamsher outpost, reached the spot.The victim has been identified as Hansraj Kaku (32), a resident of Billa. Kaku used to work as a carpenter and had gone out with his friend today morning. Later, his body was recoverd from Dharmapura.He was rushed to the hospital, where doctors declared him dead. Earlier, it was said Kaku had been shot dead as there was a scar behind his ear.Giving more information, Jamsher outpost in charge Major Singh said the body has been sent to a hospital to get the post-mortem conducted.He said it was not clear whether the victim died due to an injury received from a bullet or a sharp object. Cops have been scrutinising CCTV cameras installed near the crime spot to nab the miscreants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-jalandhar-304967
01-09-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar-based lawyer clears barrister exam in Canada||The city-based advocate Manu Jindal has become a barrister in Canada. After pursuing LLB from Guru Nanak Dev University, Jindal started practising in 1999 here.He became a member of the District Bar Association, Jalandhar, and member of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association.The 47-year-old said, “Becoming a lawyer in Canadian is a tough job that, too, while living in India. It seemed unrealistic, but time favoured me. Exams were held online. One needs to be at par with Canadian law graduates. Assessment is done by NCA in Canada and then one needs to clear at least five core subjects varying up to eight and seven optional subjects.”He said, “One can enrol in any of the 13 law societies in Canada. I opted for Law Society of Ontario (LSO). The LSO’s lawyer licensing process is known to be the toughest after New York Bar course.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-lawyer-clears-barrister-exam-in-canada-304966
01-09-2021||---||One fatality, 1 fresh case reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, August 31The district on Tuesday reported just one new case of Covid as the total number of cases reached 63,336 while one death was also recorded. Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr districts reported nil case. The district toll stood at 1,493 with the latest fatality.Today, one patient each was discharged from Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur. Jalandhar still has 25 active cases of Covid. Hoshiarpur has 27 and Kapurthala has eight. There, however, are no containment zones in any of the four districts of Doaba. A total of 925 new samples were taken for testing from Kapurthala and 949 from Nawanshahr. A total of 1,214 new samples for Covid testing have also been taken from Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-fatality-1-fresh-case-reported-in-jalandhar-district-304965
01-09-2021||Sanjiv Bakshi & Deepkamal Kaur||No ponytails while in uniform, tie a bun: Hoshiarpur SSP Amneet Kondal to women cops||Tribune news serviceHoshiarpur, August 31Perhaps with an intention to bring in more professionalism and discipline in the women cops of the district, SSP Amneet Kondal, who recently got posted here, has issued orders asking them not to opt for varied hairstyles and instead maintain a bun with a mesh on it.The IPS officer has directed the women police personnel to follow a uniform code in letter and in spirit. The women employees have been directed in this regard by issuing an official order issued by the district police chief’s office (vide order No. 57438 dated August 28).The order reads, “The women police personnel of the district are not wearing uniforms as per the pattern and along with the uniform. They have different types of hairstyles, which do not look good. So everyone is instructed to wear the uniform according to the prescribed pattern and not to make different hairstyles. Tie a hair bun and wear mesh on it. Ensure strict compliance of the orders.” The last line of the order reads that if any woman cop violates these instructions, departmental action could be initiated against her.”Even as her orders are being seen with both criticism and appreciation, Kondal maintains, “My orders are only for the time when these women are in uniform and on police duty. While in uniform, we have to maintain a particular look as per the prescribed norms. We cannot be adopting different hairstyles. We have got this training in the National Police Academy, Hyderabad, as well as the Punjab Police Academy, Phillaur.”She says once the women cops are off duty, they can don any civil dress as per their choice and may even let their hair loose, do a ponytail or take to any kind of hairstyle. “On duty, a uniform style and pattern has to be maintained. This is a basic norm but I fail to understand the hype being created over the order,” she seemed a bit upset over the media reports about her orders today.Kondal added, “So far, no woman cop has come to me about her reservations about my order. Even if they come to me for any discussion about it, I am open to it. Interestingly, today every policewoman whom I saw was donning a neat bun.”An SP-rank officer in the district too seemed happy with the order. “We used to notice young women constables often doing ponytails. We were finding it odd telling them to tie a proper bun. It is good that the new SSP has formally issued the instructions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-ponytails-while-in-uniform-tie-a-bun-hoshiarpur-ssp-amneet-kondal-to-women-cops-304964
01-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Rs 10.73L burnt to ashes in ATM fire in Garshshankar||Garhshankar, August 31A fire broke out in the ATM booth of Punjab National Bank at Adda Saila Khurd in Garshshankar. Two ACs installed inside the booth and cash worth Rs10.73 lakh were burnt to ashes in the fire.Bank manager Vijay Kumar said the bank was closed for three days due to holidays, but the ATM was kept open. On Monday night, smoke was seen emanating from inside the ATM.The police reached the spot after locals reported the incident. The fire was brought under control by the police with help of the people around, but by then the machine was completely burnt. Along with it, two ACs inside were also completely burnt.The wires of the neighbouring shop’s generator also caught fire but it was extinguished timely, avoiding further damage. According to the manager of the bank, Rs 10,73,500 kept in the ATM were also burnt to ashes. According to him, the fire seems to have started due to a short circuit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-10-73l-burnt-to-ashes-in-atm-fire-in-garshshankar-304963
01-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two booked for seeking dowry||The police have booked two persons for dowry harassment in two cases.Riya Mehra, a resident of Guru Nanak Avenue, Jalandhar, had lodged a complaint with the Model Town police. She told that she was married to Jagdeep Singh, a resident of Railway Mandi Hoshiarpur.After marriage her husband allegedly started harassing her demanding more dowry, she said. She added that she was thrown out of the matrimonial house after the demand was not met. In another case, Isha Mahajan told the police that she was married to Muneet Mahajan. She said her husband demanded dowry and deserted her after the demand was not met. The Mukerian police have registered a case. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-booked-for-seeking-dowry-304962
01-09-2021||---||Australia-based husband, in-laws booked for harassing Ropar woman||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, August 31A complaint has been filed by a woman from Ropar against her NRI husband and in-laws alleging harassment. Her husband is an Australian citizen and originally belongs to Nawanshahr. She alleged that he has been running away from his matrimonial duties and had made false promises of taking her to Australia.In her complaint, the victim said her husband has not contacted with her for the past two years. She alleged that she was subjected to mental harassment by her in-laws. The couple has a son out of wedlock and the complainant has been living with her parents.She said that her father had spent over Rs 15 lakh on her marriage and had given ‘gifts’ such as gold jewellery and other things as per the demand of the in-laws.As per the complaint, it was after her marriage that her husband demanded more money from the woman and her parents so that he could go to Australia. In 2018, when the husband went to Australia, he promised his wife that he will take her and the son with him once the documentation process was complete. “He also asked me to arrange Rs5 lakh for immigration, otherwise he will not take me,” the complainant added.“When my husband left, I was living with my in-laws who started torturing me and demanded money. They also took my phone so that I couldn’t contact either my husband or my parents. I was not given food for days and they would always taunt me. I went through hell and now want strict action against them. After a while, my parents got to know about my condition and they took us with them. Since then, I have been trying contacting my husband, but he doesn’t reply to my calls,” the complainant alleged.The woman has lodged a case with the NRI cell. Investigating Officer Raj Kumar said a case has been registered under Sections 406 and 498-A (Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/australia-based-husband-in-laws-booked-for-harassing-ropar-woman-304961
01-09-2021||---||ADCP’s son among 3 booked for fraud in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 31The police have booked the son of ADCP Harvinder Singh Dalli, and two others for committing fraud, cheating and misappropriating funds here. The accused have been identified as Charanpreet Singh Dalli, a resident of Bhogpur, Amit Talwad, a resident of Radio Colony, and Manoj Kumar Madhukar, a resident of Zirakpur.They had reportedly taken Rs 2.24 crore from the complainants — Rashpal Singh Sachdeva, a resident of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, his partner Jaswinder Singh, resident of Leeview Green Apartment, Mithapur Road, and Mehakpreet Singh, a resident of Green Model Town — in return for refundable investment and sale of stake in the company, but they used it for their personal use.The investigation of the matter was allegedly first suppressed by the Commissionerate Police. As the case was reported to higher officials in Chandigarh, a case under Sections 406, 420 and 120-B, IPC, has been registered against them.The complainants have also blamed the local police for not taking appropriate action against the culprits for the past two years.“The accused filed false complaints against us through their partners to put pressure on us for not filing a case against them. They are deliberately pressurising us not to make any complaints against them and the police are also not acting on our complaints.“It is, therefore, requested to transfer the case and take appropriate action against the accused. We also want the case to be probed by some other higher authorities other than the Jalandhar (city) police,” said Rashpal Singh Sachdeva, in his appeal to the state police department.The complainants alleged that despite making complaints against the accused, the police were not taking any action against them. Rather they were favouring them in the enquiries and had been pressurising us to withdraw the complaints. They also threatened to implicate us in false criminal cases,” added the complainants.Business deal goes sour?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adcps-son-among-3-booked-for-fraud-in-jalandhar-304960
01-09-2021||---||A day after taking poison, Lambra cowshed operator dies||Jalandhar, August 31Dharamveer Dhamma, a cowshed operator, who consumed some poisonous substance, on Monday, breathed his last during the wee hours at a private hospital on Tuesday.Dhamma had accused the Congress MLA and the CIA Staff-1 in-charge, among others, of harassing him. The vicitm operated Govind Dham Gaushala, Lambra, and had gone live on Facebook to tell about his ordeal and consumed poison.Lambra SHO Sukhdev Singh said, “ We have booked three persons, including Sanjeev Kala, Gautak Mohan and Shri Ram, for abettment to suicide.” However, no case has been registered against the Congress MLA and the CIA Staff in-charge named by the victim in live feed on Facebook.Dhamma had accused the MLA and the cop of making his life miserable by repeatedly threatening him and asking him to close his gaushala. The Lambra police said as doctors had declared Dhamma unfit to make a statement, they did not recorded the same.Notably, Dhamma is a brother of Mandeep Bakshi, who is a senior BJP leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-day-after-taking-poison-lambra-cowshed-operator-dies-304959
01-09-2021||Kapurthala||20-kg heroin seized in Kapurthala, two held||Busting a drug syndicate reportedly being operated by notorious gangsters lodged in jails, the Kapurthala police seized 20-kg heroin worth Rs 100 crore in the international market with the arrest of two drug dealers on Monday.The two drug dealers have been identified as Balwinder Singh of Sarangwal village of Hoshiarpur and Peter Masih of Basti Danishmanda in Jalandhar. Peter is already facing two criminal cases.DGP Dinkar Gupta said when police teams intercepted a truck and a Hyundai i20 car at the Dhilwan police naka in Kapurthala on Monday, the search led to the recovery of 20-kg heroin. He said the occupants tried to flee, but the alert cops managed to nab them.The police recovered 20 packets of heroin (one kg each) from their possession and the two vehicles, said the DGP. Harkamalpreet S Khakh, SSP, Kapurthala, said two special cavities had been created in the roof of driver’s cabin of the truck to conceal the consignment. The DGP said during preliminary investigations, the drug dealers disclosed that a heroin consignment was being smuggled from Purmara Mandi in Srinagar by Balwinder Singh in a truck while Peter Masih collected the consignment from him.The DGP said a narco-gangster angle was being suspected in the case as the investigations carried out so far had indicated that Peter Masih had been sent to collect the consignment from Gaggandeep, brother of notorious gangster Rajnish Kumar, alias Preet Phagwara. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-kg-heroin-seized-in-kapurthala-two-held-304708
