02-09-2021||---||‘Lab on Wheels’ dedicated to Nawanshahr students||NAWANSHAHR, September 1Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal and local MLA Angad Singh dedicated the first-of-its-kind unique ‘Lab on Wheels’ to the students of Nawanshahr here at a function organised at Government Senior Secondary School today.The path-breaking initiative would virtually prove a boon for the students of 423 primary and 211 senior secondary government schools in the district. Since every government school doesn’t have proper infrastructure and labs, the ‘Lab on Wheels’ would provide an opportunity to the students especially belong to less privileged section of society to learn outside the classes.It would help to draw maximum number of students towards science and develop a scientific approach among the students by providing them practical training in an interesting manner. Thus a mobile computer and science lab has been prepared with a cost of Rs 48 lakh and is well-equipped with 12 computers, wifi facility, LEDs, various science related instruments, microscopes, various models of physics, chemistry and biology giving out a detailed information of concepts such as DNA, heart, skeleton, laws of reflection of light, periodic table etc.Dr Aggarwal, while dedicating the mobile lab to the students, said the bus would move on a rotational basis in the schools. “The idea behind the initiative is to make the subjects interesting for the students, so that they enjoy while attaining knowledge. The bus will cover all primary, middle and senior secondary schools in the district. Computer and science teachers from the schools will be deputed turn wise so that they could teach the students with an expertise.”The DC further added that good and trained science teachers from government schools have been taken onboard for the project and if there was a need, extra staff on a permanent basis will be deputed.MLA Angad Singh, in his address expressed his gratitude towards Rajya Sabha member KTS Tulsi, Education Secretary Krishan Kumar and Dr Aggarwal for giving concrete shape to this unique project. He also appreciated the efforts of the officials and teachers of the district education department for the move.He also enumerated his projects like setting up the Government College at Jadla, getting funds released for ensuring state of the art infrastructural facilities at the local Government Senior Secondary School and stadium at nearby Bhangal Kalan village for ensuring better education and sports facilities for the youth.District Education Officer (Secondary) Jagjit Singh, Deputy DEO Amrik Singh, Principal Sarbjit Singh and spokesperson Parmod Bharti also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lab-on-wheels-dedicated-to-nawanshahr-students-305411
02-09-2021||---||Cowshed operator’s suicide: CIA Staff in-charge booked, but no action against Kartarpur MLA so far||Jalandhar, September 1The cowshed operator suicide case took a new turn today after the Lambra police registered an FIR against Inspector Pushp Bali, in-charge, CIA Staff, here. Before consuming poison, the deceased Dharamveer Dhamma had reportedly blamed him and Kartarpur Congress MLA Chaudhary Surinder Singh, among three others for forcing him to take such an extreme step.While the police had been denying the involvement of the cop and the Congress MLA, the development took place after the family members of the deceased refused to cremate his body unless any action was taken against them. So, the police preferred to book the CIA in charge to give a leeway to their political boss and the MLA. The local BJP leaders also protested against the inaction by the police today and demanded action against Chaudhary. Victim's statement on Facebook and his dying declarationThe deceased attempted suicide by consuming some poisonous substance two days ago and the doctors declared him dead on Tuesday morning. Hours after his death, the rural police booked three persons — Sanjeev Kala, Gautak Mohan and Shri Ram —for abetment to suicide. Pushp Bali was booked today. But Kartarpur Congress MLA Surinder Chaudhary, whom Dhamma claimed to be the key accused in his video, has so far been exempted from the case.Operator of the Govind Dham Gaushala, Dhamma live streamed his suicide on Facebook in which he alleged that after getting fed up with them, he was going to commit suicide. He was seen consuming poison. He had accused the MLA and the cop of making his life miserable by repeatedly threatening him and asking him to close the gaushala.“My father had clearly accused the MLA for forcing him to commit suicide. Without informing me and without my consent, my statement was shown to have been recorded by the police even as I was not in a position to speak. They were trying to save the real culprit which is unfair to us. Now that the CIA in charge has been booked, the police have given an escape to the MLA. We want both of them to be arrested,” said Abhishek Bakshi, elder son of Dharamveer.Abhishek’s younger brother Mandeep Bakshi told that his whole family was disturbed due to his father’s death. “What’s more annoying is inaction against the culprits. The district administration should swing into action to arrest all the accused, mentioned by my father”, added Mandeep.Meanwhile, Rural Police SSP Naveen Singla said the police were carefully monitoring the case. “Yesterday the FIR was registered based on the statements of Abhishek. Dharamveer was unfit to make any statement. Whereas considering the Supreme Court guidelines, the Facebook live video of the deceased would also be checked before taking any action. After Abhishek gave supplementary statements today, the police immediately booked Pushp Bali. Besides, roles of all the individuals, including the MLA, will be verified,” added Singla.Notably, a complaint was also registered against Abhishek Bakshi at CIA department against extortion. The case was being handled by Bali.Demanding action against the MLA and Bali, advocate Ashok Sareen, vice-president, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, Punjab, wrote a letter to DGP Dinkar Gupta, Chief Justice Punjab and Haryana High Court, CM Amarinder Singh and the State Human Rights Commission.Despite repeated attempts, Chaudhary Surinder Singh did not take phone calls. He, however, has earlier denied any involvement in the matter and terms it to be politically targeted against him.‘Police inaction to blame’Abhishek’s younger brother Mandeep Bakshi told that his whole family was disturbed due to his father's death. “What's more annoying is inaction against the culprits. The district administration should swing into action to arrest all accused, mentioned by my father,” added Mandeep. Meanwhile, Rural Police SSP Naveen Singla said the police were carefully monitoring the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cowshed-operators-suicide-cia-staff-in-charge-booked-but-no-action-against-kartarpur-mla-so-far-305412
02-09-2021||---||‘Help’ seeks action against erring Mahilpur policemen||Hoshiarpur, September 1After reports surfaced pertaining to the negligence of cops at Mahilpur police station in mentioning the name of a sexual harassment victim in an FIR and making it available on public domain, members of an non-governmental organisation ‘HELP’, sought legal action against those who violated the orders of the Supreme Court.Referring to such negligence in circulating the copy of the FIR last month to the media, activists Parvinder Singh Kitna, Kuldeep Singh Khaira and Punjab and Haryana High Court lawyer Hakam Singh, raised the issue of registering a case against Sub-Inspector Satwinder Singh (SHO) and Sub-Inspector Om Parkash. They have also put forth their demand before Inspector General Dr Kaustubh Sharma, SSP Amneet Kondal and Garhshankar ACP Tushar Gupta.The trio also wrote to senior police officials that if they would not take action against the duo, they would take the matter to the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the the Centre. They have also forwarded their complaint to Manisha Gulati, Chairperson, Punjab Women Commission.They have given the reference of the Supreme Court case number 565 of 2012, the orders of which had been circulated by the Home Department to all the Chief Secretaries of all the states on January 16, 2019 and on March 8, 2019 to all police officials to follow it. As per the orders, all documents related to such cases have to be kept in a sealed cover so that the identity of the victim does not gets revealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/help-seeks-action-against-erring-mahilpur-policemen-305413
02-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Best performing anganwadi workers, CDPOs felicitated||Hoshiarpur, September 1Director of Social Security, Women and Child Development Department Vipul Ujjwal said in the era of Covid-19, when the entire world was under lockdown, the digital parent guidance programme run through Anganwadi centres contributed a lot in the all-round development of children under-6 years of age in the state.He was addressing the CDPOs, supervisors, anganwadi workers and parents of children of Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Nawanshahr, Jalandhar and Kapurthala districts in the District Administrative Complex today.During this, he also honoured two CDPOs, three supervisors and three anganwadi workers from each of the above districts, who made this, programme a success. Apart from this, he also honoured the best performing parents, Sangeeta Rani from Kharkan village, Hoshiarpur, Yamuna Devi from Chakk Sadhu, Kulwinder Kaur from Bhikhowal village and Amandeep Kaur from Kothe Jattan village.Ujjwal said during the era of Covid-19, the Digital Parent Guide programme was launched in the state on September 5 last year and on November 14, 2020, this programme was implemented in the entire state. The Hoshiarpur district has emerged as a leading district in the programme. He said through this programme, videos prepared by Meraki Foundation were sent to all Anganwadi centres according to the age group. District Programme Officer Amarjit Singh Bhullar, CEO of Meraki Foundation Seemant Dadwal, CDPO Hoshiarpur Block-2 Ranjit Kaur, besides officers of Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Gurdaspur were also present.Know Digital Parent Guide programmeDirector of Social Security, Women and Child Development Department, Vipul Ujjwal said during the Covid phase, the Digital Parent Guide programme was launched in the state last year. He said through this programme, videos prepared by Meraki Foundation were sent to all anganwadi centres according to the age group. He also honoured two CDPOs, three supervisors and three anganwadi workers who made this, programme a success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/best-performing-anganwadi-workers-cdpos-felicitated-305414
02-09-2021||---||NIT goes on a cleanliness spree under ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’||Jalandhar, September 1Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar (NITJ) has been observing ‘Swachhta Pakhwada-2021’ from September 1 to 15 as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Education Government of India.The ‘Swachhta Pakhwada 2021’ was today inaugurated by Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director, NITJ. Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi highlighted the importance of cleanliness by citing the example of the life of Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi and requested all employees and students to ensure cleanliness around their workstations. During the Swachhta Pakhwada, NITJ, will organise activities related to cleanliness awareness as tree plantation/ sapling plantation, online competitions regarding water conservation, forest conservation, ‘Best-out-of-waste’, complete ban on single use plastic, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-goes-on-a-cleanliness-spree-under-swachhta-pakhwada-305415
02-09-2021||---||Jalandhar: Computers donated to government schools||Jalandhar, September 1In an attempt to contribute to society during pandemic times, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology generously donated desktop computers to nearby government schools.The schools where computers have been donated include Government Senior Secondary Schools at Lohian Khas, Khusropur, Krari, Kala Bakra, Alampur and Mustafapur, Government High School at Kahlwan, Rojhari and Nussi GSSS Krari, and Government Middle School at Kishangarh.Chairman of Board of Governors SC Ralhan, Director NIT Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Registrar Dr SK Mishra, Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma, Prof Harsh Kumar Verma and other faculty of the Institute were present. The faculty of the schools Kala Bakra and Kahlwan were present on the occasion.Chairman Board of Governors SC Ralhan expressed that in this time when online teaching has become the need of the hour, computer knowledge was must. “Jalandhar NIT is donating the computers to the schools so that the students can benefit,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-computers-donated-to-government-schools-305416
02-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora distributes cheques under enhanced pension scheme||Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora handed over cheques of enhanced pension to beneficiaries of five villages. The minister also gave away cheques to 10 beneficiaries here at the District Administrative Complex. The minister visited villages namely Bajwara Kalan, Shergarh, Bassi Ghulam Hussain, Adamwal and Ajjowal, where he handed over cheques to at least 20 beneficiaries.The government had increased social security monthly pension from Rs 750 to Rs 1,500 from July.The welfare step of state government would benefit as many as 1,48,305 beneficiaries in the district, of which 18,448 are of Hoshiarpur constituency, including 12,864 from urban and 5,584 from rural areas. Meanwhile, the minister also visited Government Senior Secondary School, Clock Tower and Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Railway Mandi to give away pensions to beneficiaries of Ward No. 46 and 30. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industries-minister-sunder-sham-arora-distributes-cheques-under-enhanced-pension-scheme-305418
02-09-2021||---||1 tests positive for covid in Jalandhar district, no death||Jalandhar, September 1The district on Wednesday reported one new Covid positive case. With this the total number of positive cases have surged to 63,227. Two more active cases have been added to the tally, taking total cases to 25. However, no more death due to Covid was reported in the past two days.2 new cases in KapurthalaThe district health authorities on Wednesday reported two new cases of Covid with positivity rate touching 0.16 per cent. The district has so far reported 17,804 cases. There are presently 10 active cases. The toll stands at 554 fatalities in the district.No new case in NawanshahrNo new case was reported from Nawanshahr. The health authorities have taken 1,420 new samples of Covid. The district has seen 11,446 residents falling ill to the infection since its onset in the region in March 2020. There have been 381 fatalities in the district so far. After the discharge of one patient today, the district has six active cases.1 new case in HoshiarpurThe district on Wednesday reported just one new case of Covid as the total number of cases reached 30,729 while no death was recorded keeping the toll still at 981.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-tests-positive-for-covid-in-jalandhar-district-no-death-305420
02-09-2021||Jalandhar||District Badminton Championship: Students of Jalandhar's Innocent Hearts School bring laurels||KMV students get placement offerStudents of BVoc Animation of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya have been able to secure a pre-placement offer from renowned publishing houses. These students have completed their stipend based internships with these publishing companies and they have started their professional career as animators and graphic designer. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students on their achievement. She further maintained that DDU Kaushal Kendra of KMV is also providing most advanced skill based education to the students so that they may be able to make a name in the professional industry. The Principal lauded the efforts of Placement Cell and Department of Animation for mentoring and guiding the students.Poster-making activity at DIPSTo awaken students on the importance of organ donation poster making activity was organised in all school of DIPS chain. Students made attractive posters on organ donation and its importance. Students mentioned that kidney, heart, eyes, lungs etc can all be donated by us. Some people donate their whole body so that it can be used for study by the medical students. Teachers explained the importance of organ donation via PPTs and gave knowledge about all the organs.School principals highlighted that by donating your organs and tissue after you die, you can save or improve as many as lives. Therefore, organ donation is the gift of an organ to a person who needs a transplant to improve his condition and health status. The two organs that are needed most frequently are kidneys and liver. Extensive awareness regarding organ donation must certainly be spread among the people.10 DAVIET students get jobsThe 10 students from Electronics and Communication Engineering Branch of DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology (DAVIET) who will be passing out in July 2022 were selected for 3AIP Services Private Limited on a pay package of 3.50 LPA. 3AIP is a global firm that provides customised solutions for intellectual property search, IP licensing and monetisation, patent prosecution, IP start-up business plan, 3A IP focuses on maximising returns on investment of their clients’ IP assets. The company has selected the students after rigorous rounds comprising of online test, technical and HR interview. The students while giving the details of the offer shared that his designation in the company will be Patent Research Analyst and their responsibility will be to identify the research analyst needs to perform search or analysis on technologies in hand and provide consultation to inventors.Workshop on handling misbehaviourEklavya School conducted a workshop under CBSE-approved programme ‘Hubs of Learning’. The topic of the workshop was “Handling misbehavior during online classes” was conducted by Monica, educator of Eklavya School, Jalandhar. In this workshop she explained the reason why students are doing it and what is their duty being a teacher to sort out the issues. She further explained the root cause of this. It was actually redirected methods of controlling such disturbing students which as a teacher we are already doing well. Just need to change some techniques. The motive behind conducting the workshop was to create a culture of support and healthy interdependence across different areas of teaching learning viz. curriculum planning, teaching-learning activities and other school practices.Two-week induction programmeLyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus organised two-week online induction programme “e- Khusamdeed-2021” for the students admitted for the session 2021-2022. Dr SK Sood, Director, LKCTC, highlighted the traits of the LKCTC regarding academics, placements and environment for overall development of students. Students were made familiar to the protocols they are to abide by and the code of conduct during their stay in college. On the concluding day, students shared the platform with the alumni from different departments and discussed the corporate scenario and how to enhance the employability skills for a better fit. Various competitions like poster making, holistic food/ craft, business plan, AD/short film making and English skills were organised for the newly enrolled students in which students participated with zeal and passion. TNSBiz Students’ Association formedGarhshankar: The Business Students’ Association has been formed in the local Babar Akali Memorial Khalsa College by the Department of Commerce and Economics. The association has been registered and CA Manveer Singh Sandhu, an alumnus of the college, handed over the registration certificate of the Business Students Association to the Principal of the college Dr Baljit Singh in the presence of the head of the department Prof Kanwar Kulwant Singh and Dr Gurpreet Singh. Principal Dr Baljit Singh praised the formation of association by the department and said that by taking advantage of this platform the students could play an important role for the development of department. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-badminton-championship-students-of-jalandhars-innocent-hearts-school-bring-laurels-305422
02-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Drugs seized, two arrested||March against lathichargeHoshiarpur: To protest against the lathicharge on farmers in Karnal, the Congress workers led by Advocate Pankaj Kirpal, co-chairman, Punjab Pradesh Congress, Legal Cell, organised a candle march from Shri Anandpur Sahib Chowk to Banga Chowk in Garhshankar. Kirpal said the persecution of farmers at Karnal by the Haryana Government was reminiscent of Jallianwala Bagh. Congress workers staged a dharna at Banga Chowk in Garhshankar and also blocked the traffic. Ricky Bilron, Rohit Posi, Ravi Posi, Jagdeep Saini, Surinder Saini, Davinder Bugga, Lavi Arora, etc. were present on this occasion. TNSTalk on ongoing farmers’ struggleGarhshankar: A literary conference was organised under the leadership of Santokh Veer and Sarwan Sidhu in Goliyan village. In the conference, various writers discussed the ongoing farmer struggle. In the event, JB Sekhon, Santokh Veer, Sarwan Sidhu, Pawan Bhammian, Rupinder Singh, Taran Goge, Tarsem Bhammian, Om Prakash Jakhmi, Balveer Khanpuri, Jasveer Kaur, Manjit Singh, Pardesi Mahilpur Tara Singh Cheda presented their poems on social evils, farmers' struggle. There was a lot of applause by on poems based on the farmers' movement and Punjabi language. OCJob fair for 126 posts tomorrowHoshiarpur: The District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise Business will hold a job fair on September 3 for recruitment in Sonalika Tractors Limited. In the fair, candidates will be selected for 126 posts. The District Employment Officer Gurmel Singh said the posts include 40 posts of tractor assembly, 20 in vehicle quality department, 10 of painter in paint shop, 6 of sub-station attendant and 50 of helpers in store. The age of the candidates should be between 18 to 45 years. They should have cleared Class X or XII along with ITI course in tractor mechanic, diesel mechanic, motor mechanic, fitter etc. He said the fair would start from 10 am in the office of DBEE, Jalandhar Road. The interested candidates should bring their certificates and bio-data with them. He said it is mandatory to come to the fair in formal dress only. More information related to the employment fair can be obtained through the helpline number 62801-97708 from 9 am to 5 pm. OCYouth dies in attack, 5 bookedHoshiarpur: The Garhdiwala police have registered a case against five persons in a case where a youth of Argowal village died after he was attacked by some miscreants with sharp weapons. Ramandeep Singh, a resident of Argowal village, told the police that on August 31, he was going to his village from the gurdwara sahib of Baba Kesar Das. His cousin Gurdeep, alias Gippa, was going ahead of him on his bike. Suddenly, a speeding Swift car hit Gurdeep’s bike. A group of people came out of the car with kirpans and attacked Gurdeep. He succumbed to his injuries while receiving treatment in a private hospital on Tuesday. The Garhdiwala police have registered a case against Jaskaran Singh and Bindi (both brothers), residents of Talwandi Jattan and three unidentified persons. OCOne booked for embezzling wheatHoshiarpur: The Model Town police have booked a person for allegedly embezzling wheat worth Rs3,45,625. The district manager of Punjab Ware Housing Corporation, Nimarljit Singh, had lodged a complaint with the SSP. He told that Ashwani Kumar of Shop No 55 in the grain market did not deposit 350 sacks of wheat. He alleged that the accused had embezzled the wheat. The complaint was investigated by the DSP (City) on the orders of the SSP. After the probe, the police have registered a case against the accused Ashwani under Section 406 of the IPC. OCOne held for illegal miningHoshiarpur: The Mehtiana police have seized a trolley laden with sand on the charge of illegal mining. According to information, Mining Officer Manpreet Singh said after stopping a sand laden trolley near village Tajewal, the accused Vinod Kumar resident Ravidas Nagar could not show any document in this regard. After registering a case, the police arrested the accused and took possession of the trolley. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/drugs-seized-two-arrested-305427
02-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Storm uproots trees, disrupts power supply in Phagwara||Phagwara, September 1A high-velocity storm with speed over 60 kmph followed by heavy rain swept the Phagwara region. Disruption of power supply and uprooting of trees were also reported from several areas. Many parts of the area also remained without water supply. The uprooting of electricity poles resulted in a blackout, with several localities not receiving power till Wednesday evening. Power station on the Phagwara-Hoshiarpur road was also submerged under heavy rainy water, as a result of which residents were seen facing inconvenience.Naib Tehsildar Pawan Kumar, XEN Rajinder Singh and SDO Water Supply Pardeep Chattani rushed to the power house and took stock of the situation. Hundreds of trees, including a 100-year-old banyan tree, was also found uprooted in the Government Senior Secondary School, Phagwara, while some classrooms were also found badly damaged due to the thunderstorm followed by heavy rain last night. A few buildings of the veterinary hospital and city police station, besides many other official and private buildings were also damaged badly due to high-velocity storm.ADC Phagwara-cum-Municipal Corporation Commissioner Rajeev Verma visited some of the affected areas and instructed the staff of the civil administration to visit all affected areas. ADC Verma said the loss of damage due to storm is being estimated. During a visit to the Phagwara town, several roads were found to be blocked due to uprooted trees. Some trees even fell on the roads adjoining schools and could not be cleared. While no loss of life was reported, the storm left trails of massive damage to property.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/storm-uproots-trees-disrupts-power-supply-in-phagwara-305433
02-09-2021||---||48 days on, Kapurthala police fail to make headway in theft case||Jalandhar, September 1Nishant Kumar, a resident of Sheikhupur Colony, Kapurthala, has been running from pillar to post for the past 48 days to get back his valuables and money that were stolen from his house on July 15 this year.Kumar says the police have failed to trace the theft case even after so many days. “It’s been over a month that I have been visiting the police station but there seems to be no headway. The robbery took place in broad daylight when my family was out. The thieves broke open our locked gate and the main door. When we returned, all our jewellery, cash and valuables worth Rs 4 lakh were missing from the house. The thieves even damaged our almirahs,” added Nishant, who works as a teacher under the Education Guarantee Scheme (EGS) during the morning and as an auto-rickshaw driver during the evening.Area SHO, Inspector Gaurav Dheer, who has recently joined the city police station, said, we have been making all efforts to hunt down the accused. Based on the information provided, the case would be resolved within 10 days and the victim would be given back all his valuables added Dheer.An FIR under Sections 454, 380 of the IPC has been registered. Apart from that, the case has been transferred to the CIA Staff police.The victim even claims to have submitted the CCTV footage of the whole incident and named some of the potential suspects. In response, Dheer said, the CCTV footage wasn’t clear enough to identify the accused. Nishant also brought the incident to the notice of SSP Kapurthala, but to no avail. “Instead of responding promptly, we have instead been harassed by the police,” added Nishant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/48-days-on-kapurthala-police-fail-to-make-headway-in-theft-case-305435
