03-09-2021||---||Job offer, cash award elude this world chess champion||Jalandhar, September 2Having won a gold and two silver medals at the World Deaf Chess Championships and another gold and a silver at the Asian Deaf Chess Championships in the last six years or so, Malika Handa (25) was extremely distraught on Thursday.Malika came to me with her father and brother. They discussed her case with me for good 30-40 minutes. I told them that the government has a policy for able-bodied players and para athletes (arms and legs handicap) but none of the other 21 types of disabilities which includes blindness, hearing disorders or mental retardness. — DPS Kharbanda, Director, SportsShe recently completed her graduation and approached the Director, Sports Punjab, in Chandigarh, today for a job and a cash award but not finding a positive response, she broke down right outside his office and posted her video on Twitter expressing her anguish in the sign language. Her video immediately went viral and won her a lot of emotional support.Reaching home at Basti Sheikh in Jalandhar, Malika’s father Suresh Handa, who is an accountant with a private firm, shared, “Malika is very upset today. My son Atul Handa and I had accompanied her to the office of Director Sports, but she almost got a refusal. My daughter has been playing the game for the past 8-10 years and has been bringing medals for the country and the state just with a hope that these would fetch her job offer just like other Olympians and para athletes.”He said, “For the past two-three years, she has been told that she must complete her graduation to get a good government job. With high hopes she approached the Director Sports today, she got the reply that there was no policy yet in the state to offer jobs to hearing impaired athletes. This is the fag end of the tenure of the present government. If they have not made a policy till now, they will be able to make it even in the next three months. My daughter has lost all hopes and it is really difficult to convince her at this stage.”Director Sports Kharbanda said, “Malika came to me with her father and brother. They discussed her case with me for good 30-40 minutes. I told them that the government has a policy for able-bodied players and para athletes (arms and legs handicap) but none of the other 21 types of disabilities which includes blindness, hearing disorders or mental retardness. The Punjab Government is pro-sportsmen and will shortly come up with that policy too. But in the meantime, I told the parents to make her apply for other government jobs like that of a constable. She has a state certificate in the able bodied general category where the department can help her get a job under the 3 per cent quota. We can also help her with Central Government jobs where there already is a policy for the deaf players. She must not lose her heart. The government and the department will back her wherever it can on merit basis.”Meanwhile, the Sports Minister today decided to extend her Rs11 lakh cash reward over and above the policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/job-offer-cash-award-elude-this-world-chess-champion-305862
03-09-2021||Jalandhar||4 days on, suicide victim cremated||Family of cowshed operator Dharamveer Dhamma performed his last rites at Lambra cremation ground on Thursday. He had live streamed his suicide on Facebook four days ago.Also read: Cowshed operator’s suicide: CIA Staff in-charge booked, but no action against Kartarpur MLA so farDhamma had named five persons for harassing him to shut the gaushala and vacate the land. Four of the five persons he had named in his FB post, including CIA in-charge Pushp Bali, had been booked by the Jalandhar Rural Police. Son of the deceased Abhishek had been insisting that Kartarpur Congress MLA Chaudhary Surinder Singh, who too had been named by him for undue harassment, be also booked and arrested.The family had been lodging a protest outside their own house till yesterday and raising the demand but they today finally performed his last rites. The cremation of Dhamma was attended by ex-BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia, ex-CPS KD Bhandari and others. They too have been supporting the family in raising their voice for the arrest of MLA Chaudhary. Chaudhary has been rubbishing all allegations terming it a political stunt to malign his image.Ex-BJP Mayor Sunil Jyoti also raised the issue, questioning the silence of PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu on the matter. He said Pargat Singh, whose constituency Jalandhar Cantt falls just close to Lambra, has also not come out in support of the aggrieved family yet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-days-on-suicide-victim-cremated-305863
03-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar shuttler Palak Kohli making waves at Tokyo Paralympics||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 2It was a treat for the parents of Paralympics shuttler Palak Kohli to watch the live streaming of the singles match of their teenage daughter, which she won and qualified for the quarterfinals being held at Tokyo.Kohli defeated Turkey’s Zahra Balgar 21-12, 21-18 in the Women’s SU5 (upper limb impairment category) Group A match. She has her next singles match day after, said proud father Mahesh Kohli, a city-based businessman. She has paired with World No.1 Parmod Bhagat and will play the quarterfinal qualifying mixed doubles match tomorrow, he added.Palak’s mother Simi Kohli said they watched the match on DD National this morning at Delhi. “We were here for some work and made sure that we watched her play live. It was really exciting to see her play at the age of 19 and defeat women who are far more experienced and elder to her. Had there been no Covid restrictions, we too would have surely accompanied her to Tokyo,” she said.On a bit emotional note, she said: “When Palak was born with a deformed hand, we were a bit worried about her future. Till the last few years, we were not sure if she will get a good career option. We had never thought that she would rise so high becoming the youngest shuttler for the Paralympics and winning matches there. Since she had her Tokyo qualifying matches at Peru and Brazil in March 2020, she had to miss her Plus Two CBSE exams and drop a year. But this year, she has passed as an open school student managing her studies, games and practice all on her own while training at an academy in Lucknow.”Palak’s family resides at Islamganj here. She studies from St Joseph’s Convent School and later moved to Police DAV Public School here. Her elder brother Dhananjay Kohli is a B Tech passout from Thapar Institute. Her father runs a manufacturing unit at Surgical Complex on the Kapurthala Road.The family recalls the chance meeting of Palak with her coach Gaurav Khanna outside a shop in Jalandhar. Palak had gone for shopping and Gaurav, who was a stranger for her then, was coming out and stopped to ask about her disability and gave her his visiting card. She later contacted him and got trained under him to reach the level.Palak’s dad says: “My daughter has various other international events lined up after Paralympics. This will be her last year to attend the International Youth Badminton Championship to be held at Ukraine in December. Once she crosses 20, she will be ineligible for it. If Covid situation remains normal by then, I too may accompany her to Ukraine.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-shuttler-palak-kohli-making-waves-at-tokyo-paralympics-305864
03-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Garhshankar: 27-year-old attacked, dies||Garhshankar, September 2A person, identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Soni, was attacked with sharp-edged weapons by six persons by entering his house situated in Ward No.13 of the town on Thursday. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Garhshankar, for treatment.In view of his serious condition, he was referred to the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, where he died during treatment. The victim’s mother alleged that her son had a quarrel sometime ago in which some people were booked but the police did not take any serious action. She said if the police had caught those accused on time, her son would have been alive today.According to information received, the victim was sleeping in his house at around 9 am this morning. His mother Mahinder Kaur, alias Rani, had gone to work in somebody’s house while his younger sister was working in the kitchen. Gurpreet was in the room at the first floor of the house and his maternal uncle Harkamal Singh was also sitting nearby.Meanwhile, five to six youths armed with weapons came there and attacked Gurpreet. His uncle Harkamal Singh said he tried to stop the attackers, but they did not stop and kept on attacking him.After arriving his house, they closed the gates of the house from inside. Seriously injuring him, they fled from the spot. As soon as the information about the incident was received, Garhshankar ASP Tushar Gupta and SHO Inspector Iqbal Singh reached his house to investigate.On the occasion, ASP Tushar Gupta said the reason for the murder was being cited as old enmity and the police are investigating the matter. He denied any laxity on the part of the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garhshankar-27-year-old-attacked-dies-305865
03-09-2021||---||Jalandhar district logs 4 fresh Covid cases, no death reported||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 2Four new Covid cases were reported on Thursday in the district, taking the total district tally to 63,234 cases. No death was reported in the district. The deceased tally remained 1,493. As many as 61,714 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 27.2 cases in KapurthalaTwo cases of Covid was reported positive in Kapurthala as the Covid tally reached 17,806. No death from Covid was reported at Kapurthala today.1 new case in HoshiarpurThe district on Thursday reported three new cases of Covid while the total count reached 30,732. The death toll remained 981.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-logs-4-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-reported-305866
03-09-2021||---||Ahead of festive season, sweet shop owners, bakers in Jalandhar told to ensure hygiene||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 2Ahead of the festive season, the Health Department, held a meeting with sweet shop owners and bakers on Thursday. As consumption and sale of sweets increases manifold during festivals, the department directed sweet shop owners to maintain cleanliness and quality of food items.The meet was held at the District Training Centre at the Jalandhar Civil Hopistal. District Health Officer Dr Aruna Sharma, Food Security Officers—Robin, Anil, Rajpal and Shammi—among others were present.Dr Aruna said it was their duty to ensure cleanliness and quality of food ahead of the festival season. She also instructed shop owners to display expiry date of food items. She asked vendors not to place sweets and food items in the open.She said once the food items expires, it is necessary that the food item is then destroyed. The District Health Officer said, “If sweet shop owners are found violating the food safety regulations, strict action will be intiatited against them.”She also instructed that kitchens where sweets and other products were being prepared should be cleaned at regular intervals and should be well ventilated.Dr Aruna said all shop owners and their workers should get vaccinated at the earliest.Representatives of Lovely Sweets, Cremica, Classic, Krishan Sweets, Ganesh Sweets, Kaypee, Fancy, Parkash and Parveen bakery, were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ahead-of-festive-season-sweet-shop-owners-bakers-in-jalandhar-told-to-ensure-hygiene-305867
03-09-2021||---||Former Additional Sessions Judge Manju Rana joins Aam Aadmi Party||Jalandhar, September 2Additional Sessions Judge Manju Rana (retd), who was also a chairperson of the Lok Adalat, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in presence of the Leader of the Opposition Harpal Cheema on Thursday.Cheema said joining of a former judiciary member signified that people were fed up with the ruling party.Taking a jibe at MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, he said Rana’s joining also signifies people’s disillusionment with him.District chief Gurpal Singh welcomed Rana into the the party. AAP Mahila Wing chief was also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/former-additional-sessions-judge-manju-rana-joins-aam-aadmi-party-305868
03-09-2021||Jalandhar||Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, ranked among world’s best||372 get placed at two job fairsJalandhar: As many as 372 unemployed youths today got placed during two job fairs organised at the office of BDPO offices Rurka Kalan and Lohian Khas. DC Ghanshyam Thori said 454 unemployed youth took part in both the camps. A total of 13 companies, including Pukhraj heathcare, rank step, placemeds, star health insurance, Airtel/Phone Pay/ SBI credits, agile, A-One International, SIS Securities, Health Herbal, Pukhraj Health, LIC of India, SBI Life Insurance, NIIT Ltd participated in the job fairs during which 372 unemployed youth got placed on the spot. The DC mentioned that such job fairs had been scheduled for the whole month of September during which avenues of employment would be offered to participants. The DC also called upon the youth to register themselves on www.pgrkam.com for more jobs. They can also contact on 90569-20100 for further information, he added. TNSAIKMS condemns Moga lathichargeJalandhar: The All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha on Thursday condemned the baton charge on 700 Kirti Kisan Union (KKU) members in Moga while they were on their way to question Akali leader Sukhbir Badal. As per the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, farmers led by KKU had gone to question the Akalis on their support to the farm laws while they were in the NDA and how they changed the sides ahead of the elections to divert the attention of voters. AIKMS has demanded immediate suspension of Moga SP and also called upon all unions of the SKM all over the country to protest the lathicharge. TNSWoman duped of Rs5.18 lakhHoshiarpur: The Sadar police booked a woman for allegedly duping another woman of Rs 5.18 lakh on the pretext of sending her son to Canada on study visa. Varinder Kaur, a resident of Mehatpur village, had complained to the SSP that Rajni Dhiman, a resident of Chandigarh, allegedly took Rs 5.18 lakh from her promising her to send her son to Canada, but neither did she send him abroad nor returned the money. A case has been registered against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dr-br-ambedkar-national-institute-of-technology-jalandhar-ranked-among-worlds-best-305869
03-09-2021||Our Correspondent||In Hoshiarpur, Union Minister of State Som Parkash’s visit opposed||Hoshiarpur, September 2Farmers today held a protest against Union Minister of State Som Parkash who was here at a PWD rest house to meet BJP leaders.As soon as farmers came to know about his visit, they gathered on the Mall Road and tried to march towards the rest house. Barricades installed by the police 200 meters before the rest house prevented protesters from marching ahead.The police had laid a three-layer formation to stop protesters with the second layer consisting of women police personnel. Protesters held a sit-in on the road, raising slogans against the central government and the minister. After about half an hour, as the protesters came to know that Som Parkash had left the rest house for Phagwara, they lifted their dharna.Farmer unions have made it clear they will continue to protest against the BJP leaders and their events unless the central government relents and withdraws the three contentious agricultural laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-hoshiarpur-union-minister-of-state-som-parkashs-visit-opposed-305602
