04-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Central Jail inmate attempts suicide||Father-son duo booked for fraudHoshiarpur: The Mukerian police have registered a case against a father-son duo for allegedly cheating a person of Rs 11 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad. According to information, Darshan Singh, a resident of Bishanpura, had lodged a complaint with the SSP. He had alleged that Rajan Kumar, and his father Vinod Kumar, both residents of Naloiyan Mukerian, had a deal with him to send him abroad. He alleged that the accused allegedly took Rs 11 lakh from him but failed to fulfil his promise nor returned his money. The police have registered a case against the accused father and son. oc23 boxes of liquor seizedHoshiarpur: The Model Town police raided a house and recovered 23 boxes of smuggled liquor. According to information, the police conducted a raid on a house after receiving a tip off and seized 23 boxes of liquor. According to police, the accused, Dharampal alias Dharma, a resident Balveer Colony, escaped from the spot. The police claimed that the accused used to sell spurious liquor smuggled from other states at exorbitant prices. ocVajra corps get oxygen plantJalandhar: To overcome any incident of oxygen shortage amid the pandemic, a static medical oxygen generation plant has been procured by Vajra Corps (Defenders of Punjab). Lt Gen C Bansi Ponnappa, GOC, Vajra Corps, inaugurated the static oxygen plant, largest in region with capacity of 750 LPM at Military Hospital, Jalandhar Cantt. The plant is an augmentation of medical resources of 11 Corps and is one-of-its-kind in Punjab. It would go a long way in mitigating the anticipated wave and strengthen medical infrastructure. TNSCycle rally for voter awarenessJalandhar: To make people aware of the importance of Right to Vote and to encourage them to participate in elections, Additional Chief Administrator JDA-cum-Electoral Registration Officer, Jalandhar, North Assembly Constituency Anupam Kler on Friday flagged off a cycle rally from Shiv Jyoti Public School. The ACA said the students, especially youngsters, would play an instrumental role in awakening the people about their voting rights. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-central-jail-inmate-attempts-suicide-306556
04-09-2021||Jalandhar||Online sports day organised||Simranjit Kaur second in BA (Hons)Students of BA (Hons) Sem-III Political Science of Hans Raj Mahila MahaVidyalaya got second, eighth and tenth positions in Guru Nanak Dev University. Simranjit Kaur got second position with 85/100 marks, Shruti Sharma got eighth position with 74/100 marks and Rajinder Kaur got tenth position with 68/100 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students, Head of the department Nita Malik, Alka Sharma and Dr Jiwan Devi.Gurnoor 1st in BSc BiotechnologyGurnoor Kaur of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar, has bagged the first position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of BSc (Biotechnology) Sem-V by getting 360 marks out of 420, whereas Preeti Verma and Pallvi of the same class secured second and fourth positions by getting 359 and 355 marks respectively. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the college Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. Dr Samra added that the college has a policy of providing all kinds of support to the meritorious students of the college who excel in academics, sports and other co-curricular activities. Balbir Kaur, president, college governing council, also congratulated the students and reiterated the commitment of the college to quality education and productive research. Dr Arun Dev Sharma, Head Department of Biotechnology, was also present on this occasion.Best Polytechnic College AwardHaving got established in 1954, Mehr Chand Polytechnic College has been awarded as “Best Polytechnic College -2021” in India in a recently-conducted online survey by Devoxil Media Group, Noida. This award is based upon the past five year achievements of the college in the field of academia, co-curricular activities, socio-cultural activities, placement, research-based activities and other salient parameters. In the National Leadership Award-2021 function, the college has been given “Certificate of Achievement”. Principal Dr Jagroop Singh congratulated the staff and students for the achievement and efforts for writing another success story. The college has also bagged “Best Polytechnic Award” by NITTTR (under MHRD), Chandigarh, in 2004, 2011 and 2017 among nine states of North India. HoDs of various departments DS Rana, Dr Sanjay Bansal, Dr Rajeev Bhatia, JS Ghera, Manju, Richa, Prince Madaan, Hira Mahajan, Tarlok Singh and Rakesh Kumar Sharma graced the occasionFit India Freedom Run 2.0Kanya Maha Vidyalaya has initiated a fitness campaign. The campaign has been initiated by the Department of Physical Education in collaboration with the Department of Student Welfare promoting “Fit India Freedom Run 2.0” launched by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports. Under this campaign, KMVites performed various physical activities such as running, yoga, aerobics, stretching and cycling for at least 30 minutes daily true to the motto “Fitness ki dose, aadha ghanta roz”. Students shared their photos and videos performing physical activities on the social media in order to promote the importance and significance of physical fitness in one’s life. Students uploaded their videos doing different exercises and have encouraged people to spend some time on exercise which will boost their health and immunity. Principal Prof (Dr) Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that sports is not related to the sportspersons only, but it should be the part of life of every citizen.Coconut Day celebrated at DIPSIn DIPS chain of schools at Gilzian, Hariana and Suranassi, the students celebrated coconut day wherein they listed the importance of coconut by making attractive poster, slogans and PPT. They utilised the outer part and skin of coconut to assemble articulate nests of sparrows. Students propagated that each and every part of coconut is useful. Experts recommended drinking of coconut water to build up a strong immune system. Coconut oil is tremendously beneficial for hair. Coconut is loaded with fibre, copper, magnesium etc which are of utmost important during corona times. The school principals remarked that coconut has medicine and religious importance in India.Shooting championship organisedThe 7th Colonel Sharp Shooters Open Shooting Championship was organised in Jalandhar wherein students of Cambridge International School from Class X participated. Bismanpreet Kaur made the school proud by winning a gold medal by securing first position in ‘U-15 Air Pistol’. Mansimar Singh secured the first and Vaibhav Mittal secured the second position in ‘U-18 open sight rifle’ and become the proud recipients of gold and silver medal respectively. Principal Jorawar Singh, Chairman KS Bassi and Managing Director KS Bains congratulated the students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-sports-day-organised-306555
04-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Anandpur Sahib constituency gets infra push||Garhshankar, September 3The efforts of Member of Parliament from Anandpur Sahib and former Union Minister Manish Tewari for the development of Sri Anandpur Sahib Lok Sabha constituency have borne fruit as the Punjab Government has approved the upgrade of the Banga-Garhshankar-Anandpur Sahib road.In a press statement issued here on Friday, Tewari said the Punjab Government had sanctioned Rs 40 crore for the road development project. He said this road connects two holy cities Amritsar and Anandpur Sahib.This is also one of the main road connectivity routes for the devotees of Mata Naina Devi who go to Mata Naina Devi Temple in Himachal Pradesh almost every year, especially during the savan Navratras.He thanked CM Capt Amarinder Singh for sanctioning the project which would benefit thousands of travellers and pilgrims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/anandpur-sahib-constituency-gets-infra-push-306554
04-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organises lecture on ethics and values in teaching||The Social Awareness Club of DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised an online extension lecture on “Professional Ethics and Values in Teaching”. Dr Vikas Teji, Associate Prof, DAN College of Education for Women, Nawanshahr, was the Resource Person on the occasion.Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla accorded warm welcome to the speaker. Faculty members and students of MEd and BEd participated and interacted actively. Dr Vikas Teji shed light on professional ethics and values in teaching. He also asserted her point of view on NCF 2009, implementation of code of conduct with surprising facts and figures and resolved the queries of the participants in an effective way.Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla extended the vote of thanks to the guest and added that professional ethics is like a guide, which facilitates the teachers to provide quality education, inculcate good values among the learners and to understand their profession as a teacher. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dav-college-of-education-hoshiarpur-organises-lecture-on-ethics-and-values-in-teaching-306553
04-09-2021||---||Hockey coach Avtar Singh felicitated for his contribution||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 3After the Indian hockey team won the bronze medal in the Tokyo Olympics after a long gap of 41 years, captain Manpreet Singh, Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar brought Jalandhar into the limelight as the trio hail from the district. Besides the threesome, their coach Avtar Singh also grabbed the headlines. Avtar was felicitated by Admiral Karambir Singh for his stellar contribution to Indian hockey recently.In an official tweet by the Indian Navy, it is mentioned, “As a coach in Surjit Academy, which gave the Indian hockey team nine players, he (Avtar) played an instrumental role in the team’s historic bronze medal feat at the Tokyo Olympics.” He was a Master Chief Electrical Radio in the Navy for 20 years. He was also a member of the Navy hockey team, and joined as a coach at Surjit Hockey Stadium in 2008.Avtar Singh (59) says that this was unexpected and getting recognition at this age and that too from the Navy Chief is something that he would always cherish.“Years have passed since I retired from the Navy, but still they gave me such a huge respect. I am so thankful. This has given me more motivation to work,” Avtar said. He is still working with Surjit Hockey Academy. “Whatever knowledge I have and the techniques and training I gave to these hockey stars, I will also pass on the same to new and budding hockey players. Watching my students grow is no less than an achievement for me,” he said.Avtar has seen the hockey stars grow from as budding players to now an inspiration for millions. “When Indian hockey team captain Manpreet Singh first came here to take training, he just wanted to play to get a job, now he has won a medal in the Olympics. I always told him to think big. Now he, along with other players, has made me proud,” shared Avtar Singh.He always had leadership qualities and fighting spirit in him. “He was physically very tough and always worked towards winning every game,” the coach shared. About Harmanpreet Singh, another hockey player who took training under him, the coach said: “After the 2016 Junior World Cup, I asked Harman to keep himself focused as the nation did not have many drag-flickers. I told him that he could be a part of the Olympics one day if he remains dedicated and keeps himself fit.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hockey-coach-avtar-singh-felicitated-for-his-contribution-306552
04-09-2021||---||20-kg heroin seizure: Gangster Preet Phagwara’s brother held||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, September 3The Kapurthala police arrested another accused in the 20-kg heroin seizure case. Nabbed from the Bhulla Rai Chowk, Phagwara, from a white-coloured Verna (numbered PB02BP2850), the accused has been identified as Gagandeep, son of Narinder Kumar, a resident of Daddar Mohalla, Phagwara.The police said Gagandeep is the brother of gangster Preet Phagwara. Kapurthala SSP Kapurthala HPS Khakh said the accused Gagandeep was nominated in the case following the disclosure of previously arrested Peter Masih who revealed during the police interrogation that he was sent to collect the consignment of heroin by Gagandeep.The SSP said police teams were moved to apprehend him following secret information regarding Gagandeep and arrested him from Bulla Rai Chowk, Phagwara, while he was travelling in his Verna. The SSP added that Gagandeep was the real brother of notorious gangster Rajnish Kumar, alias Preet Phagwara, presently lodged in jail.Peter was also lodged in jail and established contact with Preet Phagwara in the jail. During the preliminary interrogation, Gagandeep revealed that his brother Preet introduced him to Peter Masih and both have started the illegal business of smuggling heroin, following the directions of Preet, and were communicating with each other on the social media platforms.The accused has been arrested in the same case (FIR no 80 dated 31.08.2021) and Section 29 of the NDPS Act has been added in the case already registered at Dhilwan police station, Kapurthala.The SSP said the police would unearth all links involved in this drug syndicate. He added that the police would soon obtain the production warrant from the court from the court and bring Preet Phagwara out of jail for questioning in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-kg-heroin-seizure-gangster-preet-phagwaras-brother-held-306551
04-09-2021||---||RTA Secretary issues 25 challans in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 3Taking strict action against the vehicles plying without high security registration plates (HSRP), Secretary RTA Harpreet Singh Atwal on Thursday launched a special drive to issue challan against such violators.Atwal carried out checking in various points in the city wherein he issued on-the-spot challans against the owners of as many as 25 vehicles plying without high security registration plates.The Secretary RTA said as per state government’s mandate all vehicles must have high security registration plates on them and violation of these directions would attract penalty under the Motor Vehicle Act.He added that the drive would continue in the coming days so that the government's orders are implemented in letter and spirit.In another development, the action against vehicles who have not surrendered their vintage numbers yet was also launched in the city as the Secretary RTA checked several such vehicles. He mentioned that to shun VIP culture and enhance security in the state, the government has banned all vintage numbers. Hence, all vehicle owners need to surrender vintage numbers with the immediate effects.He categorically mentioned that RCs of such vehicles were being cancelled in the district and vehicle owners would not be able to obtain insurance and other facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rta-secretary-issues-25-challans-in-jalandhar-306550
04-09-2021||---||Councillors’ rift stalls infra works in Jalandhar's Model Town, residents suffer||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 3A rift between two Congress councillors has brought the civic work in the Model Town area to a standstill.The matter pertains to the problem of water-logging just outside the Municipal Corporation’s zonal office and installation of inter-locking tiles along the pavements. While the MC councillor Rohan Sehgal has blamed that his counterpart Aruna Arora, in whose ward the site falls, has got the work stopped as she felt that he was interfering in the adjoining ward, Arora alleges that Sehgal was forcing the MC officials to repair only a small stretch of the road side while the work was required to be done end-to-end on both sides of the road.The shopkeepers of the Model Town area near the site shared that in the ongoing monsoon season, the rainwater was getting collected along the road sides and the visitors to the market were finding it difficult to park their vehicles. “While the entire market area is plush, this specific part of the road used to smell awfully owing to water logging. So, we requested the authorities to get the sewer repair work done. While this work was only partially done, it has got stopped midway leaving our problem also half-resolved,” said the owner of a garments shop.Sehgal said, “Though it was not my ward but just out of concern, I got the MC B&R teams moved here for the repair work. I also got the tiling started but just a day before; Arora came in and got the work stopped. She thinks that I was trying to draw mileage for the work, which was never my intention. Now, a small stretch of the roadside stands repaired, while the remaining is still as it is, giving a very wrong impression to the visitors.”Arora, on the other hand, said, “I have no objection to anyone getting development work done in my ward. Everyone is welcome. But the work has to be done in a technically correct manner. The condition of the site was actually bad but it required sewer and tiling to be done from end to end for a proper uniformity, water drainage and leveling of road. If only a small intermittent stretch of road will be repaired, the problem will aggravate for the remaining part. So, I have just told the MC officials to get it done properly from one end to the other.”Both Arora and Sehgal have been on loggerheads for the past many years. While Sehgal owes allegiance to Cantt MLA Pargat Singh, Arora has been an aide of ex-MLA Jagbir Brar, who has now moved to Akali Dal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/councillors-rift-stalls-infra-works-in-jalandhars-model-town-residents-suffer-306549
04-09-2021||---||4 booked for killing youth in Garhshankar||Our CorrespondentGarhshankar, September 3The police have registered an FIR against four suspects, two of them unidentified, for attacking and killing a youth by entering his house in the town on Thursday.Meanwhile, on Friday, some people entered the house of two murder accused by breaking the locks, vandalised their house and took out goods from the house and set on fire in the street. The police reached the spot, but no action was taken till late evening.Twentyseven-year-old Gurpreet Singh Soni was hacked to death by the assailants who entered his house on Thursday morning. The police have registered a case on the statement of Mohalla Jodia resident Harkamal Singh, maternal uncle of the victim, who was sitting beside him during the incident.A case was registered against Gagandeep Dhattu and Bhundi, both residents of Ward No.2 (Garhshankar), and two unidentified assailants under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC. If sources are to be believed, the police had taken three youths into their custody, but the police later denied making any arrest, rather they claimed to arrest them soon.Meanwhile, the family of the accused had gone somewhere after locking the house. In the afternoon, some people broke open the lock of the house of the accused youths and ransacked the goods inside. The unidentified persons took out some items from the house and set on fire in the street.According to sources, some of the angry relatives of the victim were involved in the incident, but by the time the police arrived, the accused had left the scene. The incident occurred in broad daylight in the city.SHO Iqbal Singh and other employees reached the spot and took stock of the entire incident. SHO Iqbal Singh told reporters that no one had been arrested yet. “The police are looking for the accused through CCTV footage and other means, the accused will be caught soon. There has been a minor incident of fire in the house of the accused, but no one saw who ignited the fire and who ransacked the goods. Appropriate action will be taken after the completion of the investigation,” said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-booked-for-killing-youth-in-garhshankar-306548
04-09-2021||---||One dies, 2 catch infection in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 3Two new Covid cases were reported in the district on Friday, taking the total district tally to 63,236. One Covid death was also reported today in the district. The deceased tally has reached 1,494. As many as 61,715 persons recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 27.Hoshiarpur logs 6 casesThe district on Friday reported six new Covid positive cases. With this, the total number of positive cases has surged to 30,738. The number of active cases is 27, while 29,730 persons have recovered from Covid. However, no death was reported today.Kapurthala registers 1 caseOne positive case was reported in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally reached 17,807. No death due to Covid-19 was reported in Kapurthala.No case in NawanshahrNo case was reported in Nawanshahr on Friday. The tally is 11,450 (3.78 per cent). The number of active cases is nine and all of them under home isolation. The death toll is 381.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-dies-2-catch-infection-in-jalandhar-district-306547
04-09-2021||---||Mithapur hockey heroes visit primary school||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 3Hockey Olympians Captain Manpreet Singh, Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar reached their native Mithapur village and also visited Government Primary School (GPS), which has been named after Olympian Mandeep Singh on Friday. The school will now be called Olympian Mandeep Singh Government Primary School, Mithapur.Recently, Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Mithapur, Jalandhar, was also named after Captain Manpreet Singh, i.e. Olympian Manpreet Singh Government Senior Secondary School, Mithapur. Balraj Thakur, councillor, said, Government Senior Secondary School in Lohar Nangal, has been named after Olympian Varun Kumar.The Olympians remained in the school for around one and a half hours and also addressed the school children. District Education Officer (Primary) Rampal was also present on the occasion. He said the state government had given orders to name schools after the Olympians, and thus he welcomed all three of them on the behalf of the Education Department and honoured them.Recently, as per the orders from the state government, a park in Mithapur village has also been taken into consideration to dedicate it to the Olympians, for which a three-acre land has been decided. Mithapur comes under the ward of councillor Balraj Thakur. He has been planning and making proposal for the project. The estimate on the project will be up to Rs2 crore.Today, Thakur also announced this plan from the stage and told about it to the Olympians. He said he would discuss the plan in detail with them, and then would float the proposal in the Municipal Corporation General House Meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mithapur-hockey-heroes-visit-primary-school-306546
04-09-2021||---||Punjab badminton bodies at war with each other over Mohali championship||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 3Citing legal grounds, as many as 12 out of 19 affiliated District Badminton Associations (DBAs) of Punjab have written to the Punjab Badminton Association (PBA) demanding that the State Badminton Championship 2021-22 slated to be held in Mohali from September 15 to 19 be put off.In their letters shot off to Rajinder Kalsi, who has been honorary general secretary of the Punjab Badminton Association and is a Jalandhar-based businessman, the members of the 12 DBAs have questioned his authority to conduct the state event, especially in the light of three civil writ petitions pertaining to the PBA pending in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.They have said that Kalsi cannot hold the post as he was holding it against the constitution of the PBA. “He is 70-plus. His tenure ended on June 2019 and he had himself resigned from the post. He has held the post for 36 years whereas the maximum tenure is of eight years. He no longer represents any affiliated district association, which is mandatory. So, legally he can neither call an event nor ask for payment of affiliation fee,” said the office-bearers of 12 DBAs, including those of Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Pathankot, Ferozepur, Muktsar, Sangrur, Faridkot and Fazilka.In a notice put up on the portal of PBA on August 19, two days after the High Court issued a notice to Badminton Association of India for the formation of ad hoc committee of PBA till the cases are settled in the court, Kalsi had asked all DBAs to send the entries for the state championship and affiliation fee by September 5. The associations have said the last date for the entry had been smartly chosen as the next date of hearing in the HC is September 6. Ritin Khanna, member of the interim committee of DBA in Jalandhar, said Kalsi was just trying to create a rift between the associations and the players, who were getting panicky.In the entire mess, the players across the state are caught up as the last date of sending entries is just two days away and they are apprehending that their future could be at stake owing to the ongoing tussle between the DBAs and Kalsi running the PBA. Kalsi, on the other hand, maintains: “I am still the general secretary of the Punjab Badminton Association as the Badminton Association of India is routing all its communication through me. I have already started receiving the entries and will go ahead with the event. Whosoever wants to participate in the championship is welcome to send their entries. Those who will not send the entries owing to whatever false allegations that they are levelling against me will be the losers.”Kalsi also alleged that some of the letters from DBAs including those from Ludhiana received by him for cancellation of the event had fake signatures.Countering this, Anupam Kumaria, honorary general secretary of the DBA, Ludhiana, confirmed having sent the letter to Kalsi under his own signatures. Kumaria too is of the opinion that Kalsi should gracefully quit the post as he could no longer legally hold the position and let another interim committee handle the PBA working and events till the time the matter remains in the court.Parents of players a worried lotThe parents of the budding players from across Punjab, who have recently won at the district levels, are a worried lot as they apprehend that the chance of their children to perform at the state level could be lost due to the conflict between the district associations and the state. The parents from Jalandhar on Friday met the local association authorities and even approached Kalsi, who resides locally, to get the matter resolved so that their children do not suffer in the ongoing tussle.Will take decision on holding event today: Mohali DBACaught in the ongoing tussle, Ashok Kaushal, president of the host District Badminton Association, Mohali, said: “We will take a decision regarding the event on Saturday. A meeting has been called in and I will discuss all the issues with my association members. There still is some time left. We do not want the players to suffer at any cost.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-badminton-bodies-at-war-with-each-other-over-mohali-championship-306545
