05-09-2021||Jalandhar||Teacher’s Day celebrations||St Soldier Group of InstitutionsThe birthday of Sarvapalli Dr Radhakrishnan was celebrated by St. Soldier Group of Institutions. Teachers paid tributes to Dr Radha Krishnan and remembered him. All teachers were honoured on this occasion. Special arrangements were made for Teacher’s Day celebration at St Soldier Management and Technical Institute. Teachers celebrated the day by singing, modelling,dance and played games. On the occasion, the principals honoured Sangeeta Chopra, vice chairperson of the group for her support and guidance at all times. Chopra, while bowing to all teachers and Dr Radha Krishnan, asked all teachers to feel proud of themselves. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-day-celebrations-306886
05-09-2021||---||Students organise array of activities in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 4Eklavya School, Jalandhar, celebrated Teacher’s Day with fervour. Rajwinder and Gaurav Mehandiratta were the coordinators of the event. Lakshita and Gurneet Kaur hosted the programme. The celebration started with the prayer “We Shall Overcome” sung by senior students. Deepika of Class XI, Manik of Class XI and Tanvir of Class XII delivered the speech on the role of teacher’s in an individual’s life.Neha of Class XI dedicated a song to the teachers. The students gave a token of thanks to all the teachers by presenting them beautiful cards. Sienna and Manisha presented a beautiful dance in front of the teachers. Director Seema Handa, principal Komal Arora and administrator Dimple Malhotra congratulated the faculty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-organise-array-of-activities-in-jalandhar-306877
05-09-2021||---||‘A teacher has to be lifelong learner’||Jalandhar, September 4Every year Teacher’s Day is celebrated nationwide to pay tributes to visionary educator Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. Dayanand Model School, Model Town, commemorated the day by holding a motivational session for the faculty. DAV luminaries Raju Vigyanik, Dinesh Pathik and Sewa Singh graced the occasion. Principal Vinod Kumar welcomed the dignitaries with bouquet of flowers.The session continued with the motivational speech of Raju Vigyanik wherein he strongly asserted that a teacher must be a lifelong learner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-teacher-has-to-be-lifelong-learner-306878
05-09-2021||---||Covid-19: Jalandhar district logs five cases, no death||Jalandhar, September 4Five new Covid cases were reported in the district on Saturday taking the district tally to 63,241 cases. No Covid death was reported in the district today.The toll remains at 1,494. As many as 61,719 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases is 28 in the district.No case, death in K’thalaNo Covid positive case, nor death was reported in Kapurthala on Saturday. The tally of positive patients remained at 17,807.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-jalandhar-district-logs-five-cases-no-death-306880
05-09-2021||---||Security in mind, Jalandhar SSP launches 2nd phase of Safe City project||Jalandhar, September 4After getting more than satisfactory results of the first phase of the Safe City project, which was launched in July this year, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) on Saturday launched the second phase of this project to enhance safety and security in the remaining sub-divisions.In the flagging-off ceremony, SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said in this phase, five high-tech PCR motorcycles and one four-wheeler have been deployed for duty in Sultanpur Lodhi and Bholath sub-divisions.The SSP said: “To ensure round-the-clock surveillance and effective responsive policing, the Kapurthala police have started the second phase of the Safe City project as per our commitment with advanced PCR motorcycles and four-wheelers.” He said in the first phase, we have covered Phagwara and Kapurthala sub-divisions and after the start of this project, good results are coming. Many cases of petty crimes were solved by the district police in a very short time.The SSP these teams would respond to any call of crime promptly or law and order situation within 20 minutes of it being reported.He said these would also help improve traffic management, monitor suspicious people, supervise vital installations, public places for keeping an eye on regular activities and disaster management support.The SSP said now the entire city has been covered through the deployment of dedicated police patrol motorcycles and an effective emergency rural response system equipped with technology and immediate availability of professionally equipped police personnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/security-in-mind-jalandhar-ssp-launches-2nd-phase-of-safe-city-project-306879
05-09-2021||---||Indian Hockey squad felicitated at Jalandhar's Gymkhana Club||Jalandhar, September 4The Jalandhar administration felicitated the members of Indian Hockey squad at the Gymkhana Club on Saturday. The felicitations were accorded by Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and Senior Superintendent of Police Naveen Singla who lauded the team.Captain of Indian Hockey team Manpreet Singh, Hardik Singh, Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar, all hailing from district, were honoured by the district administration. They were handed over the lifetime free membership of the club along with a memento with their pictures engraved on them. Earlier, they were given a rousing welcome by a bhangra team on the tap of drumbeats.Addressing the gathering Deputy Commissioner, Commissioner of Police and Senior Superintendent of Police described it as a red letter day in the history of Indian Sports. They said these players have not only brought laurels for the district but have also made the state and country feel proud by clinching the bronze medal after a draught of 41 years. Thori, Dr Gill and Singla said the medal will act as a stepping stone for the revival of the national game in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/indian-hockey-squad-felicitated-at-jalandhars-gymkhana-club-306882
05-09-2021||---||Make physical fitness part of your routine, says DCP||Jalandhar, September 4As part of the of ongoing ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s independence, ‘Fit India Freedom Run’ was organised in Lyallpur Khalsa College today under the aegis of Nehru Yuva Kendra, Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India.Deputy Commissioner Police Jalandhar Jagmohan Singh and Assistant Commissioner Ojasvai Alankaar flagged off the run from Khalsa College which went up to Jalandhar Cantt and then concluded at the college premises.People from all walks of the life participated in large numbers with great enthusiasm in the ‘Fit India Freedom Run’ organised on the theme of Jan Bhagidari se Jan Andolan.The DCP advised the youth to make physical fitness a part of their life and also motivate others for the same.District Youth Officer Nityanand Yadav said the main objective of this nationwide programme is to keep India fit. He said started from August 13, the Fit India Freedom Run would be organised in 75 villages of the district till October 2. Fit India Freedom run, yoga, exercise and sports activities are a part of this campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/make-physical-fitness-part-of-your-routine-says-dcp-306881
05-09-2021||---||‘Time to Change’: Rurka Kalan lad wins Laureus IWC drawing competition||Jalandhar, September 4Jatin Malhan, a resident of Rurka Kalan, has become the third Indian to win Laureus IWC Drawing Competition after Sachin Tendulkar and YUWA girls (an organisation that works with girls from impoverished families).A student of Class X, the 15-year-old lad studies in Government Senior Secondary School, Bheed Birvansian, Jazzan village. He used the pencil art to draw his painting based on the theme, ‘Unity’.Besides, he also plays as a goalkeeper at the YFC Rurka Kalan training complex. His painting won this year’s edition of the prestigious drawing competition. Malhan’s painting came first in the whole Laureus world-level painting competition.Jatin will now be presented with a special prize and their programme will be supported by a donation from IWC Schaffhausen to help YFC continue their inspirational work. Jatin’s painting will also be printed on the special edition of IWC watch and will be sold worldwide.The IWC Watch Drawing Competition invites participants from more than 250 Laureus-supported community sports programmes around the world to create designs on a given theme. The 2021 edition is built around the theme ‘Time to Change’ – highly suitable, given the changes the world has seen in the last 18 months, and a way for the children of the programmes to channel and manifest some of the challenges they themselves have experienced throughout the Covid-19 pandemic. This year’s three finalists – include entries from Vanshika – a participant from Slum Soccer in Mumbai, India; Ismael from Colombianitos in Bogota, Colombia and Jatin from YFC Rurka Kalan, Punjab.Gurmangal Dass, president of YFC Rurka Kalan expressed his happiness and congratulated him and his family. He said the YFC was always there to help youth and children in every possible way.Focus on covid-19 induced changesThe IWC Drawing Competition invites participants from more than 250 Laureus-supported community sports programmes around the world to create designs on a given theme. The 2021 edition is built around the theme ‘Time to Change’ — highly suitable, given the changes the world has seen in the last 18 months, and a way for the children of the programmes to channel and manifest some of the challenges they have experienced in the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/time-to-change-rurka-kalan-lad-wins-laureus-iwc-drawing-competition-306883
05-09-2021||---||Drag-flicker Gurjit Kaur visits her alma mater Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women||Jalandhar, September 4Drag-flicker Gurjit Kaur, who represented the Indian women hockey team at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, visited her alma mater, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, in Jalandhar on Saturday.Famously known as a goal machine, Gurjit scored a penalty corner, which led to defeat of Australia. As a result, Indian women hockey team reached semifinals for the first time.Gurjit visited the playground where she played during her college days. She interacted with budding players at the college and said, “Life teaches us many lessons. We have to start each day with a positive attitude and remain optimistic to face the challenges.”Members of the Jat Sikh Council were also present on the college campus to be a part of this historic day.Principal Dr Navjot lauded the college management for providing all essential infrastructure for sports. Dr Navjot thanked Prof Sangeeta Sareen and Prof Parminder Kaur of Department of Sports. She also acknowledged the efforts and guidance of coaches Olympian Varinder Singh and Kulbir Singh.Prof Sareen highlighted the audience about the history of the college and recollected the names of various players, including Golden Girl Rajbir Kaur and Lioness of Indian Women’s Hockey Ajinder Kaur. Gurjit motivated the students to work hard and avail all the facilities available at the college to fulfil their dreams. This year’s college prospectus has been dedicated to Gurjit, which was released today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/drag-flicker-gurjit-kaur-visits-her-alma-mater-lyallpur-khalsa-college-for-women-306884
05-09-2021||Deepa murder case||Deepa murder case: Two held in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Two persons were arrested by the police in connection with the murder of a youth in Argowal village of Garhdiwala police station’s area on Saturday. Addressing a press conference at Police Lines here, SP (I) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu said a special team headed by SSP Amneet Kondal was formed to investigate the case. On August 31, Rajinder Singh of Argowal was returning from a gurdwara on a bike around 10:15 am and his cousin Gurdeep Singh, alias Deepa, was on a bike ahead of him. He saw that a Swift car, driven by Jaskaran Singh of Talwandi Jattan, hit Gurdeep Singh’s bike and he fell. After this, the car occupants attacked Gurdeep with sharp weapons and seriously injured him and he died later. A murder case was registered at Garhdiwala police station. The SP said the accused Jaskaran Singh and Hardeep Kumar, alias Ladi, of Sohiyan village were arrested. The Swift car, two illegal pistols, two daggers and two knives, used in the crime, were also recovered. He said after taking the accused on remand by producing them in court, they will be interrogated thoroughly. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deepa-murder-case-two-held-in-hoshiarpur-306885
05-09-2021||---||Jallianwala Bagh: When 101-year-old Ghadarite protested against renovation||Jalandhar, September 4On October 6, 2008, a fiesty 101-year Ghadarite Baba Bhagat Singh Bilga on a wheelchair led a protest in Amritsar against the renovation proposed at the Jallianwala Bagh.On Saturday, the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee, visited the Jallianwala Bagh to ‘verify’ the changes made recently.The Jallianwala Bagh, which was thrown open to public after a gap of more than a year, has angered citizens and historians. The level of alterations has led to widespread criticism of the Centre.Earlier, the comittee had raised serious concerns on January 20, 1978; September 11, 2007; October 6, 2008; Novemeber 1, 2008; June 2, 2009 and August 2, 2021. During the protests held in 2008 against the then UPA government, the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Comittee, led by the revolutionary, along with committee members comrade Vimla Dang, comrade Satpal Dang, comrade Naunihal Singh, general secretary Gurmeet Singh and Amolak Singh were at the forefront of the agitation with student unions.A seven to eight member delegation, including comittee chief Ajmer Singh, general secretary Gurmeet Singh, vice president Seetal Singh and assistant secretary Dr Parminder Singh visited the Jallinwala Bagh today. Gurmeet said, “Baba Bilga led us on a wheelchair in 2008. The Jallianwala Bagh is a symbol and legacy of martyrdom. Our concern in 2008 was to save main entrance from where troops fired on innocent masses.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jallianwala-bagh-when-101-year-old-ghadarite-protested-against-renovation-306888
05-09-2021||---||Power theft: Tailor slapped Rs 5L penalty||Jalandhar, September 4In a raid conducted by the team of the enforcement wing of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), a tailor was slapped a fine of Rs5 lakh for stealing electricity.The owner of the tailoring shop was reportedly running the electricity load through a kundi connection by using a 30-metre PVC cable.Subsequently, the meter of the shop was disconnected by the enforcement wing team due to defaulting amount of Rs1.30 lakh, but the owner of the shop was running the load through a kundi connection by using 30-metre PVC cable.“The shop has a residential portion on the first floor, which was also found being run through kundi connection. While the power load of the shop was found to be 6 KW, the residential portion had a load of 4 KW. Several electrical appliances were found installed in the shop. Enforcement officials also seized the PVC cable. A penalty of Rs5 lakh was imposed on the consumer and an FIR under the Indian Electricity Act-2003 has been registered against the consumer. More such raids will be conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/power-theft-tailor-slapped-rs-5l-penalty-306887
05-09-2021||---||Man nabbed with over 15K intoxicants in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 4Kapurthala police on Friday busted a drug cartel with the arrest of a person carrying 15,520 intoxicating tablets.The police registered a case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act against the accused at Phagwara Sadar police station.SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said police teams were formed under the supervision of SP Sarabjit Singh and DSP Parmjit Singh of Phagwara to control drug menace.The accused has been identified as Sukhdev Singh, a resident of Ajit Nagar, near Park Mini Rose Garden, Ludhiana, who is now living at Bhulla Rai village, near Shiv Mandir, Phagwara, Kapurthala.The SSP informed a police team, led by CIA staff in-charge Sikander Singh near village Bhula Rai on the Phagwara side of the highway, noticed a person with a suitcase in his hand going towards Bhulla Rai village. On suspicion, the police party stopped him and asked him about his name and address and on checking his suitcase, a large quantity of drug pills were recovered from his possession by the police. As many as 15,520 alprazolam and tramadol tablets were recovered from the accused.The SSP further elaborated that during preliminary investigation the accused had revealed that he had brought the intoxicating tablets from Kaliyar Sharif district Roorkee, Uttarakhand, in a suitcase by bus. He bought these tablets from Kaliyar Sharif at Rs 20 per strip and was supposed to sell the same at Rs 150 per strip which amounts to a hefty 23 lakh. This consignment of pills was to be supplied in Phagwara and its surrounding villages, which would make many youngsters addicted to drugs.Giving more details, the SSP said, “The seized intoxicants are mostly pharmaceutical opioids. Many of these pharmaceutical products have legitimate and important medical use; however these products cannot be sold without a valid medical prescription from a registered medical practitioner.”The accused was diverting these intoxicants pills, which are medically used for pain relief and treatment for opioid dependence, for extra-medical use, which can lead to major drug overdose issues and even deaths.The SSP said the arrested smuggler would be produced before the magistrate by the police and their police remand will be sought to further investigate there backward and forward linkage so that further arrest can be made of those who are associated with these smugglers. The entire supply line will be exposed soon and anyone connected with the network will be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-nabbed-with-over-15k-intoxicants-in-jalandhar-306876
05-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur court asks Sukhbir Badal to surrender for bail||Hoshiarpur, September 4The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge, Hoshiarpur, has directed SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal to surrender in the trial court on or before September 13 to get interim bail in connection with a 2009 fraud case against party leaders.Balwant Singh Khera, national vice-president of the Socialist Party of India, had filed a criminal complaint under Sections 420, 465, 466, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC against the SAD leadership.The court of the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate had summoned SAD leaders Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Badal and Daljit Singh Cheema in November 2019. They later moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, challenging the summoning by the trial court. The HC on August 27 dismissed their petition in the case in which allegations of filing false affidavits before the Election Commission (EC) had been levelled against them. Sukhbir’s counsel had pleaded that custodial interrogation was not required and that co-accused Cheema had already been granted bail.2019 fraud caseA criminal case was registered against the SAD leadership, accusing it of filing false affidavits before EC. The trial court summoned Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Badal and Daljit Cheema in 2019. They moved the HC, which dismissed their petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-court-asks-sukhbir-badal-to-surrender-for-bail-306734
05-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Panel visits Jallianwala Bagh, says heritage trivialised||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 4A delegation of members of the Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Committee (DBYC) today raised objections to some alterations at the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial in Amritsar after the recent renovations.Also read:The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeThe committee members said they would send a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Jallianwala Bagh Trust representatives, demanding to restore the historical look and ambience of the Bagh. They also declared an agitation would be launched if need be.The committee said: “In the name of beautification and modernisation, the meddling with the authenticity of the historical facts of the national historical heritage of the Jallianwala Bagh is bound to evoke sorrow and criticism from every serious historian.”The primary objections raised by the committee were: Changes made to the main entrance reduced its tragic effect; addition of a queue of modern machines at the entrance suggested fee might be charged in future; replacing the high platform from where shots were fired with a smaller memorial on the floor; and ‘Amar Jyoti’ moved back from the original spot.The committee delegation included president Ajmer Singh, general secretary Gurmeet Singh and cultural wing convener Amolak Singh. The other objections raised by the committee were the influence of the narrow main entrance and its horrifying spectacle had been replaced with statues of a laughing and dancing crowd going to visit Baisakhi Mela; the marks of gun shots on the walls had been preserved but the historic look of the walls had been changed; ‘Shaheed’ was not written under the portraits of Bhagat Singh, Kartar Singh Sarabha, Udham Singh, etc; Ghadar Party stalwart Prof Barkatullah and freedom fighter Dr Hafiz Mohammed Bashir’s names had not been mentioned. “At least 62 of the list of 406 martyrs released by the British government were from Muslim families, but after an analysis of the light and sound show, one questions why Muslim brotherhood has been sidelined,” they said.Amolak Singh said: “We object to the trivialisation of the heritage commemorating this huge massacre. We will send a memorandum to the PM and Jallianwala Bagh Trust representatives after a meeting at 9.30 am tomorrow.”Objections raisedThe primary objections raised by the committee were: Changes made to the main entrance reduced its tragic effect; addition of a series of modern machines at the entrance suggested fee might be charged in future; replacing the high platform from where shots were fired with a smaller memorial on the floor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/panel-visits-jallianwala-bagh-says-heritage-trivialised-306736
