06-09-2021||---||His work on Educare earns him State Award||Jalandhar, September 5To ease the online study-at-home burden of students during the pandemic, a bunch of teachers developed an app in early 2020. Used for online education across 10 states in the country with a whopping nearly 48,79,783 subscribers today, the app is actually a brainchild of a bunch of Jalandhar teachers looking to ease their pupils’ online study strain.The Educare App, developed by a group of Jalandhar teachers in early 2020, went viral within weeks. One of its founding members was awarded with the state award today for his contribution to education and for the improvement of students’ communication skills.Chandrshekhar, (40) one of the founding members of the app, who was awarded today, said, they had never imagined the response it garnered.It was around May 2020 that the Educare app was developed. Burdened with a steady stream of videos and study material, they were asked to download it on their phones in the beginning of the pandemic. Many students found it difficult to cope with it initially.Chandrashekhar said, “Both the teachers and students found it difficult to handle the onslaught on their phones. There were repeated complaints of phone memories running out. So some of my colleagues and I got together to design an app for the children which comes handy and is easy to use. None of us are from the IT background. We had never imagined the kind of popularity the app would garner.”Within a week of starting it in their schools and then the Jalandhar district, the app already had 5 lakh subscribers. On July 11, 2020, nearly two months after its Jalandhar launch the app was adopted at the state level. The easy-to-use app has takers in 10 other states as well — UP, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu & Kashmir.It is available for all school students for free. The app is such that if a student misses an assignment, an online session etc. they can find everything on the app the next when they log in online.Teachers who developed the app along with Chadrashekhar are Jaswinder Singh, Deepak Kumar, Harjit Kuamar, Haridharshan Singh and Umeshwar Narayan.Chandrashekhar said, “I am thankful that my efforts have been recognised. I am grateful to the Education Department. I think of it as our collective award. We worked as a team and the aim was just to make students’ lives a bit easier.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/his-work-on-educare-earns-him-state-award-307380
06-09-2021||---||Gurdas Maan controversy: Dera Murad Shah devotees block Jalandhar-Nakodar highway||Jalandhar, September 5After members of the Satkar Committee, a Sikh organisation, blocked Jalandhar-Delhi Highway over the controversy related to Gurdas Maan, devotees of Dera Baba Murad Shah in Nakodar staged a dharna near Jagraon Bridge on Jalandhar-Nakodar Highway on Sunday.Also read:They demand that a case of inciting religious sentiments should be registered against Paramjit Singh Akali, who spoke abusively against Sai Laddi Shah of the dera. The police in large numbers reached the spot to pacify the dera supporters, who kept the road blocked for nearly two hours. While the agitators complained against Akali at the Nakodar police station earlier, no action was taken so far.Dera devotee Rohit Sahni told that the police had registered a case against Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan on August 26. “Even as Mann had apologised to Sikh organisations for his remarks. Despite that the police registered the case. After the incident, Paramjit Singh Akali spoke derogatory statements about Sai Laddi Shah due to which the sentiments of dera supporters have been hurt. That’s why we have staged a dharna today,” added Shani.Last week, on August 20, his video had gone viral wherein he was heard saying that the chief of a dera and Nakodar Sai Laddi Shah was from the descendants of Guru Amar Dass, third Sikh master. While, he had posted a video on the social media platform after offering apology over his remarks, the Sikh bodies not only demanded an FIR against him but also his arrest.The Nakodar police had registered a case against Maan under Section 295-A of the IPC for hurting religious sentiments of the Sikh community.Related: Gurdas Maan criticised for supporting ‘one nation, one language’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gurdas-maan-controversy-dera-murad-shah-devotees-block-jalandhar-nakodar-highway-307381
06-09-2021||---||Jalandhar: Potholed Maqsudan-DAV College road poses big risk for commuters||Jalandhar, September 5It’s been over three months that the Maqsudan Chowk — DAV College road has been lying in tatters, yet the civic authorities seem to be looking the other way. It has become difficult for the commuters to travel on the stretch riddled with huge potholes.Area residents say the Municipal Corporation (MC) has failed to take action despite several complaints. “Within days of the first shower of the monsoon, the poor quality concrete used to fill potholes on the road has come off and the condition has gone from bad to worse. Water-logging after rains only adds to the woes. Most of the times, we commute on the road with the fear of losing our balance,” said Arwind Kumar, a student, who often uses the stretch to visit his college.The fractured road clearly lays bare the fact that a poor quality of concrete was being used to fill them up. The sand mixed with gravels has also given way. Even as one side of the road has been repaired and replaced with the cemented concrete, similar re-carpeting is needed on the damaged stretch too.The two essential cuts on the road, first to the Maqsudan bypass flyover and the other to Kartarpur, is home to many industrialists and the army personnel. Two army units, Sacred Heart Hospital and an ECHS hospital also fall on the same route near Maqsudan Chowk. The movement of heavy vehicles and defunct traffic light has made it miserable for the locals to navigate the road.“It is impossible to travel without hiccups on this stretch. Cars are often seen stuck and face damage too,” said Sukhwant Singh, a resident of Nandanpur area, who works at a bank.Area councillor Desh Raj Jassal said the road would be repaired in a few days. MC Commissioner, Karnesh Sharma also assured that the road would be re-carpeted shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-potholed-maqsudan-dav-college-road-poses-big-risk-for-commuters-307382
06-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar teachers feted for going above & beyond teaching||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 5Six Jalandhar teachers were awarded with the State Award in a virtual-cum-online state-level Teachers Award distribution ceremony in which 80 state teachers were honoured by Education Minster Vijay Inder Singla. The six Jalandhar teachers include three senior secondary/upper primary teachers and three primary teachers.The teachers awarded from Senior Secondary Schools include — Kulwinder Singh Gakhal, a science teacher at Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Gakhal Dhaliwal; Chandrashekhar, an English teacher at Government Senior Secondary School, Ladowali Road.Those from the primary schools include Gurvinder Kaur from Government Primary School, Mustfapur; Kewal Singh from Government Primary School, Ida.Admnistrative State Awards were awarded to Principal Bhupinder Singh of Government Senior Secondary School, Mand, and Gagandeep Singh Government Primary School, Basti Mithu.DEOs Secondary (Harinder Pal Singh) and elementary (Rampal Singh) were president to award teachrs who were honoured at the DC office today during the ongoing online ceremony.Know their contributionWhile Chandrashekhar has been awarded for developing the Educare App, Kulwinder Singh Gakhal has been felicitated for the service rendered to his school. The school’s strength during the pandemic increased from 479 two years ago to 600 at present. Gakhal has also been credited with trying to rope in the NRIs to give a fillip to his school. It was only due to his efforts that NRIs’ aid could be used to introduce basic amenities in the school, including printers, computers, labs, pumps and five smart rooms. The school has 24 to 25 rooms currently.Bhupinder Pal Singh, Principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Mand came in to join as the principal at a school in February 2010 which has 350 students and rooms with no basic amenities. The school had no proper toilets, water arrangements, grounds, labs etc. Bhupinder Pal with the help of NRIs changed the school’s scenario — it now being a state-of-the-art school with latest equipment.The school now has 735 students while 20 rooms were added during his tenure and several new vocational subjects were also started. The medical and non-medical groups which just had 12 students now have 64. The commerce stream was started in the school this year. The school students have also won laurels in national tourneys. The principal is also instrumental in raising the enrolments in 22 schools under him by 15 per cent this year alone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-teachers-feted-for-going-above-beyond-teaching-307383
06-09-2021||Nawanshahr||Five felicitated in Nawanshahr||As many as five teachers from Nawanshahr were conferred with State Award on Sunday. Minakshi Bhalla, Headmistress, Government High School, Rakkeran Dhahan; Pooja Sharma, Lecturer, Government Sr Sec School, Nawanshahr; Ashok Kumar, Block Primary Education Officer, Banga; Neeraj Kumari, Hindi Mistress, Government Middle School, Bhangal Khurd, and Baljinder Singh Virk from Government Primary School, Takarala, were honoured for their contribution.They were felicitated at the DC Office today. With Minakshi’s efforts, the school was upgraded to “smart school”. Pooja Sharma, a physically-challenged teacher, was awarded for her dedication during online education.Baljinder Singh Virk has also been honoured for putting in efforts to make his school as Smart School while Neeraj Kumari has been given young teacher award who has achieved a lot in less than 10 years of her service. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-felicitated-in-nawanshahr-307388
06-09-2021||Jalandhar||Blood donation camp organised||Applications for scholarshipJalandhar: With pre-matric, post-matric and merit-cum-means scholarship announced for minorities by the state government, applications have been invited from eligible students. Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal said those willing to apply for new scholarship scheme could apply until November 15. She added that those applicants who have received scholarships during 2020-21 can apply for post-matric scholarship and merit-cum-means based scheme until November 30. She said as per the time table released by the Directorate of Social Justice, Punjab, the applications for scholarships announced by the Centre for six minorities (Sikh, Muslim, Buddhist, Parsi, Jain and Christian) could be sent be students via student national scholarship portal www.scholraships.gov.in. She also said the applicant should provide their current bank details for the scholarship. TNSDC: district leads in e-girdawriJalandhar: Jalandhar has emerged as a leading district in e-girdawri of crops of last year’s Kharif season by making 56.26 per cent of Khasra-Girdawri online, highest in the state. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said a mammoth exercise was initiated for e-girdawri under which entire Khasra-Girdawri records have to be made online in the district. He added that so far entries of 7,61,550 khasra numbers out of a total 13,53,542 have been made online. He said while taking a step further in the direction of digitisation, the state government had ordered e-girdawari of crops for the kharif season of 2020. He said the district administration was working round-the-clock to ensure completion of the task within due timeline. TNSNeeraj Chopra Marg at LPUJalandhar: Honouring Neeraj Chopra for winning Gold medal, Lovely Professional University (LPU) unveiled a special 87.58-m long ‘Neeraj Chopra Marg’— a pathway leading to University’s sports complex. The pathway was inaugurated by Chopra himself, when he visited the campus. The occasion was a grand ceremony of LPU’s 13 Olympic medal-winning students, including Neeraj Chopra, where he was also awarded with Rs50 lakh and a ‘Gold Javelin’ for winning the only and first athletic gold for India at Tokyo Olympics. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blood-donation-camp-organised-307389
06-09-2021||Shiv Jyoti Public School celebrated Teacher’s Day with much fanfare. An eminent educationist and a member of school managing committee||Teacher’s Day celebrations||Edu Secy hails govt schoolteacherJalandhar: Sudeep Jain, a teacher at Saindas Senior Seconday School, near Patel Chowk, was awarded with an appreciation letter from State Education Secretary Krishan Kumar. Jain was appreciated for his efforts to teach students during the Covid-19 lockdown. He had reportedly conducted telephonic classes for students who didn’t even have smart phones. He used to teach English and social science to students on phone. “Some of the students didn’t have smart phones and Internet to connectivity; so we tried to bridge this gap. We had given our phone numbers to such students and provided a 24-hour assistance to them,” added Sudeep. Similarly, Renuka Puri, a teacher of Government High School, Basti Bawa Khel, got appreciation for giving English lessons to students during lockdown.HMV students bag varsity positionsThe students of B Sc (Economics) Semester V of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar got university positions and brought laurels to the college. Nikita got third position by scoring 317 marks and Sapna got tenth position with 303 marks. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated the students, HOD Dr Shallu Batra and other faculty members for the success. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-day-celebrations-307390
06-09-2021||---||2 fresh Covid cases, no death in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 5Two new Covid cases were reported on Sunday from the district, taking the total district tally to 63,243 cases. No Covid death was reported today. As many as 61,721 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 28.All well in KapurthalaNo case of Covid was reported positive in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally remained at 17,807. No death from Covid was reported at Kapurthala.No case in NawanshahrNo Covid case was registered from Nawanshahr on Sunday. The tally is 11,450 (3.76%) and there are seven active cases at present of which seven are under home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-in-jalandhar-307391
06-09-2021||Open House||Learn from mistakes of the past, take proactive steps||Open markets in a phased mannerThere is no doubt that experts panel of epidemiologists have warned about the third Covid-19 wave in the coming months. But the same people have also expressed opinion that impending wave would be less lethal than the previous one. Still the district administration and the public have to be careful and take due precautions to prevent the spread of the coming wave. First of all, the administration would have to be strict about avoiding large gatherings and asking people to put on masks and frequent hand washing or using sanitisers. The markets and bazaars should be opened in a phased manner to avoid crowding in the markets. The police will have to be more vigilant. Also the vaccination drive should be expedited so that more and more people get the jabs. The schools should be opened partially and many students should take online classes. Hotels, bars, gyms should be opened in a selective way to avoid spread of the virus. Students in many schools have got infected with the virus. So, it’s imperative that the school teachers, both in government and private, should be vaccinated at the earliest.JS WadhwaAnnounce lockdown in time to curb spreadThe third wave of the Covid will hit the country between September and October as predicted by an expert panel. The third wave will be more harmful as it will coincide with the festive season. According to an estimate, the third wave is considered to be more dangerous as compared to previous two waves. The government has appealed to people to stay at home in view of the pandemic. According to the government, if one follows the lockdown rules in spirit, then the damage inflicted by the disease can be reduced. During the festive season, people throng markets which can increase caseload. Therefore, the government can announce lockdown in India during the third wave. It is also our responsibility to follow government guidelines and stay at our home.Akshar Kumar SinglaSaving lives should be prime objectiveSince March 2020, we all experienced the tiring impact of lockdowns and stringent protocols due to Covid-19. Various businesses and industrial enterprises had to undergo many ordeals. Consequently, the economy of the nation suffered a lot. Upon some respite from the intensity of second wave, the government has now announced relaxations in the norms undertaken to prevent the spreading of disease earlier. The universities/ colleges and schools are allowed to reopen .The bazaars and restaurants / banquets are back to normal. For safety, all establishments and the general public has been advised to imbibe self-discipline following appropriate Covid behaviour. Contrary to the instructions, however, mostly the people have stopped mask wearing, abandoned prescribed sanitisation and are seen openly flouting the social distancing norms. Currently, the festival season is round the corner. During this period, the markets and public places are abuzz with unusual rush as the people move out to buy new things, exchange gifts and many reach out to pay obeisance at religious places. The inoculation drive launched to jab the entire eligible population continues to be obstructed due to the vaccine scarcity. An expert panel constituted by the NIDM has predicted the 3rd wave hitting the country between September-October. A new variant Delta+ has surfaced at many places and we have to guard against its proliferation. Taking lesson from the past mistakes, there shouldn’t be any room for complacency as the corona is yet not rooted out. Our earnest attention may be focused on expeditious vaccination, and forewarning people of impending threat of third wave during these festivities. The administration must restrict overcrowding and initiate appropriate steps to ensure hygiene and avoid undue social mixing at any cost. All along, saving human lives is our prime objective.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathStrictly follow Covid-safety normsWe should all pray that the third wave does not spread in the country. No doubt, the media is keeping aware the masses regarding the threat of Covid-19 third wave, there are different opinions, predictions and opinions from the specialised doctors in this regard. As festival of Dasehra, Diwali are the major functions to be celebrated with pomp and show, precautions are also necessary. It is the appropriate time to advise, aware and guide the masses to be careful and strictly follow the protocol of safety from Covid-19 third wave even though they have been vaccinated with the second dose also as per the norms. In the monsoon, a number of water borne diseases engulf the masses like diarrhoea, chickengunia, dengue, and malaria etc. The safety measures adopted by us will certainly yield positive results as the masses are becoming careless in adopting the safety measures. Precautionary measures are the only remedy to keep you safe from Covid-19. As the vaccine for children is going to be introduced soon still the care of the school children is much more necessary until and unless they are vaccinated threat is always to them. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare should strictly follow the norms if they feel that the third wave can really upset in coming future, the administration should try to adopt a mechanism to increase the timings of opening of shops in the early morning and late closing so that the people can purchase their items easily.Rajat Kumar Mohindrugovt, public should make joint effortsAmid the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 pandemic and rising cases of Delta-plus in Maharashtra, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh, NITI Aayog’s warning of a potential third wave peaking between October and November is worrisome. Though it may prove to be less severe than the previous one, children will be more vulnerable to the highly infectious newer variant. As school and colleges open, there is every possibility of increased caseload of patients and hospitalisation. It is the collective responsibility of the government and the public at large to deal with the virus effectively. The state authorities should learn from past mistakes and implement appropriate measures to suppress its transmission. They should make advance preparations in terms of paediatric healthcare infrastructure and other medical facilities, and prioritise vaccination among children with co-morbidities. There should be compulsory indoor masking, proper sanitisation, maintenance of physical distancing and randomised testing at educational institutions. In view of the festival season, the local administration should issue fresh Covid containment guidelines, avoid giving any kind of relaxation during the festival season, ensure strict compliance with health and safety precautions and take penal action against the defaulters. People should also realise the seriousness and severity of the disease, follow all SoPs at crowded places voluntarily. The best way to tackle the worst-ever public health crisis is to stay at home unless extreme necessity demands otherwise. Moreover, the district administration should raise awareness by launching sustained orchestrated campaigning through print and electronic media. It should hold regular public meetings, organise demonstrations or marches and distribute brochures and leaflets highlighting the onslaught of Covid-19. Regular monitoring is imperative to ensure its success.Tajpreet S KangNeed for responsible governance nowIndia is still reeling under confronted with the second Covid wave that has caused severe human suffering and loss of life and generated a major economic crisis. With the relaxation in Covid restrictions, resumption of economic activities and opening of public places including educational institutions, life seemed to be gradually returning to a semblance of normalcy. But the constant spurt in positivity and death rates in Kerala, Maharashtra and the Northeast, and the recent prediction made by the National Institute of Disaster management (NIDM) of a brutal third Covid-19 wave hitting the country in the months of September and October that coincide with the festival season has raised fresher concerns. Due to its higher transmissibility, medical experts believe that the country can witness six lakh Delta cases daily and the biggest vulnerability will be the children whose inoculation the government has not yet started. The government should formulate well-thought out, well-planned and visionary strategies to keep the fatal virus at bay. It should update its health system, ramp up vaccination, containment and safety restrictions to improve adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. Though the government has taken multiple steps to resolve and restrain the community spread, people do not understand the grimness of the prevailing situation. Raising awareness about the pandemic is an important measure to battle the ongoing calamity. People should be made conscious of the impending threat through social and print media, radio, television, mobile phones and poster campaigns. The government should seek help from NGOs and social and religious organisations, and host educational and social events for the purpose. Only responsible governance, efficient school administration and responsive citizenry can keep a strict watch on the emergence of new variants and save the lives of coming generations.DS KangUse media judiciously to raise awareness QUESTIONGiven the extent to which citizens are already battling a spate of respiratory diseases amid the pandemic, what should the government do to stop farmers from burning stubble and further aggravating the situation this winter?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 9)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/learn-from-mistakes-of-the-past-take-proactive-steps-307393
06-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court raps Jalandhar court in goods release case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5The Punjab and Haryana High Court has dubbed as “insensitive” the approach adopted by a Jalandhar court while dealing with a plea for releasing merchandise ferried in a truck from which contraband was allegedly recovered.High CourtInsensitive approachThe judge of the Jalandhar Special Court noticed the State’s stand clearly spelt out in its report, but still missed it completely. Suffice to say that the manner/ approach with which the claim/ interest of the petitioner was dealt with was insensitive.The assertion came after Justice Arun Palli’s Bench made it clear that the Jalandhar court imposed onerous conditions even though the goods were never seized by the police.The matter was brought to Justice Palli’s notice after CJ Darcl Logistics Limited sought the revision and modification of the order dated March 26 passed by the Jalandhar Special Court, vide which 840 bags of “ABS Resins” were ordered to be released, subject to certain “onerous” conditions.The Bench was told that the petitioner company was engaged in the business of transporting goods. Its services were hired by M/s Ineos Styrolution India Limited for transporting the bags. But the vehicle carrying the goods was seized by the police in connection with an FIR registered on March 5 under the provisions of the NDPS Act at the Jalandhar Division-2 police station following the recovery of contraband from it. The truck driver, too, was arrested.The petitioner then sought the release of the merchandise as it had nothing to do with the alleged offence and even the police did not require it for investigation. The goods were ordered to be released by the special court.Justice Palli observed the investigating agency’s report before the trial court categorically stated that the goods should be released in the owner’s favour as these were not made case property. The State reiterated the stand before the court.Justice Palli observed it clearly emerged that the goods were never seized by the police, were never made case property, and had no relevance/concern with the trial of the case. The imposition of such onerous conditions in the given circumstances was apparently erroneous and unjustified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-raps-jalandhar-court-in-goods-release-case-307202
