07-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Dalit Sammelan on September 11||He said MP Shamsher Singh Dullo would be present in the function. He said family members of BSP founder Babu Kanshi Ram and Aad Dharam Mandal founder, Babu Mangu Ram, would also be honoured at the function. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-dalit-sammelan-on-september-11-307917
07-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Nurses on strike in Jalandhar; seek better pay, regular jobs||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 6The Punjab Government Nurses’ Association on Monday boycotted all medical duties in protest against non-fulfilment of their major demands, including regularisation of their services and rise in salaries. Under-training staff come to the aidOn a call given as part of a statewide strike by the nurses, the district witnessed a protest by 250 nurses at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. All medical emergencies as well as other services remained suspended for 24 hours as part of their protest. Nurses have threatened to go on mass leave on September 7 and 8 if they are not given the chance to meet the functionaries of the state government.The key demands of the association include the regularisation of the services of all nursing staff, changing the name of the post — staff nurse to nursing officer. They demanded that while they were recently placed in the pay grade C as per the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission, they should be provided grade B.They also demanded Rs7,200 as nursing care allowance for nursing staff. Additionally, they also demanded Rs2,010 as travel allowance and Rs1,800 as dress allowance as per the Central pay grade.They threatened that if the government did not give time to the joint action committee of nurses for a meeting soon, then the nurses would proceed on leave on September 7 and 8.The district has 250 nurses working across the trauma centre, Civil Hospital PHCs and CHCs. All of them remained on strike today. At least 25 of these contractual nurses are posted at the trauma centre. The Civil Hospital has 108 nurses, of whom 83 are regular and the rest are on contract.Kanta Kumari, district president of the union, said, “We have been demanding pay parity for the past many years and have met several ministers in this regard, but to no avail. On January 1, 2006, we had a pay grade of Rs 4,600, in 2011 it was reduced to Rs 3,200 and now after the Sixth Pay Commission, it has been further reduced to Rs 2,800 in 2021. We have been told that it is an anomaly. We demand that we should be put back in pay grade B and our services regularised. We are working on a meagre salary, making it difficult for us to make ends meet.“In addition, despite the high risk work we discharged our duties during the pandemic, we do not receive any special allowances either. We get no risk or Covid allowances. We are expecting a meeting with senior functionaries tomorrow failing which, we will protest for joint leave tomorrow.”As for the inconvenience caused due to their absence from duties, nurses stated that the government and the department had been given prior notice of their strike, hence the government would be responsible for any inconvenience caused to patients. They said the nurses association had repeatedly sought a meeting with the CM and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, but had not been accorded the same. Hence, they were left with no choice but to head for a 24-hour strike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurses-on-strike-in-jalandhar-seek-better-pay-regular-jobs-307834
07-09-2021||In protest against the incomplete report of the Pay Commission issued by the Punjab Government||In Hoshiarpur, nurses submit memo to CMO||They also staged a protest demonstration outside the Civil Hospital. Association vice-president Sharanjit Kaur said the cadre had given priority to their duty irrespective of their health risk to self and their family members during the pandemic.The nurses were forced to take to the streets to make their voice heard by the government. She said as per the joint decision of the joint action committee, all the nursing staff boycotted their work today. On September 7 and 8, all nursing staff will go on mass leave and strike and hold a protest outside the office of the Civil Surgeon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-hoshiarpur-nurses-submit-memo-to-cmo-307835
07-09-2021||---||Punbus contractual workers go on indefinite strike, buses off road||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 6Contractual and outsourced workers under the banner of the Punbus and PRTC Theka Mulazim Union on Monday announced their indefinite ‘chakka jam’ protest. Both the Punbus and PRTC buses remained off the roads throughout the day. The union members said the buses were not allowed to move since morning. Some of the buses were parked inside the depots since midnight. Consequently, bus passengers had to suffer a lot of inconvenience.Passengers, including women, who were stranded on highways and roads had to go on foot to reach their destination The bus stand also remained closed for passengers. However, private buses operated from outside the bus stand.Neither any passenger nor any bus was allowed to move inside the bus stand. The strike was held in protest against non-fulfilment of the demands of the workers.Vikramjit Singh, a contractual worker, who is working in roadways depot-1 said, “It has been many months since we started our protest, demanding a regularisation policy of the Transport Department, but to no avail. “Most of the drivers, contractors and other staff working in the field include contractual workers, yet they are not paid decent salaries. Hence we won’t lift our strike unless our demands are met,” added Vikramjit.Chairman Jasbir Singh of the district union, further stated, neither any passenger nor any bus was allowed to move inside the bus stand. The strike was observed against the non-fulfilment of the demands of the workers.Women, who enjoy free travel facility frequently on roadways buses, had to either take private buses or returned disappointed to their houses. Gurjit Kaur, a resident of Basti Bawa Khel, said she kept waiting for a bus to Mohali for two hours, but could not get any. She preferred to return to her house as private buses were fully occupied.Similarly, stranded passengers complained of overcharging by private buses. Passengers who were stranded near Rama Mandi, said they paid extra to private buses in the absence of roadways or PRTC buses.Some passengers, unaware of the strike, kept on waiting for buses at the PAP bus stand. The protesters said they had been seeking the regularisation of jobs for the past several years, but to no avail. They would gherao the farmhouse of the CM on Wednesday to pressurise the government to fulfil their demands otherwise they would continue their protest.The demands of the workers include immediate regularisation of the workers in their respective departments, fleet of at least 10,000 buses considering free travel facility for women and the population of the state, implementation of the Supreme Court’s equal pay for equal work, repeal the condition of the report and reinstate the employees.Gurjot Singh, a driver, said, as per the law, a contractual worker would have to be made permanent within 240 days of his job. However, their services have not been regularised even after so many years of service. We have been working on meagre salaries, but the government was not taking any action in our favour.There are nearly 250 roadways and PRTC buses in the district, which are affected due to the strike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punbus-contractual-workers-go-on-indefinite-strike-buses-off-road-307836
07-09-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Two with Rs 25L illegal money let off by cops||Four policemen have been booked for extorting money at a high tech naka, equipped with CCTV cameras, set up by the Phillaur police here last night. The accused policemen have been identified as ASI Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Rawalpindi, Kapurthala; ASI Hussan Lal, a resident of Goraya Jalandhar; ASI Kuldeep Singh and ASI Pramod Singh, both residents of Jalandhar. While Hussan Lal and Sukhwinder Singh have been arrested, their aides are still on the run. The four policemen have been booked for extorting Rs4 lakh from two persons at a naka late last night.SHO Sanjeev Kapoor said the four cops stopped Vishal Bajaj, a resident of Abohar, and Jasvir Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran, who were riding in an Alto car (PB08 CZ 6671). During the search, Rs 25 lakh cash was found from the duo. Rather than informing the Phillaur police about the seizure, they extorted Rs 4 lakh from the duo and let them off, the SHO said.The police said a case under Section 384 of the IPC and Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been lodged against the four cops at the Phillaur police station.Amidst 24x7 police surveillance, the act of extortion by cops has raised doubts on the functioning of the police. Meanwhile, the police have so far recovered Rs 3.97 lakh. — TNS Acid attack victim gets Rs1 lakh compensation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-two-with-rs-25l-illegal-money-let-off-by-cops-307837
07-09-2021||---||One fresh Covid case, no death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 6One new Covid case was reported on Monday from the district, taking the total district tally to 63,244 cases. No Covid death was reported today. The toll remained at 1,494. As many as 61,724 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar stands at 26.4 positive in KapurthalaAs many as four fresh cases of Covid were reported from Kapurthala on Monday, taking the Covid tally to 17,811. No death from Covid was reported in Kapurthala today.1 fresh case in HoshiarpurOne new Covid case was reported from the district on Monday. No Covid death was reported today. The toll remains at 981. As many as 29,744 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases is 18 in the district.1 infected in NawanshahrAfter several days, one case was reported from Nawanshahr on Monday. The case was reported from Urban Nawanshahr block. There are seven active cases and all of them under home isolation. The tally now stands at 11,451.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-fresh-covid-case-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-307838
07-09-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||GREEN FINGERS: Her love for plants makes her kids feel jealous||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 6“I love my greens so much that even my children often feel and say that I love plants more than them,” shared Sonu Walia, 43-year-old housewife in a light hearted manner. Sonu has dedicated the ground floor and terrace to nature where she does gardening.She has never had an inclination towards it until she got married and picked up this hobby and interest from her father-in-law, a great admirer of the trees, plants and nature.Enter the house and one could easily get transfixed! There is a sprawling garden where a plethora of plants are kept giving a mesmerising look at the entrance. Also, there is no artificial, but natural fresh grass that increases the beauty. The hard work behind giving the space such a pretty look is visible.Several colourful flowers and different types of plants such as money plant, palms, ficus etc are donning the garden. Earlier, the plants were kept only on the ground floor, but it was around four years ago, when her husband Taranjeet, a businessman suggested rooftop gardening. Many decorative items are also kept along with a huge portrait of Buddha.“I am so engrossed in these that I never even find the need to go out. Whenever my friends visit, they like to sit amid the plants and enjoy the beauty,” she said. There is a proper seating arrangement on the terrace where the family members and friends gather, chill, chit chat and relax their mind.Walia said she along with her mother-in-law looks after the plants and often talk with them. “I make them listen to music too. I feel so satisfied whenever I am around them. I also exercise besides the plants,” the nature lover said, adding that there is no other thing that gives her immense happiness the way her plants do.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/green-fingers-her-love-for-plants-makes-her-kids-feel-jealous-307839
07-09-2021||---||Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana: Jalandhar DC sets target of 2k enrolments daily||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 6Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori on Monday directed all officials to enrol at least 2,000 new beneficiaries daily under the AB-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana in Jalandhar to cover maximum population of the district.Chairing a meeting with the stakeholders here at the district administrative complex, the DC said only with the collective efforts, success in this Herculean task could be achieved. He added Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna could empower people, especially the underprivileged sections of the society with the benefit of the robust social security system. Motivating the operators, the deputy commissioner said the top performer CSCs to be felicitated with cash awards for driving the scheme on a mission mode. He asked all SDMs to personally monitor the progress of this scheme in their respective jurisdictions while exhorting BDPOs, EOs, AFSOs to work in tandem to realise this goal. He stated that mobile camps to be held across the district to enrol beneficiaries at construction or PDS distribution sites.Thori said under the scheme beneficiaries could avail the benefit of cashless treatment up to Rs 5 lakh from various empanelled private hospitals adding the CSCs could play a pivotal role in achieving this goal. He said there are about 200 CSCs in the district and with concerted efforts of each one of them enrolments and e-cards generation could be done easily.The deputy commissioner said that all 13 government health institutions and 57 private hospitals were empanelled in the district.Further, he mentioned that the list of empanelled hospitals and eligibility of the beneficiaries can be viewed at sha.punjab.gov.in.The scheme offers 1,579 packages to the beneficiaries including 180 packages reserved for public hospitals of which 25 packages were referable to private hospitals, said the deputy commissioner.He called upon people to avail the benefit of the enrolment and e-card generation services at Sewa Kendras just by paying nominal fee of Rs 30.The DC said the scheme covers beneficiaries holding NFSA ration cards, construction workers, SECC beneficiaries, small traders, the yellow cardholder or accredited Journalists, J-farm holder farmers, and all PMJAY families (blue card holder families). He also directed all SDMs, SMOs, BDPOs to work in a coordinated manner to make this scheme a mega success in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sarbat-sehat-bima-yojana-jalandhar-dc-sets-target-of-2k-enrolments-daily-307840
07-09-2021||Jalandhar||27-year-old arrested for murder attempt||A 27-year-old man was arrested by Kapurthala police for firing shots late on Saturday night. On the complaint of Tarsem Singh, a resident of Dashmesh Colony, Kapurthala, a case under Sections 307, 447, 511, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against Jaspreet Singh (27) at the Kapurthala city police station.In his complaint to the police, Tarsem Singh said Jaspreet Singh, who is a resident of Shergarh Colony, along with six-seven more persons entered his house late on Saturday night with intent to grab his (Tarsem’s) house. Tarsem alleged Jaspreet came armed with a double barrel gun and a .32 bore revolver.Tarsem said on getting information that Jaspreet had come to his house, he came to his house and tried entering it, but Jaspreet closed the gate from inside. Tarsem said he (Tarsem) then tried to climb it from outside, but Jaspreet first tried to fire at him from the double barrel gun. Then he fired at Tarsem from the .32 bore revolver with intent to kill him. Tarsem said he climbed down and stopped trying to enter the moment shots were fired.Tarsem further said the sound of gunshots woke up neighbours who raised the alarm following which Jaspreet ran away with his aides. On being informed of the incident, Kapurthala police arrested Jaspreet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/27-year-old-arrested-for-murder-attempt-307841
07-09-2021||---||Recruit more patwaris on regular posts: AAP||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 6The district unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday submitted a letter to the DC demanding appointment of more patwaris on regular posts and to not recruit retired patwaris again.Submitting the demand letter, president of the district unit Olympian Surinder Singh Sodhi said many youths in the state are holding protests over unemployment and rising demands for jobs. Thousands of youths have met ministers many times demanding jobs but so far nothing has been done on this front.Mahila Wing president Rajwinder Kaur said in the recruitment process of vacant posts of patwaris, the government was ignoring the unemployed youths. She said at present there are about 8,000 villages in the state where posts of patwaris lie vacant due to which the villagers are facing serious problems. Some days ago the government had released an advertisement regarding 1,090 posts for which 2,33,000 candidates from across the state applied. But the government now was planning to sideline the unemployed with a declaration to appoint retired patwaris on 1,766 posts. AAP leaders said this is a hugely unfair move for many unemployed youths in the state.AAP leaders demanded an increase in the regular posts from the state government and sought a withdrawal on the declaration to reappoint retired patwaris.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/recruit-more-patwaris-on-regular-posts-aap-307842
07-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers set to launch ‘Vote ki chot’ campaign||Garhshankar, September 6In the Kisan Mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar, lakhs of farmers reached and told the Central Government that the farmers are ready to continue the struggle against farm laws in a peaceful manner till the end. Farmers will launch ‘Vote ki chot’ campaign against the BJP in states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab.Chaudhary Yudhveer Singh, national general secretary, Indian Farmers Union, and Harpal Singh Harpura, Punjab president of All India Jat Mahasabha, said to stop farmers, PM Modi and the UP Government used many ‘lousy’ tricks apart from stopping the rails, still lakhs of farmers from all over the country reached the Kisan Mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar and proved that no power can stop them and the intensity of the movement will increase.They said farmers in West Bengal have already conveyed their power to the Centre through their votes. Now, if the Modi government does not repeal the farm laws and does not give legal guarantee of MSP, then farmers will start a campaign against BJP in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and other states under the strategy of ‘Vote Ki Chot’ campaign.They said along with getting the agricultural laws repealed, the campaign will also be against the Modi Government’s ‘anti-people’ decisions causing unrest among government employees. “It will also be against the rising unemployment and inflation. Apart from this, we will also oppose the retrenchment of employees from government departments,” they said.They said that every section of society has come forward to support the proposed Bharat Bandh on September 27 against agri laws. Praduman Singh and Hoshiarpur district president Amarpal Singh Kaka also supported the statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-set-to-launch-vote-ki-chot-campaign-307843
07-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Paralympics medallists get warm welcome||Indian Paralympic Committee chief patron Avinash Rai Khanna welcomed players, Javelin thrower Surendra Singh Gurjar and table tennis players Bhavana Ben Patel and Sonal Ben Patel, who won medals for India at the Paralympic Games held in Tokyo recently.Member of Parliament from Himachal Pradesh Kishan Kapoor was also present at the event held in Delhi, stated a press release. “Due to hardwork of Indian Paralympic players and good sports policy of the Centre Government, today India’s has become one of the leading countries in the field of sports,” said Khanna.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Sports Minister Anurag Thakur also maintained the morale of players, due to which they won medals in Tokyo, he added.Khanna also lauded the announcement of Rs1 crore award for athlete Nishad Kumar from Una disrict (Himachal Pradesh) for winning a silver medal at Tokyo Paralympic Games.He also thanked all states, which announced reward for Paralympic players. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/paralympics-medallists-get-warm-welcome-307844
07-09-2021||Jalandhar||Microsoft selects LPU student||HMV students shine in varsityStudents of BA (Sem-V Pol.Sci.(Hons) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, secured top university positions. Ginni Rana and Shreya Joshi got the 1st position with 89 marks. Reet Nandini and Mannat Sandhu got 2nd position with 88 marks. Tania Nagrath got 3rd position with 87 marks. Suhana and Kriti got 4th position with 86 marks. Ishpreet Kaur got 7th position with 82 marks, Pooja got 8th position with 81 marks and Aastha got 9th position with 76 marks. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated the students, HoD Nita Malik, Alka Sharma and Dr Jiwan Devi.Teacher’s Day celebratedCT World School celebrated Teacher’s Day by paying tributes to the late President, Dr S Radhakrishnan. From reciting poems to dedicating speeches, teachers were honoured in the various ways. In order to express gratitude for all the hard work the educators have put in so far, Madhu Sharma, Principal, CT World School honoured them with awards and congratulated them on this significant day. These awards were based on different capabilities of teachers. Students expressed their love and gratitude to their teachers by organising a special celebration. The school’s choir presented a melodious poem and enthralled everyone with their performance. Madhu Sharma, Principal, CT World School applauded the efforts of the teachers for the commendable achievements of the school.Doaba CollegeStudent Welfare Committee of Doaba College, Jalandhar, organised Teacher’s Day celebrations. Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari was the chief guest on the occasion. He was accorded a warm welcome by Prof Surjit Kaur and Prof Sonia Kalra-conveners, staff and students. Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari said it is important that the teachers and students should focus on emotional quotient and happiness index to achieve success in life as it helps in creating congenial atmosphere around us. He congratulated the organisers of the event. Students organised various fun games. They also presented group song, solo song, poem recitation and group dance etc on the occasion. Students also felicitated the teachers. Prof Kanwaljit Singh, Prof Somnath Sharma, Prof Gurdish Saini, Prof Rajiv Anand, Prof KK Yadav presented a poem. Prof Priya Chopra conducted the stage.Five generations of teachers at DAVHoshiarpur: Five generations of teachers and students celebrated Teacher’s Day at DAV College, Hoshiarpur, under the patronage of college Principal Dr Vinay Kumar. Principal DL Anand and Prof RM Bhalla, the first generation teachers in DAV College were honoured by Prof Pooja Vashisht, HoD English, who was their student three decades ago. Dr Pankaj Sharma, the third generation teacher who’s an old student of Prof Pooja Vashisht joined in the celebrations. He has also been the teacher of the fourth generation Assistant Prof Sonam Bhatia of the Department of Computer Science. The last and fifth generation included two present students — Ramandeep and Mudita, pursuing MSc (IT). It is mentionable that the first generation teachers, DL Anand and RM Bhalla are presently the secretary and vice-president of the college managing committee respectively.Webinar on e-Content DevelopmentDAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised a national webinar on e-content development on Monday. Tejinder Singh, Producer, EMRC, Punjabi University, Patiala and Dr Vrajesh Sharma, System Manager, Swami Sarvanand Giri Regional Centre, Hoshiarpur, were the resource persons. Faculty members and students from various colleges and universities from Delhi, Haryana, UP, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, and West Bengal participated and interacted actively. In the first session, Tejinder Singh apprised about the planning of the e-content development and highlighted the significance of voice quality, pronunciation, gestures-postures, and modulation of voice while developing e-contents. In the second session, Dr Vrajesh Sharma also made the participants aware of the various forms of the e-contents like- audio, video, simulated, animated, e-books, image, graphics, database, presentations, etc. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/microsoft-selects-lpu-student-307845
07-09-2021||Kapurthala||Kapurthala: Job fairs to start from September 9||Free coaching for jobless youthNawanshahr: The Punjab Government is going to provide free coaching to the educated unemployed candidates to prepare them for the competitive examinations under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission’. A special seminar was conducted at KC Group of Colleges, Nawanshahr, in which about 200 students participated. Harmandeep Singh, Career Counsellor, registered the candidates on the spot under this scheme and gave detailed information about the services being provided by the Bureau. The District Employment Officer Sanjeev Kumar said that for registration in these coaching classes, candidates can contact the bureau on any working day. TNSMan arrested with 1-kg ganjaJalandhar: A man was arrested with 1-kg ganja by the Kapurthala police here today. The accused, identified as Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Sasi Colony, Factory Area, Kapurthala, was nabbed near the Aujla crossing. During the checking of vehicles at the crossing, a man was seen coming from a factory who abruptly hid in bushes near the factory after noticing the police. He was nabbed by the police on suspicion. Upon investigation, he revealed his name and address and 1-kg ganja was seized from his posession. A case under Sections 20, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against him at the city police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-job-fairs-to-start-from-september-9-307846
