08-09-2021||Jalandhar||Student office-bearers appointed in MGN Public School||HCL hires KMV studentSimranpreet, a student of BCA of KMV College, has been selected by HCL as a software developer. Simranpreet has obtained certification in mean stack development. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated her on the achievement. She said KMV always motivates its students to upgrade themselves according to the needs of the 21st century. She lauded the efforts of Suman Khurana, Dean, Placement Cell and PG Department of Computer Science and Applications, for mentoring Simranpreet.Teacher’s Day celebratedThe Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, GNDU regional campus, Ladhewali, here celebrated Teacher’s Day with fervour. Students greeted teachers with gifts and flowers. They also cut a cake on the occasion. Dr Namarta Joshi, Head of the Department, thanked students and said teachers are second parents and it is only parents and teachers who feel proud if the students achieve more than them. She felt that even in pandemic, teachers did not break this bond. Dr Charan Kamal Walia, Sukriti Bahuguna, Savita, Rama Shankar were present in the event.Education seminar organisedThe Jan Kalyan Social Welfare Society conducted an education seminar dedicated to Teacher’s Day at Government High School, Mohalla Kishanpura, Jalandhar. Teacher’s Day was celebrated under the chairmanship of Principal Parminder Singh and president of the society Kirti Kant. Jasleen Sethi, district president, Mahila Congress, was the chief guest at the function. The speaker of the seminar, Rajeshwar Sharma, informed students about the importance of sports and extracurricular activities in overall development and advised them to opt at least one sports to keep themselves fit. Dr Surinder Kalyan, chairman of the organisation, lauded the positive changes made in the school. On the occasion, Madam Kanta, Madam Rajni, Madam Anu Bali, Rajdeep Sumal, Rajinder Sharma, Dr Dayal Arora, Sonia Joshi, Chandan Dubey, Vijay Sabharwal and others were present.Hostel info brochure releasedA hostel information brochure was released at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, on Tuesday. Principal Ajay Sareen apprised that hostels - Ojasvi, Kirti and Pragati - are housed on lush green, secure, vibrant campus of HMV. Amid the Covid crisis, sanitisation of the hostel campus was taken care of and all measures to prevent Covid spread are strictly adhered to, she said. State-of-art infrastructure and latest amenities create the right ambience to provide the best possible stay and possible learning environment to inmates. Furnished AC rooms with attached washrooms is the first choice of the resident scholars, the principal informed. The principal further said that Wi-Fi enabled separate computer lab provided in the hostel help the students to remain technologically connected to their studies. Indoor gym, yoga room, swimming pool, badminton courts and outdoor sports facilities are available to the students for their health. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/student-office-bearers-appointed-in-mgn-public-school-308137
08-09-2021||Against soaring prices of fuels and LPG||Protests continue against fuel price hike in Phagwara||Harnoor Singh Mann, District President, Youth CongressWe will continue to hold protests until the fuel prices are reduced. Auto-rickshaw drivers are finding it difficult to arrange two-square meals a day due to rise in petrol and diesel prices. The rise in inflation has also troubled residents.Harnoor Singh Mann, district president, Youth Congress, said, “We will continue to hold protests until the fuel prices are reduced. Auto-rickshaw drivers are finding it difficult to arrange two-square meals a day due to rise in petrol and diesel prices. The rise in inflation has also troubled residents.” TNSCambridge School shooters hit bulls eyeThree students of Class X of Cambridge International School, Phagwara, clinched gold and one silver medal at the 7th Colonel Sharp Shooters Open Shooting Championship, organised in the district. While Bismanpreet Kaur won the gold medal in the U-15 air pistol category, Mansimran Singh clinched gold in the U-18 open site rifle category. Similarly, Vaibhav Mittal bagged the silver medal. Principal Jorawar Singh, School Chairman, KS Bassi and Chairman of Vasal Educational Group, M Sanjeev Vasal congratulated students and stressed upon importance of sports and extra-curricular for overall development of students.Shaukat Ali wins wrestling c’shipAfter a long gap due to Covid restrictions, ‘Slam Wrestling’ has finally resumed in villages. Similar wrestling championship was also organised in the Nasirabad village of Phagwara with the assistance of gram panchayat and villagers. Budding wrestler Shaukat Ali emerged as the champion in the championship. He was presented with a siropa, a trophy and cash prizes. Farmer leader Harbhajan Singh said the wrestling tournament was started in the village by Baba Gurmail Singh. It was organised every year in the village and wrestlers from across the area participate in it. Notably, the initiative was taken to keep the youth away from drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protests-continue-against-fuel-price-hike-in-phagwara-308135
08-09-2021||---||‘Accord respect to anganwari workers’||Jalandhar, September 7After the Anganwadi Workers’ Union lodged complaints with the Education Department regarding not been accorded ‘respect’, the Education Department took cognisance of the matter and wrote to the District Education Officer (Secondary and Primary), Block Primary Education Officers, and the school principals to look into the matter.The anganwadi workers have been entrusted with several tasks ever since the pandemic started. They were at the forefront to help people amid the Covid crisis. They were even instrumental in distributing ration among peopleThe workers alleged that they are the ones looking after the students studying in the anganwadi centres, but teachers don’t consider them ‘important’ enough and often ‘disrespect’ them. They must accept the role played by us. “If there is any problem, then try to resolve it at your own level by talking to each other,” the communique reads.Nirlep Kumari, one of the workers, said, “Teachers don’t even seek any information from us regarding enrolling the students in primary classes. “The teachers are supposed to discuss with us before admitting students we teach in the anganwadi centres, but they instead reach out to the parents on their own. They don’t even consider it important to ask us anything,” she said.The workers said the teachers give unnecessary orders to them. “We have now sent complaints to the Education Department in writing, after which the circular was released,” one of the workers said. They are also demanding that the anganwadi workers should be given the status of nursery teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/accord-respect-to-anganwari-workers-308121
08-09-2021||Jalandhar||Cheques worth Rs 150L distributed as debt waiver||Former Punjab Youth Congress president and Phillaur Assembly constituency in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary distributed cheques worth Rs 150.34 lakh to 683 landless farmers and agricultural labourers under the Punjab Government’s debt waiver scheme during a function organised at Nangal village here on Tuesday. As many as 340 from Nangal and 343 from Burj Pukhta received cheques worth Rs 72.27 lakhs and Rs 78.07 lakhs, respectively.Vikramjit Chaudhary claimed, “Our government waived loans worth more than Rs 4,600 crores of 5.64 lakh farmers and Rs 590 crores of 2.85 lakh landless farmers and agricultural labourers. We have doubled the social security pension from Rs 750 to Rs 1,500, which would be beneficial to more than 25 lakh persons.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cheques-worth-rs-150l-distributed-as-debt-waiver-308128
08-09-2021||Jalandhar September 7||AAP volunteers hold protest in Jalandhar||The Jalandhar unit of Aam Aadmi Party burnt the effigy of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh outside the District Administrative Complex on Tuesday and also raised slogans against the government.The CM in his 2017 manifesto had promised annulment of power purchase agreements with private firms, but more than four years have passed, no promise has been completed by the CM, AAP volunteers rued.The state government is drowning in debt due to non-cancellation of the agreements, the AAP leaders said. Punjab women president Rajwinder Kaur said the Chief Minister was repeatedly making excuses and running away from cancelling the power deals made by the former government in a wrong way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-volunteers-hold-protest-in-jalandhar-308126
08-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Bikram Singh Majithia attacks Congress||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday said the Congress government had caused a loss of Rs 1,000 crore to sugarcane farmers by refusing to provide a remunerative State Advised Price (SAP) to them on their crop.Majithia attended a function here in Hoshiarpur where Harsimran Singh Harji Bajwa, nephew of former Congress MP Varinder Singh Bajwa, joined the SAD.Majithia said it was shocking that the Congress government refused to increase the SAP of sugarcane for last over four years. “Our farmers have suffered a loss of Rs 1,000 crore. This refusal has not only harmed the sugarcane growers, but also the cause of diversification in the state”. He also explained how the new SAP of Rs 360 per quintal had been announced towards the fag end of the Congress rule knowing well that the money had to be paid next year when the Congress would not be in power. Majithia also announced that the next SAD-led government was committed to paying cane growers an SAP of Rs 380 per quintal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bikram-singh-majithia-attacks-congress-308127
08-09-2021||---||Simarjit Singh Bains to hold protest with victims of Pearl company scam||Jalandhar, September 7The Lok Insaaf Party has announced to hold a protest along with the victims of the Pearl company scam involving 10 lakh people in the state. Party president and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains on Tuesday told mediapersons here that the Pearl Group had sold assets worth Rs 1,200 crore despite the Supreme Court restraints. He alleged that the company had defrauded at least one million people in the state and embezzled their money.Simarjit Singh Bains further alleged that leaders of the Akali Dal and the Congress were hand in glove with top management of the Pearl Group. He said after the case was registered, company’s owner Nirmal Singh Bhangu was arrested and the matter reached the Supreme Court. In 2016, the Supreme Court banned the sale of the company’s assets. Despite this, Pearl had sold assets worth Rs 1,200 crore.Simarjit Singh Bains said 10 lakh families in the state had bought 25 lakh policies from Pearl, valued at Rs 10,000 crore. The total assets of the company in Punjab are around Rs 20,000 crore. The properties are owned by Akali Dal and Congress leaders.“An agitation would be launched to bring justice to people of Punjab who were cheated by the company. This agitation would be started after the farmers’ agitation ends successfully. He said after coming to power, those swindled by Pearl, would be compensated with interest,” added Bains. MLA Balwinder Singh, district president Jasveer Singh Bagga, Rahul Sharma, ND Pawar, Mahinder Singh Dangarh, Jarnail Nangal, Harprabh Singh, and others leaders were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/simarjit-singh-bains-to-hold-protest-with-victims-of-pearl-company-scam-308130
08-09-2021||---||Stars of LPU: Rs 25L, 10L cash rewards for Nishad Kumar, Bajrang Punia||Jalandhar, September 7Nishad Kumar, a paralympian who made the headlines recently by clinching a silver medal at the Paralympics, was on Tuesday honoured by Lovely Professional University (LPU). Nishad is doing his graduation in physical education from the university.Similalry, Bajrang Punia, who won a bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics, was also awarded by the university. He is pursuing BPEd from the college.While Nishad was awarded Rs 25 lakh for winning silver in high jump at the Paralympics, Bajrang Punia received Rs 10 lakh for winning bronze in wrestling.“It is a matter of great pride that LPU’s paralympic athlete is part of India’s team of para-athletes which created history by winning the best ever 19 medals for the country, including five gold medals, for the first time. We could not see better Olympic Games where our students created history both in the Olympic and Paralympic Games,” said Chancellor Ashok Mittal.Sangita Phogat, wrestler and wife of Bajrang Punia, also graced the ceremony on the LPU campus. All mentors and coaches of the players, including Naseer Ahmad, Kripa Shankar Patel, Dr Raj Kumar Sharma, Dr V Kaul and others, were present in the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stars-of-lpu-rs-25l-10l-cash-rewards-for-nishad-kumar-bajrang-punia-308129
08-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Five smugglers held with drugs in Hoshiarpur||One booked for abusing minorHoshiarpur: The City police have booked a resident of Premgarh Mohalla for abusing and making obscene gestures at a minor girl after forcibly entering her house. The complainant told the police that he had a dispute with his neighbours regarding the construction of the house. He alleged that due to the enmity, his neighbour, Rajiv Johar, forcibly entered his house, abused his minor daughter and made obscene gestures at her. The police have registered a case against the accused. OCApplications for steno courseKapurthala: The District Language Office, Kapurthala, has invited applications from candidates who want to join a one-year steno course. The course is organised every year by the Language Department. The educational qualification for the course is graduation. Interested candidates can submit their applications with the Jalandhar District Language Officer on the second floor of the District Administrative Complex up to September 14. For more information the candidates can contact the District Language Office on 99882-10590. TNSAgri college work to begin on Sept 13Nawanshahr: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will inaugurate the construction work of the Agriculture College being set up at Kandi Research Center, Balowal Saunkhari, on September 13. The college is affiliated with the Punjab Agricultural University. The project of Kandi area would cater not only to the needs of students belonging to Nawanshahr but also to Rupnagar, Hoshiarpur and other districts. The college would be constructed at a cost of Rs34 crore, of which the first instalment of Rs13 crore has been released. TNSAgent booked for travel fraudHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have booked a travel agent for allegedly duping a resident of Jhungian village of Rs1.4 lakh on the pretext of sending his daughter abroad. According to information, the complainant, Dharmender Singh, told the police that Amandeep Dhawan, a travel agent, took Rs 1.4 lakh from him on the promise to send his daughter Harjot to Canada. He alleged that after taking the money, he neither sent his daughter abroad nor returned the sum. A case has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-smugglers-held-with-drugs-in-hoshiarpur-308131
08-09-2021||---||398 aspirants get job letters in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 7Under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission, two job fairs were organised by the district administration at the BDPO office, Jalandhar West and Mehatpur.As many as 398 unemployed youth today got job placements during these camps. As many as 451 job aspirants took part in both the camps of which 398 were selected by the companies.A total of 13 companies participated in the job fairs. In placement camp at the BDPO West’s office, as many as 167 youths were selected for the jobs while 231 got job offers at Mehatpur.Job aspirants can also contact on 90569-20100 for further information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/398-aspirants-get-job-letters-in-jalandhar-308132
08-09-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Covid heat: Teaching kids with special abilities a tough job now||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 7“When other students have badly suffered during online studies, you can well imagine the problems special children must be going through and the challenges we are facing,” shared volunteers who teach children with disabilities. The volunteers shared that after the schools have reopened, it has become difficult for them to handle such children.There are 153 cerebral palsy-afflicted students in Jalandhar, while 176 are hearing impaired and 895 face mental disability. In Nawanshahr, there are 985 children with special needs. Several problems were faced by the parents and these children during the online classes because they were not able to learn or understand things the way they used to do in physical classes. But just as teachers have seen changes in other students, children with special needs have been showing changes in their attitude too.Nawanshahr district special educator Narinder Kaur said as per the reports from various schools in the district, all hard work behind these students has gone wasted as they do not remember whatever we taught.Sweetie, one of the volunteers from Jalandhar, said it had become more difficult to handle the children. “They have forgot everything. It is like we are restarting everything. These kids have become irritated and it is very difficult to make them sit at one place. Obviously, they remained at home for more than a year and it will take some time for them to get back on track. I hope to see some improvement in coming days,” she said.Kuldeep, one of the Inclusive Education Resource Teachers from Nawanshahr, also expressed the same emotion. He said: “Earlier they would at least write their names perfectly, but now they cannot do it anymore. Parents cannot teach the way we teach these students, which is why this problem has risen. Education has definitely suffered. But I have seen that they enjoy coming to school, because here they meet other students too, and thus now it will definitely help in their growth,” he said.Volunteers working under the “Inclusive Education for Disabled” initiative say teaching such students requires the use of various props and sign language, but that was very difficult to do via online mode. Parents also shared that they were noticing behavioural changes among their children during the online classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-heat-teaching-kids-with-special-abilities-a-tough-job-now-308133
08-09-2021||---||Jalandhar: Demands ‘fulfilled’, nurses back on duty||Jalandhar, September 7Following the call given as part of a statewide strike by the nurses, the district witnessed second day of the protest by nearly 250 nurses at the Civil Hospital. However, at around 6 pm, the protesters decided to postpone their strike.As per the new development, some of the demands of the nurses were fulfilled by the Health Minister today, following which the agitators concluded their protest and resumed their duties. Jagraj Singh, spokesperson of the district, Punjab Government Nursing Association, said, “A day after we intensified our protest, Dr Andesh, Director Health and Family Welfare, along with representatives of the association, met Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.“He agreed to fulfill our demands and with immediate effect, four of our demands, including official notice on changing the name of the post (staff nurse to nursing officer), revised pay band of Rs 4,600, issuance of allowances like travel (Rs 1,800), uniform (Rs 2,010) and nursing care (Rs 7,200) and regularisation of contractual staff, would be fulfilled. The minister has sought 10-day time from the association for implementation of settlement orders. Hence, we have decided to postpone our strike to September 20. If the government fails to fulfill our demands, we will resume our protest,” added Jagraj.All medical emergencies as well as other services also remained suspended till 6 pm on Tuesday. Night-shift nurses resumed their duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-demands-fulfilled-nurses-back-on-duty-308134
08-09-2021||---||Stay alert ahead of festive season: Kapurthala DC||Kapurthala, September 7Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, on Tuesday, asked the health officials to stay on alert in view of the upcoming festive season as according to health experts, increase in Covid cases was expected. The DC has instructed the ADC (Development) SP Angra, Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur and all senior medical officers (SMOs) to increase the Covid sampling up to 2,000 on a daily basis against the present 1,600-1,700.The sampling will especially be done in the sabzi mandis and markets as these places witness huge rush during the festive season.To contain the expected third wave in the district, the DC has ordered the contact tracing of all 10 active cases that were reported in the last seven days.The DC asked the officials to ensure adequate oxygen supply. She said 95-100 per cent vaccination had already been achieved in Sultanpur Lodhi while 80 per cent has taken place in Kapurthala. In the district, 4.20 lakh people i.e. 57 per cent of the total population has already been vaccinated. Now the focus is on vaccination of the migrants.2 new cases in JalThe district on Tuesday reported two new Covid cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 63,246. The number of active cases has risen to 27. However, no death due to Covid was reported. In Nawanshahr, two fresh Covid cases were reported on Tuesday. One case was reported from Mukandpur and Balachaur each. A day after Kapurthala recorded four positive cases, no case was reported on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stay-alert-ahead-of-festive-season-kapurthala-dc-308136
08-09-2021||---||Anticipatory bail plea of Gurdas Maan rejected||Jalandhar, September 7Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan on Tuesday was denied anticipatory bail in the case of objectionable remarks made during a religious fair at Dera Baba Murad Shah in Nakodar last month. Maan had described Ladi Shah, who was the ruler of the dera, as descendant of third Sikh Guru Amar Das.Also read:Gurdas Maan booked for hurting religious sentiments of Sikh communityPunjabi singer Gurdas Maan posts video on social media offering apology over recent controversyRaja Warring backs Gurdas MaanFollowing his remarks, Sikh organisations, including the Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee, filed a case against him for hurting the religious sentiments of the community.Subsequently, Maan had filed an anticipatory bail petition in the District and Sessions Court. During the hearing, advocates of Sikh organisations Parminder Singh Dhingra and Ravinder Singh said Mann’s words had hurt the religious sentiments of the community. His remarks caused great resentment among the Sikh community. If Mann stays outside, it could increase people’s wrath, so he should not be given bail.They further added that Mann’s lawyer Darshan Singh Dayal argued that the singer had made the statement by mistake. However, he had apologised with folded hands and released a video of the same on social media. At the same time, the lawyer of Sikh organisations opposed stating that as per the law, such an apology was not valid. Meanwhile, Dayal did not interact with mediapersons.Also read: Gurdas Maan controversy: Dera Murad Shah devotees block Jalandhar-Nakodar highwayThe hearing of the case was adjourned for tomorrow. While Gurdas Maan himself did not appear in the court, his lawyer filed a bail application.Security was also beefed up in the court premises as members of the Sikh bodies had announced to hold a protest if Mann did not appear in the court. In view of this, there was tight security outside the court complex too. Protesters were present in the court in large numbers in the morning. Paramjit Akali said they would wait for the court and then only any further action would be taken.A case under Section 295-A of the IPC has been registered against Maan at the Nakodar police station. The Sikh bodies had earlier blocked the Jalandhar-Delhi highway, demanding the arrest of Mann.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/anticipatory-bail-plea-of-gurdas-maan-rejected-308124
08-09-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Rural health services get a push in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 7With an aim to improve the provision of health facilities to the people residing in rural areas, staff is being deployed at various health centres in the state. As many as eight new community health officers (CHOs) have joined Community Health Centre (CHC), Shahkot, who will act like a bridge between the doctor and patients and will be posted at Tandrust Punjab Sehat Kendras in various villages for easy access to the people.The function of these CHOs is to provide medicines for common diseases like cough, cold, fever etc so that the patients need not travel long distances to reach main health centres. Senior Medical Officer Dr Amardeep Singh Duggal and Block Extension Educator (BEE) Chandan Mishra briefed these CHOs about the work at Shahkot CHC.Dr Duggal said: “We check the patients and treat them. In diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, it is important for the patient to continue visits to the doctors and have medicines on a regular basis. But now, we will check the patients, fix their doses and will send them back. That is when the work of these officers will start. They will do follow ups. We have provided them with every apparatus. They will be giving the medicine to the patients.”Patients used to visit the centre by covering a distance of 20-25 km from their villages, which was getting problematic for them. With the recruitment of CHOs now, it will no longer be a burden for the patients to go to the centre again and again. Telemedicine facility will also start in the block where the newly appointed officers will guide the patients on telephones.These CHOs, who did BSc nursing or BAMS courses, have been posted by the department after giving them training for six months. The officers have been appointed at the Tandrust Punjab Sehat Kendras in Bhullar, Talwandi Sangheda, Kotla Suraj Mal, Kotla Heran, Talwandi Bootiya, Puniyan, Sohal Khalsa and Dhadda Daulatpur villages.The CHOs will also identify suspected patients to prevent non-communicable diseases like diabetes, BP, heart diseases, cancer etc. At the same time, they have been entrusted with the responsibility of proper implementation of other departmental programmes, including monitoring of maternal and child health. For 1000 people, one CHO will be working and will take reports from those suffering from various ailments.Briefing the community health officers about their responsibilities and departmental structure, BEE Chandan Mishra said ASHA workers, ANMs and multipurpose health workers at the village level were already providing health services to the people and CHOs would help in improving the services. He also asked the CHOs to interact with sarpanches, anganwadi workers and representatives of other departments so that they can know the health needs of different villages.Patients no longer have to travel long distances||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rural-health-services-get-a-push-in-jalandhar-308118
