09-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar's Talhan Road connects 4 villages, but hasn’t been repaired even once||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 8Commuters are having a tough time while driving through the Talhan Road which leads to the historic Talhan Sahib Gurdwara in Jalandhar. The road crosses through four Jalandhar villages.Constructed seven years ago, the dilapidated road sees heavy traffic due to the substantial footfall at the gurdwara and has not been repaired even once till date. The main connecting road from the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway to the Talhan Sahib Gurdwara the four villages which fall on both sides of the road are Talhan, Salempur Masandan, Pargapur and Dhannowali.“Gram panchayat Talhan sadde pind aun te tuhada swagat kardi hai” reads a sign on the road with Sarpanch Sunita Kumari’s name on it. However, commuters are welcomed with heavily potholed roads filled with water, a sight any visitor would not want to see. The situation becomes worse during the monsoons as deep potholes filled with rainwater pose an invitation to accidents.Jaskaran Singh Johal, president, Cooperative Society, Salempur Masandan, said, “The road was built during the time of Akalis, seven years ago. Since then, no one has bothered to get it repaired. People not just from Punjab but from across other states come to visit Talhan Gudwara only to be greeted by this road. In the monsoons the potholes get filled with water and pose danger to commuters. There is also a nursing institute and a dera up ahead on the road. It is a huge nightmare to these hundreds of commuters.”Residents also said while some locals filled up some potholes with mud and rubble from construction sites to fill up the potholes these have been washed off in the rains making these stretches all the more uneven.Area councillor Sunita Rani said, “The work on interlocking tiles was started near the gurdwara but couldn’t be completed due to some reasons. The road is under PWD and not directly under the village panchayat. Hence, the works will be started by the PWD. We have take up the issue repeatedly and have been told the work on the road will be started in November.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-talhan-road-connects-4-villages-but-hasnt-been-repaired-even-once-308737
09-09-2021||---||Punbus, PRTC staff strike continues, Roadways suffering Rs 18-lakh loss daily||Jalandhar, September 8On the third day of their strike, contractual and outsourced workers under the banner of the Punbus and PRTC Theka Mulazim Union, held a rally in the city on Wednesday.Agitating workers today announced to keep the bus stand closed for passengers and private buses for two hours from Thursday onwards.As per estimates, Jalandhar-I depot and Jalandhar-II depot, which has a fleet of over 200 buses, have been suffering a financial loss of nine lakh (each) daily. The protesters remained adamant as the state government refused to accept their demands.The most affected include women passengers, who had been been commuting for free in the state-owned buses for the last six months as they now need to travel on private buses.Gurpreet Singh, who is a contractual worker, said, “Subsequent meetings with the department concerned have proved futile. Instead, the government has issued notice to remove us. We will intensify our protest and block highways.”Members of the union announced to hold chakka jam on Monday morning. Both Punbus and PRTC buses remained off road throughout the day today. The protesters said buses would not be allowed to move as long as their pending demands were not accepted.Vikramjit Singh, a contractual staff worker, said it’s been months since we began protesting and sought regularisation. “Most drivers, conductors and workers, include contractual workers who are not paid decent salaries. Hence, we will not end protest unless our demands are met,” he said.The key demands of the contractual workers include immediate regularisation, and a fleet of at least 10,000 buses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punbus-prtc-staff-strike-continues-roadways-suffering-rs-18-lakh-loss-daily-308738
09-09-2021||---||Scientific literacy proved crucial during pandemic||Jalandhar, September 8More than 100 students and teachers from different educational institutions of Punjab participated in a webinar organised by Science City to observe International Literacy Day. The theme this year is “‘Literacy for a human-centred recovery, narrowing the digital divide.”Giving introductory remarks on the occasion, Dr Neelima Jerath, Director-General, Science City, said this day was observed every year on September 8 to raise awareness on issues related to literacy, which exist within local communities as well as globally. Its aim is to highlight the importance of literacy among individuals, communities and societies.Education and knowledge empowers individuals and improves their lives by expanding their capabilities to choose the kind of life they can value. It is also a driver for sustainable development. The average literacy rate of the country is 74.8%, which is lesser than the average global literacy rate, she added.She said the pandemic and the response of people to overcome it was a reminder of the critical importance of literacy. The crisis has disrupted the learning of children, young people and adults at an unprecedented scale. Hence, enhanced focus on literacy is more important than ever now, when countries need to reinvent a world of hope.Arul Jerald Parkesh.G, former director, Kerala State of Science and Technology Museum and Priyadarshani Planetarium, Thiruvananthapuram, was the key speaker on the occasion. He delivered a special talk on “Role of science centres in scientific literacy”.During his address, he said science centres could play a crucial role in assessing what information audiences are receptive to, what issues they take action on, and what behaviours they may be willing to change while contributing to development of the nation. Further, he highlighted that visitors to the science centre have a positive experience, most of them recognise a change in the way they think about science and this change represents not just learning new knowledge, but a step toward a change in their relationship with science.Former principal Dr Avtar Singh Dhindsa delivered a talk on “Scientific literacy during the pandemic”. He emphasised the importance of science technology engineering & mathematics (STEM) education to develop the knowledge, skills and identities needed in the fight against Covid and other global health challenges, climate change and more.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, said the digital divide highlights the factors like lack of financial capabilities, opportunities and lack of education in the country. India is slowly rising from the major social concern of the digital divide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/scientific-literacy-proved-crucial-during-pandemic-308739
09-09-2021||---||Dhan Guru Ramdas Langar Sewa Sansthan ensures nobody goes hungry||Jalandhar, September 8What began as a humble initiative to serve food to the needy in government hospitals amid the pandemic, the langar started by Dhan Guru Ramdas Langar Sewa Sansthan has now picked up momentum and is extended to nearly 32 hospitals across the state. For the past two years, the free food service is being served by the society to the poor. In the absence of ‘Sanjhi Rasoi’ that provided food to people in the hospital at just Rs 10, the Dhan Guru Ramdas Langar Sewa ensures that no body remains hungry in the hospital, specially the poor patients and their attendants.“On a daily basis, nearly 500-600 people are offered meals here at the hospital. From offering rajma rice to roti sabji, we make sure that the visitors in the hospital are provided nutritious food. The sewa starts early in morning and remains till 4 pm,” said Davinder Singh, one of the workers distributing langar. He added, not only patients but anyone could have the free of cost meal.The menu of the food usually include breakfast and lunch these days and most of the visitors are acquainted with Dhan Guru Ramdas Langar Sewa Society.Buta Singh, who started the langar sewa along worth his brother, said the service has now spread across various cities. “There is hardly any government hospitals or community health centre in Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar where our mobile teams don’t reach with cooked food. We have 28 mobile vans which are used for langar sewa only. With the aim to offer free food to poor people in hospitals, we started this service. We are giving cooked nutritious food to visitors inside the Civil Hospital. For every district we cook food for nearly 10,000 people. The langar sewa is not limited to hospitals only, we cover bus stand, railways stations and villages too”, added Buta Singh (45), a resident of Hoshiarpur.The cooking process starts early in the morning under the supervision of Buta and large machines are used to chop and peel vegetables and for cooking chapatis.During the lockdown too, the society offered food to lakhs of people across the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dhan-guru-ramdas-langar-sewa-sansthan-ensures-nobody-goes-hungry-308740
09-09-2021||Kapurthala||Mega job fair begins in Kapurthala from today||To provide jobs to unemployed youth, mega job fair will start from tommorow in Kapurthala and continue till September 17.The first two-day mega job fair starting tomorrow will be inaugurated by Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal has called upon the youth to make the most of this fair as over 25 multi-national companies would select the candidates.The first job fair will be held on September 9-10 for two days at the Government Senior Secondary School, Boys, Kapurthala, the second on September 14 at SD College Sultanpur Lodhi, the third at the Ramgarhia Institute of Engineering, Phagwara on September 16-17 and the fourth at the Guru Nanak Prem Karamsar College, Nadala, on September 17.Major companies, including Vardhman, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, Flipkart, Mahindra Tech, Just Dial, Amazon Pay, LIC and IndusInd Bank will participate in the job fair. In this regard Kapurthala ADC SP Angra, along with officials, inspected Government Senior Secondary School Kapurthala (Boys). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mega-job-fair-begins-in-kapurthala-from-today-308741
09-09-2021||---||6 dengue cases in Sept, Jalandhar administration on alert||Jalandhar, September 8As many as six cases of dengue have been reported in the district in the current monsoon season. All six cases were treated at DMC, Ludhiana.The Health Department has been carrying out Friday Dry Day campaign for the past over a month to check the spread of dengue in the district. All these cases were reported after September 2 to the district. Health sources said: “In Jalandhar, around 18 to 22 cases of fever were being tested for dengue everyday.What is surprising is that while six fever cases have tested positive from the DMC alone, no dengue case has been reported in Jalandhar.While a couple of these cases were reported in August, they were referred to the DMC after persistent fever and the Health Department said while referring the patients, they were not even aware that they had dengue as their tests were conducted at the DMC.SymptomsThe symptoms of the disease include high grade fever above 102°F, headache, pain in eyes, general body pains, vomiting, skin rashes, which must be monitored for 7 to 10 days by medical expertsDosDon’tsWater-logged fountain near MC officeThe six cases reported in Jalandhar are from Kartarpur, Nakodar, Chogawan village, Bhargo Nagar, Sodal Chowk and Phillaur.Meanwhile, with many bustling slums and congested localities in the city, the Health Department has intensified hectic drives to clear residential and other areas of dengue larvae.The Health Department has also begun receiving weekly reports from the private hospitals for both dengue and malaria cases.Epidemiologist, Dr Aditya Paul, said: “The Jalandhar Civil Hospital has the capacity to test at least 240 samples per day but currently much lesser fever cases are being reported. We have three kits with 82 to 84 sample testing capability per kit. So far, none of the patients tested from own kits have tested positive.” When asked why all six cases were only from DMC and none from Jalandhar, Dr Paul said, “All we know is that six dengue cases were notified to us from Chandigarh. We are testing samplers regularly in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-dengue-cases-in-sept-jalandhar-administration-on-alert-308743
09-09-2021||---||Jalandhar district logs two Covid cases, no death||Jalandhar, September 8Two new Covid cases were reported in the district on Wednesday, taking the total district tally to 63,248 cases. No Covid death was reported in the district. The deceased tally remained 1,494. As many as 61,727 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 27.1 tests +ve in KapurthalaOne case of Covid was reported in Kapurthala. The Tally reached 17,812. No death was reported in Kapurthala today.Meanwhile, no new case was reported from Nawanshahr on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-logs-two-covid-cases-no-death-308744
09-09-2021||Jalandhar||Rs 40K cash, phone looted at gunpoint||IELTS coaching for defence wardsJalandhar: The District Defence Services Welfare Officer, Colonel Dalwinder Singh, said the Punjab Government had started admission in the coaching center of IELTS (International English Language Testing System) at the District Defence Services Welfare Office, Jalandhar. IELTS coaching in the centre would be imparted to the trainees by a qualified and experienced subject instructor. Veterans, their widows and dependents will be admitted to the IELTS course at the center on priority basis, the colonel informed. Singh further said the course was being conducted at very low fee. TNSADC inspects water projectJalandhar: Himanshu Jain, ADC (D), Jalandhar, on Wednesday inspected the ongoing works of 275 MLD surface water supply project at Jagrawan village, WTP site, Adampur. The project is alloted to M/s L&T Chennai. A total of 54 acre land was acquired for project at Jagrawan village. The project is designed to cater to the population within the MC limit of Jalandhar and to shift source of potable water from ground water to surface water to counter depleting groundwater-tables across state. At the water treatment plant site primary sedimentation tanks excavation and boundary wall construction is in progress. The date of completion of the project is September 2023. TNSMaan fails to get relief from courtJalandhar: On the second and the final day of the hearing, the District and Sessions Court refused to grant anticipatory bail to Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan. Now, the singer has to move the Punjab and Haryana High Court to avoid his arrest in a case related to hurting the religious sentiments of the Sikh community. Mann had made objectionable remarks during a fair at Dera Baba Murad Shah in Nakodar, last month, in which he had described Ladi Shah, who was the ruler of the dera, as a descendant of Guru Amardas. After which Sikh organisations filed a case against him. The sessions court on Tuesday had adjourned the matter for Wednesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-40k-cash-phone-looted-at-gunpoint-308745
09-09-2021||---||Infusing fresh lease of life into scrap||Jalandhar, September 8Stir your garden to life! ‘Gardens speak louder than words’ - says a tag line to the invtiation to sculptor-cum-painter Basudeb Biswas’ newest exhibition.One of the renowned contemporary Indian sculptors, Biswas has collaborated with Virsa Vihar, to exhibit his sculptures between September 8 and 10.Biswas in his ‘Harano Sur’ (lost melody) series explores how scrap material can be brought back to life.The exhibiton displaying sculptures of the national award winning artist developed during the pandemic was inaugurated by Gagan Kundra Thori, Deputy Commissioner, Income Tax Department.Biswas said, “This exhibition is about materials that had once lost their ‘melody’ because they were discarded as ‘scrap’. They have now been resurrected, with a new purpose, identity and a melody. These sculptures feel as if they are talking and infusing life into the surroundings. It’s all about finding a new melody for your garden.”The exhbition unveils the musings and artistic processes Biswas went through during the pandemic. The Virsa Vihar features scultpures right from the entrance to the art gallery.Alok Sondhi, managing director, PKF; Gautam Kapoor, managing director, Radisson Hotel; Purnima Beri, managing director, Leader Valves Ltd; Rajender Kalsi, managing director, Kalsi Group of Industries; Ramesh Mittal, chairman, Lovely Group and Dr Sucharita, pro-vice chancellor, Apeejay Stya University; were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/infusing-fresh-lease-of-life-into-scrap-308747
09-09-2021||---||Rs 10-cr infra push for holistic development||Jalandhar, September 8The Punjab Government has released a grant of Rs 10 crore to the Kapurthala assembly constituency, for the holistic development of villages under the Punjab Nirman Programme. MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh, who started distributing grants to the panchayats at villages Saidowal, Sunnarwal and Dhaliwal Dona for the development works, said, under the first phase, grant worth Rs 8.61 crore has been distributed to 83 villages.While addressing the people at Saidowal, MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh said the Punjab Government had released a grant of Rs 10 crore for providing basic amenities in the rural areas.He said with this grant, construction of concrete streets, sewerage, streetlights, parks, cremation grounds, pipelines, gym rooms, interlocking tiles, sewerage lying in villages would be completed within next two months.He called upon the panchayats to make optimum use of these grants and pay special attention towards the quality of work.Besides, he also granted loan waiver certificates to landless farmers. Under this scheme, the debt relief of Rs 5.33 crore would be provided to 2,823 farmers of the Kapurthala assembly constituency. He distributed debt relief certificates worth Rs 15 lakh to 72 farmers of the Gosal Cooperative Society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-10-cr-infra-push-for-holistic-development-308748
09-09-2021||Jalandhar||International Literacy Day observed||Celebrations at Apahaj AshramThe Department of Physiotherapy of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, celebrated World Physiotherapy Day with residents of Apahaj Ashram. The students of ACFA gifted them sweets, other eatables and stationary items. Dr Neeraj Katyal, HoD, Department of Physiotherapy and Dr Nitika Gupta talked to the kids about the necessity of diet, exercise and yoga for healthy life. Dr Neerja Dhingra appreciated the efforts of the Department of Physiotherapy and put forth that these social and humanly activities make our own students good human beings and good citizens. Sakshi Rana and Manpreet Kaur, students of BPT made Rangoli on the occasion.Inter-School Sahodaya competitionAryan Raj, a student of Class IX of CT Public School, has bagged the first position in Inter-School Sahodaya E-Poster making and slogan writing competition in which reputed schools of Jalandhar Sahodaya Complex participated. Students from Classes VI-X were invited to display their digital and artistic skills by participating in this event. The aim of the competition was to design an e-Poster in MS Word on the theme- ‘Affordable and Clean Energy’. Aryan performed impressively and garnered huge applause and compliments from judges. On this note, CTPS Principal Daljeet Rana and Vice Principal Sukhdeep Kaur congratulated the students.Vedic Prachar Saptah organisedHans Raj Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Jalandhar, marked the ‘Vedic Prachar Saptah’ under the aegis of Arya Pradeshik Pratinidhi Sabha, Punjab and Principal Dr Ajay Sareen. Vedic Adhyayan Society and Sanskrit Department held a series of activities. In collaboration with the History Department, a session was organised to update students with the history of the Arya Samaj, the visionaries – Maharishi Dayanand, Swami Virjananda, Swami Shraddhnand, Mahatma Anand Swami. The session threw light on the ten principles of the Arya Samaj and their significance in contemporary society. Mamta, Dean, Vedic Adhyayan Society, Dr Meenu Talwar, HoD, Sanskrit Department and Protima Mander, HoD, History addressed the students. An online quiz was held. More than a hundred students participated in the quiz meant to test students’ knowledge of vedas, Arya Samaj. Shanti-(MA Hindi), Sakshi Sharma-(BA Sem-V), Komal Jangir-(BA Sem-III) and Kirti stood first. Roshni-(MA Hindi-II year), Ujala Kumari-(BSc Comp Sci-(Sem-V), Sakshi-BSc Comp.Sci.(Sem-III) stood second and Preeti-BA (Sem-V) stood third. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen quoted examples from the vedas and motivated the staff and students to excel in their work.GNA students get jobsGNA University grabbed placement in New Swan, one of the leading manufacturers of fine blank, sheet metal parts and sub-assemblies. New Swan has grown steadily under stable leadership, sound business practice and corporate culture that strive to be the best in the industry. New Swan is also engaged in Technical Assistance Agreement with Japanese company Gunma Seiko for manufacturing of Cold Forged parts for Automotive and general industry. Students of BTech Mechanical and Automation Engineering Ranvir Singh, Hari Om Shukla and Sandeep Singh got placements in New Swan Group. CR Tripathy Dean Faculty of Engineering Design congratulated all the faculty members and the placed students. S Gurdeep Singh Sihra, Pro-Chancellor, GNA University, Dr VK Rattan, Vice-Chancellor, GNA University extended best wishes to students. Dr Monika Hanspal, Dean, Academic Affairs, GNA University, congratulated all the faculty members, parents, students and CR Tripathy, Dean Faculty of Engineering Design and Automation for continuously making efforts in providing the latest technologies like AD/CAM/CAE/FDM and PLM to the budding engineers for achieving their desired goals.Stationery distributed among pupilsOn the occasion of International Literacy Day, city-based EduYouth Foundation on Wednesday conducted charity event for students at RK Memorial GM Model Senior Seconday School, Model Town. Notebooks, books pencils, scale, sharpeners, sketch pens, erasers and refreshments were distributed among 250 students of the school. EduYouth Foundation is involved in various other activities, including free langar sewa for Covid patients, plantation drives, distribution of plants and trees, contribution drives for farmers, payment of fees of students belonging to underprivileged families and many more activities for welfare of society. Principal Abkar Singh, Prof Kanwar Sartaj Singh, Vice-Principal Varinderjit Kaur, Parampreet Gill, Dinkar Dogra, Sham Lal, Gurkirat Toor, Ujwaldeep Singh, Gurinder Cheema, Parminder Kaur, Diljot Kaur, Preet Inder Singh, Sunny Lally and others were present on the occasion.School Principal Abkar Singh also encouraged students to complete their education. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/international-literacy-day-observed-308749
09-09-2021||Second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission Gramin (SBM-G) campaign is all about managing waste and making habitations clean||Nawanshahr Diary: Learn Waste management from Kariam village||Going organic: Winter vegetable seed kits @ Rs90Organic farming is gaining popularity among people because of increase in reports of adulterated food items. Mini kits of winter vegetables seeds were released to be distributed among people in the district under the Home Garden Scheme by the Horticulture Department. As many as 2,400 kits will be distributed in September and October. The kits contain nine varieties of vegetable seeds including radish, carrot, turnip, pea, spinach, fenugreek, coriander, broccoli and sugar mustard. The officials said this season was suitable for sowing of these vegetables. Speaking on the occasion Assistant Director, Horticulture, Jagdish Singh Kahma, said the price of this kit has been fixed by the department at Rs90 and the kids could be obtained from the head office or block offices of the Horticulture Department.(Contributed by Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-diary-learn-waste-management-from-kariam-village-308750
09-09-2021||---||Sukhbir Badal granted bail in SAD constitution case||Jalandhar, September 8Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal, along with party leader Daljit Singh Cheema, today appeared in a trial court at Hoshiarpur in connection with the “dual constitution” case against the SAD.The court of CJM Rupinder Singh granted bail to the SAD chief after he furnished a personal bail bond of Rs 1 lakh. He was represented by senior advocate Harjinder Singh Dhami in the court.The next hearing in the case will be held on September 28. Socialist Party leader Balwant Singh Khera, who is the complainant in the case, was represented by advocate BS Riar. Senior Akali leader Daljit Singh Cheema is already out on bail in the same case.Khera said the case was filed against the SAD for adopting dual constitution and keeping people in dark. He said the Akali Dal had declared itself to be a secular party, but it kept contesting elections without making requisite changes in its constitution.Khera filed a complaint against Badal in 2009 alleging the SAD had submitted two different constitutions to the Gurdwara Election Commisson and the Election Commission of India.Complainant’s pleaIn 2009, Socialist Party leader Balwant Singh Khera filed a complaint against Badal alleging the SAD had submitted different constitutions to the Gurdwara Election Commisson and the Election Commission of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sukhbir-badal-granted-bail-in-sad-constitution-case-308528
