10-09-2021||---||27-year-old crushed to death near Maqsudan Sabzi Mandi||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 9The failure of the police and the administration to check the movement of heavy vehicles claimed the life of another resident here on Thursday. In an unfortunate incident, a 27-year-old woman was reportedly crushed to death by a speeding truck near DAV College. A resident of Lidhran village, the victim was heading to an institute for attending her class when she was hit by a four-wheeler from the rear. The victim had returned from England recently and was supposed to get married by the end of this year. Promising young life cut shortIdentified as Tejinder Kaur, the victim was pursuing a professional course in beauty and salon. The accident took place at around 11am when the victim was heading to her salon in Model Town on her Activa scooter. She was immediately rushed to the Civil Hospital where the doctors declared her brought dead.After hitting the victim, the truck driver tried to flee the spot, but was caught by passersby. Local residents said he was driving the vehicle in an inebriated state. His speed was also above the speed limit.Though the traffic police have strictly banned the movement of heavy vehicles on the route from 8am to 8pm, vehicles continue to go down the route without the fear of the law.Despite the presence of traffic police personnel, truck drivers manage to cross the road. After the accident, the police halted the movement of trucks and tractor-trailers on the Maqsudan Chowk-Workshop Chowk route. Trucks remained stranded on the road till 8pm today.Taking cognisance of three deaths due to road accidents that occurred within three months due to heavily vehicles, around two years ago, the Traffic Police had issued orders that the trucks transporting goods between 8am and 8pm would not only be challaned, but strict action would also be taken against them.In the past, a 30-year-old vegetable wholesaler, an elderly woman and a 52-year-old woman were crushed to death by speeding trucks near Maqsudan Sabzi Mandi and DAV College. The trucks were apparently moving on the no-entry route.Trucks coming from different cities and states usually commute to their destinations locations through the Maqsudan-DAV College stretch only. Hindering the regular traffic, around a dozen trucks were made to stand across the roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/27-year-old-crushed-to-death-near-maqsudan-sabzi-mandi-309130
10-09-2021||---||Pash’s birth anniv celebrated where he was shot dead||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 9The birth anniversary of revolutionary poet Pash was observed at his Talwandi Salem village here on Thursday. The birth anniversary celebrations took place at the village tubewell where Pash along with his close friend Hans Raj was killed on March 23, 1988. A Khalistani organisation had taken the responsibility of his murder.The birth anniversary event held at this ‘Shaheedi Tubewell’ today was named after the poem “Main ghaah haan tuhade kitte karaye te ugganga” (I’m grass, I’ll grow over your doings).While the place was decorated with flowers, balloons were also released into the air and slogans were raised to commemorate the socialist poet. Candles were lit at the place as a pledge was taken that Pash’s poetry, which is being celebrated in Punjab and at the farmers’ protests, will be propagated even further across the world.On the occasion, Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee senior trustee Surinder Kumari Kochar also released the book “Pash: Diary and Letters” edited by Amolak Singh. Kochar said there was a lot of inspiration which could be taken by the youth of today from Pash’s intense writings, his commitment to literature and his equivalence between his deeds and words.Pash Hans Raj Saheedi Yadgaar Commitee, Nakodar, convener Mohan Singh Bal; Pash’s brother Succha Singh Talwandi Salem; Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union vice secretary Harmesh Malri; Balwant Singh Malsian from Bharti Kisan Union Ekta Ugrahan; Tarksheel Society representative Sukhwinder Baghpur; Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch President Amolak Singh and workers and Pash ideolgoues from Uddi, Malri, Malsian were present on the occasion to talk about and deliberate on his legacy.Key speaker at the event Amolak Singh and other speakers said Pash’s legacy had always served as an inspiration to build a society of his dreams. The gathering also spoke of the struggle of farmers, labourers, unemeployed and the incarceration and demand for release of writers and intellectuals.They also reinforced the demand for the restoration of the older form of the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial. Rail Coach Factory’s Shaheed Bhagtat Singh Vichar Manch president Amrik Singh, Sunrinder Singh Tony, Sukhjinder Lali, among others were also present.Members of the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee said on September 19, an event will be dedicated by the DBY Trust to Pash’s birthday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pashs-birth-anniv-celebrated-where-he-was-shot-dead-309131
10-09-2021||---||Bus strike: Contractual workers to gherao Punjab CM’s Siswan farmhouse||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 9Intensifying their protest against the Transport Department, Punbus and PRTC contractual workers closed the bus stand from 10 am to 12 noon on Thursday. As a result, passengers had to board private buses from outside the bus stand.The agitators said they would protest outside Chief Minister Capt Amrinder Singh’s farmhouse at Siswan on September 10. As per estimates, Jalandhar-I and Jalandhar-II depot (fleet of 200 buses) were suffering a loss of around Rs 9 lakh daily.The most affected include women passengers who had been travelling for free in the state-owned buses for the last six months. Now, they need to travel on private buses to reach their destinations.The major demands of contractual workers include their immediate and fleet of at least 10,000 buses, besides equal pay for equal work and reinstatement of their counterparts. After the CM announced free travel for women, rush of passengers has increased manifold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bus-strike-contractual-workers-to-gherao-punjab-cms-siswan-farmhouse-309132
10-09-2021||---||Two women arrested with spurious liquor||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 9Two women were held with over 400 litres of spurious liquor from the Ganna Pind by the Phillaur police on Wednesday. The women, identified as Kulwinder Kaur, alias Billi and Surjit Kaur, alias Bholi, were habitual offenders and had been charged in over 30 cases previously.During the raid by the Phillaur police, holes were discovered on the floor, which were told to be rat holes by the residents. However, on an intensive search, the police found a huge box of spurious liquor stored in a basement.The police began to dig the holes, which led to a basement where a huge box of liqour bottles was stored. Both the women have been arrested by the Phillaur police and an FIR under Section 61 of the Excise Act has been lodged against them at the Phillaur police station.The Phillaur SHO said there were at least 21 cases against one of the women and 14 to 15 against the other.Meanwhile, two plastic drums full of lahan were seized by the Jalandhar police today during a raid conducted at a rural home.Kulwinder Singh, alias Kinder (33), a resident of Miani village at Lohian, was arrested in this case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-women-arrested-with-spurious-liquor-309133
10-09-2021||---||SPS Oberoi saves another youth on death row in Dubai||Jalandhar, September 9Renowned Dubai philanthropist and Sarbat Da Bhala Trust founder Dr SP Singh Oberoi has secured the release of another Indian on death row in Dubai. Dr Oberoi has paid blood money for the release of Kapurthala man Sohan Lal, a resident of Jainpur village in Sultanpur Lodhi, who was facing a death sentence in Dubai.Also read: Dubai-based businessman SPS Oberoi claims AAP leaders want him to be party's CM face in Punjab For a noble causeHolding a press meeting here along with Sohan Lal who was reunited with his family members here on Wednesday, Dr SPS Oberoi said during a fight in Dubai on June 9, 2016, a Jalandhar man, Jasvir Singh of Dadha Daulatpur village in Shahkot, had died. Follwing this, the Dubai police had arrested Sohan Lal in the case. Later, during the trial in the case he was given a death sentence for the murder.Dr Oberoi said the case was brought to his notice by retired IPS Sajjan Singh Cheema who met him in this regard. Oberoi said following this, he met the victim’s family and convinced them of securing Sohan’s release on payment of blood money. Oberoi said after the victim’s family’s formal agreement on the issue, he fought the case of undertrial Sohan Lal and secured a pardon for him on payment of blood money five years and two months after he was first sent to prison.Notably, Dr Oberoi has previously secured similar releases of 117 youths facing life imprisonment in Arab jails.He said of the 117 youths, 85 were from Punjab, two from Haryana, three from Hyderabad, two from Maharashtra, 17 from Pakistan, five from Bangladesh and one each from Gujarat, Bihar and Philippines. He also revealed that so far, he had facilitated bringing back bodies of 249 unfortunate people from Arab countries back to their families.Speaking on the occasion, Sohan Lal said he had lost all hope of seeing his loved ones again, but destiny sprung a surprise as Dr Oberoi got him out of the clutches of death. Sohan and his family extended hearty thanks to Dr Oberoi for his generous action.Amarjit Singh, president, Sarbat Da Bhala Trust, Doaba, Satnam Singh Manak, journalist, Sajjan Singh Cheema, retired IPS and AAP leader, Atam Parkash Singh among others were also present on the occasion.Responding to speculations of his joining the Aam Aadmi Party, Oberoi said he had no intentions to join politics or any political party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sps-oberoi-saves-another-youth-on-death-row-in-dubai-309134
10-09-2021||---||1 tests positive, no death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 9The district on Thursday reported one new case, pushing the case tally to 63,249. However, no Covid death was reported in the district.The death toll remained at 1,494. As many as 61,728 people have recovered from the disease, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 27. Of the 16,04,222 samples collected in the district so far, 14,70,153 tested negative. The report of as many as 2,605 tests is awaited. At present, there are 20 patients under home isolation in the district.1 contracts virus in KapurthalaThe district on Thursday reported one more positive case, taking the case tally to 17,813. A 59-year-old man, a resident of Kapurthala, tested positive for the virus. However, no death due to Covid-19 was reported in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-tests-positive-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-309135
10-09-2021||The Youth Football Club (YFC)||Rurka Kalan — Punjab's Mecca for budding footballers||It not just trains youths to compete with the powerhouses of football, but also inspires them to adopt a more active, productive and healthy lifestyle.Imagine 16-year-old girls juggling with footballs and idolising football players such as Lionel Messi and American soccer player Alexandra Morgan in a nondescript village like Rurka Kalan! That’s the magic spelled by the club among the youngsters. Shattering the glass ceiling in its own way, the club has produced many girls who managed to bag seats in various colleges on the basis of their performance in sports.Gurmangal Dass, a resident of the same village, who started the club 20 years ago, is the man behind the transformation. He says YFC’s goal is to empower the under-privileged children and youth to have a sustainable lifestyle rather than getting drawn towards drugs.The club has not just brushed away gender discrimination but also provided a productive channel to vulnerable youth of the region. Giving an impetus to the idea of providing opportunities to the young girls, it has also safeguarded the youths from falling prey to drug menace.A trendsetter||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rurka-kalan-%E2%80%94-punjabs-mecca-for-budding-footballers-309151
10-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||SAD leaders upset over seat-swapping with BSP||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 9In the first murmurs of dissent within the SAD after the seat swap with the ally BSP, senior Akali leader Bibi Mohinder Kaur Josh today said she would contest as an Independent from the Sham Chaurasi seat if need be. She is also planning a rally of party workers in the segment on September 13.The SAD’s decision to hand over the Sham Chaurasi and Kapurthala Assembly seats to the BSP hasn’t gone down well with Akali workers, with some saying the party has handed the seats to the Congress on a platter. Prospective SAD candidates in both the constituencies expressed shock at the abrupt decision.The Congress won both the seats in 2017 Assembly elections. The BSP came fourth on both the seats, receiving only 1,115 and 8,009 votes at Kapurthala and Sham Chaurasi, respectively. The SAD came in second and third on the two seats.No discussion heldWe are shocked to hear the decision. There was no intimation from any senior leader. There is angst among party workers. If need be, I will contest as an Independent from the Sham Chaurasi seat. — Bibi Mohinder Kaur Josh, SAD leaderI’m disturbedI was asked by the party to shift my base from Jalandhar Cantt to Kapurthala. I and my family are disturbed by the decision. I will now focus on my business which I have ignored for 4 years. — H S Walia, SAD leaderSpeaking to The Tribune, Bibi Mohinder Kaur Josh, who won the Sham Chaurasi seat in 1998, 2007 and 2012, said: “We are shocked to hear the decision. There was no intimation from any senior leader. There is angst among my workers.”Meanwhile, in Kapurthala, Akali leaders Paramjit Singh Pamma and HS Walia had been eyeing the seat. Walia had been sticking his posters across streets. Walia, who was earlier with AAP, joined the SAD in 2018. While Walia objected to the party’s decision, Pamma supported it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-leaders-upset-over-seat-swapping-with-bsp-308908
10-09-2021||Phagwara||Declare Phagwara district: Union Minister Som Parkash||After the announcement of Malerkotla as the 23rd district of the state and a proposal to make Batala the 24th, the demand of making Phagwara a district has also started gaining momentum.Union Minister for State Som Parkash has written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to consider the demand of the people of Phagwara and grant district status to it by including Goraya, Phillaur and Behram under its ambit.Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal has also endorsed his demand. Though Phagwara has a MC and is being administered by ADC and SP-level officers, the residents are forced to travel over 50 km to the district headquarters in Kapurthala. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/declare-phagwara-district-union-minister-som-parkash-308909
