11-09-2021||---||Caught on wrong foot: Dengue larvae spotted near Jalandhar MC office||Jalandhar, September 10A day after The Tribune highlighted the issue of accumulation of water by the fountain just opposite the MC building here, dengue larvae on Friday were collected by Health Department teams from near the front of the MC building premises.We have been carrying out sanitary drives across the district, the surroundings have been clean. Heavy rain had taken place in the last two days. We will get all the fountains checked. Fogging has also been conducted in almost 70% of the city. I was not aware of water accumulation near the MC premises. — Dr Shri Krishan, MC health officerThe premises of the Company Bagh was thoroughly cleaned today and dewatered. Dengue larvae were found in a pot right by the MC fountain. While there was water accumulated in the MC fountain well, no larvae were found there. We have also carried out spraying of disinfectants to clear the premises of any kind of larvae. —  Dr Aditya Paul, EpidemiologistTwo samples of dengue were collected from near the MC building. Acting on the reports of insanitary conditions near the MC office, the teams on Friday carried out sampling and spraying on the premises of the Company Bagh where water was accumulated in a non-functional fountainDengue larvae were not found in the fountain, but were present in pots near it where water had accumulated. The drive was also carried out as per the Friday Dry Day drive held by the Health Department. Water was also found collected in tyres, under benches and on the roundabout around the fountain. Algae were found accumulated right on the surface of accumulated water in the fountain and various pots, fountain tanks and fixtures in the area were found filled with water.The sanitary wing of the MC is responsible for carrying out sanitation drives across the city, but apparently officials forgot to check their own nearby surroundings.Staff shortageWhile there are 23 posts of sanitary inspectors in the MC, only seven have been filled yet. Teams have, however, been divided across various areas of the city where they are responsible for carrying out regular drives.Meanwhile, six cases of dengue have been reported in Jalandhar so far. They were reported from Kartarpur, Nakodar, Chogawan village, Bhargo Nagar, Sodal Chowk and Phillaur. While the six confirmed dengue cases were reported at the DMC, Ludhiana, the Health Department intimated that during September and August, health teams had collected as many as 37 samples of suspected dengue patients in the district.Of the 37 Jalandhar samples, taken in the months of August and September, none came back positive. Of the 37, 29 are government samples while eight are private.Dry Day FridayIn its regular action on dengue prevention in the district, the Health Department also carried out Dry Day Friday drives elsewhere. Various district fountains, basti and other areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/caught-on-wrong-foot-dengue-larvae-spotted-near-jalandhar-mc-office-309681
11-09-2021||---||Jalandhar Meritorious School teachers protest, demand regular jobs||Jalandhar, September 10Teachers of the Meritorious School, Jalandhar, today staged a protest outside the DC office, Jalandhar, demanding regularisation of jobs amid rain.In the absence of the DC, they handed over the demand letter addressed to CM Capt Amarinder Singh to SDM Harpreet Singh Atwal.Union district president Vikas Puri said in a meeting with government representatives, officials have conceded that their demand of job regularisation was genuine and will be acted on soon. However, they said the government was adotping delaying tactics on the issue now.Teachers said on Janmashtami, teachers of Meritorious Schools had marched in Ludhiana in support of their demands and some of them were lathicharged also. As a result, many teachers have suffered injuries.On the occasion, teachers, namely, Vikas Puri, Prabhjot kaur, Sakshi Julka, Priya, Rajni, Javish Kuamr, Sushil Kumar, Nikhil Hans, Amit Kumar, Bakraj Kumar, Narinder Kumar, Meenakshi, Payal Minhas, Gurvinder Singh among others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-meritorious-school-teachers-protest-demand-regular-jobs-309682
11-09-2021||---||Pulse polio campaign from Sept 26 to 28||Jalandhar, September 10As many as 1,31,761 children in the age group of 0-5 years will be administered polio drops during the upcoming migratory pulse polio campaign from September 26 to 28.A district-level workshop was held at the district training centre on the migratory pulse polio campaign in Jalandhar today. District nodal officer, SMOs (RBSK), block nodal officers, urban medical officers and city area supervisors attended the workshop.During the workshop, District Immunisation Officer (DIO) Dr Rakesh Chopra said under the campaign constituted by the Health Department will visit slum areas, industrial areas, brick kilns, settlements of Gujjars and will administer pulse polio prevention drops to children. Migrant and industrial labour settlements will also be targeted during the drive. The DIO also instructed staff to strictly abide by Covid norms. They were told to ensure wearing of masks, ensure social distancing and cleansing of hands regularly during the drive.During the campaign as many as 13,1,761 children will be administered polio prevention drops. The Health Department will cover 2,90,800 houses in the district where teams will administer polio drops to little children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pulse-polio-campaign-from-sept-26-to-28-309683
11-09-2021||---||Security concern: Jalandhar residents, traders worried over rising crime||Jalandhar, September 10The rising crime rate in the district has upset everyone. Incidents of looting, snatching and murder in the past few months have instilled a sense of fear and insecurity among the residents. In the last three months, two incidents where traders and shopkeepers were looted have made the traders association restless.Recently, the owner of a factory was looted at gunpoint at Suchi Pind in Jalandhar. According to the owner, six people looted him and also opened fire at him, but luckily somehow he saved himself.In July, the murder of Sodal Road-based kariyana store owner Sachin Jain (32) had shaken a large number of shopkeepers.The trader forum has been raising the issue of security in the district. Its members have been questioning the authorities that an industrialist or a trader is safe even in the daytime these days.“We had gone to meet the victim in Suchi Pind with MLA Rajinder Beri. The accused had taken away his mobile phone and cash. But, looking at these incidents, traders and shopkeepers are living under constant fear. The MLA called police personnel to know if the accused were caught, to which the latter said a hunt was on and the accused would be nabbed within a day or two,” said forum member Ravinder Dhir.Another industrialist Narinder Singh Sagoo had also gone to meet the victim. The members said they went to meet the owner because they wanted him to feel secured and safe. “He was so upset and scared. But we ensured that traders were with him in this hour of crisis. This is the time when we all must speak for our security,” the members shared.After the death of Sachin Jain, under the banner of the Traders’ Forum, Jalandhar, the members had demanded justice. Since then, they have been urging the government to provide help to the bereaved family.Notably, the owner of Jain Karyana Store had just left for home after closing his shop when three miscreants reached outside his shop and asked him to give them money. He resisted and in an attempt to foil the robbery, the accused fired at him and fled from the spot. A bullet pierced through his ribs and the stomach, later leading to his death in a hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/security-concern-jalandhar-residents-traders-worried-over-rising-crime-309684
11-09-2021||---||Sikhs still victims of hate crimes post 9/11: North American Punjabi Association||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 10Sikhs are still victims of hate crimes post 9/11 in the US. Satnam Singh Chahal, executive director, North American Punjabi Association (NAPA), said, “Some hate crimes are in the record of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI),but others go unnoticed as victims choose not to register their case in order to avoid harassment.”Chahal said this has been happening due to the identity crisis. He said community leaders were so busy with infighting that they had no time to think about it.He said, “In my day-to-day life, I have also become a victim of hate crime, but I always prefer not to register with the law enforcement agencies hoping that change will happen. Parents of school going kids are also sailing in the same boat.” He said members of the Sikh community were living under fear and feeling insecure.Chahal said Simratpal Singh, who belonged to Tarn Taran, died in custody of the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) at La Paz County Jail on May 3, 2019, but no Sikh organisation other than the NAPA followed up this case.He urged the Sikh organisations in the US and managing committees of all gurdwaras to start result oriented campaign to spread the ideology of Sikh Gurus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sikhs-still-victims-of-hate-crimes-post-9-11-north-american-punjabi-association-309685
11-09-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||New Uttarakhand Governor Lt Gen Gurmit Singh is Kapurthala Sainik School alumnus||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, September 10“Sainik School, Kapurthala, is a place that has taught me everything. The teachers who were there during our times made us what we are today. Those teachers may not be there, but the spirit still prevails. I would definitely visit my alma mater again. There are so many touching memories there,” shared Lt Gen Gurmit Singh, who has been appointed as the Governor of Uttarakhand.In the past too, Saikapians have been rising to great heights in all walks of life, be it the Army, Navy, Air Force or civil services. With Lt Gen Gurmit Singh being appointed the Governor, it is another feather in the Sainik School's cap. I find myself singularly privileged to be the head of the institution. — Col Prashant Saxena, Principal, Sainik School, KapurthalaThe feeling of pride was palpable among the teachers and the principal of the school after the announcement of appointing the school’s alumnus Lt Gen Gurmit Singh as Governor. Gurmit Singh studied at the school from 1967 to 1973 before joining the National Defence Academy.A great debater, amazing sportsperson, academically brilliant, always a topper, and every time an appointment holder, this is how Jawahar Dhawan, Singh’s classmate remembers him. “He was very clear from the beginning that he wanted to join the armed forces,” he shared.Recalling the times he spent in the school, he said, “The school was one place where I learned everything. Every prospective of being a soldier was learned there, be it discipline, drill or sports. The teachers created an environment to prepare us as a future leader.”“A large portion of my service has been spent in terrorist-affected areas,” shared the Lieutenant General who served in Kashmir for a decade from 2005 to 2014. He also led a military delegation to Beijing, Urumchi and Shanghai. Apart from this, he visited Pakistan twice as a part of the delegation for defence-related talks. He also did a training course at the National Defense University at Washington (the US) and Taipei (Taiwan).Lt Gen Gurmit Singh remained a great sportsperson in the school. Expressing his admiration towards sports, “I liked riding, gymnastics and cricket. In fact, the armed forces and sports are interconnected. Games automatically become very important part of your life.”Col Prashant Saxena, Principal, Sainik School, Kapurthala, shared it was a matter of great pride for him. “In the past too, Saikapians have been rising to great heights in all walks of life, be it the Army, Navy, Air Force or civil services. With Lt Gen Gurmit Singh being appointed the Governor, it is another feather in the Sainik School’s cap. I find myself singularly privileged to be head of the institution. It is a matter of responsibility for me because when I see Saikapians doing so well, it reminds me of my duties,” the principal shared his feelings.Lt Gen Gurmit had also visited his alma mater as a chief guest a few years ago to give a speech. MS Bajwa, a maths teacher in the school, still remembers a lecture and terms it as one of the most powerful lectures he had ever heard. “He has got a great motivational power. The way he gave the lecture and the way he motivated the students was exemplary,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-uttarakhand-governor-lt-gen-gurmit-singh-is-kapurthala-sainik-school-alumnus-309686
11-09-2021||---||One tests +ve, no death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 10A new Covid case was reported in the district on Friday, taking the total district tally to 63,250 cases. No Covid death was reported in the district. The deceased tally remained 1,494. As many as 61,729 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 27. Of the 16,08,742 samples collected so far, 14,74,573 have tested negative. Results of as many as 2,452 tests are awaited. There are 20 persons in home isolation in the district currently.2 cases in KapurthalaTwo cases of Covid were reported in Kapurthala on Friday, taking the Covid tally to 17,815. A 26-year-old man, who is a resident of Kapurthala, and a 32-year-old man, who is a resident of ECF Kapurthala, have tested positive. No death was reported at Kapurthala today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-tests-ve-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-309688
11-09-2021||---||Edu needs to be action based: Praveen Saini||Jalandhar, September 10The grand opening of the ‘Pradhanacharya Yojana’ meeting of Sarvhitkari Shiksha Samiti dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur was held at Vidya Dham, Jalandhar, on Friday.The meeting will continue till September 12. The meeting began with the shabad ‘Sadho Man Ka Maanu Tiagau’ dedicated to Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur, which was sung by Vikram Samayal the state training head of the Shiksha Samiti.Prominent academicians and principals from all over Punjab attended the meeting. A total of five sessions were held today in which famous academicians of Punjab participated and in these sessions the principals openly discussed their annual plans.In the inaugural session, Praveen Saini, a retired IAS officer and renowned educationist, said the education of children should be action based and academic topics should be presented to the students through various experiments. He further said that we face many problems and the one who is truly educated also finds solutions to the problems that come his way.Saini, Director, Research and Development Wing, Sarvhitkari Shiksha Samiti, said all programmes should be pre-scheduled and well planned. Regarding the alumni of Vidya Mandir, he said alumni should be called to schools from time to time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/edu-needs-to-be-action-based-praveen-saini-309689
11-09-2021||Jalandhar||ToT event on abrasion tester instrument||The transfer of technology (ToT) of universal abrasion tester was accomplished on Friday between Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, and M/s Prolific Engineers, Noida, Uttar Pradesh.Universal abrasion tester is developed by Dr A Mukhopadhyay, professor, Principal Investigator, Dr A K Choudhary, Associate Professor (Co-PI) and Dr Atul Agnihotri (Research Associate) under the project entitled, “Designing of Fabric Wet Abrasion Tester”, supported by CSIR.The above tester was developed for testing all types of flexible materials such as textile fabrics, leather, plastic etc. under dry, semi-wet, and wet conditions. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tot-event-on-abrasion-tester-instrument-309690
11-09-2021||---||Jalandhar DC calls upon youth to participate in job fair||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 10The District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise (DBEE) has been acting as a single roof solution for job seekers and employers in the district, thus bridging the gap between both of them, said Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori. The DC, accompanied by Jaswant Rai, Deputy Director, Employment Bureau, visited the office of the bureau at the District Administrative Complex and interacted with job aspirants during a placement camp held under the seventh round of mega job fair. Describing the bureau as a catalyst for transforming the destiny of the youth from district, he said besides providing jobs, it has been helping in making the youth self-reliant by enabling them to open their own business. He said the DBEE is helping the youth to become active partners in socio-economic growth of the state.  Meanwhile, the DC also handed over job offer letters to selected candidates by various companies while wishing good luck to them for their career. Congratulating the selected candidates, Thori termed the “Ghar-Ghar Rozgar Scheme” as a game changer, which was aimed at eliminating unemployment from the state by opening up avenues for umemployed youth. He called upon youth to focus on their goals besides empowering them with skill development training being imparted by the state government. Thori further added that under the mega job fair more camps would be held in the district including camps on September 13, 15, and 17 at CT Group of Institutions Shahpur, Janta College Kartarpur, and BDPO office Bhogpur. Several renowned companies would appear in these camps with massive job offers for candidates, he added. He called upon youth to be the creator of their own destiny by joining hands with the government in its Ghar Ghar Rojgar Mission.The DC further urged the youth to register themselves on www.pgrkam.com for more jobs. The Youths can also contact on 90569-20100 for further information, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-calls-upon-youth-to-participate-in-job-fair-309691
11-09-2021||Jalandhar||Maria Montessori’s birthday celebrated at Eklavya School, Jalandhar||Int’l Literacy Day celebratedThe student-teachers of Innocent Hearts College of Education, Jalandhar, celebrated International Literacy Day through virtual reality with 2021 theme given by UNESCO i.e. ‘Literacy for a human-centred recovery, narrowing the digital divide’. Reaching out to the masses for educating them through mass media and spreading the importance of literacy was the main objective of the event. A virtual drama was enacted by the student-teachers with different scenes depicting real-life situations. Ankita Suri performed as the narrator. Surabhi Sharma, Kritika Maggo, Deeksha, Amanpreet Kaur, Kiratpreet Kaur, Ramandeep Kaur, Imandeep Kaur, Richa Dhir and Tanisha played the roles of illiterate and literate individuals. They prepared their own script, composed dialogues themselves, chose appropriate costumes and props, they also added animated backgrounds and joined the clippings of each character. Principal Dr Arjinder Singh said drama incorporates the constructive approach of teaching in which the teacher acts as a facilitator and students construct their own knowledge. The online drama on ‘Literacy is a bridge from misery to hope’ was almost like real drama performance. E-certificates were bestowed to all the participants.Lyallpur Khalsa College TechnicalThe Department of IT, organised a literacy drive with an aim to celebrate International Literacy Day on September 8 to remind the people the importance of literacy as a matter of dignity and human rights. Students of LKCTC took part with vigor and vitality. Students distributed study material to the underprivileged children by their own with an objective to raise awareness and concern for literacy problems. Nidhi Chopra, HoD-IT, Dr Inderpal Singh Hod- Mgt appreciated the efforts of students and motivated them to share the knowledge and help the society. TnS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/maria-montessoris-birthday-celebrated-at-eklavya-school-jalandhar-309692
11-09-2021||Jalandhar||Elderly man hit by bike, injured||1,552 candidates get placementsNawanshahr: The 7th mega employment fair entered its second day in which 703 out of 925 candidates got placed. District Employment Officer Sanjeev Kumar said during the two-day job fair, a total of 1,552 candidates were selected by various companies. He said a mega job fair would now be organised on September 14 at the Sikh National College in Banga and on September 16 at Reyat Institute Rail Majra, Balachaur. He said candidates who have cleared Class X and XII, or are graduate, can participate in the camp actively. The officer said the candidates should bring necessary documents such as eligibility certificate, Aadhaar card, photos and their bio data. “The candidates who want to start their own business are being coordinated with the departments related to self-employment in this job fair. He appealed to the unemployed youth of the district to avail maximum benefits of this job fair,” he said. TNSCamp for special children heldJalandhar: A medical assessment camp was organised at Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Ladowali Road, to provide assistive devices for the children with special needs from 6 to 18 years of age for the year 2021-22. District Education Officer (Elementary) Rampal said Director General School Education Punjab-cum-State Project Director Materials Education Campaign Punjab, in coordination with Alimco, Kanpur, would organise more such camps in the district till September 16. Children with special needs will be given a tri-bike, wheelchair, hearing aid etc. On September 10, the camp will be organised at Government Primary School (GPS), Mill Colony, Bhogpur, while on September 13, it will be held at GPS, Malsiyan, (Girls) Block Shahkot. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/elderly-man-hit-by-bike-injured-309693
11-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Restore Jallianwala Bagh’s old look, panel writes to PM Modi||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 8The Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Committee, Jalandhar, has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also the chairman of the Jalliwanala Bagh National Memorial Trust, expressing resentment and anger over the recent ‘beautification’ of the Jallianwala Bagh. The committee has requested the PM to form a panel of prominent historians to “right the historical wrong” and sought the restoration of the Bagh. Also read The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeMembers of the committee had recently visited the memorial on September 4 after which they raised objections over the recent changes made at the Bagh.Desh Bhagat Yaadgar CommitteeNot a festive placeThe murals displayed on the walls of its entrance remind one of a festival and not of a place where more than thousands of Indians were massacred by the British government.In its memorandum, signed by committee president Ajmer Singh and general secretary Gurmeet Singh, sent to the PMO, the committee sought restoration of the Jallianwala Bagh to its earlier form and layout.The committee members said: “We have also asked the government not to impose any entrance fee for visiting the memorial, as they have constructed booking counters at the memorial.”They said the changes had divested the memorial of its historical heritage and had transformed it into a picnic spot. “The murals displayed on the walls of its entrance remind one of a festival and not of a place where more than thousands of Indians were massacred by the British government. Similarly, the well in which hundreds of people jumped to escape the British, has now been concealed in a glass wall through which almost nothing is visible,” they said. The letter adds, “In the same manner, the rendition of history in the videos has its own deliberate omissions and inaccuracies. The use of the term ‘nationalism’ and avoidance of the terms ‘freedom struggle’ or ‘anti-colonial movement’ is also methodologically problematic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/restore-jallianwala-baghs-old-look-panel-writes-to-pm-modi-308537
