12-09-2021||---||Incessant rain throws life out of gear||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 11The city and its adjoining areas on Saturday received moderate to heavy rain, which started in the morning and continued till evening. Persistent rainfall disrupted normal life in the district, causing waterlogging and traffic snarls. It also exposed the civic body’s lack of preparedness.Several low-lying areas, posh localities and the majority of roads were flooded with water, giving a tough time to residents. People were seen wading through waterlogged roads with many pushing their bikes and others flushing out rainwater from their localities and shops.The waterlogged roads near Lamma Pind Chowk, Damoria Underbridge, Transport Nagar, 66 ft. road, Wadala Chowk, Pathankot Bypass Chowk, Laddhewali Road and others made it difficult for commuters to cross the roads. The roads were scattered with potholes and flowing garbage also made it difficult for rickshaw pullers and auto operators to move their vehicles.Residential areas in Preet Nagar and Sodal remained inundated with rainwater throughout the day. Commuters going from the bus stand and the railway station also faced inconvenience as the approach roads remained muddy and inundated. Long traffic jams at prominent chowks due to rain troubled residents. In most of the under-construction roads, concrete came off.Local residents blamed the municipal corporation and expressed their anger on social media. “Waterlogging on roads and inundated streets is not a new affair during rain. The administration also needs to find a solution to choked sewers,” said Mohit, a resident.In most areas, including government buildings, power cuts added to the woes. As per the local PSPCL offices, hundreds of complaints were received throughout the day.The weatherman has forecast more rain for the next three days. The daily temperature hovered between 20-30°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/incessant-rain-throws-life-out-of-gear-310058
12-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Gadaipur road work stopped amid downpour after uproar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 11The usual answer of Municipal Corporation (MC) officials when someone complains about bad road during the rainy season is, “Let the monsoon be over”.While it is standard protocol not to build roads on moist ground , a video clip of a road being constructed during heavy downpour yesterday had gone viral on the social media.A road roller lays hot tarcoal on the stretch as steam gushes out on the slushy patch being laid by the civic body team. The amount of steam released points towards water trapped under tar, which is being laid on the road.The video of the shoddy work of the MC road construction team was circulated on the WhatsApp by an alert onlooker. Within minutes the area councillor was flooded with calls by local residents and industralists, who wanted the work to be stopped.Notably, the road was being constructed in Gadaipur Market, adjoining the Gadaipur and the Focal Point areas. The stretch is in Ward No. 3, whose area councillor is Risha Saini.Witnesses said senior officials weren't even present on the spot to supervise work. Some vehicles full of material were sent back after the uproar.Over 12 feet log stretch was constructed in the rain, but the work was stopped as soon as residents and commuters built pressure on the MC authorities. Area councillor Risha Saini’s husband Ravi Saini also visited the spot today.Tejinder Singh Bhasin, industrialist and president of the association in the Gadaipur area, said, “Shoddy job is delplorable. No one was there to ask the MC team to stop work. I was flooded with phone calls from people, who complained about the ongoing work in middle of the downpour. We immediately called the area coucillor and got the work stopped.”“We have also asked the area councillor to get the entire stretch reconstructed as the quality of work is bad. The councillor has assured us of the needful,” he added.Narinder Saggu, an industrialist at Gadaipur said, “We believe the MC team came when it wasn’t raining. The rain started while they were working. When the road is moist and filled with water the tar cannot hold on to the surface. The MC team should have stopped the work immediately when it started raining. But they kept on working.”Speaking to The Tribune area councillor’s husband Ravi Saini said, “I called up the SDO and the JE yesterday and also visited the spot today along with them. The road construction work was stopped as soon as we received calls today. Around 13 to 14 feet built-up road will be reconstructed.”“The road construction work has been stalled for now. It will resume after rain subsides. It will be completed only under proper supervision,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gadaipur-road-work-stopped-amid-downpour-after-uproar-310060
12-09-2021||---||11 test positive, no death in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 11In a significant single-day rise in Covid cases, 11 persons were found infected on Saturday in the district, taking the total district tally to 63,261 cases.No Covid death was reported today in the district. The deceased tally remained at 1,494. As many as 61,735 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 32. Of the 16,12,908 samples collected in the district so far, 14,78,947 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,959 tests are yet awaited. There are 15 people in home isolation in the district currently.5 test +ve in KapurthalaAs many as five cases of Covid were reported from Kapurthala today, taking the tally to 17,820. No death was reported in Kapurthala. So far, there are 17,251 people who have recovered from Covid in Kapurthala. There are 15 active cases of Covid in the district and one person was also discharged today after recovery from Covid. No Covid case or death was reported at Nawanshahr today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-test-positive-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-310061
12-09-2021||Ajay Joshi||When the going got tough, they took to the wheels||Tribune New ServiceJalandhar, September 11Breaking gender stereotypes, Pooja Rani (33) and Hardeep Kaur (35) have become the only women e-rickshaw drivers in the district.e-rickshaws to provide better education to their childrenSailing in the boat of contentment, both women are striving hard to provide better education to their children. Sharing her story, Pooja, a single mother says, she opted for the occupation after she failed to run her vending business during the lockdown.While it’s not the first time Pooja is earning a living for herself, she only desires that the new work helps her provide a decent lifestyle to her 7-year-old son. Interestingly, she also possesses nine years of experience as an accountant. After her marriage, she supported her husband by running a computer cafe shop, but things turned rough within a year of her marriage. She separated from her husband after she discovered that he was addicted to drugs and coming out from the bad marriage was the only solution for her.“Prior to driving an e-rickshaw, I used to run a food-vending cart outside the court complex. Due to Covid outbreak, it remained a hand-to-mouth job, which wasn’t enough to pay the monthly instalments of my home loan and afford two-square meals. Subsequently, my job hunt ended up by becoming an e-rickshaw driver. I start my day at 9 am and manage to come home before 7.30pm, adds Rani, a resident of Karan Residency, near the Tower Enclave.With a heavy heart, Rani continues: “Leaving my son alone doesn’t feel good but who will earn for us? However, I take a lunch break to be with my son and help him with his online studies.” Apart from affording her bills, she deposits EMIs of Rs12,000 and Rs2,500 for her home loan and e-rickshaw, respectively.Similarly, Hardeep Kaur, a resident of Badshahpur village in Lambda is driving her e-rickshaw for the last two months. She is the sole breadwinner in her family of five. Due to some illness, her husband stopped working three years ago. Now, she has the responsibility of three children. After working for nearly eight hours, she earns Rs500-700 daily. She operates mostly on the bus stand-Nakodar road-Lambda route. Sharing her experience, she says: “This is the first time I’m driving any vehicle. Driving on a busy road petrifies me, but when I think about my children, nothing stops me. For me, a job is a job, I don’t care what people say. I want to provide a good career to my two boys and a girl, so I’ll do whatever it takes to reach that goal.”Hardeep is also the first woman e-rickshaw driver in the town and used to run a tea stall before this. Notably, due to the initiative of the Rotary Club, these women are able to drive e-rickshaws. President Abhishek Chaudhary and project director Prabhpal Pannu said the initiative was taken to reduce air pollution and support the socio-economic empowerment of women. Before providing women the battery-operated three-wheelers we impart them on-road training. Pooja approached the Rotary Club after seeing Hardeep’s story on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/when-the-going-got-tough-they-took-to-the-wheels-310062
12-09-2021||---||Task force formed to tighten noose around criminals||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 11Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar, Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill on Saturday directed all officers of Jalandhar Commissionerate to ensure disposal of pending investigations in a stipulated time-frame.While presiding over his maiden crime review meeting at the Police Lines, the CP asked all SHOs to ensure maximum redressal of complaints at `Thana level’ to promote efficiency and transparency in the system.Dr Gill further constituted a district-level task force to arrest POs in heinous crimes, especially in the NDPS Act and stated that he would personally monitor the progress through weekly review meetings.The CP accompanied by Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh, categorically mentioned that to wipe out drug menace from the city it was need of the hour that a zero tolerance policy be adopted against such crimes.He directed the officials to launch a special drive against drug abuse and street crime by beefing up security and patrolling measures to make police more responsive in the city. He directed police teams/PCR staff to ensure round the clock patrolling in the city, especially at places that witness heavy footfall including shopping malls, markets, and others. He said that every effort would be made to make the security system more responsive and efficient.Meanwhile, he asked the SHOs to prepare a list of case properties lying in their respective police station and ensure their disposal by adopting proper legal procedure.Dr Gill asked the SHOs to register each and every complaint made by citizens in police stations adding that strict action would be taken against the erring officials who fail to comply with these directions. He further asked officials to work in a result-oriented manner by disposing of all pending cases of POCSO and abduction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/task-force-formed-to-tighten-noose-around-criminals-310063
12-09-2021||---||27-year-old Cong worker held in couple suicide case||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 11The police have arrested Lovepreet Singh (27) in connection with the suicide case of a former lecturer and her husband, which was reported last year.Ashima Rana (35), a former lecturer at Apeejay College, and her husband Vikas Rana (38), an entrepreneur, committed suicide in May 2020.Ashima hanged herself at her house in Jalandhar on May 11, 2020, while her husband Vikas Rana committed suicide on the rail track next day. His body was found on the Phillaur-Goraya rail track in Jalandhar.A year after the incident the police arrested Lovepreet Singh, who sources said was a Congress worker. Lovepreet was arrested on the afternoon of September 9 by the team of police station No. 1. An FIR against him was lodged under Section 306 of the IPC at the police station No. 1 in connection with the double suicide case. The police said he was remanded into the custody.Notably, the initial FIR was lodged against Vikas Rana on the complaint of Roop Lal Kalia, father of Ashima Rana.However, the police said following Rana’s suicide Kalia lodged another complaint in which Lovepreet Singh was named.Ashima and Vikas were married for 12 years. They got married in October 2008. The couple is survived by two daughters. In his initial complaint to the police, Kalia alleged that Vikas Rana had been pressurising his daughter to get a job regarding which she had told him and her mother several times.Speaking to The Tribune, Avtar Singh, investigating officer in the case said, “Lovepreet Singh was arrested on Monday in connection with the couple suicide case. All we can say is that during the course of investigation, Lovepreet’s name came up. Following demise of Vikas Rana, another complaint was filed by Ashima’s father against Lovepreet.”Meanwhile, Roop Lal Kalia refused to comment on the issue when contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/27-year-old-cong-worker-held-in-couple-suicide-case-310064
12-09-2021||---||Snatcher sprays chilli powder in elderly’s eyes, flees with gold chain||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 11In Gulabiya locality of Basti Sheikh area, a bike-borne robber entered a shop and snatched an elderly man’s gold chain after spraying chilli in his eyes.The entire incident was recorded in a CCTV camera installed outside. After the incident, the cops reached the spot and recorded the statements of the victim and took the footage in their custody. Shopkeeper Sudesh Kumar said he works as a hand tool operator at Kalicharan Gill Industries Pattern Maker in Basti Sheikh. On Saturday afternoon, a young man came to him. He said some miscreants were following him and they wanted to kill him.Hearing this, the shopkeeper tried to shut the door and asked him to go out. In the meantime, the robber threw chilli powder in his eyes. As soon as he started rubbing his eyes, the miscreant snatched the gold chain from his neck and fled. The accused was caught in the CCTV camera installed outside the shop.A case was registered at police division number five.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/snatcher-sprays-chilli-powder-in-elderlys-eyes-flees-with-gold-chain-310065
12-09-2021||---||Over 1K cases disposed of in National Lok Adalat||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 11As many as 1,111 cases were disposed of and awards worth Rs 12.88 crore were passed across the district in the National Lok Adalat held at Kapurthala on Saturday. To facilitate the people at District Courts Complex in Kapurthala, 10 benches were constituted, four at Phagwara, two at Sultanpur Lodhi and one at Bholath.Additional Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman District Legal Services Authority Rajwinder Kaur said bank recovery case, MACT. Cases, labour matters, electricity and water bill matters, marital matters, land acquisition cases, service matters, revenue cases and other civil matters were settled.She said filing a case in the Lok Adalat saves both time and money besides providing legal stability to the decision as no appeal can be filed against the decision of Lok Adalat in any court.She said about 2,862 cases were filed in the National Lok Adalat by the Judicial Courts, out of which 1111 cases were disposed of and an amount of about Rs12,88,06,453 was settled as compensation. Mahesh Kumar Sharma, CJM, said the next National Lok Adalat would be held on December 11 in the courts of District Kapurthala, Phagwara, Sultanpur Lodhi and Bhulath.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-1k-cases-disposed-of-in-national-lok-adalat-310066
12-09-2021||---||187 teachers get award for academic excellence||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 11CT Group of Institutions, South Campus, Shahpur, organised the ‘Best Teacher Award Ceremony’ on its campus on Saturday.The ceremony involved felicitation of 187 teachers from different schools and colleges of Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Amritsar, Pathankot, Phagwara, Gorayan and Mukerian, namely, Kendriya Vidaylya, Navodya School, Bawa Lalwani School, GMA City Public School, Choudhary Balbir School, Guru Harkrishan Public School, Seth Hukam Cahnd Public School, AN Gujral Public School,Parvati Jain Public School, Lala Jagat Narayan Public School, St Thomas Public School, DAV School, Nehru Garden, Eklavya ,Cantonment Board, Mari Gold School etc.The title of ‘Best Teacher’ was based on the survey conducted amongst students regarding best teachers of various schools and colleges as they nominated the name for the teachers who deserves to get the Best Teacher Award for their services.The event was started by showing a play on the journey of CT Group of Institutions in the presence of Charanjit Singh Channi, Chairman, CT Group of Institutions. Channi along with Director Rahul Malhotra, Additional Director of Admissions Dr Vaneet Thakur and Head Division of Admissions Er Sansar Chand felicitated all teachers present on the occasion and honoured them with a title of Best Teacher, awarding them a certificate and memento recognising their contribution to the teaching profession. The awarded teachers on the occasion shared their teaching experiences with each other.Further, many queries from the audience regarding courses and vision of CT Group were cleared by the senior authorities of the Group.Charanjit Singh Channi, Chairman, CT Group, expressed his gratitude to all teachers and said such awards not only appreciate their work but their profession as well. These awards help them in giving due recognition in the society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/187-teachers-get-award-for-academic-excellence-310067
12-09-2021||Jalandhar||Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh holds protest over inflation||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh organised a rally at the tehsil complex on Saturday to protest rising inflation, undue cuts in salaries and low allowances. Members of the association submitted a demand letter to the DC, Jalandhar, addressed to the PM Narendra Modi on these issues. The rally was led by Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh, Punjab, and Chandigarh treasurer Manoj Punj. He said owing to the pandemic, there had been a decrease in the industrial activities coupled with economic crisis, cuts in salaries and inflation. They said rise in prices has taken a toll on general public.Members of the Sangh said in the past 18 months, inflation rates have crossed the limit of six per cent hike while in previous years it stayed between 3 to 5 per cent hike. Punj said manufacturers should devise a law to determine the price of every commodity.The daily price system of petroleum products should be done away with and petroleum products should be brought under the ambit of the GST. He said to make the country ‘Atmanirbhar’ in terms of edible oil, pulses and other food items, there was need to regulate their prices.On the occasion Sangh members, namely, Narayan Yadav, Chanranjit, Mangni Singh, Paramjit Singh, Rakesh Bobby among others were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bharatiya-mazdoor-sangh-holds-protest-over-inflation-310068
12-09-2021||---||Projects worth Rs1.07 crore inaugurated at Rurka Kalan||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 11Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary and Phillaur Assembly constituency in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary inaugurated development projects worth Rs1.07 crore at Rurka Kalan village on Saturday.The newly inaugurated works include an Anganwadi Centre built at the cost of Rs7.32 lakh, a park at Rs9.16 lakh, repair of a road and renovation of community centre complex carried out with Rs11.35 lakh, streets constructed with interlocking tiles and installation of sewer line with an amount of Rs64.60 lakh and Rs15.50 lakh RO system installed for providing safe drinking water.Dedicating development projects to local residents, Santokh Chaudhary said due to efforts of the Assembly constituency in-charge Vikramjit Chaudhary, Phillaur was seeing development in both the urban and rural areas.Former Punjab Youth Congress president Vikramjit Chaudhary thanked the Chief Minister for approving grants for Rurka Kalan village. He said since the Congress came to power in 2017, Rurka Kalan village had received Rs181.25 lakh as grants. So far, development works worth Rs134.98 lakh were completed in the village, he added.Rurka Kalan block panchayat samiti chairperson Harjinder Kaur, Goraya market committee chairman Dara Singh Rai, Rurka Kalan BDPO Rakesh Kumar, Rurka Kalan block Congress president Rakesh Duggal, the Goraya SHO, Inspector Parminder Singh, Phillaur constituency Youth Congress president Naveen Sharma, Rurka Kalan Mahila Congress president Smriti Sallan, Rurka Kalan sarpanch Kulwinder Kaur, Gurmangal Soni, Chandan Tiwari, Pawan Kumar, Jagminder Singh, Gurwinder Singh, Inderjeet Singh, Jagjeewan Bhogal, Balbir Ghukkar and Chamkaur Singh were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/projects-worth-rs1-07-crore-inaugurated-at-rurka-kalan-310069
12-09-2021||Jalandhar||Mannat 1st in Art and Culture event||World Physiotherapy Day celebratedWorld Physiotherapy Day was celebrated by the BPT Department at St Soldier College (Co-Ed) by organising a free physiotherapy camp. In which managing director Prof Manhar Arora, Law College Director Dr SC Sharma, College Director Dr Veena Dada started the camp with their regular check up. Dr Navreet Kaur, Dr Shilpa Kumari and Dr Kiran Rai of the Department of Physiotherapy and students checked up the teachers. Students studying BPT in third and fourth year also checked up patients under the supervision of teachers. Principal Veena Dada said treatment is possible in physiotherapy without medicines and there are many possibilities of high career. .KMV first in India Today SurveyKanya Maha Vidyalaya- the Heritage & Autonomous institution, Jalandhar, received Top National and State Level Ranking in India Today Survey of Best Colleges 2021. College staff along with the students celebrated this achievement. Chander Mohan, president, Arya Shiksha Mandal was also present. The college achieved top rankings for consecutive fourth time. It has been ranked first in Punjab in science and BCA programmes. Chander Mohan, president, Arya Shiksha Mandal congratulated the Principal, faculty and students.Induction programme heldA 21-day induction programme for students of first year of MBA, MCA, BBA, B Com & B Tech commenced at Apeejay Institute of Management & Engineering Technical Campus. Day 1 of Induction programme began with the welcome address of Director, Dr Rajesh Bagga. Dr Bagga welcomed the new students and acquainted them with the processes and procedures followed in the institute. Highlighting the importance of induction programme he emphasised that “It’s what extra students can contribute to any company that will determine their CTC not mere their qualification”. Dr Bagga in his speech talked about leadership and its state in our country. Citing example of Sam ManekShaw, he emphasised that leaders are not born but made, its how we overcome our fears that determines our leadership abilities. He also mentioned that we should always keep trying even if we commit errors. The resource person for the expert talk was Dr Komal Chopra, Associate Prof of Marketing with Symbiosis Institute of Management Studies, Symbiosis International (Deemed University), Pune, India.Nation-Builder Award for teachersIt’s a proud moment for the Group of State Public Schools, Rotary Club, Jalandhar West, honoured teachers of the Group of State Public Schools with Nation Builder Award. Sapna Chadha of State Public School, Jalandhar Cantt. and Pooja Pattu from State Public School, Nakodar, are bestowed with this award. The entire team congratulated them on this achievement and wished them good luck. President Dr Narotam Singh and vice-president Dr Gagandeep Kaur of Group of State Public Schools were present on the occasion.Free Vaccination Camp at collesgePyramid college of business and technology organised one day free vaccination camp in collaboration with the state health department for students on September 9. A total of 80 students visited the campus and get vaccinated. The Covid vaccine team followed full safety protocol. Prof Jatinder Singh Bedi, Chairman PCBT said vaccine was the only way to return to normalcy and the Institution would leave no stone unturned by vaccinating every eligible student. Sachleen Kaur Bedi, vice president PCBT said that the proactive initiative of the college is highly appreciable as vaccination was must to safeguard ourselves. Dr Sanjay Bahl, Director PCBT said everyone should take advantage of the facilities being provided by the government for vaccination. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mannat-1st-in-art-and-culture-event-310070
