13-09-2021||---||Punbus & PRTC workers protest outside Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh’s residence||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 12The protest by Punbus and PRTC contractual workers’ union entered its seventh day here on Sunday. After organising a protest march, the agitators protested outside the residence of Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh and submitted a memorandum to the MLA.For the past several months, the contractual workers have been protesting against the non-introduction of regularisation policies and low wages, but to no avail. There are 150 contractual workers each in depot-1 and depot-2 in the district.The Punjab Roadways and PRTC workers have been holding the protest since last Monday, demanding the regularisation of the services of all the outsourced and contractual workers. The government-run and PRTC buses, including Volvo, have been staying off the roads. As a result, the Transport Department is suffering losses worth over Rs10 lakh daily in the district. Sources in the roadways department said owing to the apathetic attitude of the government, the roadways was suffering losses in the district.For the past several months, the contractual workers have been protesting against the non-introduction of regularisation policies and low wages but to no avail. Besides 50 permanent workers, there are 150 each contractual workers in depot-1 and depot-2 in the district. The contractual workers across the state intensified their protest and even went to the Siswan-based farmhouse of the CM.“As per the law, the services of a contractual worker have to be made permanent within 240 days of his/her joining the duty. However, I have not been regularised even after four years of my services,” said Gurpreet Singh, a contractual worker. The workers under the banner of the contractual workers’ union said they had been working on meagre salaries, but the government was not taking any action in their favour.The main demands raised by the workers include implementation of the Supreme Court’s guidelines of equal wages for equal work, addition to the fleet of 10,000 buses, the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s orders regarding the cancellation of driving permit of private buses and regularisation of contractual workers, cover workers under the Punjab Pension Scheme, loan waiver of Punbus and DA to be given to all drivers and conductors.The protesters said they would again take out a protest march in the city tomorrow and threatened to block national highways on September 15 if the government failed to accept their demands in the meeting, which would be held on September 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punbus-prtc-workers-protest-outside-jalandhar-cantt-mla-pargat-singhs-residence-310414
13-09-2021||---||Denied money for outing by dad, Jalandhar girl commits suicide||Jalandhar, September 12A 22-year-old girl committed suicide in the Aman Nagar area after her father refused to give her money to go out here on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Muskan. After the police were informed about the incident, a team of cops reached the spot and sent the body for a post-mortem.Rajinder Kumar, father of the victim, said his daughter was insisting on going out and was asking for money and when he refused to give her money and asked her to go some other day, she got angry and locked herself in a room.“She also played loud music. After a while when we asked her to come out, she did not respond. Later, we broke open the door only to find her hanging from a ceiling fan. By the time we brought her body down, there was no movement in her body. Subsequently, the police were called,” added Rajinder Kumar, who runs a paan and cigarette stall.Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC have been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/denied-money-for-outing-by-dad-jalandhar-girl-commits-suicide-310415
13-09-2021||---||One tests positive, no death in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 12The district on Sunday reported one new case of Covid-19 and no fresh fatality. The total tally of cases in the district increased to 63,262 cases and toll remained at 1,494. As many as 61,738 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 30. Of the 16,16,443 samples collected in the district so far, 14,83,033 have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,329 tests are awaited. Currently, there are 19 persons in home isolation in the district.All well in KapurthalaThe district reported no fresh Covid case today, keeping the tally unchanged at 17,820. No death from Covid was also recorded. So far, there are 17,252 people who have recovered from Covid in Kapurthala. There are 14 active cases in the district and one person was discharged today after recovering from Covid.No case, death in NawanshahrNo case and death was reported fromNawanshahr on Sunday. The tally and toll stood at 11,455 and 381 (3.32 percent), respectively. Currently, there are six active cases in the district.No case in HoshiarpurNo new Covid positive case was reported on Sunday from the district, keeping the total district tally still at 30,745 cases. No Covid death was also recorded today. The deceased tally remained at 981. As many as 29,756 people have recovered from Covid in the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-tests-positive-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-310416
13-09-2021||---||Over 3K appear for NEET at six exam centres in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 12Over 3,000 candidates appeared for the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET-2021) held at six centres in the city on Sunday.Heavy traffic was witnessed both before and after the exam on city roads. The exam was held at Police DAV, Jalandhar; HMV College; Apeejay College; Emm Aar International School’ Adampur; Cambridge School, and Kendriya Vidyalaya 1 and 3.While 720 students appeared for the exam at Police DAV and HMV College, 600 appeared at Adampur and at others 200 to 420 students appeared at different centres. No communication devices such as mobile phones, pagers, earphones etc. were allowed inside the centre and students were thoroughly checked at centres before entry. While the roads and through fares were marked by temporary traffic rush, overall the exam was carried out smoothly in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-3k-appear-for-neet-at-six-exam-centres-in-jalandhar-310417
13-09-2021||Jalandhar||Phishing attack: Jalandhar sports unit owner loses Rs 40,000||A sports unit owner has lodged a complaint with the Cyber Crime Cell alleging that he was duped of Rs 40,000 by a person who posed as an Army personnel.The complainant, Sarbpreet Singh, said he got a call from an unknown number in July and the man identified himself as an Army personnel. “The man told me that he wanted to purchase a volleyball and took my Paytm- related details. He sent me a link and the moment I clicked on it, I lost Rs 10,000. After sometime, Rs 30,000 was again deducted from my account,” he said and added that some other unit owners were also duped by the same person.The Khel Udyog Sangh has written to the Director General of Police and Chief Minister in this regard. “The miscreant is operating without any fear. Everytime, he uses the same phone number,” said members of the Khel Udyog Sangh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phishing-attack-jalandhar-sports-unit-owner-loses-rs-40-000-310419
13-09-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Busy in protest, farmers’ personal works getting hit||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 12Farmers have been sacrificing everything since November last year. Almost a year has passed, they are unmoved, determined and still fighting for their rights. The fight was started against the three farm laws, and now the movement has become huge with the farmers still at Delhi borders and also marking their presence in other states before elections and making people understand anti-people policies by the Central Government. But behind the massive movement, numerous speeches, strong protests, there are stories of struggle, and many personal lives getting affected.The farmers also supported the Karnal morcha and remained there for weeks.Manjit Rai, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba), is the leading face of the movement. He can be seen in every major meeting, giving interviews to news channels, strategising the next plan, etc. But Rai, who hails from Hoshiarpur, owns land which is being looked after by his 21-year-old son, who is doing graduation and these days as his father is on the ‘battlefield’, the son is trying to look after the fields, though it is not easy for him. While Rai is busy making strategies, his own fields are being ignored by him.Same is the story of Davinder Singh, vice-president, BKU Doaba, whose brother is taking care of the fields while the former is away. Singh said his brother had never done this work, but circumstances changed everything.“Main apne brother nu keha y ate tu morcha sambhal lai, te main khet sambhal lena, ya main ladayi jaari rakhda. Of Course, it is not easy for him to look after everything, but what to do. He alone cannot do everything. We are suffering losses back here. But now this fight has reached another level, we want to save our honour too, and we cannot just sit at our homes and do nothing. We will have to win now,” he said.Months have passed, I have not slept peacefully. “Yesterday, I came back to my home, just slept a night, and then went back again to Delhi. As the unions had campaigned against the BJP during the Bengal elections, the same will be done in the run-up to upcoming Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand elections,” he said. The farmers said now the next stop was these states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/busy-in-protest-farmers-personal-works-getting-hit-310420
13-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||2 Hoshiarpur girls in U-19 team||The District Cricket Association secretary, Dr Raman Ghai, said two girls from Hoshiarpur, Baljeet and Surbhi, have been selected in the Punjab Women’s U-19 team. He said it is a matter of pride for the entire district of Hoshiarpur that Surbhi and Baljeet have achieved the feat. He said they will participate in the National U-19 matches to be held at Jaipur, Rajasthan, from September 28. HDCA president, Daljit Singh Khela, congratulated their coach Davinder Kaur Kalyan. Former national cricket player Kuldeep Dhami, district coach Daljit Singh, national player Arjun Jonty expressed happiness over the achievement. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-hoshiarpur-girls-in-u-19-team-310421
13-09-2021||What should the government do to stop farmers from burning paddy stubble?||In-situ mgmt, mulching effective for managing paddy straw||Make provision for effective machineryThat India is said to be the most polluted country in the world has raised a grave public concern. Every winter, thick clouds of toxic smog engulf Delhi and its surrounding areas. According to the recent American research group report, the alarming rise in the air quality index (AQI) in the wake of ongoing Covid pandemic will cause serious respiratory infection to residents and reduce life expectancy by nine years. Brazenly ignoring other reasons, the hard pressed farmers of Punjab, Haryana and UP are squarely blamed for this. With stress on increased agriculture production and the use of new technology machinery, a voluminous quantity of crop residue is generated each year. Just like China, Australia and many western countries, the National Green Tribunal and the apex court in India have prohibited stubble burning. But despite that, a vast majority of farmers resort to the traditional practice of stubble burning due to lack of labour, time and financial resources to prepare their fields for sowing wheat or potato. The parties in power are normally reluctant to strictly penalise the erring farmers because they are a strong vote bank. It is time to recognise the economic value of crop residue and convert it into the renewable energy, biochar, manure, paper and cardboard, biodegradable cutlery, packing material, etc. The government should make provision for sufficient affordable machinery such as reapers, rotavators, bailers and happy seeders, and enhance subsidies for their purchase. Moreover, farmers should be duly incentivised for growing crops that do not guzzle water. Let the governments at the Centre and in states, social and religious groups and non-government organisations make concerted efforts to take the discourse about field fires and worsening atmospheric pollution to its logical end.Tajpreet S KangEducate farmers, don’t impose finesIt is better to educate farmers and highlight the demerits of stubble burning to them rather than imposing fines. The Punjab economy is based on agriculture and it is the only state which fulfilled the target of wheat for the whole country in the post-Partition era. It is the only state where the farmers yielded bumper crops to fulfill the needs of the whole of the country. Stubble burning pollutes environment and those who are allergic to respiratory diseases are always at the receiving end. As in India, the Health Department even though gives free medicine to the patients suffering from Tuberculosis (TB), some are allergic to asthma, bronchitis in the change of season or during the winters. It is up to farmers to take steps to tackle air pollution caused by stubble burning. The Union Government should give compensation to farmers and find alternative ways to deal with the stubble. Safety saves and educating farmers about the negative effects of stubble burning will certainly yield more effective results rather than imposing fines.Rajat Kumar MohindruExpensive machines to blame for this messIt’s true but unfortunate that out of the 10 most polluted cities in the world, nearly half are in India. Industries, construction works and motor vehicles are the biggest polluters. During the lockdown and curfew last year, air was so clear that mountains could be seen from the distant planes of Jalandhar. No doubt, the coming harvesting season of paddy will cause much pollution resulting in respiratory and other health problems such as hypertension and heart diseases. As per the WHO figures, India has the highest number of deaths because of air pollution. The stubble burning is not the choice of farmers but a compulsion. More than 85% farmers have land holdings less than two hectares. As such they can’t afford the costly machinery such as happy seeder and others to avoid stubble burning. The onus clearly lies on the government to subsidise the farmers so that they can use these machines in their fields to mow the stubble into their fields which can be used as manure for subsequent crops. Farmers should also be encouraged to exit from the shackles of wheat-paddy cycle to indulge in cash crops such as pulses and horticulture. People would be well advised to use masks in those days and also to stay indoors as much as possible.Dr JS WadhwaProvide interest-free loans to farmersStubble burning is a practice of intentionally setting fire to stubble, which is a crop residue. The government tried to restrict and ban the practice by imposing fine but it continued to go on for years. After Covid, most of the people have been suffering from breathing problems. The respiratory system is affected and aged people are at a higher risk. After the stubble burning, air quality and air pollution levels are bound to increase and the air quality is likely to fall. The government should keep a check and a strong vigil. First of all they should ask companies to modify the combine harvesters to tackle the issue. Provide interest-free loan to the farmers to buy combines as the economic conditions of them doesn’t allow them to use expensive methods to clear the field. Educate the farmers about the consequences because they themselves will suffer first convince them to understand the gravity of the situation and accept the alternate method to use stubble as fodder and fuel.SHASHI KIRANRope in NGOs and cooperative societiesThe unabated practice of stubble burning by the farmers in the Northern India is a serious challenge that needs to be tackled by the government, especially in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the recently enacted farm laws. The air quality index is worsening and it is a serious threat to the ongoing crusade against new variants relating to Covid-19 pandemic. Though the government has enacted laws and taken various measures to prevent the menace but the reports indicate that the incidence of stubble burning has increased substantially in spite of massive funds having been spent on subsidising the machinery to be used for prevention of burning the crop-residues. Even legal measures taken under the law could not bear the desired results. It is now proved that neither the subsidised regime nor the coercive measures could stop the farmers from burning straw. Under such a scenario, the strategy has to be urgently reviewed and reformulated to tackle the menace without losing time. The government needs to be proactive in taking both on-site and off-site measures with the help of NGOs and the farmers’ cooperatives. On-site measures include making available turbo happy seeder (THS) machines, enabling uprooting the stubble and simultaneously sowing the seeds for next crop, making the stubble as mulch for the field. Off-site initiative includes providing Pusa bio-decomposer for turning crop residue to manure. Another major off-site step is installing machinery for processing stubble into bio-fuels and bio-gas for which a cluster of five to six villages can be demarcated to procure the stubble from the farmers in exchange for energy and products to be created through biomass processing power technology.Jagdish ChanderNeed to Adopt in-situ, ex-situ approachSadly, the farmers of Punjab and Haryana, who spearheaded the Green Revolution and replenished the country’s granary, are in the dock again for causing acute air pollution in the Delhi-NCR region that severely impacts human health and environment. Factors such as the use of insecticides, industrial waste, deforestation, disposal of garbage in the open, construction activities, dust, greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) and incineration, stubble burning, undoubtedly, contributes to the ever-declining air quality index but to a smaller degree. The poor and the marginalised farmers have neither the capacity nor the means to afford mechanical clearing of their fields for the next crop. Instead of imposing heavy fines on defaulters, there is an urgent need to understand the problems and compulsions of people actively involved in farm activities. The central and state governments, political parties, NGOs, religious bodies and civil society organisations should collectively run massive awareness campaigns against the ill-effects of stubble burning on soil and for farmers’ technical and economic empowerment. Crop residue is not a waste commodity; it is a wealthy asset which can be put to maximum use through proper in-situ and ex-situ stubble management under various schemes launched by the government. Besides producing renewable energy, making cattle feed, compost manure, paper, pulp, packing material and mushroom cultivation, farmers should be provided environment-friendly machinery at affordable rates. Because of their flawed implementation, various governmental initiatives have failed to achieve the desired results. All stakeholders, including farmers, industrialists and the general public, should realise that contaminated air can aggravate the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and take remedial measures to improve the quality of life and safety of citizens.D S KangNeed to find viable alternativesNature has bestowed us with several resources in a pure form to lead a smooth and superior life, but we go on exploiting these gifts recklessly. Although the causes of desecration of environment are many, yet the burning of crops residue in the fields is much in debate for the past few years. In fact, in the process of producing more food grains, there is also a colossal increase in bio-mass residue left in the fields upon harvest. Owing to brisk cropping cycle and lack of efficient bio-waste management, the farmers have to take extreme steps for readying the soil for the transplantation of next crop. Earlier, the stubble was grossly consumed for the manufacture of card-board, packaging material, as household fuel and cattle feeder etc but now-a-days it is used quite less as other variants have replaced it. Undoubtedly, pollution is a substantial hazard disturbing the ecological balances. During the winter season, when the pollution index is phenomenally high, it gives an abnormal rise to chronic diseases such as lung infections and other respiratory complications. NGT and SPCBs have taken several steps to protect environment, but the problem goes on escalating year-by-year. It is, therefore our solemn responsibility to be extra conscious to counter the menace and impending climate changes. Emphasising the significance of these natural resources, Gurbani exhorts human beings to accord utmost respect to it as: “Pawan guru, pani pita, mata dharat mahat”. Having known that survival is impossible without these gifts of nature, each one of us must make all out efforts to sustain them for present and future generations. Amid the measures to check pollution, the government ought to proactively chalk out a farmer-friendly plan for the suitable use of agricultural organic residue. The farmers can be placated through persuasion and incentivising them, instead of ordering heavy fines or curb farm-fires.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathWrong practice, don’t blame farmers aloneAir Quality Index (AQI) goes from bad to worse during festivities beginning from Dasehra and Diwali. So, why hue and cry when farming community burn their stubble? It does not mean I support them in this otherwise unwanted practice. The moot point is we all should play our role with responsibility and maturity for the betterment of our environment which consequently would gift us with clean and hygienic air making us live peacefully and harmoniously. At the same time, the farming community needs to be encouraged to adopt innovative ideas and ways to curb down the burning of stubble. First and foremost, hay banks should be set up. Instead of burning hay, it can be mixed and melded in the ground and left for some days to absorb sunlight and moisture in a natural way before sowing seeds for the next crop. The farmers should be given incentives and rewards, including public recognition for taking up progressive farming. There should be deterrence for the culprits belonging to every strata. Farmers should be given their due for which they have been struggling for decades. There is no need of corporate intervention in the agricultural sector. In addition, farm fairs should be organised where different farmers can share their diverse experiences educating one another for the benefit of all and sundry. Any activity which worsens the AQI, should be taken seriously and dealt with sternly.Simranjeet Singh SainiEducate farmers on bad effects of stubble burning QUESTIONThe poor condition of city roads has not only been causing great hardships to commuters but also leading to accidents on a daily basis. The authorities have turned a blind eye to the inconvenience faced by the public. What should be done to improve the condition of roads?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 16)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-situ-mgmt-mulching-effective-for-managing-paddy-straw-310426
13-09-2021||---||Dalit sammelan: SCs urged to unite under Sant Samaj||Our CorrespondentGarhshankar, September 12A ‘Dalit sammelan’ was organised at Posi village under the leadership of Advocate Pankaj Kirpal, co-chairman, Punjab Pradesh Congress legal cell, and member, Shri Guru Ravidas Memorial Foundation, here on Saturday.Former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Shamsher Singh Dullo was the chief guest on the occasion. The function was attended by Sant Jaswinder Singh Dandian, Sant Surjit Das Dhada Khurd, Sant Major Das Haluwal, Sant Mahavir Tajewal, Sant Mahinderpal Pandava, Sant Tahil Das Nangal Khera, Sant Satnam Das Pandori Ladha Singh, Sai Monica Rattu, etc.The saints appealed to the SC community to unite. They said the SC community constituted 40 per cent of the population in Punjab and if the entire SC community became united, then they would not have to seek help from the state governments, but they would be the government themselves.Shamsher Singh Dullo said every political party had used the SCs only as vote-bank. He said despite being 40 per cent of the population, no Dalit was ever given a chance to become the state chief minister. He said the Congress government in the state had not done anything for SCs in the last four and a half years. Both the Chief Minister and the president were jats whereas the population of jats in the state was only 12 per cent. Apart from this, there were only three SC ministers in the Cabinet.He said the announcement made by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal regarding SC Deputy Chief Minister was just a sham. “If Sukhbir Singh Badal was so concerned about SCs, he should resign from his presidency and appoint an SC as president of the Akali Dal. Also the BJP was now announcing the appointment of an SC as the Chief Minister, but the BJP should explain why they have not appointed a Dalit as the chief minister in any state of the country till date,” said Dullo.He said with the demolition of Sri Guru Ravidas temple, Arvind Kejriwal’s anti-SC face had already been exposed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dalit-sammelan-scs-urged-to-unite-under-sant-samaj-310427
13-09-2021||---||Much-awaited break dance swing in action at Nikku Park||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 12With concerted efforts of the district administration, children’s favourite amusement destination Nikku Park has regained its glory after a slew of development works were completed here. In a recent development, the park has started the much-awaited break dance swing and cricket bowling game for the visitors, further giving an impetus to the amusement activities here.Divulging the details, Deputy Commissioner Ghansmyam Thori said both the new facilities were started at an outlay of Rs 5 lakh adding that several development initiatives were taken up here earlier by incurring Rs 12 lakh. He mentioned that Nikku Park had got a new look as portraits were painted on its walls. Thori said theme based paintings had been carried out in the park, which had further become an attraction for children. He stated that the break dance ride was lying shut due to lack of maintenance while a cricket bowling machine was newly set up in the park and both are functional now.Spread in 4.5 acres of land, Nikku Park is located at the heart of the city and was in a dilapidated condition due to lack of maintenance as it remained shut due to Covid-19 pandemic for almost a year. The Deputy Commissioner had issued financial assistance worth Rs 12 lakh for this park after taking stock of its condition a few months ago. He reiterated his commitment to restoring the glory of this park.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/much-awaited-break-dance-swing-in-action-at-nikku-park-310428
13-09-2021||---||Jalandhar: Gulab Devi Hospital gets PSA-based oxygen plant||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 12In response to the administration’s call to make Jalandhar a self-reliant district in terms of oxygen generation, another O2 plant has come up at Gulab Devi Charitable Hospital to cater to Covid-19 patients in the event of a possible third wave.DC Ghanshyam Thori said a mammoth drive was launched in the district to make it oxygen-independent by setting up maximum oxygen production plants in all healthcare establishments.He said as a result, a large number of hospitals, including government facilities, had set up their O2 plants so that they did not face any kind of crisis during the shortage of this life-saving gas as it had already happened amid the second wave.Notably, several hospitals, including NHS, New Rubi, Shrimann Super Speciality, Tagore, Patel, PIMS, and Capitol Hospitals have already set up their plants; three new plants are underway in government hospitals at Nakodar, Basti Guzan, and the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar.The DC further lauded the efforts of Gulab Devi Hospital’s management for acceding to administration’s appeals by installing its own plant for Covid-19 care facility. He urged remaining healthcare institutes to emulate the move by setting up such plants at their premises.He added that this would not only reduce oxygen demands during the peak period, but also make Jalandhar a self-reliant district in terms of oxygen production, besides bailing out oxygen generation plants, which had faced soaring oxygen demands during the second wave.Thori said installing such plants was a one-time investment aimed at enabling such establishments to be self-reliant in production, which is the need of the hour to combat the third wave. He added that a multipronged strategy was adopted by the administration encompassing installation of oxygen plant at the Civil Hospital, deployment of oxygen concentrators in the Covid care facilities, setting up of a post-Covid recovery ward in the government hospital, and an oxygen concentrator bank for patients requiring oxygen support at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-gulab-devi-hospital-gets-psa-based-oxygen-plant-310429
13-09-2021||Phagwara||Nurmahal: Son, wife held for killing mother||3 women among 7 smugglers heldHoshiarpur: The police arrested seven drug smugglers, including three women, and seized a huge quantity of drugs. The Sadar police arrested Ajaypal alias Vinod, a resident of Roshi Ka Dera, Chabbewal, near the toll plaza on Chandigarh Road and seized 205 gram of opium from him. Other drug smugglers arrested have been identified as Sanjeev Hans alias Sanju, a resident of Khanpuri Gate, Hoshiarpur, who was nabbed with 72 gram of intoxicating powder; Paramjit Singh alias Pamma; Baljeet Kaur; Mana, Shabnam alias Mamta; Sukhveer Singh; Razi alias Moto, a resident of Chotala. OCThieves break ATM, fail to steal cashGarhshankar: Unidentified robbers tried to break an ATM of the Punjab National Bank in Bakapur Guru village last night but failed to steal cash from it, the Garhshankar police said. The thieves first broke the shutter and then tried to break into the ATM to take away the cash. However, they failed to break the other lock of the chest in the ATM. The thieves fled after stealing batteries and some other items from there. Iqbal Singh, in charge of the Garhshankar police station, said on a complaint filed by bank manager Rohit Tas, a case has been registered against unidentified persons. OCthree held with illicit liquorHoshiarpur: The city police have arrested Sanjeev Kumar alias Sunny, a resident of Kamalpur, and seized 16,500 ml of illicit liquor from him. His Active was also impounded by the police. The Chabbewal police arrested Harjit Singh, a resident of Nangal Khidarian, and recovered 13,500-ml illicit liquor from him. The Hariana police arrested Balveer Kaur alias Jyoti, a resident of Googapir Mohalla and seized 13,500 ml of illicit liquor from her. Separate cases have been registered against the accused by the respective police stations. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurmahal-son-wife-held-for-killing-mother-310430
13-09-2021||Jalandhar||Farmers gherao BJP office in Jalandhar||Farmers of the BKU (Rajewal) today gheraoed the BJP office in Jalandhar to protest an event held to honour former AISSF president Harminder Singh Kahlon, who joined the party earlier this year.Busy in protest, farmers’ personal works getting hitA group of farmers reached the BJP office and raised slogans against the party. As the protesters approached the office, they were stopped by the police using barricading.Also readDays after Samyukt Kisan Morcha meet, Navjot Singh Sidhu wants FIRs droppedCrowds at Singhu, Tikri thinning as protesting farmers head home ahead of harvesting seasonMorcha diktat on party events win-win for Capt Amarinder SinghKarnal victory shot in arm for morcha: BKUAround 5 pm, the farmers tried to break through the barricading but were prevented by the police from doing so. While the farmers protested outside the office for an hour, they left after the meeting.This is the first protest by farmers in the city against a BJP leader after the overnight dharna against party state chief Ashwani Sharma’s meeting at the Circuit House some days ago.Kahlon was among the six Sikh personalities from Punjab who had joined the party at its Delhi headquarters in the presence of Sharma and Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. The BJP was looking to project fresh faces from the state in a bid to “break the perception that people of Punjab are upset with the BJP”. Kahlon has been appointed party spokesperson in the state.Meanwhile, Kahlon was honoured by the BJP leadership at the event. Former Cabinet minister Manoranjan Kalia and former district chief Raman Pabbi were among those present. — TNSLdh clash Bid to disturb peace: AAPChandigarh: The AAP has condemned the clash between Congress and BJP workers in Ludhiana, saying it was an attempt by political parties, including SAD, to vitiate the atmosphere of the state. AAP MLA Aman Arora alleged parties wanted to create fear among people ahead of the polls and get President’s rule imposed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-gherao-bjp-office-in-jalandhar-310215
