14-09-2021||Jalandhar||St Soldier Group’s 22nd college||Olympians visit campusLyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, is proud to have produced great and eminent personalities in the field of academics, culture and sports. Five Olympians Manpreet Singh (captain), Harmanpreet Singh (vice-captain), Varun Kumar, Mandeep Singh and Hardik Singh arrived at the college. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra welcomed the Olympians. He said that Harmanpreet Singh and Varun Kumar are alumni of our institute. He said that these Olympians visited the college and saw the college playground, college buildings, gardens, botanical gardens and other infrastructure. He added that they were impressed by the overall environment of Lyallpur Khalsa College. He said that it is a matter of great pride for us that the shining stars of Indian hockey have come to our organisation. He informed that our institute is committed to provide all facilities to the students for their good performance in sports. He hoped that budding players would play on the newly established AstroTurf and taking inspiration from these Olympians.Help Desk installed at KMVThe Department of Student Welfare of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya has installed Help Desk outside the college auditorium with the noble intent of extending guidance to the freshers and even the old students if required. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that the students who enter the threshold of an institution of higher education may have many queries and may feel lost at the times. The students and teachers from the Department of Student Welfare sit at the help desk throughout the day. Guiding the students regarding the time table and escorting them to the classrooms was done flawlessly and enthusiastically by the seniors. They will continue this practice for a complete month. The students on duty averred that they find a lot of satisfaction in being helpful to the juniors. The Department of Student Welfare had recently arranged guided tours for the new entrants to apprise them of the glorious institution and the facilities offered by it. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi lauded Dr Madhumeet, Dean Student Welfare for this initiative.Hindi debate contest organisedVajra Corps Inter-APS Hindi Debate Competition was conducted at Army Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, all schools of 11 Corps from Amritsar, Beas, Tibri, Ferozepur, Kapurthala and Jalandhar participated in the event. The chief guest for the occasion was the Principal of the school, Dr Saksham Singh who marked the event open by lighting the ceremonial lamp. The event was conducted in two categories i.e. senior and junior. The topic of debate for the senior category was ‘Aazadi Se Purva Aur Paschat Ke Rajat Varsh- Kitne Dhumil Kitne Dhawal’ and for the junior category was ‘Corona Kaal Mein Chaatra Jeevan - Kyaa Khoya Kyaa Paya’. First the students of senior category, exhibited their debating acumen as per the alphabetical sequence decided. Anupam Mishra of APS, Tibri brought laurels to the school by procuring the title of the best speaker ‘For the motion’ and Kritika of APS, Jalandhar Cantt, acquired the title of the best speaker ‘Against the motion’ whereas Tamanna Yadav of APS, Amritsar bagged the position of the best interjector. APS, Jalandhar Cantt was declared the ‘Overall Winner’ of the competition whereas APS, Tibri grabbed the covetous position of being the first runners up and APS, Amritsar, was announced the second runners up.KMV school teacher felicitatedSanskriti KMV School faculty Nidhi Malhotra, PGT Computers, got felicitated in the “Des Raj Vedhara Memorial Best Teachers Award-II” hosted by DAV DRV Centenary Public School, Phillaur. She was honoured for the Best Innovative Practices inculcated towards developing fertile learning grounds for the students. Rachna Monga, Principal, congratulated, Nidhi Malhotra for the honours received and wished good luck for future endeavours. She extended good wishes to DAV DRV Centenary Public School for the encouraging event dedicated for the teaching fraternity.Priya bags Rs6-lakh pay packagePriya, an MBA student of Management Department, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, got placed at a pay package of Rs 6 lakh. A student of MBA -2020-2022 batch, she has been selected with Intellipat Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore. Selection process consisted of online group discussion, followed by telephonic interview rounds of HR and Sales Manager. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) and Dr Inderpal Singh (HoD, Management) congratulated the student and her parents. Dr. SK Sood (Director, TC) also congratulated the student and her parents. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/st-soldier-groups-22nd-college-310701
14-09-2021||Jalandhar||Demand for district status to Phagwara gathers pace||Olympians visit campusLyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, is proud to have produced great and eminent personalities in the field of academics, culture and sports. Five Olympians Manpreet Singh (captain), Harmanpreet Singh (vice-captain), Varun Kumar, Mandeep Singh and Hardik Singh arrived at the college. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra welcomed the Olympians. He said that Harmanpreet Singh and Varun Kumar are alumni of our institute. He said that these Olympians visited the college and saw the college playground, college buildings, gardens, botanical gardens and other infrastructure. He added that they were impressed by the overall environment of Lyallpur Khalsa College. He said that it is a matter of great pride for us that the shining stars of Indian hockey have come to our organisation. He informed that our institute is committed to provide all facilities to the students for their good performance in sports. He hoped that budding players would play on the newly established AstroTurf and taking inspiration from these Olympians.Help Desk installed at KMVThe Department of Student Welfare of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya has installed Help Desk outside the college auditorium with the noble intent of extending guidance to the freshers and even the old students if required. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that the students who enter the threshold of an institution of higher education may have many queries and may feel lost at the times. The students and teachers from the Department of Student Welfare sit at the help desk throughout the day. Guiding the students regarding the time table and escorting them to the classrooms was done flawlessly and enthusiastically by the seniors. They will continue this practice for a complete month. The students on duty averred that they find a lot of satisfaction in being helpful to the juniors. The Department of Student Welfare had recently arranged guided tours for the new entrants to apprise them of the glorious institution and the facilities offered by it. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi lauded Dr Madhumeet, Dean Student Welfare for this initiative.Hindi debate contest organisedVajra Corps Inter-APS Hindi Debate Competition was conducted at Army Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, all schools of 11 Corps from Amritsar, Beas, Tibri, Ferozepur, Kapurthala and Jalandhar participated in the event. The chief guest for the occasion was the Principal of the school, Dr Saksham Singh who marked the event open by lighting the ceremonial lamp. The event was conducted in two categories i.e. senior and junior. The topic of debate for the senior category was ‘Aazadi Se Purva Aur Paschat Ke Rajat Varsh- Kitne Dhumil Kitne Dhawal’ and for the junior category was ‘Corona Kaal Mein Chaatra Jeevan - Kyaa Khoya Kyaa Paya’. First the students of senior category, exhibited their debating acumen as per the alphabetical sequence decided. Anupam Mishra of APS, Tibri brought laurels to the school by procuring the title of the best speaker ‘For the motion’ and Kritika of APS, Jalandhar Cantt, acquired the title of the best speaker ‘Against the motion’ whereas Tamanna Yadav of APS, Amritsar bagged the position of the best interjector. APS, Jalandhar Cantt was declared the ‘Overall Winner’ of the competition whereas APS, Tibri grabbed the covetous position of being the first runners up and APS, Amritsar, was announced the second runners up.KMV school teacher felicitatedSanskriti KMV School faculty Nidhi Malhotra, PGT Computers, got felicitated in the “Des Raj Vedhara Memorial Best Teachers Award-II” hosted by DAV DRV Centenary Public School, Phillaur. She was honoured for the Best Innovative Practices inculcated towards developing fertile learning grounds for the students. Rachna Monga, Principal, congratulated, Nidhi Malhotra for the honours received and wished good luck for future endeavours. She extended good wishes to DAV DRV Centenary Public School for the encouraging event dedicated for the teaching fraternity.Priya bags Rs6-lakh pay packagePriya, an MBA student of Management Department, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, got placed at a pay package of Rs 6 lakh. A student of MBA -2020-2022 batch, she has been selected with Intellipat Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore. Selection process consisted of online group discussion, followed by telephonic interview rounds of HR and Sales Manager. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) and Dr Inderpal Singh (HoD, Management) congratulated the student and her parents. Dr. SK Sood (Director, TC) also congratulated the student and her parents. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/demand-for-district-status-to-phagwara-gathers-pace-310699
14-09-2021||---||Now, check availability of straw mulchers at i-Khet||Jalandhar, September 13Gearing up for the elimination of paddy straw burning in the district, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today appealed to the farmers not to resort to stubble burning as the smog from the fire can aggravate problems for the people, especially Covid-19 patients.Presiding over a meeting with the officials of departments concerned, the DC termed i-Khet app a revolutionary step where farmers could check the availability of machinery at block level. He said 3,858 machines, including super seeder, mulchers, RMB plough, happy seeder, Super SMS, are available in the district, which can be viewed through the app.The DC also issued on-the-spot sanction to a total of 118 cooperative societies, farmers’ groups and panchayats to purchase new machineries and directed customer hiring centres not to charge rent from small and marginal farmers for the crop residue management machinery they sought from them.The DC said a multi-pronged strategy ranging from awareness campaign to action against defaulters would be adopted to curb stubble burning practices in the district adding a comprehensive plan was already put in place to keep a close tab over such incidents. He further asked officials to keep a close tab over the farm fire incidents by ensuring physical verification in each case.Thori said to ensure that no erring person could escape from action, strict vigil was also being kept through remote sensing satellites. He said the satellites would detect the place where any burning of paddy straw has taken place and subsequently the administration would take action against the person involved in it. He directed the SDMs to ensure all combines were equipped with Super SMS technique and take action against those not complying with these directions.Prominent amongst others present on the occasion included Assistant Commissioner Hardeep Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh, Deputy Registrar Cooperative Societies Jagjit Singh, DDPO Iqbaljit Singh besides other officers of district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-check-availability-of-straw-mulchers-at-i-khet-310697
14-09-2021||---||Farmers hold sit-in outside MLA Navtej Singh Cheema’s residence||Kapurthala, September 13Under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Kapurthala, hundreds of farmers today gheraoed the residence of Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema.Heavy security arrangements were made by the police on every road leading to the house of Congress MLA Navtej Singh Cheema and the farmers were stopped at a distance of 100m away from the residence. Addressing the dharna, district head Sarwan Singh Baupur said corruption in Sultanpur Lodhi has crossed all limits and the MLA was responsible for the same.Gurlal Singh Pandori and Ran Singh said that during the year 2019-2020, the floods in Beas devasted their fields and compensation was doled out to fake people. They said that in March 2021, the wheat siphoning scam came to fore with the involvement of food and civil supplies officials. “The corruption spread in the offices of Sultanpur Lodhi should be stopped immediately and thorough inquiries should be held to probe the bungling of government funds”, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-hold-sit-in-outside-mla-navtej-singh-cheemas-residence-310694
14-09-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Ram Singh Hundal motivates others to indulge in gardening||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 13For 76-year-old Ram Singh Hundal, the plants at his home are his ‘zindagi’ as he loves to call them. Hundal is a great admirer and an ardent fan of gardening. Such is his love for the plants that he even motivated others in his life to indulge in gardening.Some years ago, Hundal, a postgraduate in horticulture, suffered a paralysis attack, and since then he is wheelchair bound. But even at this condition and age, Hundal doesn’t forget to sit near his companions, i.e., plants and flowers. He retired as Chief Manager from IIFCO, Hyderabad.Satinder Hundal (68), his wife, said everyday he insists her to take him near to the greens. “He can sit there every time. I never had this inclination towards gardening, but when it was only last year, I started doing this work too, as I wanted to help my husband in maintaining the area,” she said. “Ohna di te jaan vasdi e, enna vich’, Satinder said. “His health has improved because of these greens,” she adds. Now she has also developed interest and she brought around 250 plants of various varieties this year.Front garden at Hundal’s home is so mesmerising. There are several perennial plants, night flowering jasmine, roses, plumeria alba, bamboo, ixora etc in the house making the environment serene and attractive.“People tell him that he has green fingers. Wherever he goes, he gives everyone motivation to grow plants and often provides saplings. I have seen him giving plants to around 10-15 households near our home and prompted them to contribute to mother nature,” said Hundal’s wife.Ram Singh Hundal sums up what role do these plants play in his life in one line: “Eh mainu khushi dinde hai, meri jaan enna vich vasdi hai”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ram-singh-hundal-motivates-others-to-indulge-in-gardening-310693
14-09-2021||---||Dengue larvae found at eight places in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 13While conducting a survey in the district, health teams found dengue larvae at eight places in Jagatpura, Abadpura and Gandhianagar areas on Monday. Dengue larvae were destroyed in these areas and Tempiphos was sprayed in the waterlogged areas of the city. Notably, Jagatpura, Abadpura and Gandhinagar are all slum areas with congested settlements. Water was found accumulated in roofs, coolers, tins, pots etc. at many places and Pyrethrum, an insect repellent, was sprayed.A total of 143 houses were surveyed in the district today.The District Health Department has also collected 24 samples in the city today for malaria testing. While six dengue cases have been reported in the district so far.Epidemiologist Aditya Paul said, “The dengue larvae samples were collected from coolers, flower pot, tures, containers and the roof of an under-construction building. Surveys are ongoing and more areas are also being inspected everyday.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dengue-larvae-found-at-eight-places-in-jalandhar-310698
14-09-2021||---||No end in sight: Roadways staff take out protest march on Day 8||Jalandhar, September 13The indefinite strike by Punbus and PRTC Contractual Workers Union Punjab entered its eighth day on Monday. Contractual and outsourced workers of the union today organised a protest march on the city roads, demanding immediate attention for their demands. The workers also accused the government of issuing notices to all employees through the depot manager that the strike was illegal, sending recovery notices and termination letters to the employees participating in the strike.Though the management and the government are holding talks and meetings to bring the striking workers back to duty, the written notice regarding the strike was given 40 days ago by the union to the transport minister, transport secretary, DST Punjab.Several meetings with MD, PRTC, have been conducted. Now, the government should make alternate arrangements, the Theka Mulazim Workers Union added.District president of the union Gurpreet Singh and chairman Jasbir Singh said instead of complying with our demands, the government and management were trying to end the strike by pressurising the workers.Union General Secretary Chanan Singh said until their demands were accepted the strike would be continued.“Following the orders of the state committee of the contractual workers, a sit-in dharna was held on Sunday in front of the residence of MLA Pargat Singh. Today, we have organised protest marches across all the districts. The workers raised their demands such as 10,000 government buses, regularisation of contractual employees, reinstatement of retired workers among others. All depots except the ones attending the meeting on the September 14 will stage a massive protest in their respective districts. If the meeting again remains unfruitful, National Highways will be blocked on Wednesday,” added Gurpreet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-end-in-sight-roadways-staff-take-out-protest-march-on-day-8-310700
14-09-2021||---||Covid-19: 4 more test positive, no death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 13The district on Monday reported four new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 63,266. However, no death due to Covid-19 was reported in the district. The death toll remained at 1,494. As many as 61,743 people have recovered from the disease while the number of active cases in Jalandhar stands at 29.Of the 16,17,994 samples collected in the district so far, 14,86,449 tested negative. The results of as many as 215 tests are awaited. At present, no person is under home isolation in the district.1 contract virus in KapurthalaThe district on Monday recorded one more case of Covid-19, pushing the tally to 17,821. However, no death due to Covid-19 was reported in the district. So far, 17,253 patients have recovered from the virus, while there are 14 active cases in the district. Moreover, one person was discharged after recovery.All well in NawanshahrThe district on Monday reported no fresh case of Covid-19, so the tally stood at 11,455 (3.68 per cent). With no death being reported, the toll stood at 387 (3.37 per cent). At present, there are five active cases and all of them are under home isolation. The recovery rate is 96.57 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-4-more-test-positive-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-310690
14-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar: Krishan Nagar residents irked over shoddy work by civic body||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 13For years, residents of Mohalla Krishan Nagar here had been getting a dirty, oily water supply. Persistent complaints to the local councillor led to pressure and work on re-laying water pipes began some days ago. Instead of getting relief, the residents are facing fresh worries.RK Talwar, an area residentFor years, we have been getting potable water supply mixed with sewage water due to the presence of sewer pipes near drinking water supply lines. It has made our lives miserable. Now, when the MC is re-laying water pipes, it is doing such a bad quality work. The pipes have been re-laid right on the surface of the road, making it a clear case of shoddy work.The plastic water supply pipes, which are being re-laid in the mohalla for the past fortnight, are not being put as deep in the earth as they should be. Residents feel that with pipes being just right under the surface, these can be damaged by heavy vehicles. Peeved at the shoddy work being done by the municipal corporation, residents demand that the water pipes should be laid at the required depth in the earth.They said thin water pipes were being laid without any protective cover over them to avoid damage to them. These can burst under the weight of a heavy vehicle. Krishan Nagar area falls in Ward No.19 of the city where Uma Beri is the councillor.RK Talwar, a resident of the area, says, “For years, we had been getting potable water supply mixed with sewage water due to the presence of sewer pipes near drinking water supply lines. It has made our lives miserable. Now, when the MC is re-laying water pipes, it is doing such a bad quality work. The pipes have been re-laid right on the surface of the road, making it a clear case of shoddy work. Many pipes pass right by or through manholes. Our grouse is: “Does drinking water get mixed with sewage water?”“If they pass eight manholes, the plastic pipes will be damaged by acidic discharge in no time. We do not want sewer water enters our water supply again in a fortnight or six months. The MC should re-lay these pipes.”Mohan Lal Aggarwal, another resident of the area, said, “We are thankful that the MC laid pipes after persistent complaints. Whenever we opened our taps, we got oil drops and greasy water for years in the area. It is after much persuasion that this new work was started. But we can see the freshly laid pipes due to shoddy work. The work started about 20 days ago. First, the MC dug up roads, now water supply pipes are being laid in at least three to four streets. We demand that this work should be stopped and the pipes should be put deeper in the earth but do not pass through manholes. We do not want to give an open invite to diseases in the area.”The residents said the previous pipes had been laid at least 45 to 50 years ago, so these were now leaking, which may have led to the mixing of sewage with drinking water. After laying the water pipes, roads will also have to be reconstructed in the area.The area councillor said, “We have been laying proper water supply pipes in the area which are being laid in accordance with the vents and connections available in the streets. The contractors have even been entertaining requests of some residents with private connections. Videos have been shared with me of the work which is going on smoothly. I am not aware of this recent issue. Those who have a complaint do come to my office and we will solve their grievance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-krishan-nagar-residents-irked-over-shoddy-work-by-civic-body-310702
14-09-2021||---||Youth Akali Dal, shopkeepers block road over not razing unsafe buildings in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, September 13Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leaders and shopkeepers of city markets held a protest against the district administration and blocked the road in Amrit Bazaar here on Monday. They were raising their long-pending issue of demolition of old, dilapidated buildings in the congested city markets.Avi Rajput, vice-president of the Youth Akali Dal, said party leaders and shopkeepers had been demanding the demolition of the dilapidated buildings in the Heritage City, Amrit Bazaar and Sarafa Bazaar. As their demand was not being met, they blocked a road to awaken the authorities concerned, the local Congress MLA and the Mayor of the Municipal Corporation. The leaders raised slogans against the district administration and the authorities concerned.SHO Gaurav Dhir reached the spot to pacify the protesting leaders. He received a memorandum of demands from them after which the dharna was lifted. YAD leaders Nikka, Monu, Vipan, Navtej Singh, Lakhbir Singh and Golu said, “The condition of the buildings is so bad that they can collapse at any time. The bricks of the walls are coming off. The guards and bars have become weak and bowed. The cracks are clearly visible on the walls. But our MLAs, who brag about development, roam in their AC vehicles and air-conditioned rooms and residents of the city are living in the shadow of death all the time.”Rajput said besides providing basic facilities to the residents of the city, it was the responsibility of the civic body to protect them from the dilapidated buildings. But after seeing these buildings, it was clear that the MC was not serious about fulfilling its responsibility and it hardly cared about the residents’ lives. He said the old buildings could collapse anytime during the rains.The shopkeepers said, “The residents are worried about the potential threat posed by them. Living around these, which are closed and unused for years, is quite risky and we have alerted the MC about such buildings a number of times.”The YAD leaders warned, “If the dilapidated buildings are not demolished soon, the MC office would be gheraoed and effigies of civic body officials will also be burnt.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-akali-dal-shopkeepers-block-road-over-not-razing-unsafe-buildings-in-kapurthala-310692
14-09-2021||---||No end to commuters’ woes in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 13The district administration and local police seem to have allowed anyone and everyone to lodge a protest anytime and anywhere in the city.While it has been the farmers or religious organisations which have been recently blocking the city roads and affecting the lives of commuters, today it was Bahujan Samaj Party (Ambedkar) that chose to block Nakodar Chowk all of a sudden this afternoon and create a mess.Since the Nakodar Chowk is one of the busiest intersections of the city, all connecting areas including Lajpat Nagar and Link Road got badly choked. Hundreds of commuters got stuck up for nearly an hour unable to move back or forth.BSP (A) chief Dev Dass Nahar had reportedly organised the protest against the state government blaming it for rising corruption and false promises made to the masses.Sporting blue flags on their vehicles and using blaring mikes, the party leaders chose to organise a rally right at the intersection. The rally continued in the presence of the mute Punjab Police personnel who let them go on despite commuters honking their vehicles and streams of cars getting caught up in the traffic snarl.Several patients and their attendants admitted in the hospitals around the area, too, got affected. Daljeet Singh, an ambulance driver, said he too found it extremely difficult to ferry a patient needing emergency treatment to a hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-end-to-commuters-woes-in-jalandhar-310691
14-09-2021||---||Rs 28-lakh fraud: Jalandhar BJP legal cell chief held in Amritsar||Amritsar/Jalandhar, September 13The Division B police of Amritsar on Monday nabbed Jalandhar BJP legal cell chief Lakhan Gandhi in a Rs 28.44-lakh fraud case.The complainant, Charanjit Kaur, told the police that the accused cheated her of Rs28.44 lakh on the pretext of getting an FIR against her son, Lovepreet, cancelled and getting him released on bail. Lovepreet was booked by Division B police in a case of rape lodged on March 8 last year.Serving as an advocate for the past nearly six years, Lakhan Gandhi had passed out from the local St Soldier Law College. Using his connections, he got himself appointed as the BJP legal cell chief last yearGandhi was produced before a court, which sent him to one-day police custody. A total of four persons were booked in the case. Besides Gandhi, the police had booked complainant’s sister Manju Khera and her nephew Nitin Khera, both residents of Basti Gujjan in Jalandhar, and Amandeep Singh of Sultanwind Road under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC. Division B police station SHO Sarvan Singh said raids were on to nab the remaining three suspects.Amritsar Bar Association chief Vipin Dhand, who appeared before the court on behalf of Gandhi, pointed out that his client took only Rs25,000 as fee and did not know about the remaining amount. On the contrary, the Jalandhar Bar Association, where he remained junior vice-president, and is reportedly related to ex-president Ashok Gandhi, did not show any solidarity with Lakhan.Serving as an advocate for the past nearly six years, Lakhan Gandhi had passed out from the local St Soldier Law College. Using his connections, he got himself appointed as the BJP legal cell chief last year. He reportedly came into contact with the complainant as her sister Manju Khera was his neighbour.Complainant Charanjit Kaur alleged that Lakhan Gandhi in connivance with her sister and nephew had committed a huge financial fraud against her, including creating a fake FDR of Rs8.5 lakh for securing bail her son from the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In her complaint, she also stated that she kept trusting all the accused blindly, including her sister and nephew who too were involved in the alleged racket.She said her conversation with Punjab and Haryana High Court lawyer Manish Puri came as an eye-opener to her. She said while the accused (Lakhan) had sought Rs1.5 lakh for him (Manish Puri) from her, Puri had been paid only Rs 70,000.The complainant said she found that Rs6 lakh taken in the name of SHO in Amritsar too had been taken fraudulently from her. When she approached Axis Bank with FDR details, she was told that this too was fake. She said when she took on the accused over the matter, she was threatened and told that she should not take any step as they were politically well-connected. But she finally lodged the complaint in May this year after which an FIR was formally lodged on September 11.Meanwhile, Punjab and Haryana Bar Council Chairman Minderjeet Yadav wrote to the DGP, Punjab, alleging that the complaint was false and motivated. “Police personnel have misbehaved with the family of the advocate (Lakhan). The Bar Council condemns the conduct of Amritsar police,” he has written, demanding the release of Lakhan Gandhi and cancellation of the FIR against him.Bar council head writes to DGPPunjab and Haryana Bar Council Chairman Minderjeet Yadav wrote to the DGP, Punjab, alleging that the complaint was false and motivated. “Police personnel have misbehaved with the family of the advocate (Lakhan). The Bar Council condemns the conduct of Amritsar police,” he has written.The caseThe complainant, Charanjit Kaur, told the police that the accused cheated her of Rs28.44 lakh on the pretext of getting an FIR against her son, Lovepreet, cancelled and getting him released on bail. Lovepreet was booked by Division B Amritsar police in a case of rape lodged on March 8 last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-28-lakh-fraud-jalandhar-bjp-legal-cell-chief-held-in-amritsar-310703
