15-09-2021||Kapurthala||9 phones, 2 SIMs seized from Kapurthala jail||Nurses wear black badgesHoshiarpur: The nursing staff of the Health Department today protested by wearing black badges against the incomplete report of the 6th pay commission issued by the Punjab Government. The protest was held on call of the state’s Nursing Staff Joint Action Committee. Gurjit Kaur, president, nursing association, said major demands of the association include nursing officer designation to nurses, level 7 pay scale for newly recruited staff and night duty allowance among others. On the occasion Matron Harbhajan Kaur, Surinder Kaur, Satnam Kaur, Charanjit Kaur, Jaswinder Kaur, Daljit Kaur, Shashi Bala, Sarabjit Kaur, Naresh Rani, Parvesh Sayal, Kamaljit Kaur, Ritu, Jasveer Kaur, Jaswant Kaur, Annpurna Bali and Surinder Kaur etc. were present. ocGold earrings snatched, 2 heldHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police have arrested two persons for snatching gold earrings of a woman. Sawaran Kaur, a resident of Alampur village, told the police that yesterday, when she was standing outside her house, the accused, Sunny and Manni, both residents of her village, came there and tried to flee after snatching her gold earrings, but were nabbed. The police have registered a case against both the accused. ocDBA to boycott work todayJalandhar: Showing solidarity with its member Lakhan Gandhi, who was arrested yesterday, members of the District Bar Association (DBA) have decided to abstain from work tomorrow. Secretary of the association Sandeep Singh Sangha said advocate Gandhi had been wrongly implicated. “The bar association demands that the false FIR lodged against Gandhi be withdrawn or else we will intensify our protest. We condemn the act and the conduct of Amritsar police that arrested him yesterday and misbehaved with his family members”, said Sangha. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-phones-2-sims-seized-from-kapurthala-jail-311490
15-09-2021||Jalandhar||Hindi Diwas celebrated at Apeejay School, Mahavir Marg||Innocent Hearts College of EducationInnocent Hearts College of Education celebrated Hindi Diwas with fervour. By reciting the couplets of Kabir, Rahim and Tulsi Das in Hindi language, the student-teachers spread the message that Hindi language is the soul of our cultural heritage. A virtual play on the theme of preserving and disseminating Hindi language to the coming generations in its pure form by not mixing it with the other languages was artistically enacted by Neha Sareen, Nishu Walia, Shikha Sanan, Mitali Rana, Preeti and Amanpreet Kaur. Principal Dr Arjinder Singh congratulated all participants and e-certificates were given to all.MGN College of EducationMGN College of Education celebrated Hindi Diwas in the college premises. On this day, student of the college Priya with her speech emphasised the unifying value of Hindi as a language. Shelly Devi, with her poem ‘Hindi Hamari Shaan Hai’, showed her love and respect for Hindi language as an Indian. Deeksha with her speech threw light on the objective of celebrating ‘Hindi Diwas’. Kajal with her poem entitled ‘Bharat Ki Bhasha Hindi’ depicted her affinity for Hindi language. Shelly Devi mesmerised the audience with her beautiful song ‘Hindi Ka Parcham Uda’. Principal Neelu Jhanji said every Indian should feel proud to speak in their mother tongue.Lyallpur Khalsa College for WomenThe PG Department of Hindi, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, celebrated Hindi Diwas on the campus. Various competitions were organised such as poems, path, poster making, essay writing, etc. Principal Dr Navjot congratulated everyone on this day. Dr Sarabjeet Rai, Head, PG Department of Hindi also described the importance of the Hindi language. Not only the students of Hindi Department, but students from various streams participated actively in these celebrations. Principal Dr Navjot applauded the efforts of Dr Sarabjeet Rai and Dr Amardeep Deol for organising the day.Eklavya schoolEklavya School celebrated Hindi Diwas with fervour. Not only the children, but also teachers took part in various activities to acknowledge the importance of Hindi in our lives. Children gave speeches on importance of Hindi language and wrote slogans. Principal Komal Arora also recited a small beautiful poem laying importance of Hindi. Administrator Dimple Malhotra also gave small speech on congratulating everyone on Hindi Diwas. Director Seema Handa also agreed with their views and said our heritage lies in Hindi language alone.Hans Raj Mahila Maha VidyalayaThe PG Department of Hindi of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar celebrated ‘Hindi Diwas’ with full enthusiasm. The department organised Hindi Signature Campaign and Rajbhasha Bandhan. Everyone signed in Hindi and ensured to provide respect to our own language. Awareness rally was also organised on this occasion. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated Dr Jyoti Gogia and faculty members Pawan Kumari and Dr Deepti Dhir.Havan ceremony at Doaba CollegeDoaba College’s Student Welfare Committee and Arya Yuvak Sabha organised Shubharambh 2021-22 and performed a havan to pray for the bright future of students. Chandra Mohan, President, Arya Shiksha Mandal and College Managing Committee, graced the occasion as the chief guest. He was accorded a hearty welcome by Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari, Prof Surjeet Kaur and Sonia Kalra, coordinators, teaching and non teaching staff. Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari welcomed students by inspiring them to imbibe qualities of innovation, dedication, honesty and discipline to achieve success in life.Workshop on Nutrition MonthThe Department of Home Science and Fashion Designing, Hindu Kanya College, Kapurthala, celebrated National Nutrition Month by organising two-day workshop on ‘Baking and Confectionery’ on September 13 and 14 under the guidance of Principal Dr Archna Garg. Resource Person Avneet Kaur, Assistant Prof in Home Science Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kapurthala, working under the aegis of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, gave a demonstration on making nutritious chocolates, bread and cookies. Fifty two students attended the workshop with great interest and enthusiasm. Head of department Sarika Kanda, Avninder Kaur and Dolly were also present.10 GNA students get jobsGNA University organised a campus drive of Advance Tech Building Maintenance Pvt Ltd for the students of Faculty of Engineering Design and Automation. Advance Tech Building Maintenance Pvt Ltd, Gurgaon, deals with design, manufacturer, installation and supplier of Facade Access System /Building Maintenance System and Fall Protection System or lifeline system. The company shortlisted 10 candidates out of 25 for design, sales & marketing and operations, after conducting written test, group discussion and personal interview. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hindi-diwas-celebrated-at-apeejay-school-mahavir-marg-311489
15-09-2021||Jalandhar||Nawanshahar Kanungo caught red-handed taking bribe||The Vigilance Bureau on Tuesday caught Kanungo Om Parkash posted at the tehsil office in Nawanshahar red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000.SSP, Vigilance Bureau, Diljinder Dhillon said the accused was arrested on the complaint of Gurmukh Singh of Mahal Khurd village in Nawanshahr. The complainant had informed the VB that the accused was demanding bribe to forward inquiry report regarding his numbardari case.He further informed that he had already paid Rs 15,000 to the accused and now he was demanding Rs 5,000 more from him. After verifying his complaint, a VB team laid a trap and the accused Kanungo was arrested on the spot while taking a bribe of Rs 5,000 more from the complainant in the presence of two official witnesses. He said a case under relevant sections has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahar-kanungo-caught-red-handed-taking-bribe-311488
15-09-2021||---||Health Department to monitor baby’s growth along with parents||Jalandhar, September 14Is your newborn baby eating properly or not? Is he/she getting enough nutritious food? Is the physical and mental development of the baby according to her age? All these things will now be monitored by the Health Department along with the parents.The department is going to launch a new programme — Home Based Young Child Care (HBYC). Under it, planning has been done to give extra attention to check what newborn babies eat till they turn 15 months old and to monitor the pace of their physical and mental development. ANMs, ASHA workers and ASHA facilitators were being trained for this at the Community Health Centre at Shahkot.The five-day training programme of the first batch ended on Monday. The programme aims to reduce cases of malnutrition and underdevelopment in the first 15 months of the child.Senior Medical Officer Dr AS Duggal said from the process of conception to the birth of the child and then the first 1,000 days of the mental and physical development were very important. Earlier, after the birth of the child, the ANM and ASHA workers used to visit the newborn’s house in the first 42 days for seven times to examine the child.Now, under the new programme, the number of visits has increased to 12. After the birth of the child, health workers will pay a visit on the 1st, 3rd, 7th, 14th, 21st, 28th, 42nd day and then every three months till the baby turns 15 months old.Dr Duggal further said special monitoring would be done to check various stages of physical and mental development of the child. For example, in the third month, it would be ensured that the child was fully breastfed.Besides, instructions would be given to protect the newborn from diseases like diarrhoea and pneumonia. Similarly, during the visits that will continue for six months, parents would be asked to give complementary food along with mother’s milk to the newborn baby. In the ninth and 12 month, it would be seen whether the weight and height of the child is equal to normal children. Is the child walking properly? The parents will be informed about the activities to be undertaken by the child at this age.HBYC programmeThe department is going to launch a new programme — Home-based Young Child Care (HBYC). Under it, planning has been done to pay extra attention to check what newborn babies eat till they turn 15 months old and to monitor the pace of their physical and mental development. ANMs, ASHA workers and ASHA facilitators were being trained for this at the Community Health Centre at Shahkot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-department-to-monitor-babys-growth-along-with-parents-311487
15-09-2021||---||2 fake travel agents held in Jalandhar, 66 passports recovered||Jalandhar, September 14In a drive launched against illegal travel agents, the Jalandhar rural police on Tuesday arrested two illegal travel agents and recovered 66 Indian passports from their possession at Bhogpur.The police teams led by SI Harinder Singh, SHO Bhogpur police station, also seized Rs 23.92 lakh cash, one Range Rover car (HR-26-CB-0055) and one Fortuner Car (PB-47-E-0032) from their possession.Giving the details in a press conference, Ajay Gandhi, ASP, Adampur, said on September 11, ASI Satpal Singh, along with police party, was patrolling at Bholath turn in Bhogpur. The police received an information that Amandeep Singh of Cholang, who was working as travel agent without any valid licence, was travelling in his Range Rover car with passports and cash obtained through fraudulent means, he added.He said ASI Satpal Singh, along with police party, set up a naka and rounded up Amandeep Singh, recovering three Indian passports and Rs 3.92 lakh from him. The accused was produced before a local court the next day and one-day police remand was obtained. During the interrogation, Amandeep revealed that his partner, identified as Tota Ram of Bulandpur village in Maqsudan, was also involved in the business.During further investigation, Rs 5 lakh of Indian currency was recovered from Tota Ram and 63 Indian passports and 15 lakh rupees of Indian currency was recovered from Amandeep Singh.An FIR under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code and 13 of Punjab Travel Professional Act was registered at the Bhogpur police station and two accused were arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-fake-travel-agents-held-in-jalandhar-66-passports-recovered-311486
15-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||1,022 get offer letters at job fair in Dasuya||The 7th State Level Mega Employment Fair was organised by the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise on Monday at Cambridge International School, Dasuya, under the door-to-door employment drive of the Punjab Government. Various companies and organisations participated in the job fair and recruited as many as 1,022 candidates while 49 candidates were shortlisted. Over 1,700 candidates from Dasuya, Mukerian, Tanda, Talwara, Hajipur and other places participated in the job fair.DC Apneet Riyait said the highest number of recruitment in this state level mega job fair was made by Sonalika which recruited more than 200 candidates, while 102 were recruited by ICICI Foundation, 85 by Asian Tires and SIS Security selected 46 candidates, besides eligible candidates by various other reputed companies, institutions and schools. She said a maximum salary package of Rs 3 lakh was offered in the job fair.The DC said in the mega job fair candidates who have passed Class X, XII, BA, BCom, BCA, MA, ITI Diploma, BTech (Mechanical), MCA and other computer courses passed youths participated.A similar job fair would be held on September 15 at the BDPO office, Mahilpur, and the 4th Mega Employment Fair on September 17 at the DBEE office ITI, Hoshiarpur. He said these job fairs would start at 10 am. District Employment Officer Gurmel Singh; Placement Officer Mangesh Sood; Career Counsellor Aditya Rana, were also present on the occasion. —OCOver 4,000 get jobs in JalandharJalandhar: The third placement camp under the mega job fair was held at CT Group of Institutions, Shahpur Campus, wherein as many as 4,415 youths got on spot job offers. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said a total of 4,859 candidates participated in the camp, of which 4,415 received job offers. Notably, as many as 16,000 jobs have been offered to unemployed youths during the placement camps in past one month. He further added that a total of 52 companies participated in the camp to provide youths with ample employment opportunities. Thori added that next camps will be held on September 15 and 17 at Janta College Kartarpur, and BDPO office Bhogpur. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-022-get-offer-letters-at-job-fair-in-dasuya-311485
15-09-2021||---||IKGPTU to get ‘Ambedkar museum’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 14To provide a platform to researchers, a museum based on the life and works of Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar will be established on the main campus of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU), Jalandhar, by the state government.The museum will be a unique amalgamation of proven facts in the subjects related to the life, works and philosophy of Dr Ambedkar. In the context of this goal, a high-level project review meeting was held between the senior officials of the Department of Technical Education and the Department of Tourism and Cultural Affairs at IKGPTU on Tuesday. The meeting was presided over by Principal Secretary Technical Education Department (PSTE)-cum-Vice Chancellor, IKGPTU, Ramesh Kumar Ganta.At the meeting, the specifics of the project were kept in the midst of everyone through a film and a PowerPoint presentation on behalf of the consultant and architecture associated with the proposed museum.Sharing the project report, Vinita Singh said the museum would be built with an investment of about Rs 150 crore and it would be divided into five zones. The first entry point will be Pranam Tower, while the first zone will be named as Central Zone, which will have a gallery on the life and work of Dr Ambedkar. The second zone will be related to his personal life and the third zone social and economic impact and his work on these subjects. According to expert consultant, the fourth zone is divided into the “Constitution Zone”, while the fifth zone will be based on the legacy of Dr Ambedkar. Initially, it is being set up on 10 acres of land.During the project report analysis and feedback session, Ganta also invited views from university officials and representatives of the employees association.The Director of the Department of Tourism and Cultural Affairs, Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar, and the Director of the Technical Education Department Kumar, Saurabh Raj, also expressed their views on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptu-to-get-ambedkar-museum-311484
15-09-2021||---||Kapurthala student bags 10th rank in CA exam||Kapurthala, September 14Shubham Gupta, an alumnus of Anand Public Senior Secondary School, Kapurthala, has brought laurels to the city by securing 10th all-India rank in the CA exam.A 93 per cent scorer in the CBSE Class XII (commerce) results, Shubham has been pursuing B Com through a correspondence from IGNOU, while also focusing on his CA preparations.Son of a businessman, Ajay Kumar, Shubham has his plans clear, “I will be soon moving to Chandigarh. I have a start-up plan in my mind. Till the time I am able to roll it out, I will be starting my CA practice there.”A resident of Shakti Nagar here, he said, “When I checked my result yesterday, I erupted with joy on seeing ‘pass.’ I checked on the portal of All India Institute of Chartered Accountants to check whether I made it to the merit list. I was excited to see when I made it to the merit list.”Asked if he could confirm that he was Punjab topper, he said, “I am not sure, but it could be a possibility. I have not come across reports of anyone scoring better than me in the state.” Shubham’s score is 584, adding up the score of 282 in group I and 302 group II exam.Shubham said he felt that his schooling mentored him for setting a goal and moving towards it in a planned way. “My school principal Dr Arvinder Singh Sekhon and my teacher Suresh Sethi have been a big support. My family, especially my mother Manisha Gupta, was my pillar of strength,” he says.Dr Sekhon said, “When Shubham was a student with us, till three-four years back, we could see a spark in him even then and knew that he would surely make it big in his career. Even that time, he had his target of clearing the CA exam clear.”On this occasion, Vikram Anand, school managing director, congratulated him. He motivated him and said he has brought fame to both the school and the Kapurthala city. Chairperson Varinder Kumari Anand and director Ruchi Anand also gave blessings to Shubham. School coordinator Nirmal Jyoti, Jyothishna, Jaswinder Kaur, Ranjita, Jasjit Walia, Ravinder Kaur, Loveleen and many others were present.Jalandhar lad Arshdeep gets 34th rankArshdeep Singh of Jalandhar has cleared his CA exam with 34th rank. He has scored 550 marks. He hails from Basti Peer Daad area and his father Kanwaljit Singh is serving as the sub-post master. Arshdeep said he had completely cut himself off the social circles and distractions for almost half a year to prepare for the examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-student-bags-10th-rank-in-ca-exam-311483
15-09-2021||---||12 fresh cases of Covid-19 in Jalandhar district, no death||Jalandhar, September 14The district on Tuesday reported 12 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 63,278. Two of the total reported cases belong to other districts. No death was reported today. The number of active cases and toll stands at 39 and 1,494, respectively. As many as 61,745 people have recovered from the disease.1 case in KapurthalaThe district on Tuesday reported one Covid case and no death. The tally of total cases now stands at 17,822, of which 17,253 have already recovered. At present, there are 15 active cases.All well in NawanshahrNo Covid case and death was reported from the district on Tuesday. The tally of total cases remained at 11,455 (3.68 per cent). With no death being reported, the toll stood at 387 (3.37 per cent). At present, there are five active cases and all of them are under home isolation. The recovery rate is 96.57 per cent.One case in HoshiarpurThe district on Tuesday reported one new case of Covid-19, taking the tally to 30,747. However, no death due to Covid-19 was recorded in the district. The death toll remained at 981. As many as 29,760 people have recovered from the disease while the number of active cases in Jalandhar stood at six.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/12-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-jalandhar-district-no-death-311482
15-09-2021||---||Special clinic at Shahkot CHC for diabetes, BP patients every Friday||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 14There has been a sudden jump in the number of patients suffering from diabetes and blood pressure problems after contracting with Covid-19. Also, there are many such patients who have these problems, but do not get themselves tested. To track the health status of patients and provide them right medicines, non-communicable disease control clinic (NCD clinic) is being started at the Community Health Centre (CHC), Shahkot.The clinic will be run every Friday and senior doctors from the CHC will examine the patients. The clinic started by the CHC is a unique step for the prevention of non-communicable diseases. Shahkot Senior Medical Officer Dr AS Duggal said due to the lockdown imposed during the Covid pandemic and the fear of infection, patients suffering from diabetes and BP started taking medicines from local drug shops or untrained doctors and their illness went out of control. Under this, ASHA workers at the village level will identify suspected patients and send them to the NCD clinic. After a complete investigation here, their medicine will be started.Giving information about the functioning of the NCD clinic, Block Extension Educator Chandan Mishra said the OPD will run on every Friday from 10 am to 2 pm, where the senior medical officer will examine the patients. After checking, a patient's BP passport will be made, The BP Passport (Card) is App based, in which patient's illness, date of testing, date of examination, quantity of medicine given and date of next visit will be recorded. Once the patient is examined in the CHC, he or she will be able to get the regular sugar and BP testing done at their nearest Tandarust Punjab Sehat Kendra and they will also be given medicine for a month.Patients to get ‘BP Passport’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/special-clinic-at-shahkot-chc-for-diabetes-bp-patients-every-friday-311481
15-09-2021||---||Brothers kill friend in Jalandhar village, dump body in rivulet||Jalandhar, September 14Missing for the past nearly three days, Jalandhar police on Tuesday found the body of a 35-year-old youth of Chittewali village near here from the Bein rivulet.The deceased, identified as Hardeep Singh, alias Bunty, went missing on September 11. His brother Gurdeep Singh said he kept searching for him throughout the night, but could not find any clue and lodged a complaint with the Sadar police station the next morning. The police teams analysed the footage of CCTVs in and around the village to spot Hardeep. In a video, the police found him going along with his friend Vikki and his brother Tony.The police rounded up the brothers and during interrogation they revealed that they had murdered him and thrown his body in the Bein rivulet. The police took both the accused to the site and with the help of local divers fished out the body of the deceased.SHO, Sadar police station, Sukhdev Singh said both the accused had been taken into custody and were being interrogated to ascertain the reason of the murder. He said so far it could only be found that Hardeep used to tell Vikki and his brother not to indulge in any wrong activities over which they got enraged and murdered him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/brothers-kill-friend-in-jalandhar-village-dump-body-in-rivulet-311480
15-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Get ready for Surya Kiran air show on September 17, 18 in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 14The city residents got a treat for the eyes as they watched with awe the speeding jets of Surya Kiran aerobatic teams making various formations in the skies this afternoon.Nine pilots of the special team had taken off from Adampur to practice today three days ahead of the air show slated for September 17 and 18 being organised by the Indian Air Force and Vajra Corps at Katoch Stadium in Jalandhar cantonment.Squadron Leader Navjot Singh, who is a 2006 passout of Sainik School, Kapurthala, too, is a part of the squad that will perform daredevil acts in the air.Sq Ldr Navjot Singh shared: “We had practiced here for our upcoming air shows. We have one in Jalandhar on September 17 and 18 and another at Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh on September 23 and 24. We will make various patterns and formations, which will not just be visible from the designated venues but up to several kilometres around the area. For instance, during our event in Jalandhar, people even residing in Model Town will be able to watch us perform from their rooftops around 9.45 am.”The crew members based at Bidar in Karnataka shared that the event was a part of the ongoing Golden Jubilee celebrations of the 1971 Indo-Pak war. The team has already performed in Issewal, from where Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon, PVC awardee, hailed.In the coming days, the team will also be performing at the borders of Ferozepur and Amritsar. “We will also have flypasts atop military feeder institutes, including Sainik Schools in Kapurthala, Kunjpura, Godda, Sujanpur Tira and Nagrota, besides Rashtriya Indian Military College and Rashtriya Military School, Chail,” said Sqn Ldr Navjot Singh, adding that the show was also aimed at showing the valour and to attract the youth towards the armed forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/get-ready-for-surya-kiran-air-show-on-september-17-18-in-jalandhar-311479
15-09-2021||Jalandhar||Harinder Singh Kahlon's speech puts BJP in spot||A video of a recent BJP meeting in which party’s newly inducted leader and spokesperson Harinder Singh Kahlon is seen advocating “harsh” measures while dealing with protesting farm leaders has put the party in a spot.In the video, the former AISSF leader and advocate based out of Jalandhar is seen saying had he been in place of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he would have cane-charged the protesting farm leaders and put them in jail.“This according to me is the only solution and we will have to do it,” he is heard saying in the video. The viral video, which was reportedly filmed at the district BJP office in Jalandhar on Sunday amidst massive protest by farmers, invited has criticism on the social media.Kahlon’s speech, in presence of senior leaders such as former minister Manoranjan Kalia, drew applause from party men. “The video has been edited and is being taken out of context. Kahlon had spoken against Left leaders, not farmers,” claimed Kalia. A number of other party leaders internally condemned the speech, saying such statements should be avoided.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/harinder-singh-kahlons-speech-puts-bjp-in-spot-311211
