16-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Shiv Sena calls off hunger strike as demand for graveyard met||Senior leader of Shiv Sena (Bal Thackeray), Javed Khan, said his decision to go on a hunger strike for the beautification of a Muslim graveyard located on the Bharwain road, has been withdrawn.He said Cabinet Minister Sunder Sham Arora spoke to him on phone and said the work of beautification of the cemetery would be completed soon and the administration would bear all expenses for this.He asked Javed Khan to meet MC Commissioner Ashika Jain in this regard. Today, he along with his colleagues, went to meet the MC Commissioner, in her office. Jain said she had deputed the JE to make an account of the expenditure on the beautification of the cemetery. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shiv-sena-calls-off-hunger-strike-as-demand-for-graveyard-met-311754
16-09-2021||Our Correspondent||A day dedicated to mother tongue||Hoshiarpur, September 15The Hindi Sahitya Sabha of DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, celebrated National Hindi Day by organising Inter-College essay writing competition on the theme ‘Globalisation and Present Status of Hindi Language’. In this competition the students from different colleges participated. Sartaj Singh from political science Department, PU, Chandigarh, got the first prize, Dolsi Dhiman from Doraha College of Education, Doraha, got the second prize, Jyoti from Govt. College of Education, Sector-20, Chandigarh, got the third prize and Jyoti from BAM Khalsa College, Garhshankar, got the appreciation prize.DAVCMC President Dr Anoop Kumar, secretary, DL Anand, Director Dr SS Sharma and Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla congratulated the winners and appreciated the efforts of the organising team Dr Poonam Saini and Navneeta Sood.She also highlighted the significance of the Hindi language and Article 343, that made Hindi the official language of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-day-dedicated-to-mother-tongue-311757
16-09-2021||Jalandhar||Fit India Freedom Run organised in Jalandhar||NCC Army Wing Cadets of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, participated in Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 under the aegis of 2 Punjab Girls BN NCC Jalandhar, to celebrate 75 years of Independence. This run was organised under the guidelines of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India. Commanding Officer Col. NPS Toor, Adm. Officer Major Pratima and others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fit-india-freedom-run-organised-in-jalandhar-311758
16-09-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar college students seek free bus pass facility||As colleges open, students in various colleges of the city said the government had not issuing them any bus passes for their free transport. The students said while the state government ordered colleges to be opened, the authorities failed to issue them the passes. They said even if they were boarding the Punjab Roadways buses, they were asked to pay transportation charges on a daily basis.Manjit Singh, a student of the local Lyallpur Khalsa College, said, “I come here from Dasuya everyday and have to pay transportation charges for both sides. It becomes quite taxing for my parents to bear this additional financial burden. When there is a scheme of bus passes for the students, it must be offered.”Tarun Gill, another student who hails from Nurmahal, said, “As per the norms, the colleges have to give undertaking to the transport department in lieu of availing this facility. As students, we have inquired that the institutes have given the undertaking but the Punjab government has not started the scheme yet. In this way, many of us will not be able to reach the college.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-college-students-seek-free-bus-pass-facility-311759
16-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Dairy training course from September 20||Dairy Development Department, Punjab, has introduced free dairy training course for beneficiaries belonging to the SC category. Providing the information, Deputy Director Harwinder Singh said the first batch would be started in all training centres by September 20. The department would not only provide free training to the trainees but also give free refreshments, food and a stipend of Rs 2,000 each.Singh said persons belonging to the Scheduled Caste (male or female) who are between 18 to 50 years of age, have passed Class V, and have rural background, should visit the office of Deputy Director Dairy, Hoshiarpur, in Room No. 439, 4th floor, District Administrative Complex, Hoshiarpur, on September 16. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dairy-training-course-from-september-20-311760
16-09-2021||Jalandhar||Engineer’s Day celebrated||Int’l Day of Democracy celebratedInternational Day of Democracy was celebrated at MLU DAV College, Phagwara, under the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa, Principal of the college. A seminar was organised for the students by faculty members to raise awareness among students about democracy. Dr Randhawa addressed the students saying that International Day of Democracy provides an opportunity to review the state of democracy in the world. She further said it is wrong to say that the people have lost faith in the democratic system. “This is evident for the fact that a sizeable majority of the voters usually turn up for casting their ballots during elections. The electorate should be literate, politically conscious and fully aware of their rights and privileges and the illiterate masses of India should be given education so they can judiciously exercise their franchise,” she said in her address.LPU gets 8,500 placement offersLovely Professional University on Wednesday announced that its students have received more than 8,500 placement offers during the pandemic. In the engineering discipline, the highest pay package at which LPU students have been selected is Rs42 lakh per annum with Microsoft, while the highest package offered in Management stood at Rs 21 lakh per annum by Trident. Despite Covid and students learning from their homes, the university attracted some of the most coveted recruiters in the country including Microsoft, Amazon, Cognizant etc. Over 1,000 placement events were conducted this year. To celebrate the successful placement season, the students, who are currently learning from their homes, came up with a unique way to thank the university. They decided to create a new Guinness World Records title for “The Largest Online Video Album of People Saying the Same Sentence”.MA English (Sem II, IV) resultsKanya Maha Vidyalaya has once again proved its mettle in the field of academics by the outstanding result of MA English (Sem II & IV). Aroma Samiyal from semester II bagged first position by scoring 302/400 marks, Rashmi Chawda bagged second position by scoring 287/400 marks and Jobanpreet Bal bagged third position by scoring 277/400 marks. Alisha Verma from (Sem IV) bagged the first position by scoring 1,176/1,600 marks, Palwinder Kaur bagged the second position by scoring 1,097/1,600 marks and Kajol Chandel bagged the third position by scoring 1,046/1,600 marks. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students for their outstanding academic results and also complemented the faculty members for their dedication and hard work towards nurturing the future of the students.Training camp for teachersThe National Achievement Survey (NAS)-2021 is going to be held in November this year. After a survey, the focus is on the upliftment of education. This is the reason why the education department is constantly working on organising training camps at different places for teachers of Maths, Science, Hindi, Social Science, Punjabi subject of all private and Navodaya Schools to bring better results. A three days training camp was organised from 13 to15 September at Adampur, Alawalpur, and Bhogpur block schools by District Education Officer Secondary Education, Jalandhar in Emm Aar International School. In this training, subject teachers of different schools participated enthusiastically and got information related to NAS-2021. This training camp was organised by Incharge Suman Sharma, Manish Sharma, Surinder Kumar, Manjot Singh, Jaskidar Singh, Prem Singh and Narinder Kumar in the school.St Soldier Institute of EngineeringEngineer’s day was celebrated by St Soldier Institute of Engineering and Technology. Principal Dr Gurpreet Singh along with staff members pays homage to Bharat Ratna Dr M Visvesvaraya. Chairman Anil Chopra congratulated all the engineers on this day and said that the main purpose of celebrating Engineer’s Day is to inspire students in India to come in this field as engineers play an important role to develop and prosper the country.DPS celebrates Grandparents DayTo honour the grandparents for their unconditional love, Delhi Public School celebrated Grandparents Day under the guidance of the Principal Ritu Kaul. A virtual party was organised for the special mentors of children’s lives - grandparents on Grandparents Day. Fun games like guess the song, guess the movie and say the dialogue enthralled the grown-ups. Little ones took pride in muting and unmuting their dada/dadi/nana/nani. They also presented a beautiful handcrafted card to their grandparents. Grandparents shared some mesmerising moments and relived their childhood with the grandchildren. The success of the event was evident through the joyful smiles and teary eyes of the grandparents as they were overwhelmed to see their grandchildren performing for them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/engineers-day-celebrated-311761
16-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Garhshankar schools to get Rs 1.20-cr facelift||Garhshanakar, Sept 15Pankaj Kirpal, an advocate, Co-Chairman, Punjab Pradesh Congress Legal Cell and Member of the Shri Guru Ravidas Memorial Foundation, said due to the efforts of Member of Parliament Manish Tewari, the Education Department has released Rs 1.20 crore for various schools of the area.It includes Rs 15.02 lakh for two rooms in Government primary school, Paddi Sura Singh, Rs 7 lakh 51 thousand for one room each in Government primary schools of Dadial, Salempur, Birmpur, Hajipur, Kot, Soli, Tibba, Posi and Saila Khurd, Rs 7 lakh 51 thousand for 1 room each in Government High Schools of Basiala, Saila Khurd, Mehtabpur and Binjo. He further said apart from this Rs 7 lakh 51 thousand has been sanctioned and sent for one room of Government Senior Secondary School Bora.He thanked Member of Parliament Manish Tewari, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla and Education Secretary Kishan Kumar for the grants sent to various schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garhshankar-schools-to-get-rs-1-20-cr-facelift-311762
16-09-2021||---||A step towards waste management||Jalandhar, September 15To mark 75 years of Independence under the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ campaign, the Department of Water supply and Sanitation launched a ‘Satyagrah Se Swachhagrah Rath Yatra’ from Jang-e- Azaadi Memorial in Kartarpur to Khatkar Kalan Memorial.The Rath Yatra was launched by Surinder Chaudhary, MLA Kartarpur from Jang-e- Azaadi in the presence of Parneet Shergill, Additional Secretary-cum-Mission Director Swachh Bharat Mission (rural), Karanjit Singh, joint director, Swachh Bharat Mission (rural), Jaspreet Singh, Additional DC (Development), Kuldeep Singh Saini, Chief Engineer (North), RK Sharma, State Coordinator, Swachh Bharat Mission (rural) and NP Singh, Superintending Engineer (Jalandhar).Surinder Chaudhary emphasised that gram panchayats should be motivated to the take up development projects such as efficient management of solid and liquid waste in their villages. Further, he said he was happy that the rath yatra had been launched from the place that has a historical significance and will spread awareness among the rural communities.Kuldeep Singh Saini, Chief Engineer, talked about the Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsav campaign and various activities to be conducted under this programme. He said during the Swachh Bharat Mission (rural), Jalandhar district was among the frontrunner districts to be declared as Open Defecation Free (ODF) and were now focusing on ODF Plus. He also appealed that the awareness should be promoted through all social media platforms.Shergill said the Rath Yatra launched today is a part of the 100-day campaign launched by the Ministry of Jal Shakti, the Government of India, and it will cover approximately 80-100 villages mainly from three districts such as Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Nawanshahr. The aim of the rath yatra is to generate awareness among the villagers about the various components and Swachh Bharat Mission (rural) Phase 2 and apprised that its main feature is convergence with various central and state-sponsored schemes.She also insisted that gram panchayat will be guided about the 15th Finance Commission grants and its optimal utilisation by taking solid and liquid waste management projects in their villages. Executive Engineers Nitin Kalia, Harinder Singh, Sukhpinder Singh and Gurpreet Singh from Jalandhar and Kapurthala along with Sarbjit Singh, SDE Sanitation, Gagandeep Walia, SDE Sanitation Jalandhar, Charanpreet Singh, JE Sanitation, and Rohit, JE Sanitation, were also present in the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-step-towards-waste-management-311763
16-09-2021||---||Restore ‘distorted’ Jallianwala Bagh to its original form, demands PSU||Jalandhar, September 15As part of the statewide call, a protest was held by members of the Punjab Students Union at the Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, against the recent renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh.The students also submitted a memorandum to ADC Hardeep Singh on the issue. Varjeet Kaur, district president of PSU, said the Jallianwala Bagh was a symbol of the fight against the establishment. But the government had tried to distort it, which was an attempt to silence the battle that the Indian people waged against Britishers in their pursuit of independence.The protesters demanded that the original structure and form of the Jallianwala Bagh be restored. Ramandeep Kaur, district secretary, and student leader Sonia said PSU also demanded that under post-matric scholarship scheme, Dalit students be able to get admission without fees and economically backward class (EBC) students be included on the portal.“Dalit girls remain devoid of education as much of the education system has been privatised. The number of government educational institutions is constantly decreasing. On top of it, exorbitant fees are being charged from students,” Ramandeep rued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/restore-distorted-jallianwala-bagh-to-its-original-form-demands-psu-311764
16-09-2021||---||Kapurthala DC bans use of combine harvesters at night||Kapurthala, September 15Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate Kapurthala Deepti Uppal has fixed the time of operation of the combine harvesters for paddy harvesting.As per the orders, harvesting of paddy by combine harvesters will not be possible from 7 pm to 7 am. In addition, the combine owners have been instructed to get the combine inspected by the Agriculture Department before harvesting and no combine can operate without super SMS technology to encourage the farmers for not setting the crop residue on fire in fields. She said night harvesting of paddy adversely affected the quality of the crop which made it difficult for the farmers to sell it further in grain markets.She asked the agriculture department to ensure the harvesting of paddy only with the help of Super SMS machine. These orders will remain in force till November 13. Besides, burning of straw after harvesting of paddy has been completely banned as it not only harms the environment, but also burns other plants along the roadsides. These orders will be effective from September 25 to November 23.Complete ban on stubble burningBurning of straw after harvesting of paddy has been completely banned as it not only harms the environment, but also burns other plants along the roadsides. These orders will be effective from September 25 to November 23. The agriculture department will also ensure harvesting of paddy only with the help of Super SMS machine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-dc-bans-use-of-combine-harvesters-at-night-311765
16-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Girl abducted, three booked||1 held under Copyright ActHoshiarpur: After receiving a complaint from a company against a shopkeeper regarding sale of counterfeit goods, the Chabbewal police raided a shop and recovered several bottles of a renowned brand of toilet cleaner. The police, on the complaint of Rajinder Singh, the officer of the said company, raided Jain Confectionery in Sant Market and recovered the fake bottles. The police have registering a case under the Copyright Act against shop owner Rajesh Kumar and arrested him. OCTwo arrested for theft bidHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have arrested two persons for attempting theft at a house. The accused have been identified as Gurwinder Singh, alias Babu, a resident of Bambeli and Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sonu, of Jaitpur. The police have arrested them on the complaint of Nangal Khurd resident Jai Singh, who nabbed them while they were trying to break the locks of his house on Tuesday. OCMan succumbs to his injuriesHoshiarpur: A person injured in a road accident died during treatment at a private hospital. According to the information, Ashok Kumar told the police that he was taking a walk with his father Roop Lal on September 6, when a vehicle passing by hit his father. In critical condition, he got his father admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar, where he died during treatment. The police have registered a case against the accused driver Jatin Kumar of Safdarpur. OCSeven held with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police arrested seven smugglers, including a couple, with a huge quantity of narcotics from them on Tuesday night. The Bullowal police arrested a couple and recovered 80-gm heroin from them from a naka. The couple has been identified as Harjeet Singh, alias Sonu, of Dhadde Fateh Singh and Daljit Kaur. The Talwara police have arrested Dalip, alias Lada, of Talwara and recovered a huge quantity of sedatives from him. The Tanda police arrested Johal resident Pooja and recovered 85-gram intoxicating powder from her. Sukhdev Singh of Miyani was arrested with nine bottles of liquor. The Hajipur police arrested Rahul Sharma and his brother Ajay Sharma with a huge quantity of sedatives. Separate cases have been registered against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/girl-abducted-three-booked-311766
16-09-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: MGN Public School's Vaibhav Bajaj scores AIR 35 in JEE Main||Vaibhav Bajaj, a student of MGN Public School, Urban Estate, has done the city proud by scoring All-India Rank (AIR) 35 in the JEE Main.Vaibhav had scored 99.9987 percentile in the third JEE attempt and was confident of a good rank. A resident of Urban Estate here, he had been pursuing super-medical stream and says he thoroughly enjoyed studying biology along with mathematics. Still indecisive on whether he would opt for engineering or research, he said: “My focus currently is on JEE Advance, which is scheduled for October 3.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mgn-public-schools-vaibhav-bajaj-scores-air-35-in-jee-main-311767
16-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||307 dengue cases so far, Hoshiarpur Civil Surgeon takes stock||Keeping in view the growing number of dengue cases in the district, Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra, Civil Surgeon, today held a special meeting with the in-charges of the Vector-Borne Disease Control Programme and anti-larvae team.The Civil Surgeon asked the district epidemiologists and members of the anti-larvae team to increase surveillance and awareness activities as 307 cases had been reported in the district so far. He said special teams should collect information about patients in affected areas, file a report daily and identify and destroy mosquito breeding grounds. He directed the officials concerned to implement the special campaign being run by the Health Department, ‘Friday is dry day’.In addition to this, car workshops, junk shops and roofs of hotels, houses and shops in the city should be strictly inspected by the team and wherever larvae are found, they should be destroyed on the spot.He appealed to the residents to fully support the Health Department during their home visits so that the city could be made free of dengue. Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Dr Jaswinder Singh, Medical Specialist Dr Nehan Pal, Dr Sarabjit Singh, Dr Baldeep Singh, Dr Sudesh Rajan, District Epidemiologist Dr DP Singh, Dr Shailesh Kumar and anti-larvae team in-charge Basant Kumar, Rakesh Kumar and supervisory staff also attended the meeting. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/307-dengue-cases-so-far-hoshiarpur-civil-surgeon-takes-stock-311768
16-09-2021||---||‘Kala Chashma’ fame Amrik Singh Shera making waves||Jalandhar, September 15‘Kala Chashma’ fame Amrik Singh Shera (47), a head constable in the Punjab Police, has been basking in the limelight these days. He recently appeared in a show hosted by cricketer Harbhajan Singh.While sharing his interview experience, Shera said he got a call from the team of the show and was asked to reply to every question with a song composed by him.Whenever I see anything wrong prevailing in the society, I write about it and will keep on doing so in the future as well, whether these songs get released or not. That is why I have now decided to release a book with inspirational songs. Amrik Singh Shera, Head constable“In one of the questions, I was asked to reply to a situation where I am in a meeting with a senior official and my wife calls me up. How will I react? So, I replied: ‘Kidda chakka tera phone, ni munda duty vich fasseya peya, chale meeting ni ajj vadde saab di, ni main vardi ch kasseya peya,” Shera shared.“Then I got a selection call. It was an amazing moment for me. I met several people and developed contacts,” he said. Shera is writing several new songs and one of his songs is set to get released soon.One of the other projects in the pipeline is the release of his book ‘Virsa Punjab Da’, in which he has penned 150 songs on various issues concerning the society. “Whenever I see anything wrong prevailing in the society, I write about it and will keep on doing so in the future as well, whether these songs get released or not. That is why I have now decided to release a book with inspirational songs,” he said.Shera said he started writing at the age of 14. “Since then, I have written several songs defining the culture of the state, highlighting environmental problems, water shortage, etc, which are completely different from the songs that get released in the present days,” he said.Shera thanked his seniors in the Punjab Police for motivating him and encouraging him towards his passion. He had also received a permission letter from the DGP around three years ago, allowing him to perform anywhere.He has also penned a song on the Punjab Police: “Sari duniya to disdi alag bai, khaki vardi nal banni lal pagg bai’ (I stand out from the rest of the world in a khaki uniform and red turban).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kala-chashma-fame-amrik-singh-shera-making-waves-311769
16-09-2021||---||Jalandhar: Stunning performances by Suryakiran jets in the skies||Jalandhar, September 15The Suryakiran Aerobatic Team of the Indian Air Force on Wednesday mesmerised the residents of the district during their morning practice session ahead of the scheduled air show on September 17 and 18 here.As soon as the earsplitting sound of the planes was heard a little past 9 am, residents of the city could be seen standing on rooftops. They watched in awe nine fighter jets skimming overhead in different directions and then coming together as they formed a diamond shape pattern in the sky. The residents were quick to capture the aerobatic performance of the jets on their cell phones and cameras and uploaded them on social media.The IAF team consists of 17 officers, 200 technicians and packs a powerful punch. Formed in 1996, the team has been personifying the motto of the Indian Air Force “Touch the sky with glory” ever since. The team, which has grown into a global phenomenon, has the distinction of being among nine aircraft formation aerobatic teams in the world.This year on the occasion of Swarnim Vijay Varsh or 50 years of the war of 1971, the team, whose motto is “Always the Best” will be undertaking low-level aerobatic displays over Jalandhar on September 17 and 18, in Chandigarh on September 22, in Srinagar on September 26, the Hindon Air Force Station on Air Force Day on October 8 and Pune on October 16.The team will also be carrying out fly pasts in Amritsar, Ludhiana, Pathankot, Batala and Shimla. Later in the year, they will be operating over central and eastern India.The most professional air forces have a formation aerobatic unit, which undertakes the extremely challenging role of doing aerobatic manoeuvres close to the ground, in large formations, to not only showcase their capabilities but also to motivate the youth to join the esteemed defence forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-stunning-performances-by-suryakiran-jets-in-the-skies-311770
16-09-2021||---||Covid-19: Jalandhar district reports 1 positive case||Jalandhar, September 15A person tested positive for Covid in the district on Wednesday taking the tally to 63,279 cases. No Covid death was reported and the toll remains at 1,494. As many as 61,749 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases is 36. Of the 16,26,213 samples collected in the district so far, 14,91948 samples have tested negative. The results of as many as 1,457 tests are awaited. No person is in home isolation in the district at present.Three +ve in KapurthalaThree positive cases were reported in Kapurthala on Wednesday taking the tally to 17,824. No death was reported. So far, there are 17,257 persons who have recovered from the disease in the district, There are 13 active cases in and four persons were discharged after recovery on Wednesday.Five test +ve in HoshiarpurThe Hoshiarpur district reported five new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to 30,752. No death was recorded and the toll remains at 981. As many as 29,762 persons have recovered from the disease so far, while there are nine active cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-jalandhar-district-reports-1-positive-case-311771
16-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Auto-car collision: Two kids among 7 injured on Garhshankar-Hoshiarpur road||Garhshankar, September 15Seven persons, including two children, were injured in a collision between a three-wheeler and a car near Padrana village on the Garhshankar-Hoshiarpur road on Wednesday.The police said some devotees from Mubarakpur village of SBS Nagar district were going to a religious place in Kukran village in an auto. When they reached near Padrana village, a car coming from behind hit the auto from behind. In the collision, Kulbir Kaur, Dalveer Kaur, Mahinder Kaur, Palo, Baljinder Kaur and her two children, who were in the auto, were injured.People took the injured women to the Garhshankar Civil Hospital with the help of an ambulance. Car driver Ravinder Kumar said he was going to Dera Bapu Gangadas Mahilpur and the accident occurred because the auto sudden turned over. The Garhshankar police have started investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/auto-car-collision-two-kids-among-7-injured-on-garhshankar-hoshiarpur-road-311755
16-09-2021||---||Jalandhar: Irked at bad road, Puranpur village to boycott politicians||Jalandhar, September 15At a time when Assembly poll-related activities are picking up pace, the Puranpur gram panchayat has decided to boycott leaders of all parties. They would not let the leaders enter their village as the road from Laddhewali Chowk to Ucha village has not been made.A notice to this effect has been displayed prominently on a board at Puranpur. “For not acting on our repeated requests for the construction of a main road in the area, the residents of Puranpur have boycotted all political parties ahead of the 2022 elections”.Ranpal Sheemar, resident of Parsaram villageWe have approached the MLA and the SDM and held dharnas, but to no avail. Villagers in the area are a harried lot. Such roads exist even in the 21st century and there is no one to listen to us.The road is infamous for being dangerous and accident-prone. Given its awfully bad condition, it is said that “Road vich toye nhi toeyan vich road hai”.The 20-km-stretch that runs from Ladhewali Chowk to Rehana Jattan village, via seven to eight villages in the area, has become a nightmare for commuters. Many motorists get a flat tyres on the stretch. Accidents are a common thing here. Windowpanes of cars or other vehicles develop cracks after being hit by small pebbles fired by tyres of the vehicles moving ahead on the stretch.Harvinder Dhanoa, a resident of Puranpur village, says, “We would be better off with old mud roads and dirt tracks than this horrible road stretch. If you want to cause damage to your Rs 30 to 35-lakh vehicle, go down this road. My car had a flat tyre and windows were cracked while driving along the stretch. Pebbles and small stones fired by tyres of passing trucks hit my car glass.“Many people have a fall once they enter the potholed patch. Scooters and bikes cannot even venture along this stretch as it has so big potholes. During the rains, many accidents take place here.”Ranpal Sheemar, a resident of Parsaram village on the same road, says, “We have approached the MLA and the SDM and held dharnas, but to no avail. Villagers in the area are a harried lot. Such roads exist even in the 21st century and there is no one to listen to us, even as the elections are approaching. Scooterists cannot even dream of passing it.”Sukhwinder Singh, sarpanch of Puranpur village, said, “It is a 20-21 km stretch from Ladhewali Chowk to Rehana Jattan village. Dhilwan, Puranpur, Ucha, Bahani, Kotli, Domeli, Musapur, Rehana Jattan villages all are affected by the poor condition of the road.“For six years, no one has bothered about repairing the road. Unless the entire stretch is completely re-laid, the problem would not be fixed. The road is beyond repairs. And in the rains, it is an open invitation to road accidents.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-irked-at-bad-road-puranpur-village-to-boycott-politicians-311756
16-09-2021||Jalandhar/Chandigarh||Farmers activists stage sit-in at BJP spokesperson Harinder Singh Kahlon's house in Jalandhar||Protesting against the recent remarks of BJP spokesperson Harinder Singh Kahlon, farmers on Wednesday gheraoed his residence at Dakoha near Jalandhar Cantonment. They demanded a written apology from him.Also read: Harinder Singh Kahlon's speech puts BJP in spotAgitating farmers even threw dung on the outer walls of his house and uprooted a signboard which mentioned his professional details as the lawyer.In a damage-control move, the BJP disassociated itself from the statement of Kahlon who had advocated use of “harsh” measures against the protesting farmers.Addressing a meeting in Jalandhar, Kahlon, who was appointed spokesperson of party’s state unit last week only, had said Modi was a kind soul. “Had I been at helm I would have taught a lesson to the farmers.”The statement had put BJP’s state leadership, which is already facing ire of farmers, in an awkward position. Reacting to the statement, president of BJP’s state unit Ashwani Sharma said the party does not endorse Kahlon’s views. “I am with Modi’s idea of restraint. The government did not use force even after January 26 incident. So there is no question of using force against farmers,” he said. He said they would sensitise the spokespersons about their limits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-activists-stage-sit-in-at-bjp-spokesperson-harinder-singh-kahlons-house-in-jalandhar-311644
