17-09-2021||Kapurthala||Ensure 100% ban on plastic use: Kapurthala DC||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensure-100-ban-on-plastic-use-kapurthala-dc-312503
17-09-2021||---||Dengue larvae found at 3 places near Sodal||Jalandhar, September 16Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday asked the Municipal Corporation, the Health Department and the Local Government Department, to start a major drive to tackle the spread of vector-borne diseases in the district.Presiding over a meeting at the District Administrative Complex, the Deputy Commissioner said vulnerable spots where mosquitoes can breed should be identified well in advance. He said a joint team comprising the Health Department and civic body must hold door-to-door survey in this regard. He said the team should also check coolers or other dumped waste items in the open.Thori said inspection at government offices should also be conducted. He said the district administration was firmly committed to combat the dengue menace.The authorities reported six dengue cases in the district so far and test reports of some samples were awaited.Meanwhile, teams of the Health Department today inspected 70 houses near Sodal area. Dengue larvae was at three spots in a residential colony near Sodal area. Thori said spread of dengue can be contained through proper awareness and enforcement, especially in urban areas. He directed health officials to launch a campaign in rural areas as well.District Epidemiologist Dr Aditya Paul said, “We have inspected around 400 houses in the district during monsoon. Drive to check larvae is under way. Those with fever are also diligently being tested. Six dengue cases have been reported in district so far.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dengue-larvae-found-at-3-places-near-sodal-312357
17-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Political scene hots up in Doaba||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 16After the recent announcement of the candidatures of eight candidates of Shiromani Akali Dal for Doaba, six of Bahujan Samaj Party and Aam Aadmi Party declaring its constituency in-charges, political activity in the region has stepped up ahead of the forthcoming Assembly polls.The SAD-BSP alliance is clearly leading as of date in terms of starting an early campaign. The AAP, too, has started following the suit especially since the announcement of ex-hockey Olympian Surinder Sodhi as the halqa in-charge and a likely candidate from Jalandhar Cantonment.The party has been trying to create a wave by saying that it had pitted an Olympian against the sitting Congress MLA and Olympian Pargat Singh from the seat. The SAD has already announced its ex-MLA Jagbir Brar from the seat since he recently left the Congress to rejoin Akalis.Since three candidates have already been announced from this seat, hectic activity has begun here. MLA Pargat Singh, who had earlier remained busy as the general secretary (organisation) for setting up new teams for his closest confidant and PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu, too has begun focusing back on his seat. Pargat maintains: “I now stay for four days in Jalandhar, focusing on various ongoing works, meeting people and strengthening his team. For the remaining three days of the week, I have to go to Chandigarh”.Likewise, Brar too has been daily holding group meetings with sarpanches, block samiti members and the voters of his constituency. “The voters are not interested in the Olympian v/s Olympian fight. They want someone who will be available at their beck and call, work for development and fulfil all their needs,” says Brar.Other than Brar, the eight candidates that the party has sent to the battlefield in Doaba include four sitting MLAs — Baldev Khera from Phillaur, Pawan Tinu from Adampur, Gurpartap Wadala from Nakodar and Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi from Banga. The party has also trusted its ex-MLAs Surinder Singh Bhullewal Rathan from Garhshankar and Sohan Singh Thandal from Chabbewal, all of whom had already been given an indication long ago about going ahead with their campaigns.General secretary of YAD Sarabjeet Singh Sabi, who too had been nurturing political ambitions, got the Mukerian seat he had been eyeing for years. The seat was formerly with the BJP till the alliance of the two parties.Ex-president of the Safai Mazdur Union Chandan Grewal, who got allotted the general Jalandhar Central seat as a part of Sukhbir Badal’s Valmiki appeasement theory, too has been actively working on the seat. A sort of hoarding war is going in the constituency between him and AAP halqa in-charge and ENT specialist Dr Sanjeev Sharma, who is quite confident of being a go-ahead.The BSP, too, has its six candidates already in fray. These include party president Jasvir Garhi from Phagwara, Balwinder Kumar, who is getting repeated from Kartarpur seat, retired bank officer Anil Majinia from Jalandhar West, Lakhwinder Gilzian from Tanda, who hails from Gilzian village of executive president of PPCC and MLA Sangat S Gilzian, Mahinder Singh Kangra from Sham Churasi and Nachhatar Pal Singh from Nawanshahr.The party is yet to decide candidates from Jalandhar North, Kapurthala and Dasuya seats. Likewise, the SAD too has been indecisive about its candidates from Sultanpur Lodhi, Shahkot and Bholath seats. The BJP, which is set to face a huge task of fielding all candidates by itself, is yet to open its cards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/political-scene-hots-up-in-doaba-312358
17-09-2021||---||Vax tally in Jalandhar district inches closer to 17-lakh mark||Jalandhar, September 16After a lull in the process of vaccination for the past few days, the administration on Thursday witnessed a mega vaccination drive in the district. With the administration having received a fresh supply of 60,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine, Jalandhar crossed the 16 lakh vaccination mark today by utilising the stock in 47 session sites.While the district has a population of 21,93,590 persons, of this, as many as 16,45,085 persons had been vaccinated until yesterday which is set to be surpassed today. As per the Health Department, until the filing of this report, more than 55 lakh persons had been vaccinated in the district today so far. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the Health Department has so far given shots to over 16,49,618 persons in the drive and today mega vaccination drive is being held on 47 session sites across the district which means the district would cross over 17 lakh milestone by end of the day.The massive inoculation drive that started on January 16, 2021, has also entered its ninth month today which shows that as many as 1.88 lakh persons have been administered the jab per month in the Jalandhar.He said aggressive vaccination is the only key to preventing another wave of Covid-19 and the administration is making efforts to hasten the drive further to ensure every eligible person gets the shot as soon as possible. While Jalandhar is on the fourth spot of districts which have carried out most vaccinations in state, until September 15 (yesterday), 3,55,633 persons in the age group of 60 plus; 4,86,851 people in age group of 45 to 59 and 6,26,281 people in age groups of 18 to 44 were vaccinated in the district.Thori said the vaccine is being supplied by the Central government and whenever the administration receives the supply, the emphasis is being laid to administer all doses to the beneficiaries. He said the fastest coverage of all beneficiaries under this drive would curb the virus and this would help society to return to normalcy soon by keeping the Covid at bay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vax-tally-in-jalandhar-district-inches-closer-to-17-lakh-mark-312359
17-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Special drive to check dengue in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, September 16A special drive has been launched by the Health, Local Bodies, District Development and Panchayat Departments to control the spread of dengue in the district.The dengue surveillance team also inspected the offices of various departments in the District Administrative Complex (DAC) and Tehsil Complex on Thursday.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait instructed the heads of government departments that if dengue larvae were found in their offices, the head of the office would be held responsible. She said so far, 60 challans have been issued as larvae were found in several houses in Hoshiarpur.The DC said apart from the area under the MC, fogging and awareness campaign has been intensified in areas under Garhshankar, Mahilpur, Tanda, Garhdiwala, Haryana, Shamchurasi, Talwara, Dasuya, Mukerian municipal councils and nagar panchayats. She said various dengue wards have been set up at the Civil Hospital for the patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/special-drive-to-check-dengue-in-hoshiarpur-312360
17-09-2021||---||Now, observer to monitor Punjab State Badminton Championship||Jalandhar, September 16After the participating badminton associations lodged a complaint and even filed a petition, casting aspersions over the fair conduct of the Punjab State Badminton Championship in Mohali, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has appointed an observer for the matches.The court issued orders to Rajinder Sharma, Joint Secretary of the Badminton Association of India, to serve as an observer for the conduct of the tournament. Sharma said he had joined today after which he received certain complaints from the participating teams and the parents and had already issued directions to honorary director of Punjab Badminton Association Rajinder Kalsi.“I have told Kalsi to issue receipts of the fee received from all participating teams. There were complaints over lighting, seating arrangements and violations of Covid protocols too. Sanitiser dispensers have been placed at the entry and other required arrangements have been made.We have not allowed the spectators to view the matches in view of Covid guidelines. To keep an eye on any other irregularity, I will be available here till September 19, the last day of the match,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-observer-to-monitor-punjab-state-badminton-championship-312361
17-09-2021||Jalandhar||‘Good ozone vs bad ozone’ at Science City||Pushpa Gujral Science City celebrated World Ozone Day by organising a webinar on Good Ozone vs Bad Ozone. Around 150 school students from all over the state participated through virtual mode. Dr Umesh Chandera Kulshrestha, Dean, School of Environmental Science, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, was the key speaker at the occasion. He delivered a special talk on Good Ozone and vs Bad Ozone. He said the ozone occurs in two layers of the atmosphere. The layer closest to the Earth’s surface is the troposphere. Here, ground- level or “bad” ozone is an air pollutant that is harmful to breathe and it damages crops, trees and other vegetation. The stratosphere or “good” ozone layer extends upward from about 6 to 30 miles and protects life on Earth from the ultraviolet (UV) rays. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/good-ozone-vs-bad-ozone-at-science-city-312363
17-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Drugs, illicit liquor seized||Hoshiarpur, September 16The district police have arrested five smugglers from different places and seized a huge quantity of narcotics and drug money. In the first case, the Garhshankar police arrested a smuggler and his wife and recovered 25 grams of heroin and Rs 1.08 lakh drug money from them. The police party led by Iqbal Singh, in-charge of the Garhshankar police station, was on patrol on Nangal Road, when they got information that Naresh Kumar alias Husna, a resident of Chakk Raunta in Garhshankar, and his wife Rajni Bala were aboard a car. The police searched them and seized heroin and drug money. The police have registered a case against both the accused under the NDPS Act. The police of Garhdiwala have recovered 63,000 ml of illicit liquor from Kajal and Rekha, both residents of Johlan village. The Mukerian police have recovered 90,000 ml of illicit liquor from Sangokatrala resident Paramjeet Kaur.///Mule dies after being hit by busHoshiarpur: A mule died after being by a bus on the Hoshiarpur-Chandigarh road. Sarabjit Singh, a resident of Ward No.10 in Garhshankar, was going to the mandi to bring vegetables. While on the way to market his mule was hit by the bus of Pathankot Depot coming from the opposite direction. Due to which the cart was badly damaged and the mule died on the spot. The bus was going from Talwara to Chandigarh. The Garhshankar police reached the spot and started the investigation by taking possession of the bus.///4 booked for jumping paroleHoshiarpur: The district police have booked four prisoners for violating parole conditions. All accused were smugglers serving imprisonment. Mushtaq Ahmad, a resident of Dugripur police station, Awantipura, Jammu and Kashmir, was sentenced to 15 years in jail and Rs 2.5 lakh fine for smuggling. The convict had gone on parole but when he did not return after the leave period expired. The police have registered a case against him. Meanwhile, the Garhdiwala police have booked Daibora of Ramban, Jammu and Kashmir, who was punished with 12 years of imprisonment for smuggling. The convict went on parole but did not return. The police have registered a case against him. Whereas, the Mahilpur police have booked Ranjit Singh alias Jeeta, a resident Firoz Majra, Nawashahar and Bhagat Shah alias Ram Kumar, a resident of Fatehgarh. Both the accused went on parole but did not return. The police have registered cases against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/drugs-illicit-liquor-seized-312364
17-09-2021||Talwara||Ropar in-charge of BJP joins BSP||Chabbewal on manifesto panelHoshiarpur: MLA Dr Raj Kumar from Chabbewal constituency of Hoshiarpur has been nominated as member of the CM’s manifesto committee on Wednesday, Dr Raj attended the first meeting of the committee at farmhouse of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh at Siswan. Dr Raj said, “I have remained connected to my constituency as well as people of Punjab in capacity of SC department chairman at the PPCC. I am aware of the issues and expectations of people of Punjab. We will definitely include those in our manifesto.” He said he has apprised Capt Amarinder Singh about the rising demand to waive pending water bills. Notably, two days ago, the CM had visited Chabbewal for laying foundation stone of the government college at Mukhliana and distributed loan waiver certificates to landless farmers and labourers. OCInter-frontier BSF games beginJalandhar: The Border Security Force Inter-Frontier Gymnastic Competition-2021, hosted by the Frontier Headquarters of the BSF, Jalandhar, started on Thursday. The sportsmen of 11 Frontiers of Border Security Force are participating in the competition. The event was declared open by Pratul Gautam, DIG (PSO), Punjab Frontier, in a ceremony held at Ashwini Stadium, BSF Campus, Jalandhar Cantt. The opening ceremony included oath ceremony followed by impressive march past by the Frontier teams. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ropar-in-charge-of-bjp-joins-bsp-312365
17-09-2021||---||5 Jalandhar girls make it to U-19 cricket team||Jalandhar, September 16Five women players from Jalandhar got selected in the Punjab Women U-19 team. Women selection committee of the Punjab Cricket Association has selected the Punjab State Women U-19 team, which will take part in the BCCI Inter-State Women U-19 1-day Limited Overs Tournament, to be held from September 28 at Jaipur.The players from Jalandhar are Krishma Rana, Muskan Sogi, Priyanka Mutreja, Khushnawal Chahal and Hemlata. Jalandhar’s Krishma Rana has also been appointed as the team Captain. Coach Ashutosh Sharma said players had given their best in the recent state championship in which Jalandhar emerged a winner after 11 long years in the PCA Inter-District One-Day Limited Overs’ State Championship — 2021 and they are fully dedicated to give their best performance in the upcoming BCCI U-19 domestic season.Previously, the probables camp was successfully conducted at Barnala. Now, the selected team is taking part in the ongoing practice camp/matches at the PCA IS Bindra Stadium, Mohali. The team will depart for Jaipur on September 20, directly from Mohali and will remain in quarantine from September 21 and 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-jalandhar-girls-make-it-to-u-19-cricket-team-312366
17-09-2021||---||1 tests +ve, no death reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 16Only one new Covid case was reported today in the Jalandhar district, taking the total district tally to 63,280 cases. In Jalandhar, no Covid death was reported today in the district. The deceased tally remained at 1,494. As many as 61,752 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar was 34. Of the 16,30,071 samples collected in the district so far, 14,96,169 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,202 tests are yet awaited. There are no people in home isolation in the district currently.No case in KapurthalaNo case of Covid and death was reported in Kapurthala on Thursday as the Covid tally remained at 17,824. No death from Covid was reported at Kapurthala today.4 test +ve in HoshiarpurThe Hoshiarpur district reported four new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 30,756. No death was recorded and the toll stood at 981. As many as 29,762 persons have recovered from the disease so far, while there are 13 active cases.No case in NawanshahrThe district today reported no fresh case of Covid. One previously admitted patient was discharged today. There are just five active cases in the district. So far, 11,456 residents have got infected and 387 have lost their lives. A total of 1,079 new samples were taken today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-tests-ve-no-death-reported-in-jalandhar-district-312370
