18-09-2021||---||Suryakiran airshow in Jalandhar cancelled due to cloudy weather||Jalandhar, September 18Over 2,000 visitors, including civilians, Army personnel and their families and mediapersons were disppointed as the much-awaited airshow by the Suryakiran Aerobatics Team (SKAT) scheduled for Saturday morning was cancelled owing to sudden cloudy weather. The SKAT had been practising for the event for the past three days in Jalnadhar and the residents were excited about the show, to be viewed best from Katoch Stadium at Jalandhar Cantonment. The nine Hawk fighter jets took off from Adampur IAF base at 9.20 am and flew over the Cantt. The pilots performed just one aerobatic loop and thereafter were nowhere to be seen. The loop too was not very clear because of the clouds.Later, it was announced that owing to the cloudy weather the show had been cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/suryakiran-airshow-in-jalandhar-cancelled-due-to-cloudy-weather-312956
18-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Intoxicants seized, 6 smugglers held||Two killed in separate mishapsHoshiarpur: Two persons lost their lives in different accidents in the area in the past 24 hours. Complainant, Amrik Singh, a resident of Roorkee, said he found Sunny Dayal, a resident of his village, lying on road in an injured condition near a school. With the help of locals, he took Sunny to a hospital in Garhshankar where he was declared brought dead by doctors. He suspected that Sunny had died after being hit by a vehicle. In another case, Shubham, a resident of Jalandhar, had lodged a complaint with the Mukerian police. He said near the Chakl Alla Baksh village, a car hit the tempo in which he was travelling. In the accident Komal Kumar, a resident of Jalandhar died after the tempo overturned due to the collision. ocTwo booked for forging papersHoshiarpur: On the charge of furnishing forged documents for getting bail from court, the city police have booked two persons and arrested one of them. In his complaint, Naib Court Buta Ram said for securing the bail for Kishan Kumar, a resident of Delhi, Jaswant Kaluwala and Daljinder Singh, both residents of Bauwal, furnished forged bail documents. The accused Daljinder Singh escaped from the spot while Jaswant Singh was arrested. The police have registered a case. ocTwo booked for threatening docHoshiarpur: The police have registered a case against two persons for vandalising a hospital and threatening the doctor and the staff. The complainant, Dr Harish Bassi, of a private hospital on Sutehri Road, lodged a complaint with the police in this regard. He told the police that Tarun Kumar, a resident of Surajan Chowk and Meenu Sahgal, a resident of Amritsar, allegedly barged into his hospital on August 18, vandalised the property and threatened him. The police have registered a case against the accused. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/intoxicants-seized-6-smugglers-held-312909
18-09-2021||Jalandhar||World Ozone Day observed||Hans Raj Mahila Maha VidyalayaOn the occasion of World Ozone Day, PG Department of Botany of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised an online quiz competition in which more about 200 students from all over India participated. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen in her introductory remarks said that this day is celebrated annually at HMV as an annual reminder of what can be achieved when every country on the planet works together. Dr Anjana Bhatia, Head of the Botany Department, said that the day commemorates the signing of the Montreal Protocol in 1987, the most successful ecological agreement till date. The Montreal Protocol has virtually eliminated chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and other ozone depleting substances (ODS), which were widely used as refrigerants/ coolants, said Harpreet from Botany Department as she acted as the quiz master.Training session on market trendsWith a vision to overcome the academic and industrial gap, the Department of CSE, IT and ECE of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus organised two-week short term training programme (STTP). The STTP was designed for the overall skill development of learners and to make them aware about latest trends in market. Dr Geeta Sharma, Assistant Prof, LKCTC, Jalandhar, shared her knowledge on artificial intelligence and Jasleen Kaur Paintal, Assistant Prof, LKCTC, Jalandhar, shared her knowledge on machine learning. Students came to know about the learning methodologies of artificial neural networks, learned the concept of clustering, the basics of Python and able to differentiate supervised and unsupervised learning. Dr Pooja Dhand (HoD, CSE) and Nidhi Chopra (HoD, IT) appreciated the synergy of the students as well as the efforts of faculty members for organising the workshop.MDP on ‘Attitude to Altitude’GNA University organised a Management Development Programme (MDP) on ‘Attitude to Altitude: A Journey towards Corporate Excellence’ which witnessed a gathering of more than 100 industry professionals from across the nearby regions of Punjab. The main objective behind organising the MDP was to provide training to corporates and working executives with a perspective to enhance their competencies with the latest business practices. The resource person for the corporate connect series was Suneel Keswani, a senior corporate trainer and an eminent speaker from New Delhi, who in his span of 33 years of experience has trained more than 35,000 participants and students. The event was graced by Gurdeep Singh Sihra, president and Pro-Chancellor, GNA University.Lecture on political scenarioThe Department of Political Science, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, Jalandhar, organised a guest lecture on ‘Current Political Scenario in India’ in the college campus. The spokesperson for the occasion was Rotarian Ashok Arora, Ex-Secretary, Supreme Court Bar, motivational speaker, author and law teacher. Principal Dr Navjot accorded a formal welcome towards the dignitary. Arora started his talk by various eternal truths of life. He further quoted that women have been regarded as God, in all religious texts and is depicted as the mother of God. Arora also addressed that the education system is thoroughly corrupted and the same is with the political system. Thus, we need to challenge these corrupted institutions and the true purpose of education is defeated. He also echoed the words of Swami Vivekananda. Arora also addressed the tragedy of education in which 99 per cent of the people are educated, but not happy. He also talked that the women safety index and media safety index are low, unemployment is at the top.School celebrates Hindi Diwas‘Hindi Diwas’ was celebrated virtually with great enthusiasm by the students of Classes I to VIII of Apeejay School, Tanda Road, Jalandhar. The students were made aware of the importance and history of Hindi language through beautiful PowerPoint presentation. The students recited poems in Hindi and also acquainted everyone with great poets, poetesses and writers like Mahadevi Verma, Munshi Premchand, Subhadra Kumari Chauhan etc through role play activity. Students also made beautiful slogans and posters depicting significance of Hindi. Deepti Kaushal, coordinator of the school, congratulated students for their efforts.Swachhta Pakhwada organisedIn consonance with CBSE circular, Swatchhta Pakhwada was celebrated at Police DAV Public School, Jalandhar, from September 1 to 15 under the direction of Principal Dr Rashmi Vij. An oath was taken by the club incharges Raman Kumar and Kulwant, students and other teachers along with Dr Rashmi Vij, Dr Cinny Malhotra, Supervisory Head, to keep their surroundings clean. In her address, Dr Rashmi Vij exhorted the students to maintain both personal hygiene and cleanliness in the surroundings. Various activities were performed by the students during the span of 15 days. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-ozone-day-observed-312908
18-09-2021||---||1 tests positive for Covid, no death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 17One fresh case of Covid was reported today in the district, taking the total district tally to 63,282 cases. In Jalandhar, no Covid death was reported today. The deceased tally remained at 1,494. As many as 61,753 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 35.No case, death in Kapurthala No fresh Covid case nor death was reported from Kapurthala today as a result the tally remained at 17,824. So far there are 17,259 people have recovered from Covid in Kapurthala. There are 11 active cases of Covid in the district and one person was also discharged today after recovering from Covid.All well in HoshiarpurThe district reported no new case of Covid-19 on Friday, keeping the tally at 30,756. No death was recorded and the toll stood at 981. As many as 29,762 persons have recovered from the disease so far, while there are 13 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-tests-positive-for-covid-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-312906
18-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Treated water project for irrigation soon||The Soil and Water Conservation Department in association with the district administration is going to start a project, under which treated water would be supplied to farmers for irrigation purposes.Under the project, which would cost around Rs11.4 crore, treated water would be released from the Sewage Treatment Plant, Piplanwala, which would cater to irrigation needs of farmers of seven villages — Piplanwala, Purhiran, Bassi Daulat Khan, Singriwala, Kurangana, Pandori Rukman and Maruli Brahmana. DC Apneet Riyait said the irrigation project had already been chalked out and shortly the work of underground drainage would be started. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-treated-water-project-for-irrigation-soon-312904
18-09-2021||---||47 model stadia ready in Jalandhar district, 9 more to be completed soon||Jalandhar, September 17In a major boost to sports activities in rural areas, the district administration, Jalandhar, has completed the construction of 47 state-of-the-art playgrounds-cum-stadiums in six development blocks while remaining nine were in the final phase and expected to be completed within the next 15 days.Presiding over a review meeting, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, accompanied by Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Jaspreet Singh, said a total of 56 playgrounds/stadiums were started in the district, of which 47 have been completed successfully. Of the 47 playgrounds, three were constructed in Rurkan Kalan block, followed by three each in Adampur and Mehatpur blocks, four each in Nurmahal, Lohian, and Phillaur, five in Bhogpur. Thori mentioned that the government had approved a total of Rs. 447.51 lakh for this entire project out of which an amount of nearly Rs. 357.18 lakh have already been incurred on 47 model playgrounds under MGNREGA and Convergence. These playgrounds included volleyball & basketball courts, football grounds, multipurpose stadiums and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/47-model-stadia-ready-in-jalandhar-district-9-more-to-be-completed-soon-312902
18-09-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: Farmers seek compensation, job for deceased farmers’ kin||Farmers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, led by district president Salwinder Singh Jania and Gurmail Singh Rerwan, on Friday submitted a demand letter to the DC seeking compensation for the victim farmers’ families.KMSC district president Salwinder Singh Jania and the general secretary urged the government that at least Rs 5-lakh monetary aid should be provided to those families who lost a member of the family during the ongoing protest on Delhi borders.They also demanded that at least one member of the family of deceased farmers should be provided with a job and the debts of the victim farmers’ families should be waived.Their other demands included addressing the dearth of urea fertiliser, payment of girdawari on damaged paddy crops due to rain and immediate issuance of compensation, repeal of all three farm laws, etc. They also demanded that the MSP for 23 crops should be provided, the rising costs of oils and food prices be curbed, the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 and Air Pollution Act 2020 should be withdrawn.They also condemned the reduction of subsidies from 80 per cent to 40 per cent in agricultural implements. — TNSSeek debt waiverOther demands of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee included debt waiver of the victim farmers’ families, dearth of urea fertiliser, payment of girdawari on damaged paddy crops due to rain and immediate issuance of compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-farmers-seek-compensation-job-for-deceased-farmers-kin-312901
18-09-2021||---||Jalandhar: BJP celebrates PM Modi’s birthday, Cong protests||Jalandhar, September 17Even as the BJP leaders today organised a havan to mark the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Youth Congress workers held a demonstration across the city to mock at the seven years of his governance.Party leaders, including ex-minister Manoranjan Kalia, ex-Mayors Sunil Jyoti and Rakesh Rathour and district president Sushil Sharma, were among those to participated in the havan programme held in front of a huge standee of PM Narendra Modi.As the BJP leaders prayed for the welfare and good health of the PM, the youth Congress leaders chose to mock at him. Youth Congress chief (rural) Honey Joshi held a demonstration outside the residence of ex-minister Kalia. The party workers chose the occasion to take on the Modi-led Centre over the issues of rising fuel prices, LPG rates and inflation of common items. They carried platters with bags of pulses and said that the pulses had become as expensive as dry fruits and had started coming in smaller packings just like those of almonds and cashew nuts..32 bore revolver seized from Cong worker, heldThe Youth Congress leaders were stopped ahead of the residence of Kalia using barricades and police force. Deputy Commissioner of Police Naresh Dogra remained present to ensure proper security arrangements. As the cops were trying to push back the protesting leaders, a revolver from the pocket of a worker Rohit Sharma fell off on the road.The alert cops immediately took the weapon in their possession. Deputy Commissioner of Police Naresh Dogra said, “It is a licenced .32 bore revolver. We had already issued orders that no one should carry weapons during dharnas and protests. Since he had violated the orders, we have seized his weapon and will proceed against him for revoking of the licence.”Similar protest by cong at Model Town MarketWorkers of the Youth Congress, Jalandhar, observed the birthday of PM Narendra Modi as “National Unemployment Day” in Model Town Market, Jalandhar. Angad Dutta, president, Youth Congress, Jalandhar (Urban), said PM Modi had promised two lakh jobs per year, but nothing happened on the ground. Randeep Sandhu, president, AYC, Jalandhar Cantt, said also slammed the policies of the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-bjp-celebrates-pm-modis-birthday-cong-protests-312899
18-09-2021||---||Health teams inspect pakoda shops in Jalandhar, 2 let off after warning||Jalandhar, September 17At least two shops were found selling pakodas made of substandard oil to customers during an inspection carried out by the Health Department here on Friday.In view of the festival season and increase in the consumption of eatables and other food items, the department teams carried out inspections at various food establishments in the district.The teams used Total Polar Materials (TPM) meters to check the quality of oil and the number of times it has been used by calculating the content of food particle residue left in oil by frying.Inspections were also carried out in shops located along the Nakodar Road and in Bansan Vala Bazar, Central Town, Bhargo Camp, and in other markets and areas.The teams, headed by District Health Officer Dr Arun Verma, carried out inspections at shops selling pakodas in the city. On the occasion, they were accompanied by Food Safety Officer Neha Sharma, LT Sarabjit Singh, Anil Surinder and others.The health teams raided at least nine shops selling pakodas. Dr Arun Verma said in an attempt to ensure trans-fats-free food for people, the department had been conducting checks from time to time. The cooking oil used to fry pakodas was checked with the TPM meter. Warning notices were being issued to those shops which used substandard oil.Dr Arun Verma said, “This was our first raid ahead of the festival season, so they have been let off with a warning. TPM at eateries at Nakodar Road and Central Town was very high. Raids will be intensified at all eateries during the peak of festival season.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-teams-inspect-pakoda-shops-in-jalandhar-2-let-off-after-warning-312898
18-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||The many hats of a nature photographer||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 17It all started with his passion for nature photography. Initially shooting only with the help of phone, Kunwar Raj Singh had his moment when his photographs were picked by the National Geography Channel. The next day, his father Sarabjit Singh, a businessman, surprised him with a DLSR camera. He started shooting one-minute films, which later drove him towards attempting short films.In 2016, during an international short film contest organised by the SikhNet, his film ‘Bute da Parshad’ won him the first prize. There was no looking back since then and he then set off on a journey to filmdom. He directed more short films. He also won Dadasaheb Phalke Award for his short film ‘Rang Daari’ in 2016.His Bollywood momentIn 2017, during his internship as a student of bachelor of the multimedia at the Apeejay College of Fine Arts here, he appeared for an interview with the T-series, which selected him as an assistant director for the Ajay Devgn-starrer thriller ‘Badshaho’. Diljit Dosanjh’s ‘Soorma’ came next and then was John Abraham’s ‘Romeo Akbar Walter (RAW)’.His much-awaited project as an assistant director and writer is ‘Attack’, a film with John Abraham as actor and producer. It is set to hit the theatres in January next year. The film has Jacqueline Fernandez and Rakul Preet Singh in the starcast. “I am especially waiting for this one as I will essay the role of a doctor in it,” he said.Meet his Jalandhar matesA resident of Jalandhar Heights, Kunwar Raj says, “I have a team of friends from my college who have been a part of each of the short film directed by me. We call our team ‘Filmy Boys’ and we recently released a song ‘Oceana’ by Rashmeet Kaur under Sony Music India, which is making waves. We have also collaborated with artistes such as Bollywood star singer ‘Badshah’, The Landers, Arman Bedil, Lisa Mishra, Ikka and Karma to name a few Kunwar and Subeg Singh Bhogal, who directed the song, said, “Our Jalandhar mates have been looking after all departments of film making such as editing, script writing, concept building, art and production. While Priyanshu Solanki does script writing/concept building, Robin Singh Randhawa is the editor, VFX artist and colourist. Prateek Arora takes care of production and Yogesh Singh takes care of the art and graphics. All of them did their schooling and college from Jalandhar. Subeg and Priyanshu are qualified engineers from DAVIET whereas Robin, Prateek and Yogesh are still studying at Apeejay. “We needed just one more person, a costume designer. I am waiting for my sister Khushi to complete her graduation in fashion designing who will soon be a part of our team, said Kunwar.”Kunwar’s tryst with short filmsIn 2016, during an international short film contest organised by the SikhNet, Kunwar Raj Singh film 'Bute da Parshad' won him the first prize. There was no looking back after this and he then set off on a journey to filmdom. He directed more short filmsIn 2017, during his internship as a student of bachelor of the multimedia at the Apeejay College of Fine Arts here, he appeared for an interview with the T-series, which selected him as an assistant director for the Ajay Devgn-starrer thriller Badshaho||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-many-hats-of-a-nature-photographer-312897
18-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||3 new dengue cases in Jalandhar dist||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 17With three more dengue cases being reported in the district on Friday, the total number of such cases has reached nine. These are the first three cases to be reported in Jalandhar-based hospitals in the district. Previously, six dengue cases in Jalandhar residents were reported and they were all under treatment at DMC, Ludhiana, regarding which the Health Department had received notification from Chandigarh.While hundreds of cases have been reported in neighbouring districts, Jalandhar has so far reported very few cases as compared to the cases reported on the periphery. However, a steady stream of fever cases in the district is keeping the Health Department on its toes.Of the three new cases reported in the district, one is from the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, and the other two are from Sacred Heart Hospital as well as PIMS. The patients have been identified as a seven-year-old boy of Gandhra; a 49-year-old woman, who is a resident of Bachint Nagar, and a 59-year-old man from Rishi Nagar in Jalandhar. Notably, of the 15 to 16 suspected dengue cases in the district, the report of three came out positive.Meanwhile, three dengue larvae were found in health surveys and the larvae were destroyed on the spot.Three new dengue larvae were found during inspections at Punjab Roadways Workshop 2 and other areas in Jalandhar on Friday. The three larvae were destroyed on the spot. Health teams on Friday visited Mohalla Karar Khan, Shiv Nagar, Sodal Nagar and Punjab Roadways Workshop 2 where the dengue larvae found were destroyed upon finding them. Anti-larvae teams also conducted Temiphos spray at 93 houses visited by health teams.Epidemiologist Dr Aditya Paul said, “We have been carrying out inspections and testing whichever cases of dengue suspects we find with fever. All the larvae we have found have been promptly destroyed. Three new cases of dengue have been reported on Friday. Surveys are being conducted in the areas where they were reported and health teams are on their toes.”Scrub typhus claims 27-yr-old’s life||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-new-dengue-cases-in-jalandhar-dist-312896
18-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Nawanshahr MLA demands transfer of SSP, holds protest||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, September 17Taking sides with PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu seems to have cost Nawanshahr MLA Angad Saini dearly.Last month, he got the brother of the worst of his political enemies as the SSP of his district. SSP Harmanbir Gill is the brother of Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Dimpa, with whom Angad has had bitter enmity over a property case, besides having indulged in a public fight in Amritsar over the alleged wrong conduct of Rohtak Transport Cooperative Society elections two years back.Despite the fact that everyone in the political and bureaucratic circles has been well-aware of the fact that the two cannot see eye-to-eye, Harmanbir has been appointed as the SSP. Though it has been less than a month since he joined, Angad Saini had to come out on roads to lodge a protest against the SSP.He and several party workers got aggressive after the district police picked Angad’s right-hand man Vikas Soni in a 2019 liquor smuggling case. Soni, an arhtiya, was picked from the grain market by a police team.The matter pertained to the alleged smuggling of 800 cases of illegal liquor just ahead of Parliamentary elections in April 2019. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) comprising ex-SSP Nawanshahr Alka Meena, SP (Investigation) Wazir Singh Khaira and SP (Khanna) Manpreet Singh found Vikas Soni guilty and had directed the Sadar SHO to arrest Soni. It was after a massive protest and repeated phone calls that Soni was let off but asked to appear before the inquiry, whenever called.The MLA alleges Soni’s case is not the lone matter. “Soni came on radar as he was the one who accompanied me to Amritsar to protest over the shoddy conduct of the Rohtak Transport Cooperative Society elections. President of the Rahon Nagar Council Amarjit Singh Bitta has been booked in a false case.Son of an ex-Congress sarpanch, who is closely associated with me, got booked for illegal mining. The SSP has started picking all Congress leaders closely attached with me and started victimising them. I had written to the CM requesting him to shift Harmanbir Gill elsewhere but ultimately I had to come out on roads along with my supporters,” rues the MLA.The MLA’s supporters alleged that the SSP was more closely associated with Angad’s political rival and ex-Nawanshahr MC chief Lalit Mohan Pathak alias Ballu, who is now halqa in-charge of Aam Aadmi Party, after quitting the Congress about two months back. They also added that the SSP had full political backing of the CM.Asked why he thought that despite being an MLA of the ruling party he had to come out on roads to seek his transfer, Angad said: “There has been some lapse somewhere. Everyone knew that we do not get along. There possibly could be some mischief too.”SSP Harmanbir Gill, when contacted, said: “I have no issues against Angad. Whatever property and election issues that he is talking about got resolved long back. I am only doing my duty. An inquiry against Soni was done by my predecessor and her team. My SHO just followed the orders of the SIT, over which an issue got made.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-mla-demands-transfer-of-ssp-holds-protest-312894
18-09-2021||Ajay Joshi||He refurbished his motor pump room into a library||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 17Ever seen a library in a motor pump house? Well, Mandeep Singh, the one who launched the famous campaign —‘Kitaban Wali Gaddi’ — has again took it upon himself to come up with another such unique initiative to encourage the habit of reading among masses.When he failed to get any government help or a private space to set-up a library, he didn’t lose hope and instead started looking for alternatives. He came up with ‘Tera Tera Library’, a concept entirely different from a regular library. What’s unusual about the place is that it is located in the middle of the fields in Jabbowal village in Sultanpur Lodhi. The library has over 350 books.fields in Jabbowal village in Sultanpur Lodhi. The library has over 350 books.“I was sure of opening a book spot in the village, but didn’t know how. One day, I was sitting in the motor house, just when a random thought of setting up a library here crossed my mind. I got it renovated. It took me and my team around two months to install book shelves, paint the motor house with quotes, place books in it, increase the green cover around it and convert it into a good sitting place. Now, the motor house has been renamed as ‘Tera Tera Library’, said Mandeep, who works as a lineman with the Punjab State Power Corporation limited.The books kept in the library are in four different languages, including: Hindi, English, Urdu and Punjabi. From literature of 1980s to books on IELTS, one can find a variety of books here. For students, in the village, there are textbooks, ATLAS, GK and others. Books on various topics are also kept for those who are preparing for competitive exams. Apart from that, the library also houses several religious books.Notably, to collect books for his library, he circulated ‘Pind di library layi kitaba di madad kro ji’’ poster. The poster was widely shared by the Pollywood celebrities too, which helped him get hundreds of books from various authors. Mandeep also urges locals to come forward in large numbers to donate the books. The library opens at 5 in the morning and closes at 8 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-refurbished-his-motor-pump-room-into-a-library-312892
