19-09-2021||---||RCF-Kapurthala to train over 1,000 youths||Kapurthala, September 18Ashwani Vaishnaw, Minister of Railways, virtually inaugurated the Rail Kaushal Vikas Yojana for youth in 75 Railway Training Institutes of Railways from New Delhi. The yojana was launched at Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, in the presence of Ravinder Gupta, General Manager, RCF.Under the programme, technical training will be imparted in fitter, welder, machinist and electrician trade. It should be noted that in RCF, training is given to youth under act apprenticeship too. The first batch of 120 youth (girls and boys) started on September 13 for three weeks in four trades. There are 30 candidates each in electrician, welder, machinist and fitter trade. RCF will train more than 1,000 youth within the next three years to enhance their skills in various technical areas. RCF has enrolled maximum youth in 75 Railway Training Institutes spread over various Zonal Railways and Production Units imparting training under Rail Kaushal Vikas Yojana.On the occasion, General Manager Ravinder Gupta said through this programme, industry-based skill training would be provided to the youth of the country so that they could be able to get employment besides setting up their own business. “This will prove to be effective in increasing the skills of the youth and making them self-reliant. Through this scheme, youth will be able to get free skill training after completing their education and will be able to get better employment opportunities in new industries. Apart from this, youth will also become a participant in the process of nation building.” Gupta said that RCF will ensure that all facilities are provided to the youth under this programme.”About the schemeRail Vikas Yojana is being organised by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE)under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) to realise the dream of self-reliant India. Through this scheme, technical training of about 100 hours will be provided in 18 working days. After imparting the training, certificates will also be given to the youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rcf-kapurthala-to-train-over-1-000-youths-313306
19-09-2021||---||Inter-frontier gymnastics contest concludes||Jalandhar, September 18The three-day BSF Inter-frontier Competition of Gymnastics, which was being organised at Headquarters, BSF Punjab Frontier, Jalandhar, concluded today.Sportsmen of 11 frontiers of Border Security Force participated in the competition. A total of 84 competitors participated in the competition in six disciplines of gymnastics. Overall, Jammu Frontier stood first and Gujrat Frontier is the runners-up. Constable Rakesh Roy of Jammu Frontier was declared the ‘Best Gymnast for the year 2021’.During the conduct of this competition, talented players of various disciplines have been selected and will further be put through intensive coaching under professional coaches for improving their skills and then participating in other national and international events.The competition concluded with an impressive and colorful ceremony held at Ashwini Stadium, BSF Campus, Jalandhar Cantt, with a spectacular march past by BSF sports personnel, demo of yoga and band salute. The closing ceremony was presided over by Sonali Mishra, IG, BSF, Punjab Frontier, and she conveyed her appreciation to all competitors for having participated in the championship in the spirit of sportsmanship.In parallel bar competition, Punjab came first, followed by Guwahati and then Tripura and North Bengal (Combined). In horizontal bar, Jammu came first, North Bengal secondand Rajasthan and Kashmir were combined third. In floor exercise, North Bengal came first followed by Punjab and South Bengal. In Pommel Horse, Jammu, Gujarat and Tripura got the first, second and third positions, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inter-frontier-gymnastics-contest-concludes-313307
19-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Wealth from waste: Swachh Bharat team takes stock of biogas plant||Hoshiarpur, September 18A team of the Swachh Bharat Mission— Grameen (SBM) (G) visited biogas plant and wastewater treatment plant at Lambra village of Hoshiarpur district amid celebrations of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, commemorating the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence.The team comprising Karanjit Singh, joint director SBM (G) and Ayam Majumdar, SLWM consultant visited Lambra village to study the biogas project and mechanism adopted for slurry management. Jaswinder Singh, project manager of the multipurpose Lambra Cooperative Society, explained in detail about the biogas plant and its usefulness to village residents. The project is based on modified PAU Janta Model Biogas Plant technology. He said the biogas plant has a capacity of 100 cubic metre per day and was commissioned in June 2016. At present, 46 household biogas connections are in operation and about 2,500 kg of animal dung is daily collected.Jaswinder Singh said, to each household in Lambra, the biogas has become nearly three times cheaper than LPG. The slurry from the biogas plant is supplied to the consumer’s farm through a tanker by the society. Rs 600 per tanker (5,000 ltr) is charged from members. Efforts are being made to cover all households of four villages — Lambra, Kangri, Dadiana Kalan and Baggewal. The wastewater from the village is channelised into the plant through a drainage channel and is treated using fly ash based treatment technology.‘Use treated water for irrigation purposes’Jalandhar: Swachh Bharat Mission Grameen (SBMG), Government of India, visited the three villages of Aur block of SBS Nagar to participate in the ‘Swachhta hi Sewa’ activities. The team led by Karanjeet Singh, joint director SBM (G) and Ayan Mujumdar, Consultant GOI visited villages Bakhlour, Bharta kalan and Karia, in Nawanshahr, where they explained the gram panchayat as well as other community members about the on-going campaign and their crucial role in it.Karanjit Singh appreciated the efforts undertaken by the society and suggested to replicate such community-based models in other villages also.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wealth-from-waste-swachh-bharat-team-takes-stock-of-biogas-plant-313308
19-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Candle march taken out for ‘martyred’ farmers||Hoshiarpur, September 18On September 17 last year, the Modi-led UPA government at the Centre had issued a dictatorial decree by passing three black agricultural laws in the month of September. In its protest, the farmers have been continuously holding a protest.This day will be celebrated as a black day. Until these black laws are repealed, the struggle will continue. This was stated by Aam Aadmi Party's assembly in-charge councillor Brahmshankar Jimpa while paying homage to the farmers who were martyred during their struggle.Leading the candle march, Jimpa said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Capt Amarinder Singh and the Akali Dal were responsible for these laws. He said more than 600 farmers were martyred in this struggle which has been going on for a year. “The farmers had made it clear to the Capt government and the Modi government at the Centre that they will not leave the path of struggle until these black laws are repealed,” he said.He said the Prime Minister was acting like a dictator and had deviated from democratic values. Targeting the Badals, AAP leaders said Badal and company should celebrate this day as black day by rubbing soot on their face because the Badal family had contributed in making black agricultural laws. While paying tribute to the martyred farmers, he wished for the peace of the departed soul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/candle-march-taken-out-for-martyred-farmers-313311
19-09-2021||Jalandhar||Lecture on India’s Independence||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lecture-on-indias-independence-313312
19-09-2021||---||Turning words into verses||Jalandhar, September 19 Expressing her thoughts on childhood, seasons, climate, relationships, values and varied topics, a Class IX student of St Joseph’s Convent School, Guneev Kaur, has penned as many as 111 poems in the last two years.  The 14-year-old showed them all to her teachers, who suggested her to put them together in the form of a book now titled ‘String of verses’. The young poetess said she felt proud handing over a copy of her book to her principal Sister Rosmi.  “I was rather overwhelmed when my principal told me that my poetry carried a gentle touch of deep compassion and duty with keen observation of life and values,” she said, adding that she also presented the copies of her book to her English teacher as well. Daughter of medicos Dr Navdeep and Dr Anureet Kaur, Guneev says that she enjoys studying science even as literature is her passion. “I want to continue with this passion of writing as my hobby for years to come even though I may choose some career in science stream”, she beams. Her mother added, “She had co-authored a book ‘Hope- A Sea of emotions’ some time back. My daughter is a very sensitive and keen observer. Poetry flows to her naturally.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/turning-words-into-verses-313314
19-09-2021||Students of pre-wing from the Chain of DIPS Schools made beautiful drawings with the help of cotton||Drawings and design activity at DIPS||Bhangra World Cup meet organisedJalandhar: A meeting of the organising committee regarding the preparations for the first Bhangra World Cup to be held on October 23 and 24 was held under the patronage of Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. During the meeting, Principal Dr Samra said that 41 entries have been received for national and international teams in four different categories. Plans for holding the Bhangra World Cup were finalised and sub-management committees have been set up for various functions. He said that on October 23, the competitions of bhangra teams from abroad would be conducted through online mode while on October 24, the competitions of bhangra teams in India would be held offline at the college campus. He informed that a workshop for teams would be organised regarding online competitions. Apart from this, International Bhangra Quiz will be conducted during Bhangra World Cup. Similarly, for College / Bhangra World Cup logo design competitions will also be held.World Ozone Day observedWorld Ozone Day was observed at MLU DAV College Phagwara under the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa. A seminar was organised for students by Science Department. During seminar students were made aware about the importance of Ozone layer. The celebration of Ozone Day started with the speeches prepared by the students. Dr Randhawa addressed the students and said, “World Ozone day plays a significant role in highlighting the steps to protect the ozone layer. It spreads awareness about the importance of ozone layer and steps that should be taken to preserve it. Life on Earth is facing a multitude of threats. Unfortunately, all of these developed as a result of rapid industrialisation activities undertaken by human beings over the last century. Climate change is now causing erratic weather patterns, causing forest fires and flooding across the globe not seen before.” She further said everyone should avoid the consumption of gases dangerous to the ozone layer, minimise the use of cars where possible.Hindi Samarpan Samaroh organisedKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised Hindi Samarparan Samaroh. A national webinar on ‘Hindi in Present Times: Opportunities and Challenges’ was organised on the occasion. The event was organised by PG Department of Hindi to mark the celebration of Hindi Diwas. Prof Dr Harmohinder Singh Bedi, Chancellor Central University, Dharamshala and Dr Sudha Jitendar, Head, Department of Hindi, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, were the resource persons for the webinar. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that Hindi holds a very important place in our society as during the freedom struggle of India Hindi was the most beloved language of the freedom fighters. Dr Bedi in his address said that Hindi language is the epitome of Indian culture which represent the soul of Indian culture and traditions. He explained that Hindi language right from its inception has overcome various obstacles and challenges and has made a prominent place in the contemporary times.HMV (Eco) students bring laurelsEight students of Economics (Hons) Semester III of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya brought laurels to the college by securing various positions in the university. Manpreet Kaur got second position with 79 marks. Ritu Devi got the third position with 77 marks. Jyoti got the fourth position with 76 marks. Priya Sharma and Sakshi Sharma got the fifth position with 72 marks. Riya Sharma got the seventh position with 67 marks. Khushdeep and Simran Kaur Mahil got the ninth position with 64 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students.Aditya Gupta Shines in IIT JEEAditya Gupta of Mayor World School has got an All India Rank of 965. Aditya said, “My parents have been the guiding force of my life. They have always believed in my dreams and have been a pillar of strength in my journey.” He further added, “The school has played a defining role in my achievements. It has offered me legion of opportunities to hone my skills. The team of educators at school have always infused confidence in me to deliver my best and nurtured me to improve upon my shortcomings.” The teachers opine that Aditya is governed by innate desire to excel and achieve the unachievable. He is a hard working child who possesses the ability to reach greater heights in life. The educators at Mayor World School have always believed in fostering the young minds to go far and beyond.DPS celebrates foundation dayDelhi Public School celebrated its 20th foundation day. The celebration is being carried forward in the form of a series every month. On the occasion of Teacher’s Day, this month’s celebrations of 20th foundation year were planned with a difference. The former teachers sent the heartfelt messages and congratulatory wishes to the management, staff and students through recorded videos. It was sheer nostalgia, exuding warmth as they shared their experiences in the school, highlighting the precious moments and the most enriching experiences during their journey at DPS. They thanked the school management for the cooperation, freedom and creativity with which they were nurtured as teachers and individuals at the school. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/drawings-and-design-activity-at-dips-313315
19-09-2021||Ajay Joshi||Won’t let election campaigns subside our protest: Farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 18With political campaigns picking up pace in the region, the agitators who have been participating in the farmers’ protest, for the past 10 months have also started mobilising youth to join their movement. The farm leaders say, while they don’t support any particular party, they are against the Modi-led BJP government. From organising social media live events from protest sites to raising awareness among youth about the MSP and farm laws, the farm right activists are certainly bringing back the spotlight on farmers’ protest that started last year in the month of November.Apart from this, there are various events in the pipeline to amplify the historic moment amid escalating political campaigns. Prompting more and more people to participate in the protest, the farm leaders have also scheduled various events.From September 23 onwards, Kabbadi tournaments will also be organised on both Singhu and Tikri borders. The 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur and Bhagat Singh’s birth anniversary will also be celebrated.“It is coming from the very basic idea beneath the farmers’ protest that under the high beam political campaigns, the sole issue of the abolishment of the laws should not diminish. We believe that this period of electioneering chaos can be en-cashed to bring back the focus on demands the farmers have been raising persistently,” said Harjinder Singh Tanda, leader of Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee.Similarly, Kanwar Sartaj Singh, who has been supporting the protest since last year said: “The IT cell of farmers remains active. When there are no events at the protest sites, we shift to social media platforms to inform social media users, especially youngsters, about the farmers’ movement, importance of Minimum Support Price (MSP), the implications of the contentious farm laws and others. We can’t let the political dynamics subside the core issues of farmers. The entry of political leaders have already been banned in various villages across the Doaba region.”Baljit Singh and Gavvy from Phillaur, who have been running the IT-cell related to the farmers’ protest starts their day with the new developments in the protest only. With lakhs of followers, they say, they are fighting the battle online as well as offline. He said while a large groups of farmers and their leaders are on the ground to protect the farm rights, a dedicated team monitors the movement of political leaders on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wont-let-election-campaigns-subside-our-protest-farmers-313301
19-09-2021||---||AAP leader, workers’ visit irks Kapurthala Civil Hospital staff||Jalandhar, September 18The Kapurthala Civil Hospital authorities were taken aback when a team of the Aam Aadmi Party leader and workers paid a ‘surprise’ visit to the hospital here on Saturday.During her visit to the hospital, former Additional Sessions Judge Manju Rana, who joined the AAP a few days ago, raised the issue of insanitary conditions and lack of proper care of patients at the hospital.Rana, along with a team of over a dozen supporters, videographers and mediapersons, visited the hospital. While she maintained that she had gone with her team to visit a patient, she admitted that her supporters also accompanied her to the hospital.There happened a heated exchange of words between the AAP supporters and hospital staff as Rana visited wards, videographed patients, and commented on the ‘deplorable’ state of the hospital. The heated exchange ensued when Rana alleged that a patient’s wound in a leg had not been bandaged for the last five days.While her supporters termed it life threatening, the SMO present on the occasion took exception to the comment and a heated exchange ensued between him and Rana’s supporters with the SMO questioning how the wound was life threatening.Terming the condition of infrastructure and upkeep of the hospital as deplorable, Rana said, “We visited the hospital today and it was in such a deplorable condition. The bathrooms stink to high heaven, making it difficult for people to pass the area without feeling nauseated. Half the door of the women’s bathroom is also gone and the washrooms are not cleaned. One nurse was attending to 44 patients. In some of the so-called private rooms, the room and the bathroom had not been cleaned for ages and the window had a bird’s nest in it.”Rana said she would further take up the issue with district authorities. Alleging poor care of patients, she said, “One of the patients with a leg wound has not been bandaged for the last five days. Another elderly woman with a defect in a leg had a drawstring tied to her feet and bricks for treatment.“The hospital is severely understaffed and more manpower is urgently needed. We had a word with the SMO and brought it all to his notice.”SMO Sandeep Dhawan said, “The issue was brought to my notice. Some of the supporters were wrongly terming an injured man’s situation as life threatening. But the former judge understood this point and the issue was resolved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-leader-workers-visit-irks-kapurthala-civil-hospital-staff-313302
19-09-2021||---||Cloudy weather puts cold water on Suryakiran air show||Jalandhar, September 18Over 2,000 visitors, including civilians, Army personnel and their families and mediapersons, were disappointed as the much-awaited air show by the Suryakiran Aerobatics Team (SKAT) scheduled for this morning was cancelled due to sudden cloudy weather.The SKAT had been practising for the event for the past three days in the district and the residents were excited about the show, which was to be viewed best from Katoch Stadium at Jalandhar Cantonment, where seating arrangements were made. A large number of students from Sainik School, Kapurthala, Army Public Schools, various Kendriya Vidyalayas, Lovely Professional University, ASHA School and other schools of Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Kapurthala had also come to watch the aerobatic display by the jets.Lieutenant General C Bansi Ponnappa, General Officer Commanding, Vajra Corps, who was the chief guest, and other senior military officers were also seated in the spectator gallery. The nine Hawk Mk 132 aircrafts took off from the Adampur IAF base at 9.20 am and flew over the cantonment. The pilots performed just one aerobatic loop and thereafter were nowhere to be seen. This loop too was not very clear because of the clouds.Sqn Ldr Deepanker Garg, a SKAT pilot, shared that since the sky was overcast all of a sudden, it could be dangerous for the lives of the pilots. “We fly in a gap of 5 metres and any error due to low visibility can be fatal. We could not even postpone the show as we have other events lined up and the entire schedule gets disrupted.”The event was a part of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh that marks the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war. The event was actually a two-day show with the families from the Adampur Air Force base were invited on Friday. Today, the families of Army personnel, mediapersons and some civilians were the main invitees.At the venue, various fighter planes, helicopters and army equipments were also displayed. Youth and children showed inquisitiveness as they quizzed the IAF and Army personnel about the functioning of these equipments. A bus with an aircraft simulator remained the main attraction for the children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cloudy-weather-puts-cold-water-on-suryakiran-air-show-313303
19-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||As Capt Amarinder Singh resigns, fate of Jalandhar projects hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 18Having had a good support from the MLAs of Doaba, Capt Amarinder Singh had planned a slew of projects in the city in the coming days, all of which came to a standstill owing to his resignation as the Chief Minister.On September 22, Capt Amarinder was to inaugurate the National Institute of Fashion Design at Surya Enclave here. The same day, his visit at Dera Sachkhand Ballan, the highly revered place among the Dalits, had also been planned.On September 23, a state-level rozgar mela had also been planned and he was to visit IKG Gujral Punjab Technical University at Kapurthala for the same. All arrangements for these events were being made when the change in command has come in the state.Even today, when Capt Amarinder resigned, most MLAs from the region said they would continue to have high regards for him. Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku said: “Even though we have to obey the orders of the high command, there is no doubt in the fact that people of my constituency will remember Capt Amarinder as the tallest leader of the party. He never said no to funds in my area. He got projects of a school, a government college, Guru Ravidass Bhawan, Kabir Bhawan and an exclusive women’s park and gym started in my area.”Likewise, Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri, who, too, took very clear sides with Capt Amarinder in the political tussles, said: “I will surely abide by whatever decision the high command takes, but for me Capt Amarinder will remain one of my favourite leaders. Whenever I approached him with a prior appointment, he always listened and acted upon the issues that I put up. He was to launch many new projects in my area in the coming days, but these surely will now get put off.”Another loyalist of his, Navtej Cheema, too, said: “Under Capt Amarinder Singh’s tenure, my constituency Sultanpur Lodhi got almost entirely refurbished owing to the 550th Guru Nanak Gurpurb. Civic works to the tune of several hundred crores were done in my area and the celebrations went in an extremely well-planned manner.”Meanwhile, Capt Amarinder’s rivals within the party are now expecting gains. There is a buzz that Jalandhar Cant MLA Pargat Singh could surely get a ministerial berth, he had been longing for. Other Doaba leaders, too, are expecting a better representation in the region that earlier remained neglected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-capt-amarinder-singh-resigns-fate-of-jalandhar-projects-hangs-fire-313304
19-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||YUVAA’s first post-lockdown gift to theatre lovers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 18It was in March 2020, days before the first Covid lockdown was imposed, that Jalandhar-based theatre group YUVAA performed its last show in the city.Exactly a year and a half later, today YUVAA Theatre, Jalandhar, performed a new play in the city last evening for the first time since the lockdown was announced by the government to check Covid-19 in March 2020. The play, Chidiya Ghar, was performed at the KL Saigal Memorial Hall, Jalandhar.In the maiden outing following the year-long restricted gatherings, the play saw around 100 city people turning up for the show. Though the popular theatre group YUVAA had performed in Ferozepur and Chandigarh in the intermittent relaxations between lockdowns, the regular theatre productions and annual theatre festivals in the city remained suspended due to strict Covid restrictions.With vaccination drives picking up and things looking to slide towards a new normal, YUVAA Theatre put up its new play, Chidiya Ghar, penned and directed by the group’s creative director, Dr Ankur Sharma, this evening.Speaking to The Tribune, Dr Sharma said, “It is hugely comforting to see people giving love to theatre. We had stopped our weekend theatre shows in view of the pandemic, but we plan to restart them with the reassuring response to our first post-Covid show in Jalandhar today. The play was developed by the theatre group during a very trying period amidst the pandemic gloom, when all theatres and stages were shut for over a year. While most of the group’s actors struggled to find work to survive during the lockdowns, very few remained devoted to keeping theatre alive in the region. We have put together a team and come up with production again by sheer passion in these trying times.”The play is inspired from the increasing alienation and insensitivity that the online culture and digitalisation have added to the already alienated haves and have-nots in the present times in the country.“Chidiya Ghar” depicts two such different citizens from a modern city of India who happen to meet in the Central Park of a posh modern locality. Prakash is married, is working on a good post, a father to two kids and a largely content fellow. Jai, on the other hand is an unemployed single economically unstable young man. He is struggling with such existential questions that Prakash does not feel the need to think about except in the books he reads.The play was staged with only two seasoned YUVAA actors on stage, Vishesh Arora and Sarvpreet Singh. Lights for the play were designed by Rishi Cheema and music was arranged by Abhishek Bhou. This play was hosted as a free entry for theatre lovers of the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/yuvaas-first-post-lockdown-gift-to-theatre-lovers-313305
