20-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Setting an example: Rurka Kalan panchayat constructs toilet block for tribal settlers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 19At a time when incidents of atrocities and perpetual sidelining of Dalits by village panchayats have been rampant, a village panchayat in Jalandhar is setting a rare example by undertaking a massive exercise to rehabilitate members of a tribal settlement putting up in their village for decades. In a first step in this direction, the village has constructed toilets for its settlers.A settlement of people popularly referred to as Gaddiwalas by the villagers, who hail from Rajasthan, the tribe which has been putting up at Rurka Kalan village for the past over 50 to 70 years, has been gifted a toilet complex by the village gram panchayat.It is probably among the first initiative by a state village gram panchayat to mainstream its colony of shanty settlers.A community of vagabonds and nomads who have been putting up in shanties and jhuggies near the village, the sanitary complex has been built to promote better sanitation and hygiene among them. Two sets of bathrooms — one for men and the second for women — have been built. Set up near the Patwarkhana, Rurka Kalan, the complex has four bathrooms (two toilets and two bathing rooms) and two washing areas — each, for men and women.A vibrant huge educative mural on the outer wall and a set of quotations marking the inner wall beautify the toilet complex, which is formally referred to as the Community Sanitary Complex.While work on the toilets began in March this year, it has recently been completed and is all set for use for the settlement of nomads putting up in the village periphery.While poor education and lack of birth and death registrations had left the community without jobs and they lived in poor conditions sans electricity or toilets, the gram panchayat decided to change that. Not only are toilets built for them but an activity based learning event will also be held to train them in the proper and sanitary use of the facilities!Sarpanch Kulwinder Kaur and Youth Football Club founder Gurmangal Dass jointly embarked on the project in March.Gurmangal Dass said: “They have been staying here for many years before I was born. They hail from Rajasthan and are originally a shephardic and Lohar community who trade animals and agricultural implements for a living. We noticed their living conditions were very poor, so we decided to build toilets for them. We faced much resistance from the village itself as many told us “tussi tan ehnan nu pakka karta” (you have made them permanent here). But we believe with proper training and education they can also raise their livelihoods. The eventual plan is to educate their kids and also start a housing project for them.”Village sarpanch Kulwinder Kaur said, “I noticed the women of the community defecating in the open and we wanted to do something to restore their dignity. They lived in a deplorable condition and used the one tap in the neighbourhood for washing their clothes and other domestic chores. They came ages ago in search of livelihoods and we hope or project is eventually able to mainstream them and bring them better livelihoods.” The village has also ensured pensions and certificates for many of the settlers who were not able to procure them.A total of over Rs 7 lakh was spent on the building of the toilet complex. Of the total amount, Rs 2.1 lakh was from the Swachh Bharat Gramin Mission - 2 and Rs 90,000 is a grant from the 15th Finance Commission. The YFC has spent over Rs 4 lakh on the project.While Rurka Kalan has a population of abour 9,000, the Gaddiwalas settlement houses about 40 families comprising 100 to 150 memberse. The village is also trying to mainstream their children, 20 to 25 of whom have been going to school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/setting-an-example-rurka-kalan-panchayat-constructs-toilet-block-for-tribal-settlers-313703
20-09-2021||---||‘Pash’s poetry continues to inspire today’s revolutionary movements’||Jalanhdar, September 19The Pash Yadgaari Sahitak Samagam was held to remember revolutionary poet Avtar Singh Pash. It was held at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall in Jalandhar today. The event was marked by talk on the farmers’ struggle and the role played by revolutionary poetry.The key speaker, Sukhdev Singh Sirsa, Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Comittee General Secretary Gurmeet Singh, Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch (PLSE Manch) President Amolak Singh, Senior Trustee Surinder Kuamri Kochar were among others were present on the occasion.The event began with paying tributes to over 620 farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing farmers’ struggle. Dharminder Masani and Nargis, an artist of the Manavta Kala Manch, Nagar, presented nazms, bolis and ghazals on the occasion. Sukhdev Singh Sirsa said the poetic revolutionary traditions of the state found frontal space yet again during the kisan andolan.“Poetry is not a fiefdom of just a few well-read persons. Poetry of Bars (a reference to pre-partition peasant revolutions such as Nilibar); poetry against colonisation (or Bastiwaad), poetry of the Pagri Sambhal Jatta Movement and the poetry written and penned by struggling writers was written in the midst of struggle and ideological battles,” he said.Sirsa said the poetry was a witness to Punjab’s repeated cultural strife and is contextual even in the present times.He also said the present farm strife was more of a continuation of the previous peasant strifes witnessed in the state. He said authors such as Prof Mohan Singh, Bawa Balwant, Pash, Udasi, Gurdas Ram Alam, Lal Singh Dil, has set the narrative for revolutionary poetry. The book ‘Pash Diary and Letters’ edited by Amolak Singh was released by Dr Sirsa on the occasion. Sirsa was honoured with Gursharan Singh Smriti Granth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pashs-poetry-continues-to-inspire-todays-revolutionary-movements-313704
20-09-2021||---||Farmer leaders hint at taking political plunge||Jalandhar, September 19Thousands of farmers and labourers, under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), organised a sit-in at Kala Bakra village in Bhogpur on Sunday. Senior leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Haryana, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Lakha Sadana and others remained present at the SKM meet. The dharna began at 12 noon and was lifted at 5 pm.Senior farm leaders, including the youth wing of the farm unions, associated with the SKM, decided the plan of action ahead of the first anniversary of the farmers’ protest at Delhi borders. During the protest today, the agitators also framed new action report to be adopted ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections.Notably, the farmer leaders also hinted at contesting elections and forming a new party. “While we are not sure of forming a new party, considering the support by the farmer groups, daily wage workers, villagers and supporters of the farmers’ protest, we can think of forming a ‘near party’, for the farmers, by the farmers. Besides, everyone was asked to exercise his or her voting right to elect the right candidate, added, Gurpreet Atwal, a BKU Doaba member.He further said, currently the ruling governments had failed to take any action in support of the farmers. People across the state have been participating in the protest, for the past 10 months, just to raise one concern — to abolish the three contentious farm laws — but nothing has been done so far. Over 600 farmers, including the young boys, have lost their lives in the farmers’ stir, hence we wouldn’t let their sacrifice go waste. In the five-hour long protest-cum-meet, the farmer leaders also motivated the masses to keep on participating in the protest, till their demands were met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-leaders-hint-at-taking-political-plunge-313705
20-09-2021||---||Jalandhar: CT Group ties up with Sonu Sood to help 43 needy students pursue BTech||Jalandhar, September 19Vice-Chancellor of CT University Dr Harsh Sadawarti shares that both Sonu Sood and he were batchmates in the YC College of Engineering, Nagpur.“We maintain that relationship and today we have begun philanthropic projects together,” said the VC, adding that at a recent meeting with the actor in Mumbai, it has been decided that university and Sonu Sood’s charity foundation would jointly support 43 poor students from UP, Bihar, Telangana and other states for top engineering courses, including those in artificial intelligence and business analytics.Dr Harsh Sadawarti added, “We will provide these students free education, lodging and meals. In fact, we have entered into a pact with Sonu Sood for another project. We have an MoU with Sankara Eye Hospital in Mullanpur for certain courses in optometry. Under the new project, we will organise pan-India camps for eye check-ups and surgeries. We will levy no charges for these surgeries from the poor people and provide all logistics, including volunteers, transportation facilities, meals to the patients etc. The eye specialists from the hospital will render their services for the project.”A step in the direction has already moved as CT University in association with Sood Charity Foundation, Mohandai Oswal Hospital, Sankara Eye Hospital, Jerath Path Lab and Lok Jagrukta Foundation have organised a mega free health check-up and eye surgery camp at its campus recently. Over 225 residents from nearby villages and towns availed healthcare facilities which included free consultation from neurosurgeons, gynaecologists, orthopaedic surgeons, ophthalmologists and physicians etc. Over 100 blood samples were taken to perform complete various tests.Managing Director CT Group Manbir Singh and V-C Dr Sadawarti have honoured Bollywood actor Sonu Sood for his selfless work and collaborating with his Sood Charity Foundation for mission free education, free eye care, free medical camps and lot other platforms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-ct-group-ties-up-with-sonu-sood-to-help-43-needy-students-pursue-btech-313706
20-09-2021||---||Sodal mela: Lakhs of devotees pay obeisance||Jalandhar, September 19A huge number of devotees paid obeisance during the Sodal Mela which began in Jalandhar a few days ago. Notably, September 19 is among the most auspicious days of the Sodal Mela as a huge number of devotees pay obeisance and offer Khetri sowed at their homes to Baba Sodal as a token of their mannat (wishes made). Amidst the Covid protocol, swings and jhoolas were not put up at the mela and langars were also restricted to a minimum.The mela was held amidst a huge police presence where hundreds of police personnel were deputed at and around the Sodal Mela venue. Diversions were also created through various alternate routes in view of the rush which is traditionally witnessed during the mela.While barricades have been put up near the Sodal mandir, no vehicles are allowed beyond the barricades. A police control room has also been made in front of the temple to keep a watch on the events.Tarsem Kapoor, one of the trustees of the Shri Sidh Baba Sodal Trust, said, “At least 2 lakh devotees have paid obeisance at the Sodal Mela and today being the day when Khetri sowed by families is offered, it was especially crowded. Langars have been restricted this year. No swings were put in view of Covid Protocol but people thronged the venue in hordes and the Sodal Baba following is such that crowds came to pay obeisance in large numbers. Many families especially paid obeisance on the 19th as it is believed that offerings make wishes granted at the mela.” Notably, newly married couples and childless couples also have a huge following for Baba Sodal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sodal-mela-lakhs-of-devotees-pay-obeisance-313707
20-09-2021||---||One more tests positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 19The district on Sunday recorded one more case of Covid-19, taking the tally to 63,287. However, no death due to the virus was reported in the district. The death tally stood at 1,494. As many as 61,754 patients have recovered from the virus in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 39. Of the 16,40,249 samples collected in the district so far, 15,07,376 samples tested negative. The results of as many as 609 tests are still awaited. At present, there are 29 persons under home isolation in the district.All well in KapurthalaThe district on Sunday reported one more case of Covid-19, pushing the tally to 17,825. However, no death due to Covid-19 was reported in the district.One tests +ve in HoshiarpurThe district on Sunday reported one new case of Covid-19, taking the tally to 30,758. However, no death was recorded and the toll stood at 981.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-more-tests-positive-in-jalandhar-district-313708
20-09-2021||---||Mere 14, Jalandhar's Guneev Kaur has penned a string of 111 poems||Jalandhar, September 19Expressing her thoughts on childhood, seasons, climate, relationships, values and varied topics, a Class IX student of St Joseph’s Convent School, Guneev Kaur, has penned as many as 111 poems in the last two years.The 14-year-old showed them all to her teachers, who suggested her to put them together in the form of a book now titled ‘String of verses’. The young poetess said she felt proud handing over a copy of her book to her principal Sister Rosmi.“I was rather overwhelmed when my principal told me that my poetry carried a gentle touch of deep compassion and duty with keen observation of life and values,” she said, adding that she also presented the copies of her book to her English teacher as well.Daughter of medicos Dr Navdeep and Dr Anureet Kaur, Guneev says that she enjoys studying science even as literature is her passion. “I want to continue with this passion of writing as my hobby for years to come even though I may choose some career in science stream”, she beams. Her mother added, “She had co-authored a book ‘Hope- A Sea of emotions’ some time back. My daughter is a very sensitive and keen observer. Poetry flows to her naturally.”‘Why she takes care’'I know I hardly ever paid my gratitude,For whatever you did, at the highest of your amplitude.Being a doctor, you've articulated everything pearlyAwesome, my best protector!'"‘Who is a super hero?’"Who is that hero?He whose entire soul is deeply embraced.His arms are full of integrity.His eyes are full of compassion.His ears are full of euphoria.His words are full of wisdom.His deeds are full of mercy.His way is full of heroism.His body is my shelter!"||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mere-14-jalandhars-guneev-kaur-has-penned-a-string-of-111-poems-313709
20-09-2021||Jalandhar||Mayorite Cricket League T10 held||Mayor World School organised its first ever Mayorite Cricket League T10, for all endearing fathers of the Mayorites. The purpose of this entire event was to strengthen the bonds with a game admired by all and bring back the liveliness which the pandemic had taken away.This thrilling event had its monumental finale on Sunday. The cricket tournament was played among six passionate teams- Fire Balls, Scoring Willows, Game Changers, Pitch Smashers, Fantastic 11 and Challengers. All the teams performed spectacularly delivering nerve-wracking and exhilarating matches throughout the league. Team Pitch Smashers had already secured the place as the first qualifying team in the Grand finale. The school management praised the teams for their phenomenal display of team effort. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mayorite-cricket-league-t10-held-313710
20-09-2021||Jalandhar||PSPCL organises ‘power panchayat’||Man sets himself ablaze, diesJalandhar: Upset over some family dispute, a man committed suicide by setting himself on fire here on Saturday. A video of the incident got captured on a CCTV camera, which went viral within a few hours of the incident. In the video, a man, engulfed in flames, could be seen running in a street. As he was crying for help, his family members tried to douse the fire by throwing water on him and rushed him to a nearby hospital near Adarsh Nagar. The victim has been identified as Mukesh Kumar, a resident of Vikrampur Colony. Having suffered nearly 90 per cent burn injuries, the victim died during treatment. Arun Kumar, brother of the victim, told the police that Mukesh was fed up with his maternal aunt and her daughter. A case of abetment to suicide has been registered against the duo. OCWoman held with 68-gram heroinHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two drug smugglers, including a woman, on Saturday. The Mahilpur police have arrested Binder, alias Dhillo, a resident of BDO Colony, Mahilpur, and seized 68 grams of heroin from her possession. In the second case, the Mukerian police arrested Mangat Ram, a resident of Khurshidpur Mohalla, Mukerian, and seized 30 grams of intoxicating powder near the cremation ground naka. Both have been booked under the NDPS Act. OC18-kg poppy husk seized, 1 arrestedHoshiarpur: The Chabbewal police have arrested a smuggler and seized 18 kg of poppy husk from his possession. A police party was patrolling in the area. When they were on the way from Barian to Subhanpur road, they saw a man coming on foot carrying a sack on his shoulder. He tried to flee after seeing the police. He was intercepted and searched on suspicion. The sack being carried by him was found to contain 18 kg of poppy husk. He has been booked under the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pspcl-organises-power-panchayat-313711
20-09-2021||Corruption is the root cause of the problem||Open House:  What should the government do to improve the poor condition of roads?||Condition of roads is very pitiable. Potholes and poor roads don’t just make driving a hellish experience, sometimes they cause serious accidents. The problem is getting worst year after year. Roads are not repaired and most of the potholes are filled temporarily. Complaints regarding broken roads, footpaths are always unanswered with an excuse. Nobody took a notice and care a damn about it. The MC, PWD are directly responsible for it. Crores of rupees have been sanctioned for the repair and maintenance but nothing happens on the ground. If something is done, it’s just an eyewash. When the people pay taxes, it’s the responsibility of the government to ensure the maintenance and repair work. It is always a blame game. Everybody wants to come out clean and blame others but the fact is all are responsible. Actually, corruption is the root cause of all this. Each and everyone take their share, don’t raise a voice and sit quietly. MP’s and ministers should pay a visit time to time to check the development work done and fix the responsibility and punish the guilty. Unless and until law is not strict, the situation will remain the same.Shashi KiranDon’t make one-time payment to contractorsThe poor conditions of city roads can be attributed to many reasons. One prominently is lack of effective mechanism of proper maintenance of roads after they are laid out. No original tender with any construction firm without well defined provision for maintenance of allotted road up to minimum one year, should be approved. A part of payment money should be withheld to be released only after full compliance with maintenance contract. The other primary reason is poor quality of the roads. Either the quality controls as per latest standards are not maintained in the tendering process itself or are woefully compromised later due to corrupt nexus between the contractor, bureaucrats and the politicians. It appears as if we have to live with poor infrastructure similarly we are living with corruption and inefficiency in every public domain including local governing bodies.Jagdish ChanderReasons for potholed roads and the way forward Mismanagement of funds must be stoppedThe present condition of roads is worrisome. The Municipal Corporation has failed to maintain roads and carry out patch works, which have created a panic situation for the vehicle owners. The poor conditions of the roads are creating inconvenience to the commuters. Due to big potholes most of the people in Jalandhar are now facing health issues. Officials concerned should be made responsible for the negligence and for not carrying out the repair works. City residents have a lot of expectation from the Municipal Corporation. Funds released for carrying out development works under the Smart City project should be utilised for providing basic civic amenities to the public. The Deputy Commissioner should revive grievances committee so that the members can take up the matter with the committee and highlight such issues.Rajat Kumar MohindruCarry out inspection, repair work on timeThe Patara road, which connects a number of villages, lies in a terrible shape. It has not been repaired from a long time. The potholes on the road are a major cause of concern. The authorities have turned a blind eye to the inconvenience faced by the public. There should be a proper agreement between contractors and the government. Ditches and potholes are a chronic problem that reduces the life of roads. They should be immediately taken care of by the government. It will reduce road accidents and problems faced by public. There should be proper monitoring of roads by government. Corruption should be stopped. This is also a main reason why roads are not properly built. We all pay taxes to the government and its government’s duty to make sure that road are properly built. Last but not the least, it’s the government only who can improve the condition of roads. Government officials should check the condition of roads properly.Rimplepreet KaurAn open invitation to road accidentsAll intersections in the city are inundated with water during the rainy season. Potholed, damaged roads in almost every part of the city increase the chances of accidents especially, due to waterlogging. But the civic authorities are least bothered about the pitiable condition of the public during such times. The PWD engineers are in cahoots with the local politicians in this sordid state of affairs. The interlocking tiles put on the streets and roads are manufactured by industries owned by politicians of different parties. The coal tar and bitumen used in laying the roads are so faulty that they get dissolved in the first shower of rain. No wonder that people suffer so many accidents resulting in loss of lives and limbs. The government should enforce independent agencies of qualified and honest officials to supervise the construction of the roads and also lay down proper drainage system so that the rain water doesn’t stay or collect on the roads and intersections. Sometimes the rain water enters into the houses of the people living in low lying areas. There is a danger of malaria and dengue in such conditions. The municipal officials should be taken to task and suitably punished for such shoddy work so that it serves a lesson for others.Dr JS WadhwaEnsure proper drainage systemThe poor condition of cities roads is not only causing hardships to commuters but also causing many problems such as accidents, waterlogging due to poor drainage system and bad conditions of roads. Accidents on highway city roads been a big issue since many past years but no one has taken a single step towards these conditions. Well constructed roads are the most essential within a city. If it’s not been under proper construction and care of the government, it will cause a heavy damage to the lives of travellers, two-wheelers, daily commuters also to the loaded trucks and tractors. So, properly constructed two-way roads and plants on both sides and with proper drainage system is a must. Moreover, there must be proper zebra and light poles so that there will be convenient system for the daily commuters. With a proper construction of these roads it not only downs the accidents but also avoids many problems such as traffic jams, collection of muddy water during rainfall season and many more. So, in order to provide convenience as well as for the development of a city the most essential and first prioritise thing is the proper construction so in order to improve the conditions of roads.Kanishka MalhotraLocal bodies should take immediate stepsThe poor condition of city roads have been causing great hardships and leading to deadly accidents on a daily basis. This is not a problem that can be ignored. Roads are something that each one of us uses and that enough is a proof of how much weightage it holds in everybody’s daily life. The local governments should step in and take immediate actions to bring the situation under control. Strict laws should be made to control the tearing up of roads by common public for domestic reasons. Speed breaks should be made wherever over speeding issues has caused accidents. Traffic road signs, traffic signals, zebra crossings, etc. should be kept well maintained.Kalpana BhatiaFormulate plan for carpeting roadsI want to bring your kind attention to poor condition of link roads of central area. Numerous dwellers faced heavy and prolonged rains this time and as a result, the roads have turned into big potholes. Needless to say, the dividers and side marking lines have faded too, which leads to accidents. Also many residents lost their lives due to potholed roads. In the end, there must be a concrete plan for carpeting roads. There must be one inspection team to inspect conditions of roads area wise and should report to MLA’s of that area. Then nobody should be allowed to dig the roads.Gurkawar Partap SinghImprovement in city infra is vitalIn the past few years, remarkable work on building and expansion of highways is visible but the condition of roads in the urban areas continues to be in a bad shape. During the rainy season, there is acute waterlogging on the roads. The drainage system is so poorly managed that huge potholes appear on the roads due to light showers. Besides this, sewerage pipes get choked and manholes are left uncovered. As a result, mosquitoes breed on stagnant water and spread diseases such as malaria and dengue. Consequently, the health of numerous people is badly affected while the polluted environment gives shabby look to the surroundings. It is, indeed, ironical that the prescribed traffic rules and the construction by-laws are openly flouted. Due to rampant corruption, construction quality is invariably compromised by the contractors in connivance with the authorities. Municipal bodies responsible for maintenance of city roads and allied infra are paying no timely attention to the warning bells. While the citizens are paying all kind of taxes, they are made to suffer by tagging the unpleasant incidents merely to the vagaries of weather. To check such malpractices, local NGOs and civic societies should be empowered to supervise the construction activities carried out by contractors. Strict action should be taken against officials for violations of rules and misappropriation of funds at any level. The inconvenience faced by the public due to the poor management of roads must end.Nirmaljit Singh Chatrath QUESTIONWith the district reporting a surge in dengue cases, what steps should be taken by the Health Department and civic body officials to stop breeding of dengue larvae and how should they raise awareness among the public to stop the numbers from rising?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 23)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-what-should-the-government-do-to-improve-the-poor-condition-of-roads-313713
