21-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Court bars withdrawal of cases related to post-Vienna violence in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20The court of Additional Sessions Judge Manjinder Singh on Monday denied to give its consent to an application moved by an Additional Public Prosecutor last month on the orders of the state government for permission to withdraw prosecution against the accused facing trial for the alleged violence in Jalandhar after the murder of Sant Ramanand of Dera Ballan in Vienna in May 2009. ‘Disgusting to know that state wants to protect criminals’The application was moved on August 19 after the orders of the Home Department of Punjab in this regard on July 12. It pertained to seeking the consent of the court to withdraw prosecution in six criminal cases registered on May 25, 2009, including one each at Rama Mandi and Lambra and four at Phillaur police stations.The application mentioned that the followers of the dera had gathered on roads and were agitating as the murder of the sant had hurt their religious sentiments and there was no pre-design to hold agitations.A mob attacked police vehicles and caused injuries to police officials, but still the cops, including HC Jagdish Pal, retired HC Surjit Singh, retired inspectors Ashwani Kumar and Sodagar Singh, ASIs Surjit Singh, Vijay Kumar, Gurkirat Singh, Ramesh Kumar, Surinder Singh and Gurmail Singh, did not identify any witnesses and were declared hostile by the court.The application also mentioned that the matter pertained to public interest and in the event it ended up in conviction of the accused persons, it could again disturb the public tranquillity. Arguing on the matter, advocate Darshan Dyal on behalf of the complainants gave a written submission in the court.He wrote, “Though only six FIRs have been mentioned by the prosecution agency, there were 75 cases of murder, arson, loot and destruction of public and private properties worth hundreds of crores against anti-social elements. While 30 FIRs were sent to the court as untraced and trial in them never began, only 45 were sent for trial. All the accused in 19 of them have been freed by the court for lack of evidence on the part of the police.”Dyal strongly argued, “Vandalising showrooms and hospitals, burning private vehicles, trains, police vehicles and attacking police and doctors who treated the injured cannot be public interest. It is in fact political interest as even the Vienna Kand Sangharsh Committee mentions that the Chief Minister of Punjab had promised to withdraw all such criminal cases against them during that period. Withdrawal of the cases would demoralise the general public and the police force and will shake their faith in the judicial system. It will also encourage the accused to repeat the crime as they would feel that the government would ultimately withdraw prosecution case.”Hearing both sides, the court decided not to give consent for withdrawal of the prosecution cases and ordered that the trials would go on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/court-bars-withdrawal-of-cases-related-to-post-vienna-violence-in-jalandhar-314121
21-09-2021||---||Double delight for Jalandhar shuttler||Jalandhar, September 20Adding more feathers to his cap, a 17-year-old city boy clinched two gold medals in the Senior Punjab State Badminton Championship. While it was certainly a double delight for Abhinav Thakur to win two gold medals in one tournament, he has also become Senior Punjab State Champion at the age of 17.The five-day championship, that started on September 15, concluded on Sunday. As many as 500 players participated in various events. Abhinav won gold medals in senior men singles and senior men doubles category.At the concluding ceremony, the city boy was declared the best player of the tournament and received a cash prize worth Rs 13,000 from the organisers.A student of Class XII at Innocent Hearts School, the teenager aims to represent India in the international circuit. At present, he is receiving training at a private academy in Hyderabad.He said though it sometimes became tough to strike a balance between sports and studies, with discipline and hustle things get sorted.His father Sudarshan Singh Thakur, who works in the railways, said Abhinav had been playing the sport from a very young age. He had earlier won a gold medal at the All-India Sub-junior National Badminton Ranking Championship in the under-17 doubles category.Two years ago, Abhinav had also made the district proud by qualifying for the Khelo India Mission Scheme. Being among the top rankers of Indian badminton players, he has also been selected by the Sports Ministry for the next Olympics. Abhinav’s previous achievements include a gold medal in the National Ranking Championship in 2018, a gold in the under-17 Punjab State Badminton Championship, a silver in the under-19 category in the same championship and two bronze medals in the under-15 nationals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/double-delight-for-jalandhar-shuttler-314122
21-09-2021||---||Fresh expenses await new govt in Punjab, but state coffers ‘empty’||Jalandhar, September 20Sudden changes at the helm of affairs towards the fag end of the Congress tenure would certainly lead to unplanned expenditure, especially with regards to the publicity part.Almost all cities across the state have numerous hoardings of the state government, publicising its various schemes and portraying Capt Amarinder Singh as the Chief Minister.Also read: After change of guard, Capt Amarinder’s ads removed from LudhianaThe new group that has come to power would obviously want to make such changes in the public domain which make its presence felt. The former CM’s bold photos would have to be replaced with those of new Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, his team of Deputy CMs and the new ministers from the departments concerned, besides other party leaders, including PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu.An insider from the Public Relations (PR) Department said, “All these changes will take a few weeks. Once the portfolios are announced and oath-taking is done, the new posters will be designed, ordered and put up. Since Assembly polls could be just four months away, everything will be done at a war-footing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fresh-expenses-await-new-govt-in-punjab-but-state-coffers-empty-314123
21-09-2021||---||Change of guard on top shifts political gears in Doaba region||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20Changes in the Congress top brass in the past couple of days have suddenly shifted the political dynamics of Doaba region. Former minister Mahinder Singh Kaypee, who had been lying low since he lost the last Assembly elections, has become very active. Having wedded his daughter to the nephew of the new Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, he was among the 40 special invitees for the swearing-in ceremony at the Raj Bhawan today. His photograph hugging Channi soon after the ceremony has been doing the rounds.Kaypee’s supporters were quick to comment, “It will now be our leader’s choice as to which seat he wants, Jalandhar West, from where he had been contesting till the recent years, or Adampur, from where he contested in 2017 but was not lucky enough.” Though Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku is very comfortably placed, but the fact remains that he owes a strong allegiance to former CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s camp and the sudden change of power has not gone in his interest.As far as immediate gains are concerned, Pargat Singh seems to be quite a certain pick for a ministerial post. As he hosted a lunch at his official residence in Chandigarh for Channi shortly after his oath ceremony, Pargat’s wife Brinder Preet Kaur welcomed the CM and offered him ladoos. Navjot Singh Sidhu and Pargat’s brother-in-law and Shahkot MLA Hardev S Laddi Sherowalia were also present at the luncheon.Another frontrunner for the ministerial post from Doaba is first-time MLA Bawa Henry. Sidhu has visited Henry twice at his place since his recent elevation in the party. Both Pargat and Henry are Jatt Sikhs, even though it has been the Dalits from the Doaba region who have been a common pick for the party. But now, since the CM himself is a Dalit, the old theory may not work, Henry’s aides said, adding that Jatts could be a more feasible choice.If the party has to strike some balance by adding in MLAs of certain disillusioned groups of the party, then Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema could be the pick from Capt Amarinder Singh camp and Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri from among ex-PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar’s favourites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/change-of-guard-on-top-shifts-political-gears-in-doaba-region-314124
21-09-2021||Ajay Joshi||SC students welcome Charanjit Singh Channi as new CM, want demands fulfilled||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20With a few months left for the Assembly elections in the state, the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit Sikh leader, as Chief Minister, is being seen as a game-changer in Punjab politics. After the resignation of Capt Amarinder Singh, the development is also considered as a counter to the SAD-BSP alliance.However, after Channi’s oath-taking ceremony on Monday, the SC/ST student leaders, who have been fighting for the rights of Dalits and students enrolled under the SC/ST category, hailed Channi for being elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) in the state. Navdeep Dakoha, district president, Students’ Sangharsh Morcha, said after the announcement of Charanjit Channi as the new CM, we are hopeful that our demands would be fulfilled.“We are glad that for the first time, any Dalit person is ruling the state as the Chief Minister. Even as the Dalits constitute over 30 per cent of the state population, we never had a Dalit CM. Hence, we believe that Channi would fulfill the promisesd made by Capt Amarinder Singh. And if he fails to meet our expectations, we would not hesitate about launching bigger protests against him. Earlier, even after holding the position of a Cabinet minister, he did not do much for the well-being of SC/ST students.Even he did not talk about the Post Matric Scholarship Scheme, Ghar-Ghar Rozgar, backlog of pending jobs and reforms in education. Therefore, we want the new CM to do something concrete in these matters and implement the 85th Amendment Act for reservations to Dalits,” added Dakoha.Similarly, Varjit Kaur, leader of the Punjab Students’ Union (PSU), said, “Some people are expressing satisfaction and happiness over the appointment of a new Chief Minister. Undoubtedly, we also have the same feelings, but we cannot ignore the fact that the President of our country is also a Dalit and what he has done for the Dalit community? So, expecting that a Dalit CM will solve all the problems of the community is a big delusion. In 2014, the Congress government passed a Bill in the Vidhan Sabha to provide free education to all girls, but never implemented it.”Meanwhile, BSP general secretary Balwinder Kumar said he had little expectations from the new CM. We do not expect him to take any structural reforms. The Congress has taken the decision to just introduce a Dalit face, parallel to the BSP-SAD alliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sc-students-welcome-charanjit-singh-channi-as-new-cm-want-demands-fulfilled-314125
21-09-2021||---||Love for lush: This Jalandhar couple bought a plot to fulfil its passion for lawn||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20Medical specialist Dr Anil Chopra and his academician better half Nupur Chopra had been living in Kalgidhar Avenue and maintaining as much greenery as possible in their house in the form of potted plants.About seven to eight years back, they purchased another plot right in front of their house across the road. This one is solely for the purpose of having a lawn in one section and fruit and vegetable garden in the other half.Says Nupur, who has recently retired after having served as a lecturer of home science at BD Arya College for 37 years: “I enjoy spending my whole day in the lawn. Earlier, it was my husband who was fond of greenery, but since my retirement I have sort of taken over his passion. Though we have a gardener, but we both spend an hour or two daily shifting plants to make them look better and get more sunlight, doing some pruning, developing new plantlets and nurturing our precious bonsais that we have readied out of peepal, ficus, pomegranate and rubber plants. The process involves cutting some roots and removing some extra shoots to make its appearance dwarf-like but we are enjoying learning the nuances and experimenting them on daily basis.”The most attractive part of the lawn of Chopras is the solar fountains that they have installed. The fountains are connected to a water reservoir and they work till the time there is Sun. These are shifted from time to time to water the grass and work almost like drip irrigation.Says Nupur: “My qualification in home science, too, is coming to use in setting my garden. I have used some best-out-of-waste concepts here. Many extra containers and plastic ware, which was not in use in my kitchen, are serving as hanging pots for my plants around tree branches. They look colourful and attractive and some of them have even been painted, decorated and made into wind chimes.”Besides, the garden has designer ceramic pots in various shapes, high stands as planters and some sculptures kept for aesthetic purposes here and there. The creepers, bushes and hedge plants add a lot of greenery in every nook and corner.She adds: “I make sure that I buy the best seeds available in the market for my kitchen garden so that they grow well and give me a lot of vegetables. Even though the summer vegetables are at their fag end and the seeds for the winter veggies are yet to be sown, I am still able to harvest some lady fingers, capsicums, brinjals, gourds, green chillies and mint from my garden daily.”Nupur also takes us around mini fruit orchard. She says: “My kinnows are set to ripen any time soon. My lemons are available all 12 months of the year. Mangoes may be out of market now, but I still have one variety giving fruits.” She also has some papaya, peach and litchi trees.Back in her lawn, she shows varieties of different colours of bougainvillea. There are some pots where portulacas are still flowering. Preparations have been done for the onset of the upcoming winter season. Pots have been readied with the cuttings of chrysanthemum, gerbera and petunias.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/love-for-lush-this-jalandhar-couple-bought-a-plot-to-fulfil-its-passion-for-lawn-314126
21-09-2021||---||Rs 15L snatched from hospital owner, house burgled in broad daylight in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 20There seems to be no end to snatching and theft incidents in the city. Two snatchings were reportedly committed in broad daylight today.In one incident, two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a bag containing Rs 15 lakh from Vijay Sikka, the owner of Sikka Hospital, from outside a private bank. As soon as the incident was reported, Rajesh Kumar, in-charge of police station 4 and Ramandeep Singh, in-charge of CIA Staff-1, reached the spot and started investigations.Vijay Sikka, wife of CP Sikka, said she went to Punjab and Sindh Bank branch located opposite the hospital to deposit the amount. When she reached near the bank, she got out of the car and started locking it with the purse containing the money in her hands. Meanwhile, two youths riding a motorcycle snatched her purse and fled. The cops, who reached the spot, had started retrieving the CCTV footage from the cameras installed around the spot.In another incident, some miscreants broke into House No. 462 at GTB Nagar and stole gold, silver coins, jewellery, cash, and electronics worth lakhs. The CCTV cameras in the locality are being checked, police officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-15l-snatched-from-hospital-owner-house-burgled-in-broad-daylight-in-jalandhar-314127
21-09-2021||Jalandhar||13.53L khasra entries made online in Jalandhar||Jalandhar has become the first district to accomplish hundred percent e-girdawari of crops of last year’s Kharif season by making over 13.53 lakh khasra entries online within the stipulated timeframe.DC Ghanshyam Thori said a mammoth exercise was initiated to achieve this Herculean task in the district wherein as many as 13,53,542 khasra numbers were made online. He said 59,540 khasra entries were made online in Mehatpur sub-tehsil, followed by 98,244 entries in Jalandhar-2, 1,61,865 in Shahkot, 96,301 in Goraya, 1,33,767 in Phillaur, 76,031 in Lohian, 1,41,764 in Nurmahal, 1,72,979 in Nakodar, 79,388 in Kartarpur, 1,17,465 in Jalandhar-1, 1,04,858 in Adampur, and 1,10,683 in Bhogpur tehsils/sub-tehsils, respectively.The DC said while taking a step further in the direction of digitisation, the state government had ordered e-girdawari of crops for the kharif season of 2020. “Girdawari is a document, in which the patwari enters the name of owner, name of cultivator, land/khasra number, area, kind of land, cultivated and non-cultivated area, source of irrigation, name of crop and its conditions, revenue and rate of revenue, etc, minimum twice in a year.“Several officials had been tasked with the responsibility of making girdawari online and hundred percent of records have been updated online within a given time-frame,” said DC Ghanshyam Thori.Thori said the district administration had worked round-the-clock to ensure completion of this task within the due timeline so that the farm community was benefited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-53l-khasra-entries-made-online-in-jalandhar-314128
21-09-2021||Jalandhar||Hindi debate at Army Public School in Jalandhar Cantt||Faculty development programmeThe Department of Industrial and Production Engineering, Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar (NITJ), inaugurated a five-day AICTE-ATAL Academy Sponsored Online Faculty Development Programme (eFDP) on ‘Additive Manufacturing: Programming, Operation & Applications’. Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director, NITJ, inaugurated the event through Google meet platform. This online FDP was designed to impart knowledge and skills related to additive manufacturing technologies, selection of material, and equipment and develop a product using additive manufacturing concept. Prof Awasthi focused over the role and applications of such latest technologies in the development of nation. Various outstanding researchers have agreed to be the speakers for the various technical sessions.Webinar on Challenges in EducationThe Department of Education of Doaba College organised a webinar on the ‘Challenges in Education’. Dr Deepa Kauts, Prof and Head, Department of Education, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, was the resource person. Dr Kauts laid stress on the importance of Guru in the life of an individual. In the bygone days there used to be an emotional bonding between the teachers and taught which is becoming somewhat loose these days. She stressed on the emancipator role of the teacher who emancipates his students from ignorance, poverty, social taboos and leads to his social and economic mobility.Puzzle games activity at DIPSTo keep kids away from TV screen and mobile phones, DIPS School UE-1 organised puzzle solving game activity. Teachers designed a puzzle game on paper and made the students solve it. During this activity students used colours to make it look colourful and also solved it too. Students solved puzzles related to English and mathematics. Teachers told parents and students that by solving puzzles the IQ level and motor skills both are developed. Principal Neelu Bawa remarked that puzzle solving is always a fun activity and students find it exciting. Students learn concepts better in a playway method. Students start thinking in a logical way through the medium of puzzles.55 Apeejay students get jobsAs many as 55 reputed companies recruited the students of the Apeejay Institute of Management and Engineering Technical Campus. The highest pay package of Rs12 lakh was offered to MBA students and an average package offered was Rs4.5 lakh. Some of prominent companies which visited the campus were HDFC Bank, Jaro Education, BYJU’s, ITC, Berger Paints, Trident, ICICI Bank, ICICI Prudential, Tommy Hilifiger, Aditya Berlia Retail, IDBI First Bank, JK Tyres, ICICI Securities, Axis Bank, Exide Industry Ltd. and SBI Life Insurance among many others.Webinar on Auto CAD TechnologiesThe Department of Civil Engineering celebrated the first ‘Industry Day’ of the semester. To mark the occasion, a webinar was organised to make the staff and students aware about the auto CAD technologies and their importance in construction industry. The webinar was conducted by Parminder Singh, Centre Head, CAD Centre, Jalandhar. He has more than 18 years of field experience and expertise in Auto CAD. He explained the practical application with field examples. Dr Rajeev Bhatia, Head, Department of Civil Engineering, briefed the students about the importance of such software tools in making the construction work more precise and efficient.Best school awardSwami Sant Dass Public School, Jalandhar, bagged the award for Best in Academics- 2021 by the Federation of Private Schools and Associations of Punjab. These awards were organised to recognise the contribution of private schools of Punjab for imparting quality education. As many as 571 schools and 130 principals from the state were honoured. The awards were organised in various categories such as best infrastructure, best digital school, best in academics, best dynamic principal and many more. The function was presided over by Bandaru Dattatreya, Governor of Haryana.Honour for meritorious studentsIn an endeavour to acknowledge and felicitate the painstaking efforts of its students, the managing committee of PCM S.D. College for Women, honoured the meritorious and other university position holders. Meritorious students of varied streams like BA Honours in Hindi and Sanskrit, BSc Computer Science, BA/BEd, B.Sc Fashion Designing, BVoc Fashion Designing, MSc Fashion Designing, BCom and MCom were honoured for their university and other merit positions. There were about 15 gold medallists. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hindi-debate-at-army-public-school-in-jalandhar-cantt-314129
21-09-2021||Ahead of the Assembly elections||Phagwara Diary: Rs 9-lakh infra push for Panschta village||LPU student part of World Archery C’shipAditya Chaudhary (19), a student of Lovely Professional University (LPU), is representing the country in the ongoing ‘Senior World Archery Championship. Kicked off on September 19, the event is being organised in the USA and will conclude in late September. Previously, Aditya was also a part of the Under-21 Men’s re-curve team of India that won a gold medal in the World Archery Youth Championships held in Wroclaw, Poland. After his from here, Aditya can further go ahead for the World Archery Championship.Olympian Hardik Singh felicitated by NGOTo promote sports among budding players, members of the NGO Youth Voice Foundation felicitated ace hockey player Hardik Singh, who was a part of the Indian Hockey Team that won bronze medal in the Tokyo Olympics. President of the Youth Voice, Gagandeep Singh said, Hardik and other players from Punjab have become a source of inspiration for many. “The NGO is rewarding him for his contribution to sports. The winning of an olympic medal after a gap of 41 years is the rebirth of hockey. This would promote more children to take up the sport,” added Gagandeep. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-diary-rs-9-lakh-infra-push-for-panschta-village-314130
21-09-2021||Phagwara||7 shops burgled in Phagwara||Man ends life, four bookedHoshiarpur: Disturbed by alleged harassment of his wife and in-laws, a 32-year-old youth ended his life by consuming some poisonous substance here on Sunday. On the complaint of the victim’s family, Sadar police have registered a case against four persons, including his wife, mother-in-law and brother-in-law, for allegedly abetting suicide. Ravinder Singh, a resident of Mohalla Bhavani Nagar, lodged a complaint with the police that his brother Navdeep Singh (32) was married in 2019 with Hina Teji, daughter of Teerth Singh, a resident of Guru Nanakpura, Jalandhar. According to him, after marriage, his brother’s wife, mother-in-law Kiran, brother-in-law Kunal and his friend Paramjeet, alias Pamma of Jalandhar, allegedly tortured him mentally. He alleged that being fed up with his harassment, his brother got upset and ended his life. On the basis of the complaint, the police have registered a case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC. OCcash snatched, Miscreant heldHoshiarpur: The Tanda police on Sunday arrested a person and registered a case against three other snatchers. Varinder Singh, a resident of Mohalla Valtoiyan, told the police that he was returning after collecting money from clients. When he reached near Rada village, three miscreants snatched about Rs 65,000 from him. It is said that one of the accused, who was running away after the incident, was overpowered by people and handed over to the police. He has been identified as Deputy Singh, alias Kaka, a resident of Madi Poonaya. The police have arrested one of the accused. OCfive new cases surface in distJalandhar: The Doaba region reported seven new cases of Covid-19 on Monday. Jalandhar reported five new cases. Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur reported one each. Kapurthala did not report any new case even as 955 new samples were taken. In Jalandhar, seven patients were discharged and three in Nawanshahr and one in Kapurthala. Now, Jalandhar has 37 active cases. Hoshiarpur has 14 active cases, Nawanshahr has three and Kapurthala seven. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-shops-burgled-in-phagwara-314131
