22-09-2021||---||Incessant rain inundates Jalandhar, disrupts life||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 21Incessant rain from early morning till this afternoon not only caused a lot of inconvenience to the city residents, but also exposed the poor functioning of the civic body.Almost entire city was inundated. Schoolchildren had to face great difficulty while passing through water-logged roads with their clothes and shoes totally drenched as it rained heavily between 7 am and 8 am, when almost all students commute between their houses and schools.The worst affected were students of Government Girls School, Basti Sheikh. The three roads leading to the school had knee-deep water when the school started today. “A resident of the area saw girls facing a great difficulty in reaching their schools and offered to help them. He directed them to stand at an elevated place and wait for him.He drove his own car and ferried the girls to the school doorstep. He had to make a couple of rounds to drop them all, not bothering about the fact that the standing water could damage his car,” said Pawan Luther, a resident of the area.Since many roads of the city have been dug up for laying drinking water pipelines, hundreds of commuters faced a harrowing time today as they could not see potholes due to standing rainwater. Several vehicles, including buses, cars and two-wheelers, got stuck in the muck at Bhaiya Mandi Chowk on 120 Feet Road.The road had been dug up owing to sewer work. While residents of the area around it were aware of deep potholes, those unaware of these got their vehicles hit straight into it. Jasbir Singh Sethi, president of the Mohalla Sudhar Sabha of the area, said, “Dozens of vehicles got damaged at this site, which leads to Gurdwara Chhevi Patshahi also. Some volunteers from our area had to spend more than three to four hours this morning diverting motorists to other roads.” While the low-lying Sodal area, Neelamahal, Basti Sheikh, Domoria under-bridge and 120 Feet Road were flooded as usual. Many other areas also faced the brunt. The residents of Deep Nagar and peripheral villages of Jalandhar cantonment also were ted due to pending road work. People had to wade through muddy water to fetch something from the market area. Sansarpur resident Baldev Singh said, “Work on our outer road has been going on at a snail’s pace for the past nearly two months. The timing of digging of road was so bad that we suffered in the entire monsoon season.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/incessant-rain-inundates-jalandhar-disrupts-life-314563
22-09-2021||---||Railing of flyover near Sarb Multiplex on Jalandhar-Amritsar highway gives way||Jalandhar, September 21Following heavy rainfall this morning, the railing of a flyover near Sarb Multiplex on the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway got weakened and turned towards the outer side making the passage risky for the commuters, especially at night.Not just the railing, even the edges of the road of the flyover have got cracked, broken and tilted downwards towards the service lane. The service lane below the flyover was completely flooded and the water had percolated deep at the base of the flyover owing to no proper drainage provision made by the NHAI during its construction seven to eight years back.The commuters having been ruing lack of proper drainage system around all the flyovers designed by the NHAI on the NH-1 from Amritsar to New Delhi. It is common to note that the vehicles follow the slope and reach down the flyovers, they land straight into huge puddles of water. The drainage channels created along the highway have always remained clogged and non-functional. All service lanes along the flyovers too remain deluged for the same reason.Naresh Verma, a resident of Guru Amar Dass Nagar, said: “Commuting via the flyover in the night has become risky and the officials need to get it checked, especially since the road below has also cracked along the edges”.Mayor Jagdish Raja said: “I will get the site checked tomorrow morning and ask the NHAI officials to check the repair work done. We have been telling the NHAI engineers to ensure proper drainage of rainwater around all the flyovers. Since it is clean, rain water, the NHAI should arrange for groundwater recharging system, which is also the need of the hour. Standing water remains to be a nuisance as it not just damages the roads but also the base of the flyover.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/railing-of-flyover-near-sarb-multiplex-on-jalandhar-amritsar-highway-gives-way-314564
22-09-2021||---||Man detained for trying to damage Ambedkar statue in Phillaur||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 21In a late night incident, a migrant threw inter-locking tiles and broke the glass around the statue of Dr BR Ambedkar in Phillaur. The accused has been identified as Bhiku Meena (25), a resident of Madhya Pradesh. The police have lodged an FIR under Section 295 (A) of the IPC and detained him.Even though a press release issued on the matter mentioned that the accused had been arrested on the orders of Chief Minister Charanjit Channi, SHO Phillaur Sanjeev Kapoor said: “Technically it is not an arrest. He has been detained as he seems to be of unsound mind. We have got him admitted in a hospital and a medical board has been formed. We will decide about his arrest once the board gives us their assessment about the mental condition of the accused”.The police officials shared that they had also gone through a CCTV footage wherein they found that the man tried to damage the statue by hitting it with inter-locking tiles around 11:30 pm. Only the frontal glass got damaged whereas the statue remained intact. The police said the footage showed that the man remained at the site for two hours after he committed the crime, seemingly unaware about the consequences of the act that he had committed.It was in the wee hours today that the people of the area saw the damage and the police action started. Even when the man was nabbed, the police team said he just kept on murmuring that he wanted to go home. The police found that the man was not doing any job and was just feeding on whatever the passersby offered him.Some local leaders tried to create an issue out of the matter initially saying that it was a deliberate attempt by some anti-social elements to challenge the new Dalit CM in the state. Upon being appraised of the event, the Chief Minister described it as a very unfortunate and tragic incident which has bruised the psyche of people.Urging the people to exercise restraint, he said exemplary action would be taken against the miscreants indulging in these types of dastardly acts. Channi unequivocally said no one would be allowed to disturb the hard earned peace in the state adding that he has already directed the Director General of Police (DGP) to enhance surveillance in every nook and corner of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-detained-for-trying-to-damage-ambedkar-statue-in-phillaur-314565
22-09-2021||---||Shiv Sena leader Vinay Jalandhari dead||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 21Chief of the Sri Sidh Baba Sodal Mandir Talab Karsewa Committee and a prominent leader of Shiv Sena (Punjab) Vinay Jalandhari passed away late last night.His son Deepak Kamboj said his father was unwell for the last few days and he breathed his last at Sri Devi Talab Mandir Hospital at 12:30 am. His last rites were performed at Kishanpura cremation ground today where Deepak lit the pyre. Vinay Jalandhari had paid obeisance at Sodal mela a day before. He had felt uneasy after which he was admitted to the hospital.People from all walks of life attended his funeral. Among those who came to express condolences with the family were Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry, city-based businessmen, including Salil Bahri, Deepak Sharda, Ashwani Bhandari and Rajesh Vij.Vinay Jalandhari had remained chief of Shiv Sena. He had actively taken up various issues affecting the Hindu community. His son, Deepak, however, remained embroiled in controversies as he once staged an attack on himself for seeking more security and an escort vehicle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shiv-sena-leader-vinay-jalandhari-dead-314566
22-09-2021||---||Jalandhar: Stricter curbs for bars, restaurants from today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 21After conducting surprise security checks across the town, the city Police Commissionerate frames stricter rules for restaurants, bars, pubs and liquor stores. From Tuesday midnight onwards, the rules will remain in force for the next two months to avert any untoward incident.What the order saysExercising the powers vested under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, Jagmohan Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Jalandhar, said stricter curbs were imposed to stop unnecessary vehicular movement during night hours.As per the new directions, after 11 pm, no order for food, beverages, alcohol, etc, will be taken by any restaurant, bar, pub, club, etc, situated under the jurisdiction of the city Police Commissionerate.No new customer would be allowed to enter the premises of the restaurants, clubs, bars, pubs after 11 pm. All restaurants, clubs, bars, pubs or any other such licensed eating or drinking place (except ahatas) should completely be closed by 12 in the midnight.In case of ahatas attached to liquor vends, they have to be completely closed by 11 pm as per the conditions of the licence.Considering the directions of the Supreme Court of India, the noise produced by any noise source should not exceed 10 dB above the ambient noise standards for the area or 75 dB (A), whichever is lower. Hence, all establishments should ensure that these standards are maintained. Moreover, all sound-producing sources like DJs, live orchestra and singers should be switched off or volume lowered at 10 pm. After the scheduled time, no sound produced within any establishment or campus should be heard outside the boundary of such establishment.The DCP further added that in case of vehicles with music system, it should be ensured that the sound produced by the music system should not be heard outside the vehicle at anytime of the day. This order would remain in force for the next two months from today onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-stricter-curbs-for-bars-restaurants-from-today-314567
22-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Car-free day: No city bus, no cycling alleys||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 21Even as some developed countries and even the adjoining state of Haryana will be observing World Car Free Day tomorrow encouraging the residents to give up cars at least for a day and use bicycles or public transport to go to work, there is no such plan by the Punjab Government which itself is not in form yet.But residents say that even if such a day was to be celebrated in Punjab or Jalandhar for that matter, there was no way that people could shun cars. There are no cycling alleys. There is no provision of city bus service for nearly over five years now. The only mode of public transport available within the city is auto-rickshaws, which run on diesel and are rather more polluting than even cars. So, the whole concept on World Car Free Day for tomorrow seems to be completely ruled out.Owing to little interest shown by the civic authorities on providing cycling tracks to the residents, many people who had started bicycling at the start of the pandemic have dumped their cycles in the junkyard. Satish Malhotra, a city resident, said, “I used to cycle for an hour till last year but ever since the rush in the morning hours increased owing to the opening of schools and offices, I no longer find it very comfortable. I now prefer to go to gym for routine exercise.”Even as MC officials had made a plan for having dedicated cycle tracks almost a year back when many residents had taken to cycling, it still is in a very pre-mature stage. Municipal Corporation Commissioner Karnesh Sharma said, “I had finalised the route for setting up the cycling track long back. I wanted the Police Commissioner to come along and give his opinion or any objection to it. Since three Police Commissioners have changed in a short span, the site visit and approval from the traffic wing of the city police remains pending.”The Commissioner added that he had already got the amount for setting up the cycling track sanctioned from the Smart City project. “Till the time this project gets shape, I also have a plan to develop the Model Town market roads as cycling zone at least in the morning hours. I intend to get certain roads in the market area of Model Town vehicle-free in the morning time so that the cyclists and morning walkers already coming here can have a better experience,” he added.The issue of city bus service too hangs in fire ever since the previous contract got over. Officials have been planning to have electric buses or CNG-run buses but viability remains an issue. Says the Commissioner, “There is an issue of gap funding. The cost of running these buses is coming to be much higher than the likely recovery. So, some arrangement of gap funding has to be done. We have made a proposal for that and are looking for some sponsors for which expression of interest will have to be taken. We are working on it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/car-free-day-no-city-bus-no-cycling-alleys-314568
22-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Food samples collected in Hoshiarpur, sellers instructed to maintain quality||Hoshiarpur, September 21While taking food samples from various shops in Piplanwala and Singriwala areas today, District Health Officer Dr Lakhvir Singh said adulteration would not be tolerated in the district at any cost and strict action would be taken against violators under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006.Taking samples of turmeric powder, rajmah, black pepper, mustard oil, flour, tea leaves, sooji (semolina), chickpea, corn pulses, cakes and pastries from the shops in Piplanwala.Dr Lakhveer Singh said the need of the hour was to ensure the availability of clean and hygienic food items to the people. He said samples have been sent to food testing laboratory. He directed the food manufacturers to make it a priority to sell quality and pure food items.The District Health Officer said as per the instructions of the state food commissioner, sampling and testing would be intensified in the coming days in view of the festival season. He told sellers and manufacturers to maintain quality of food items.Dr Singh said it was observed that the shopkeepers and manufacturers were having a registration certificate of Rs 100, which is only meant for vends. As per the rules, shopkeepers and manufacturers need to possess licences with fee of Rs 2,000 to 3,000. He said: “It is totally against the rules and it also causes financial loss to the department. I appeal the shopkeepers and manufacturers to deposit the requisite fee in their respective license category only”. The DHO was accompanied by food safety officers Raman Virdi and Hardeep Singh, Health Assistants Naresh Kumar and Ram Lubhaya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/food-samples-collected-in-hoshiarpur-sellers-instructed-to-maintain-quality-314569
22-09-2021||---||Counselling session for new students at Kanya Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 21Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a Counselling session for the new students. The event was organised under the aegis of Department of Student Welfare. The event was graced by Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi. During her address to the students, Prof Dwivedi maintained that besides academics, education should help young students to be more receptive, ready to change, should be able to make use of their resources to achieve their goals and also to move towards personality development and wisdom enrichment.Prof Dwivedi said students should realise their potentials and have confidence to make use of their resources to become more successful in life as change is very imperative in life and younger generation should always be ready for the change. After the session, a discussion was also held on how to manage anger and be humble and responsible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/counselling-session-for-new-students-at-kanya-maha-vidyalaya-jalandhar-314570
22-09-2021||---||Cycles distributed among needy girl students by IMA, Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 21As a part of its social activities, the Jalandhar chapter of Indian Medical Association organised a function at IMA Hall, New Vijay Nagar, here. The chief guest at this function was Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar.During the function, 35 cycles, N-95 masks and sanitisers were distributed to the needy girl students of various schools and colleges. This was the third phase of the social project and total 100 cycles along with N-95 masks and sanitisers were given to the needy girls of schools and colleges at three functions.This project has been sponsored by AIDS India Phoenix (US) and the money was collected by students of Phoenix.The project was held under the leadership of Dr Amarjeet Singh, president, along with his team members — Dr Naresh Bathla, secretary, Dr MS Bhutani, secretary finance, and Dr SPS Grover, media adviser.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cycles-distributed-among-needy-girl-students-by-ima-jalandhar-314571
22-09-2021||---||Eklavya School, Jalandhar, organises science activities||Jalandhar, September 21Tiny tots of Eklavya School have performed science activities such as parts of a plant and types of leaves. By watching the real images of things like real leaves and parts of plant students will understand the concept deeply. Educator Inderpreet Kaur had explained about the concept of parts of a plant by taking students to the garden their show them real plants, their parts and their function.Raminder Kaur explained them regarding different types of leaves by showing them real leaves and also shown them video on types of leaves after that students pasted different types of leaves in their drawing book. JK Gupta, chairman of Eklavya School, encouraged the children by saying that doing activities are good for enhancing their knowledge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eklavya-school-jalandhar-organises-science-activities-314572
22-09-2021||Jalandhar||Book bank at Kanya Maha Vidyalaya Collegiate Senior Secondary School||International Peace Day observedInternational peace day was observed at MLU DAV College, Phagwara, under the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa, Principal of the college. Each year the International Day of Peace is observed around the world on September 21. The UN General Assembly has declared this as a day devoted to strengthening the ideals of peace. A seminar was organised by faculty members for students to encourage them to learn the word ‘Peace’ and its true meaning. Peace day provides a globally shared date for all humanity to commit and build a culture of peace. Students participated in various activities and shared their views through speeches, poems and songs. The main purpose of this day is to aware people around the globe that we are not each other’s enemies. She further said that everyone should focus on kindness and peace and eliminate violence.Placement drive at Khalsa CollegeStudents from the Department of Management, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, have got placements in top MNCs. Shifali and Karan Aujla got selected as Customer Relationship Officer at a pay package of Rs 2.63 lakh per annum. Nirmal Kumar of MBA bagged a pay package of Rs2.4 lakh per annum from Kotak Securities and his designation is Assistant Manager. Amritpal Singh Kahlon got recruited with Education Culture Pvt. Ltd at a pay package of Rs 3 LPA. Tinil Thomas and Komal Kokhar got selected with Sahodhya as a Manager at a pay package of Rs 3 LPA. Rohit Jassal of MBA final got selected with Capital Small Finance Bank at pay package of Rs 2.4 LPA as a Teller. Star Health also selected two students of MBA final namely Kajal and Heera Partap at a pay package of Rs 2.4 LPA as Agency Recruitment Officers. Catholic Syrian Bank selected Gurpreet Singh at a pay package of Rs 2.4 LPA.workshop on herbal productsThe PG Department of Botany organised a one-day national workshop on “Entrepreneurship in Herbal Products” under DD Pant Botanical Society. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen stressed upon the need of getting the knowledge about herbal products, their production and empowering the women by setting up small set ups by utilising the knowledge based on these herbal products. During Covid, people are looking on Ayurveda for boosting immunity which is based on this traditional knowledge of plants and plant based products. She congratulated the department for organising such a successful event. Resource person Dr Anjana Bhatia discussed about the role of basic plant sciences for being successful entrepreneur of herbal products.HMV students shine in varsity examsStudents of MA (Music Vocal) Sem II of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar got positions in Guru Nanak Dev University and brought laurels to the college. Hanu got the 1st position with 392 marks out of 400. Aanchal Sharma got the 3rd position with 389 marks, Ranjan got the 5th position with 387 marks, Harpreet got the 7th position with 384 marks and Anushka got the 13th position with 375 marks. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated students, Head of Department Dr Prem Sagar and tabla player Sunny.Skill Development ProgrammeA skill development programme was organised at DAV University. It was a great initiative by the Education Department, in which 60 students participated. This event focused on personality grooming and other behavioural skills. The event was started by Vice Chancellor Dr Jasbir Rishi with the welcome of spokesperson Ritali Singh from Pathankot. Ritali had provided online guidance sessions and she prepared students for SSB interviews. She emphasised on cognitive behaviour also. In the evening session, Akansha guided students about confidence specially about voice quality.Help Desk for BEd admissionsHoshiarpur: A help desk for BEd admissions has been set up at DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, to help the students for completing the online registration. Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla said, the desk would prove to be a big boon for the students aspiring to take admission in BEd. She said that as per the Punjab Govt. notification, Punjabi University, Patiala, is authorised to complete the process of joint admission in BEd in the state. The last date of online registration is September 30 and if the aspiring students face any difficulty in online registration and admission process, the college help desk will guide the students regularly. She said that the DAV College of Education is covered under grant-in-aid scheme and the college has a sanctioned strength of 300 seats for two years B.Ed course and 50 seats for two years MEd course.DAV students win Wushu C’shipIn a district-level competition Ajay of BA (Sem 1) and Ritik Kalsi of BA(Sem V) of DAV College, Hoshiarpur, won gold medals in district Wushu championship. College Principal Dr Vinay Kumar congratulated the duo for their achievement and motivated them to do better. College managing committee president Dr Anoop Kumar and secretary DL Anand, conveyed their greetings to the students and lauded them for their achievement. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/book-bank-at-kanya-maha-vidyalaya-collegiate-senior-secondary-school-314573
22-09-2021||Jalandhar||One fresh covid case in Jalandhar||Two killed in road accidentsHoshiarpur: Two persons were killed in separate road accidents in the area in the past 24 hours. Vikram Singh, a resident of Khanoda village, told the police that his uncle Abdul Masih was going to a church on his bike. When he reached near the Tanuli village, a truck passing by hit him due to which he died on the spot. The police have registered a case against the unidentified truck driver. In another case, Rekha Devi, wife of Kulbut Raj, a resident of Naya Bhangala village, said her husband was hit by a vehicle near the dispensary. He was taken to a nearby hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. The police have registered a case against unidentified driver. ocFree coaching for govt jobsHoshiarpur: Under the Punjab Government’s Door-to-Door Employment Mission, the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise, besides providing employment to the youth, is also providing free coaching for the competitive examination of government jobs. District Employment, Skill Development and Training Officer Gurmel Singh said the youth of the district can get register themselves for online coaching by visiting https://www.edu zphere.com/freegovexams link. He said the registration for the coaching would be done by September 30 and the aspiring candidates can register for the online classes by logging on to the above website to avail the benefits of online coaching classes. OCMan duped ofRs5 lakh, 1 bookedHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have booked a person for allegedly duping a Jhanjowal village resident of Rs5 lakh on the pretext of selling land. The complainant, Balvir Ram, told the police that Daljit Singh, a resident of his village, who is presently living in Jalandhar, had taken Rs5,00,000 from him for selling land. However, after taking the money the accused neither got the land registered nor returned the amount. The police have registered a case. ocOne held with drug powderHoshiarpur: The Garhdiwala police arrested a smuggler last night along with intoxicating powder. The accused was stopped on suspicion and on search 76 gram of intoxicating powder was recovered from him. The accused has been identified as Navdeep Singh alias Khurda, a resident of Bali. He has been booked under the NDPS Act. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-fresh-covid-case-in-jalandhar-314574
22-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Day on, arhtiya’s son released; cops nab Hoshiarpur abductor||The police today recovered the son of a local arhtiya within 24 hours of his abduction from the local vegetable market. A suspect, allegedly involved in the recent murder of Rana Kandowalia at an Amritsar hospital, has been arrested in this regard. The kidnappers had demanded Rs 2 crore ransom from the family.A gang being operated from abroad was behind the abduction, claimed the police.Addressing mediapersons, SSP Amneet Kondal said Jaspal, a resident of Hoshiarpur, had lodged a complaint with the police that his son Rajan (21) was kidnapped from his shop around 4.40 am yesterday.The police arrested Varinderpal Singh, alias Vicky, a resident of Amritsar, as he tried to collect the ransom, demanded at the behest of US resident Darman Kahlon, at Sri Hargobindpur canal. A motorcycle, a .32 pistol and three rounds were recovered from his possession. The abductors released the youth around 3 am. — OCFocus on law and order: AAP to CMAAP senior leader and MLA Aman Arora said yet another incident of kidnapping and ransom of a youth in Hoshiarpur had made it clear that law and order was a big challenge before CM Charanjit Singh Channi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/day-on-arhtiyas-son-released-cops-nab-hoshiarpur-abductor-314432
