23-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||2 youths killed in road mishap||Three booked for criminal trespassHoshiarpur: Dasuya police have booked three persons for allegedly ploughing a field and ruining the millet sown in it. Nirmal Singh of Khairabad lodged a complaint with the police that he had sown millet on July 5 on a piece of land which is in his wife’s name. He alleged that Sukhraj Singh, alias Sukha, Anokh Singh and Channan Singh, all residents of Fulra, PS Bhaini Mian Khan, Gurdaspur district, deliberately ploughed the land and ruined the millet sown there. The police have booked the accused under Sections 447 and 511 of the IPC. ocSTF summons Ranjit BawaJalandhar: On a complaint filed by a Jalandhar-based BJP leader, Punjabi singer Ranjit Bawa has been issued summons by the Special Task Force (STF), Border Range, Amritsar, to appear before it tomorrow. Jalandhar-based Ashok Hicky Sareen had lodged a complaint against the singer with the STF as well as the Enforcement Directorate asking them to conduct an inquiry against him over his alleged relations with drug peddlers. He had lodged a complaint that Bawa had good relations with ex-sarpanch of Payal (Ludhiana) Gurdeep Singh Rano, who had been arrested with drugs, weapons, cash and luxury cars in November last year. TNSCyclist hit by vehicle, diesHoshiarpur: In a road accident that occurred on the GT road near Khanpur village in Mukerian on Tuesday night, a sugar mill worker was killed. His brother Kamaljit told the police that Onkar Singh left for the sugar mill on his bicycle. At around 11 pm, he received a call that Onkar was hit by an unidentified vehicle and was seriously injured. He was taken to the Mukerian Civil Hospital for treatment where he succumbed. The police have registered an FIR against an unidentified driver. ocSeven new cases in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The district on Wednesday reported seven new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 30,766. However, no death was recorded and the toll stood at 981. As many as 29,769 patients have recovered while 16 cases are still active.oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-youths-killed-in-road-mishap-315066
23-09-2021||Jalandhar||Nutritious recipe competition held||Students shine in BCA examStudents of IT of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus secured good marks in Guru Nanak Dev University exams. In BCA IV, Gursimranpreet Kaur scored 9.65 SGPA; Heena Rani scored 9.35 SGPA; Tanvi scored 9.26 SGPA; Ramandeep scored 9.22 SGPA; Jasmeet Kaur Kohli and Mithlesh Nirmal scored 9.17 SGPA; Manpreet Kaur and Suhani Aggarwal scored 9.13 SGPA; Tashmeen scored 9.09 SGPA; Shivam Sangar and Shiya scored 9.04 SGPA; Snovia and Supriya scored 9 SGPA; PoonamYadav scored 8.96 SGPA; Rajwinder Kaur scored 8.87 SGPA; Komal, Navdeep, Pawanpreet and Suraj scored 8.83 SGPA; Shweta scored 8.74 SGPA; Prabhjot scored 8.70 SGPA; Shallu scored 8.57 SGPA. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) congratulated the students.Covid manual released by HMVThe Zoology Department of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya released Covid manual ‘Covid-19 Explained’ in collaboration with Synergy Lab, Jalandhar. This manual was released in the presence of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen, gynaecologist Dr. Sushma Chawla, TV personality Ramanpreet Kaur, Director Communication Shamsheer, Head of Zoology Department Dr Seema Marwaha and Head of Botany Department Dr Anjana Bhatia and others. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen told that the purpose behind this manual is to spread awareness about Covid-19. Various symptoms of Covid, its diagnostic tests, precautions during quarantine period, treatment, vaccines etc. are discussed in detail in this manual. Dr Sushma Chawla said that it is a good endeavour by the college. Dr Seema Marwaha thanked Dr. Deeksha Chowdhary, Director Synergy Lab, for the collaboration. Ravi Kumar and Dr. Sakshi Verma from Zoology Departmet also contributed in this manual.World Rose Day observed at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya observed online national-level creative event to celebrate World Rose Day. The World Rose Day is celebrated to spread awareness, give hope and to cheer the people fighting from cancer. During the event titled ‘Welfare of Cancer Patients’, various competitions such as poster making and video message on cancer awareness were held. Students participated in these competitions with enthusiasm. This national-level event was conducted online via zoom platform, where the students with best poster and video message were selected and rewarded for their creative ideas. Principal Prof. Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that these kinds of activities play an important role in spreading awareness about the disease. Principal lauded the efforts of PG Department of Chemistry said such endeavours should be a regular feature.In-house cafeteria at Khalsa CollegeThe Department of Home Science, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, organised an in-house cafeteria for three days in the college campus. The initiative was maintained, organised and implemented by the students of Home Science under the ‘Earn While You Learn’ programme. It was held to mark the celebrations for National Nutrition Month and also to promote health and nutrition awareness, in which nutritious snacks were prepared for the students and the staff members. Students also disseminated the nutritional aspects of the snack items prepared. Principal Dr Navjot appreciated the students and applauded the initiative and efforts of Aatma Singh, Head, Department of Home Science.Harman 1st in Wushu ChampionshipWushu Association held District-level 12th Wushu Championship in which Harman of DIPS School Nurmahal secured the first position and brought laurels to DIPS chain of Institutions. Principal Poonam Sharma gave the news and also mentioned that competition was held under the supervision of retired IG and Arjuna awardee Hockey Olympian Surinder Singh. Harman of Class IX participated in junior category of 45 kg. Harman remarked that this win is not only his but also his school and parents. Principal Poonam Sharma congratulated Harman and encouraged him to keep on working hard. MD Tarwinder Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra appreciated the efforts of Harman and congratulated him and the school principal.Lecture for lawyers at CT InstituteCT Institute of Law conducted a seminar related to professionalism in the law stream and how one can be a successful and top lawyer. The lecture was delivered by Ashok Arora, Advocate (Supreme Court), in the presence of Vice Chairman Harpreet Singh and Campus Director Dr Rahul Malhotra. He enlightened the students about what makes an advocate successful. Primarily, skills such as an inquisitive nature, attention to detail, logical reasoning, persuasiveness, sound judgment and writing ability are significant for success as a professional in the law field. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nutritious-recipe-competition-held-315065
23-09-2021||Jalandhar||Experts dwell on maternal & newborn health||The School of Medical Lab Science of Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised a webinar on ‘Safe maternal and new-born care’ on the eve of World Patient Safety Day.The resource person at the webinar was Dr Anuradha Bansal, MD, Paediatrics, PIMS Hospital, Jalandhar. The session started with a welcome speech by Nidhi Sharma, Head, School of MLS.Dr Anuradha enlightened students regarding the safety measures that each woman has to follow during pregnancy and for the good health of newborn and her. She focused on healthy diet plan, MMR vaccination and folic acid prior to conceiving for a healthy pregnancy and childbirth in future. The importance of handwashing and exclusive breastfeeding was discussed for newborn safety.Students curiously asked question regarding MMR vaccination, breast milk storage and care of new born which were duly answered in this interactive session by the resource person. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/experts-dwell-on-maternal-newborn-health-315064
23-09-2021||---||North American Punjabi Association seeks NRI affairs portfolio for Pargat Singh||Jalandhar, September 22US-based NRI body North American Punjabi Association (NAPA) has demanded NRI Affairs portfolio in the new Cabinet for hockey Olympian Pargat Singh, who had won from the Jalandhar Cantt constituency by a big margin of votes.In a letter sent to PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, NAPA executive director Satnam Singh Chahal said a majority of the Punjabi diaspora was from the Doaba region. “So, the NRI Affairs Minister should be from this region and Pargat Singh was the best choice for the job,” he said.Chahal said there were many issues and concerns of the Punjabi diaspora that needed to be addressed by the government.He demanded that there should be more fast-track courts in the Doaba region to decide the disputes of the Punjabi diaspora at their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/north-american-punjabi-association-seeks-nri-affairs-portfolio-for-pargat-singh-315063
23-09-2021||---||Youth Congress to launch ‘Young India Ke Bol’ drive||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 22To boost campaigning for the upcoming assembly elections, Indian Youth Congress (IYC) is going to organise ‘Young India Ke Bol-2021’, a speech competition to select spokespersons at district and state levels. Iftkhar Ahmed, national spokesperson, Indian Youth Congress, in-charge, Punjab, said the IYC would organise speech competition for the selection of spokespersons at district and state levels in the State. Ahmed said ‘Young India Ke Bol’ is a golden opportunity for youth of the state to connect with the ideology of India National Congress (INC). The last date of applying for the ‘Young India Ke Bol’ is October 1.In the first phase, the details of participants will be collected through Google form. Subsequently in the second phase, a speech competition will be organised at district level in the first week of October, five winners will be selected through the competition at the district level while 10 winners will be selected at state level. Five winners will be appointed as the district youth Congress spokesperson and 10 winners will be appointed as state youth Congress spokesperson.Ahmed added that five selected participants from every state would participate at the national level competition in New Delhi on November 14. The winners of the national level competition would be appointed as the IYC national spokesperson.Mukesh Kumar, secretary, IYC, while addressing press conference said the IYC has launched the programme at divisional levels as well as in the state and the youth of the state are being motivated to participate in the event at district level and appeal to youth of Punjab to participate in large number in this programme and spread and strength the secular ideology of Congress party to entire state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-congress-to-launch-young-india-ke-bol-drive-315062
23-09-2021||---||Jalandhar girl Harmilan Kaur Bains breaks national record in athletics championship||Jalandhar, September 22Harmilan Kaur Bains, a student of Mahilpur branch of St Soldier Group of Institutions, has created a new record in athletics in the country and has brought laurels to the parents, the institution and the entire Punjab.She won gold medals in women’s 800m and 1,500m races at the National Open Athletics Championships held in Warangal, Telangana, and set a new national record. Harmilan completed the 800m race in 2:03.82 minutes and the 1,500 meters in 4:05.39 minutes. With this, Harmilan broke India’s Sunita Rani’s records of 4:06.03 minutes in the 1,500m event of the 2002 Busan Asian Games and KM Beenamol’s 2:04.17 minutes in the 800 meters.Vice Chairperson of St Solider group Sangeeta Chopra, shared an old photograph while honouring Harmilan along with her family and school Principal Sukhjinder Kaur, when she won gold medal in the CBSE National Games. She motivated everyone to set the goal of life and work hard to achieve it. She wished Harmilan good luck for the future.Notably, the parents of Harmilan Kaur Bains have also been well-known athletes. His mother Madhuri Saxena won a silver medal in the 800m race at the 2002 Asian Games and father Amandeep Bains has also won a medal for the country in the 1500m race at the South Asian Games.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-girl-harmilan-kaur-bains-breaks-national-record-in-athletics-championship-315061
23-09-2021||---||Channi visits DAV University on Jalandhar-Pathankot, breaks protocol to shake hands with students||Jalandhar, September 22Exhibiting utmost humility, the newly-appointed Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi mingled with students of DAV University on Jalandhar-Pathankot road here. It was just adjoining the campus that the Chief Minister had landed from his official chopper before leaving for Dera Sachkhand Ballan where he had come to pay respects.Though initially he was a little reluctant to enter the campus but on the insistence of the varsity’s officiating Vice Chancellor Dr Jasbir Rishi, Channi obliged all students and staff members who tried to reach out to him to shake a hand with him. He even ignored the security protocol and the students came rushing him, extending the existing line to welcome him. He received bouquets, waved to crowds and every person standing in the ground. He told the joyous students that they were the future of the country and meeting them gave him immense pleasure.Dr Rishi said she had certainly invited the CM but did not expect that he would reciprocate it so well. She said he was really excited about the fact that this was the first visit of new Chief Minister to any educational institution in Punjab and that he had made it to the campus just on the third day of his stint in the office.The Chief Minister was welcomed by the university authorities on behalf of Dr Punam Suri, Chancellor. He was escorted to the campus by the Vice-Chancellor Dr Jasbir Rishi, Executive Director Mr Rajan Gupta, Registrar Dr K N Kaul and Dean Academics Dr R K Seth. After a brief halt, the CM headed towards the Ballan dera to pay obeisance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/channi-visits-dav-university-on-jalandhar-pathankot-breaks-protocol-to-shake-hands-with-students-315060
23-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||MLA Sunder Sham Arora honours cop seen helping elderly on CCTV||No compromise will be made with the security of the city and the absence of employees in government offices will not be tolerated, said MLA Sunder Sham Arora during a surprise inspection at a city police station. He was accompanied by the SSP.He also checked the CCTV footage and found that all cameras were working properly. While checking the CCTV footage, he found that a cop was seen helping an elderly to cross the road at Phagwara Chowk. Seeing this, Arora immediately reached the chowk and appreciated the policeman and honoured him.He said the manner in which the incident of kidnapping of youth in Hoshiarpur was resolved by the police within 24 hours, it deserves a praise for it.Earlier, Arora held a meeting with SSP Amneet Kondal, SP (D) RPS Sandhu, SP (PBI) Mandeep Singh, DSP Manjot Kaur and police station in-charge Inspector Talwinder Kumar to increase the security in the city.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-sunder-sham-arora-honours-cop-seen-helping-elderly-on-cctv-315059
23-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Officials found absent during surprise checks at govt offices in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, September 22On the instructions of Deputy Commissioner (DC) Apneet Riyait, a surprise inspection at various government offices was conducted by Assistant Commissioner (General) Kirpal Vir Singh here on Wednesday. Many officials and other employees were found absent and the departments concerned have been told to take action against the absentee officials.Assistant Commissioner (General) Kirpal Veer Singh said at 9.15 am today, he first checked the office of the Power Corporation’s Executive Engineer (Urban), Kuldeep Singh, and SDO Lakshya Bhatia, where both the officers were found absent. He checked the attendance register of the office and many other employees of the department were also absent.The assistant commissioner said during the inspection at the office of the Punjab Scheduled Castes Financial Corporation, District Manager Nareshwar Singh and Junior Assistant Gursewak Singh were found absent. After that he went to DC office to and inspected the office. He asked the officers of the departments to do regular checking, inspection of work, records etc. to ensure the attendance of their subordinate employees from time to time so that there should be transparency in the work.The DC said strict action will be taken against the officers and employees who do not reach the offices on time and no kind of negligence will be tolerated. She said to bring transparency in official work in government offices at the block, tehsil and district levels, inspections would continue from time to time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/officials-found-absent-during-surprise-checks-at-govt-offices-in-hoshiarpur-315058
23-09-2021||---||3 drug smugglers held with 800-gm heroin, drug money in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, September 22In their campaign to eliminate drug menace, the district police on Tuesday busted a drug racket by arresting three smugglers who were transporting 800 gm of heroin concealed in a Scooty. The police also seized Rs 80,000 drug money from their possession.Those arrested have been identified as Jyon Singh of Ropar, Ninder Kaur of Sultanpur Lodhi and Bejaya Badra of Kolkata. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said CIA teams consisting of Inspector Balwinder Singh were formed under the supervision of SP (D) Vishaljit Singh and DSP (D) Sarbjit Rai to keep a vigil on the activities of anti-social elements in the district.During checking, CIA staff SI Nirmal Singh along with a police party was patrolling near S Swaran Singh National Institute of Bio-Energy, Jalandhar-Kapurthala Road, when they noticed a Scooty being driven by a youth with two women riding pillion and got suspicious.After seeing a police party, he suddenly took a U-turn and tried to flee the place, but lost balance and fell down. They threw away polythene envelopes from their pockets on the ground. The police party rushed towards them and during checking they found the contraband in these envelopes. Then the police party arrested the accused and during frisking, they seized Rs 80,000 from the Scooty.Sadar police have registered a case against them under relevant sections of the NDPS Act. The SSP said the arrested smugglers would be produced before the magistrate by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-drug-smugglers-held-with-800-gm-heroin-drug-money-in-kapurthala-315057
23-09-2021||---||Heavy rain damages paddy crop, farmers suffer losses||Jalandhar, September 22Having suffered crop losses this year due to delayed arrival of the monsoon, farmers are again on the receiving end as the late withdrawal of monsoon and the untimely rain accompanied by winds have flattened the paddy crop. Major damage has reportedly been caused to basmati and potato crops.With just over two weeks left for the harvesting of paddy, a fresh spell of heavy rain has not only caused damage to the standing crop, but also delayed the sowing of seasonal vegetables. In some areas of the district, farmers fear that the harvesting of standing paddy crop could also be delayed by one more week.Heavy downpour, which started early in the morning on Tuesday, continued till Wednesday evening in the district.“While the late arrival of monsoon for easy sowing of paddy had already affected the quality of rice saplings, the flattened crop would again get discoloured and we would face difficulties in selling it,” said Gurpal Singh, a paddy grower.This year, due to the unavailability of rainwater and sufficient power supply, farmers had also reduced the area under paddy production. Cracks had developed in many regions owing to shortage of water, eventually, reducing quality of the crop sown.“Basmati 1509 has suffered more damages than other varieties,” adds Amardeep Singh, another farmer. He said there was a possibility that the paddy growers suffered a loss of nearly 2-3 quintals of rice grains in one acre land. “Besides, farmers in our village, who have sown potato, also reported damage to the crop due to incessant downpour,” adds Amardeep.“Ahead of the procurement that is scheduled to begin from next month onwards, reports of standing paddy crop getting flattened due to rain and high velocity winds emerged from various parts of the district. The moisture content in paddy could be doubled. Adding to the woes would be the discolouration of grains, impacting the procurement of the crop,” Charanjit Singh, a leader of a district farmer union.Meanwhile, agricultural experts stated that though famers did not face much loss, in our region, the adverse weather conditions have left them worried.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/heavy-rain-damages-paddy-crop-farmers-suffer-losses-315055
23-09-2021||---||Consumer panel asks Jalandhar Improvement Trust to pay Rs1.7 cr to allottees||Jalandhar, September 22In a big jolt to the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT), the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, in its recent order, has directed the JIT to pay Rs 1.7 crore to the 13 allottees of Bibi Bhani Complex.The JIT had launched LIG flats for the lower income group family in 2009. Allotment letters were given in 2010 as per the terms and conditions mentioned in the allotment letter. The JIT was required to hand over the possession to successful allottees, but due to ill planning of the Trust, it could not hand over the possession of the flats to allottees within the stipulated time period. Subsequently, a large number of allottees filed a complaint in the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Jalandhar.In a recent judgement, the commission also awarded 6 per cent interest on the amount given by allottees, Rs 30,000 as compensation and Rs 5,000 as litigation charges.However, the allottees filed an appeal at the state commission and the commission enhanced the rate of interest from 6 per cent to 9 per cent, considering the lapses by the JIT in giving possessions of the flats to the allottees.Besides, directions have also been issued to refund the amount along with interest at the rate of 9 per cent per annum from the date of allotment till realisation.“Accordingly, the appeal is partly allowed and the impugned order is modified to the extent that the rate of interest as awarded by the District Commission is enhanced from 6 per cent to 9 per cent per annum, which shall be paid on the refundable amount as ordered by the District Commission from the respective dates of deposit till realisation. The amount of compensation (Rs30,000) and litigation costs (Rs5,000) would remain the same,” read the order.The complainants had filed an appeal under Section 41 of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, to challenge the impugned order passed by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission. JIT was directed to refund an amount of Rs 6,51,482 as cost of the flat in dispute, which was paid by the complainant to the complainants along with interest at the rate of 6 per cent from the date of allotment till its final realization.The possession of the flats was to be handed over to the allottees with all amenities with quality of standard construction. Admittedly, the possession of the flat was not handed over to the complainants (allottees) despite a lapse of about nine years from the date of allotment till the filing of the complaint. The complainants were aggrieved that the interest awarded by the District Commission was on the lower side and also that the complainants had deposited the entire amount of instalments as per the payment schedule mentioned in the allotment letter.The complainant is entitled to get interest from the date of respective payments till realisation and also for compensation and litigation expenses, which were on the lower side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/consumer-panel-asks-jalandhar-improvement-trust-to-pay-rs1-7-cr-to-allottees-315053
23-09-2021||Jalandhar||Punjab CM Channi promises Ravidas Chair at Dera Sachkhand Ballan||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, accompanied by his deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, today paid obeisance at Dera Sachkhand Ballan. He said the Sri Guru Ravidas Chair would be set up adjoining the dera. He said the government would ensure the operation and maintenance of the Chair for 10 years. He said he wanted to set it up like a huge research centre on the life and philosophy of the guru.The CM also said he would lay the foundation stone of a museum dedicated to Dr BR Ambedkar at Kapurthala tomorrow. Likewise, a management college in the name of Dr Ambedkar would also be set up. At this point, Channi said, “Our community does not need free atta and dal. Such schemes are of not much use in present times. We need to empower our coming generations by providing them good education and my government will work for it”.Sant Niranjan Dass honoured the CM with a shawl and siropa. Channi also visited Khatkar Kalan to pay tribute to Bhagat Singh at his ancestral place. — TNSChanni shrugs off jet ride criticismReacting to the criticism over the use a private jet on Tuesday, Channi said, “Tusin eh likh deyo ke je gareeb da munda jahajaan de upar charh gya tan ki takleef hai? (What is the problem if a poor man’s son takes a jet ride?)”. He, however, did not respond when asked about who would foot the bill, even as there were reports that Sidhu had paid the dues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-cm-channi-promises-ravidas-chair-at-dera-sachkhand-ballan-314778
23-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Fill 21 posts in Jalandhar chemical lab before poll code: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 22In a significant direction liable to expedite the testing of liquor and other samples, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the Punjab Home Secretary, the Punjab Public Service Commission and the Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board to fill 21 posts in the Regional Chemical Laboratory at Jalandhar prior to the implementation of the model code of conduct.The direction came after Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan observed the Assembly elections in Punjab were due in February 2022. The direction is significant as criminal trials in drugs and liquor cases are known to get delayed in the absence of the chemical examination report.Justice Sangwan has already asserted that a year’s wait in some cases was not uncommon. “It is a matter of fact that the trials before the courts, either under the NDPS Act or Excise Act, are delayed on account of awaiting the FSL report for a long time and in some cases, it takes about a year in receipt of a report.”Justice Sangwan took note of the submission that the new laboratory at Jalandhar would be under the chemical examiner laboratory at Kharar. As many as 21 posts had been sanctioned. The analysts were being hired on an outsource basis.Justice Sangwan also took on record an affidavit filed by the Punjab Principal Secretary, Department of Home Affairs and Justice, stating that 21 posts by the Home Department and eight by the Department of General Administration had been sanctioned. The service rules of the newly created posts at Regional Chemical Laboratory, Jalandhar, too, had been notified.It was further stated that the process of filling 21 posts had been initiated and a demand letter dated September 16 was sent to the Punjab Public Service Commission by the Department of Home Affairs and Justice. Similarly, a demand letter dated September 16 was sent to the Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board by the laboratory, Kharar, for advertisement and selection on the posts.Curbing delayThe direction is significant as criminal trials in drugs and liquor cases are known to get delayed in the absence of the chemical examination report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fill-21-posts-in-jalandhar-chemical-lab-before-poll-code-hc-314786
23-09-2021||---||Why everyone has a problem if a 'gareeb' man travels in a private jet: CM Channi on Delhi trip controversy||Jalandhar, September 22A day after his jet ride to Delhi evoked sharp criticism from Opposition parties, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday defended the trip.Also read: 'Private jet not an aam aadmi's ride'; SAD takes a dig at Punjab Congress as new CM, Sidhu fly to DelhiAfter visiting Dera Sachkhand Ballan in Amritsar, when questioned, the Chief Minister said: "What is the problem with everyone if a 'gareeb' (poor man) takes a jet ride?"He, however, did not respond when asked about who would foot the bill for the ride.The SAD had taken a jibe at the CM, PCC chief Navjot Sidhu and Deputy CMs for taking a private jet to Delhi to meet the Congress high command.Former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh's media adviser Raveen Thukral had also taken a dig at the new CM. "Wow….what a ‘gareeban di sarkar’! A 16-seater Learjet to ferry 4 people when a 5-seater official chopper was available. I’m now beginning to feel I sleepwalked through the last 4 & a half years, believing Punjab to be in a fiscal mess. My bad (sic)!," he tweeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/why-everyone-has-a-problem-if-a-gareeb-man-travels-in-a-private-jet-cm-channi-on-delhi-trip-controversy-314699
