24-09-2021||---||Father, two minor children killed in scooter-SUV crash||Jalandhar, September 23A horrifying accident between a two-wheeler (Activa) and a four-wheeler (Ford Endeavour) on Thursday claimed lives of a man and his two kids aged two and four. Such was the impact of the collision that their mother and brother who were ridding pillion suffered grievous injuries.The incident took place around 10 am amid heavy rain near Pacharanga village on Jalandhar-Pathankot national highway.The deceased have been identified as Sandeep Kumar (35), Jeevika (4) and Samar (2). Jasvir Kaur (mother) and eldest child Garry (7) suffered serious injuries. All were residents of Jodha village in Hoshiarpur. As per reports, the deceased died after their scooter skidded off the road, and plunged into an adjoining trench due to the impact.Assistant Sub-Inspector Sukhdev Singh (Investigating Officer), who reached the spot, said the tragic incident took place around 10 am. A Delhi-based businessman, Rudra Vijay Singh (63), was behind the wheel of the SUV.The Investigating Officer said the car owner was heading towards Vaishno Devi and the victims were returning from Sakarpur village (in-laws of Sandeep) in Bhogpur.After the mishap, locals rushed the survivors to a nearby hospital, which referred them to Johal Hospital, in Rama Mandi. Eyewitnesses said two kids, including their father, died on the spot.The Investigating Officer said the woman and her child had to be operated upon due to serious injuries. Doctors had to amputate one of the legs of the child, he said. The woman also sustained injuries on her lower body and head. Both of them regained consciousness after some hours.Bhogpur Station House Officer said a case has been registered at Bhogpur police station and the SUV driver was being quizzed.The police have been recording statement of the eyewitnesses and trying to figure out the actual reason behind the fatal accident.“We are looking at overspeeding and careless driving. However, the scooter was also on the wrong side,” said the Investigating Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-two-minor-children-killed-in-scooter-suv-crash-315521
24-09-2021||---||Farm leaders assure peaceful Bharat Bandh on September 27||Jalandhar, September 23Farm leaders under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha announced to hold Bharat Bandh on September 27. Farmers will block all major routes — Jalandhar to Amritsar national highway —on Monday. Nearly, a dozen farm unions will participate in the protest, which will be held between 6 am and 4 pm.“Let us raise our voice so that it reaches the ears of those sitting in the Parliament,” said a farm leader. They also sought support from locals and asked them to participate in the ‘Bharat Bandh’.Satnam Singh Sahni of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba), said, “We are fighting tooth and nail to save farmers from getting exploited. Farmers and the country should be saved. We want better laws for all low-income groups. On the same lines, a day before the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, we will mark 10 months of the historical farmers’ protest on September 27.”Notably, traders also requested the Centre to hold talks with farm leaders.Issuing guidelines for the ‘Bharat Bandh’ against the Centre’s three agri laws, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said the bandh would be peaceful and farmers would ensure that commuters face minimal inconvenience.Farm leaders said the Central and the state government offices, markets, factories, schools and colleges would not be allowed to function. They said public and private transport would not be allowed to ply on roads.Farm leaders said only emergency services, including ambulances and fire services, would be allowed to operate during the bandh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farm-leaders-assure-peaceful-bharat-bandh-on-september-27-315522
24-09-2021||---||Basti Sheikh govt girls school turns into a pool||Jalandhar, September 23Hundreds of students of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Basti Sheikh, have been facing a harrowing time for the last two days as rainwater has flooded the institute, thus making it extremely difficult to hold regular classes.Today, it was the worst day as girls had to take rickshaws for a flooded portion of the stretch (100 m) to make reach their campus. Even in classrooms, which were quite like swimming pools, students said they had to sit with their legs folded up on benches as there was water all around.The school has a total strength of 1,000 students. As its located in a low-lying area, rainwater keeps on accumulating from all adjoining colonies. Residents said they have been watching the students suffer during monsoon every year.“Politicians always make promises that they will resolve this waterlogging problem, but no one has actually done anything for our area, especially the school,” said Ashwani Jaura, a resident of the area.Harinder Pal Singh, District Education Officer, said, “The school falls in a low-lying area. Hence its a perpetual problem. To make sure that the students do not suffer, we have proposed to get rainwater harvesting system installed on the campus, which will drain all rainwater and recharge groundwater.”Makhan Singh, another resident, said, “Even as the condition of the school becomes deplorable, the entire area gets affected. Dasehra Park just adjoining the school also gets inundated. This is the only park for children for the four adjoining wards of the area. During monsoon, it always remains filled with water and goes out of use with no ground for children to play. We have approached our area councillors and MLAs numerous times in the past, but we only get assurances.”Jalandhar (West) Congress MLA Sushil Rinku said, “A sewerage project worth Rs 21 crore has been initiated in the area to resolve waterlogging problem. Pipelines are being laid along the main roads. Once monsoon ends, the work will commence on a war footing.”Of muddy stretch and plight of residentsThe residents of Madan Vihar colony in Basti Sheikh are living in a pitiable condition with roads completely washed out. Their nightmares reoccur on all those days when it rains. Residents said it has been extremely difficult for them to step out of their houses for the past two days. Kishan Lal Sharma and Varun Julka said: “We only have a muddy stretch in the name of the road. Our area falls in the ward of Deputy Mayor Harsimranjit Singh Banti whom we have been requesting to relay the road for the past several months.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/basti-sheikh-govt-girls-school-turns-into-a-pool-315523
24-09-2021||Shahkot||Ekta Kapoor, four others booked||Special Girdawari to assess damageJalandhar: DC Ghanshyam Thori, on Thursday ordered revenue officials, including DRO and SDMs, to start special “girdawari” in their jurisdiction to assess the crop loss caused by heavy rains and gusty winds in the past few days. He said the revenue officers have been asked to meticulously prepare the report so that farmers could be provided relief at the earliest. Thori said the administration would extend a helping hand to the farmers and ensure that every single penny of their loss was fully compensated. TNSProcurement plan in placeJalandhar: DC Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday reviewed the functioning of the mandis ahead of the arrival of paddy and has directed the heads of procurement agencies in the district to ensure that the process goes on in a smooth and hassle free manner. He directed all heads of the state procurements agencies to personally supervise the paddy procurement operations across the district beginning from October 1, so as to ensure prompt lifting of paddy as per their allotted share of procurement. He directed the District Food and Supplies Controller to conduct checking in rice shellers to verify current stock of paddy lying with the mills. TNSNSS unit holds pre-RD campJalandhar: The NSS unit of DAV University organised a state level camp pre-RD camp for preliminary selection of NSS volunteers for the NSS-pre Republic Day camp for the session 2021-22 on Thursday. The physical measurement of the participant NSS volunteers was conducted and later they were interviewed. The participants were then told to march-past in the form of a parade as a part of selection procedure. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ekta-kapoor-four-others-booked-315524
24-09-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district logs 2 new cases, no death||The district on Thursday reported only two new positive cases. With this, the tally has reached 63,294. With the new cases, the number of active cases has gone up to 26.However, no death due to Covid was reported since the last two fortnights.While Hoshiarpur registered one fresh case of Covid, no new case was recorded in Kapurthala and Nawanshahr. Four patients were discharged in Hoshiarpur, which now has 13 active cases. There are three active cases in both Kapurthala and Nawanshahr. As many as 1,172 fresh samples were tested at Nawanshahr today while the Kapurthala health authorities took 1,415 new samples for checking.There are no containment zones in any area of Doaba as of date. Though no new cases of black fungus are being reported now, there still are some old patients continuing to take treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-logs-2-new-cases-no-death-315526
24-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Finally, 11-yr-old gets Aadhaar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 23Continuous efforts of Gurcharan Singh of Mansoorwal Dona village have finally borne fruit. His daughter Shivani Kaur, who has four deformed fingers on both hands, has finally got her Aadhaar card made.The parents of the 11-year-old had been approaching various Aadhaar card facilitation centres for the past few months but were always facing rejection as she has four fingers in each hand instead of five and the tips of her fingers do not have any whorls. Since the staff was not getting her fingerprints, the parents and the child were always sent back.Jalandhar Tribune had on August 13 carried a news report about the plight of the girl titled, ‘Getting Aadhaar an uphill task for this 11-year-old Kapurthala village girl’. A Class V student of Government Primary School, Mansoorwal Dehati, her father had said that he was unable to receive any scholarship being sent by the government for her daughter as the bank accounts could not be Aadhaar-linked.After the news appeared, the girls’ parents said the administrative officials approached them and asked them to visit the Suwidha Centre with their issue. “We got the impressions of the feet of the girl. We also got her iris scan done for the biometrics that were mandatory for the Aadhaar card.“Since they had attempted to get Aadhaar card made earlier too, there were some technical glitches. We got it all sorted out and finally gave her Aadhaar card recently”, said Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/finally-11-yr-old-gets-aadhaar-315528
