25-09-2021||Kapurthala||Cyclist succumbs to injuries||Hockey trials for girls on Sept 27, 28Jalandhar: The Sports Department of the state government will hold trials for women players for admission in the women’s wing of Surjit Hockey Academy for session 2021-22 from September 27. Gurpreet Singh, District Sports Officer, said if any player would not be able to appear for trials on the date, she would be able to give trials on the next day. Trials would be conducted at Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women from 8 am onwards. The participants have been asked to bring along their original birth certificates and attested copies of their sports achievements along with two passport-size photographs. TNSMLA visits Baba Farid shrineJalandhar: Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri on Friday visited the historic site of Baba Sheikh Farid where he had stayed for 40 days and meditated. Beri was accompanied by Jabbar Khan, a member of the Building and Other Construction Welfare Board. He said the place had great historical importance and that he would try to get it notified with the Punjab Tourism and Cultural Affairs Department for its upkeep. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cyclist-succumbs-to-injuries-315996
25-09-2021||Jalandhar||HMV Red Ribbon Club bags prize||Flight activity held at DIPSKeeping in mind Kalpana Chawla’s flight mission, an activity titled ‘Flight activity’ was organised in all schools of DIPS Chain of Institutions to bring about the idea of every child to aim for Mars and to reach Moon. Pre-wing students together with advisor Monica Mehta’s leadership designed spaceship rocket to reach Mars and Moon. Teachers and parents helped the students to colour spaceships on a colourful chart paper and named it flight Mars mission, Chandrayan etc. Teachers told the students about NASA and Indian Space Research Organisation. Students were informed how they can be a part of NASA and ISRO and go to space and do different type of research. School principals remarked that everyone in childhood dream a lot of big things, there to fulfil all dreams everyone has to work hard and tirelessly sound health and mind helping giving shape to imagination and bringing dreams to realisation.Sculpture workshop at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a two-day workshop on sculpture. The workshop was organised by PG Department of Fine Arts. Swati was the resource person for the workshop. More than 50 students from different streams participated in the workshop. During the workshop, Swati imparted the fine nuances of sculpture to the students. After the lecture, she also demonstrated various models of sculpture to the students. Question and answer session was also held after the session during which the inquisitive students asked various queries from the resource person. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that art plays vital role in our life and also in the development of a person. She lauded the efforts of PG Department of Fine Arts for organising such meaningful workshop for the students.Workshop on machines organisedThe PG Department of Fashion Designing, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, organised a one-day workshop on new electronic machines in the college campus. Ashish from Usha Sewing Machines gave a live demonstration to the new students of BSc FD (Fashion Designing), MSc FD, BA and Diploma classes. The aim of the workshop was to provide understanding of the basic operating principles of these machines. Kuldeep Kaur, Head of the department, expressed her thanks towards the resource person for providing knowledge to the students. Principal Dr Navjot appreciated the efforts of Kuldeep Kaur, Head, and Manjeet Kaur, Assistant Professor, PG Department of Fashion Designing for organising such a workshop.Int’l Cultural Exchange ProgrammeTwo of the National Cadet Corps students at Lovely Professional University (LPU) have been selected for the International Cultural Exchange Programme (ICEP) to be held in Singapore from November 18-19. LPU students-Under Officer Abhishek Kumar of BTech Computer Science & Engineering and Cadet Nidhi Prakash of BSc (Computer Science) will represent 8 Punjab Battalion NCC Unit Phagwara on international level. LPU students have been selected from all cadets of nearly 30 institutions attached to 8 Punjab Battalion NCC Unit. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal congratulated the selected cadets. Commanding Officer Colonel Yogesh Bhardwaj of the Battalion and Lieutenant Kamaljeet Singh, Associate NCC Officer (ANO) at LPU, informed: “For such a prestigious ‘Exchange Programme’ abroad, both of LPU students have been shortlisted to represent India in Singapore for the Year 2021. They are the only NCC cadets from the 8 Punjab Battalion of NCC (Phagwara, Punjab) who are going to participate in Singapore, along with the rest selected from other parts of the country.”Nikita 3rd in BA Economics (Hons)Nikita, a student of BA Economics Hons. (Sem V) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, bagged the third position in Guru Nanak Dev University by scoring 71 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the student, her parents and Head of Economics Department Dr Shallu Batra. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hmv-red-ribbon-club-bags-prize-315995
25-09-2021||On a call given by the Sanjha Teacher Morcha||Kapurthala Diary: When teachers take up the cudgels||Farmers get agri tipsUnder the Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA) Scheme, Sushil Kumar, Chief Agricultual Officer, a farmer-scientist interaction was organised at the Chief Agriculture Officer’s office in Kapurthala, where issues, regarding watering of crops; use of fertilisers, insecticides and manures in crops as per recomendations; and effective use of crop residue were discussed. From Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Dr Pradeep Kumar, Amit Salaria, Dr Gobinder Singh and Dr Bindu Marwaha apprised farmers of various issues. Agricultural officer Dr Ashwini Kumar said the farmer schemes being run by the department, such as ATMA, RKY and the National Food Security Mission should be used as much as possible. Agricultural Information Officer Dr Sukhev Singh asked farmers not to sprinkle banned toxic concoctions over Basmati and use manures as per leaf colour chart. Dr Gurdeep Singh Agricutural officer Block Nadala said stubble should not be burnt; it should be rather mixed into the soil. Dr GS Bedi, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, talked about diseases affecting animals, their vaccination and proper upkeep of animals. Daljit Singh, Fisheries Officer, also talked about various schemes.A Torch MarchUnder the banner of the Indian Railways Employees’ Federation (IREF), a huge march was taken out from worker club of RCF to RCF Colony, as a part of ‘Jan Jagran Abhiyan’, which has been going on from September 19. Members of the union have been up in arms against the National Monetisation Pipeline scheme, indiscriminate contracting and outsourcing in railways, privatisation of railways, changing 44 labour laws into four codes, snatching rights of workers, employees rights, rising unemployment and inflation. To create awareness a torch march was taken out against the wrong policies of the Centre and Indian Railways. Sarvjit Singh, general secretary, Indian Railways Employees’ Federation and RCF Employees’ Union, said the Central Government launched attack to privatise 13 departments, including Railways through the National Monetisation Pipeline scheme. He said many countries of the world have been forced to nationalise railways after poor results of privatisation, but in our country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, is walking on the path of indiscriminate privatisation. Bachitar Singh, vice-president, RCFEU, said one should learn from the farmers’ movement in the country. He said we should unite and challenge the policies of the Central Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-diary-when-teachers-take-up-the-cudgels-315994
25-09-2021||Jalandhar||More takers for leadless pacemakers: Dr Vanita Arora||More patients have begun to opt for ‘leadless pacemaker’ with implant being done by local and visiting experts here. Dr Vanita Arora, senior consultant, cardiologist and electrophysiologist from New Delhi was at Jalandhar Heart Centre, was in city recently for the surgery. A 65-year-old patient was admitted to hospital with heart rate of 30bpm (complete heart block). After discussion, he opted for a safe pacemaker but without surgery.Traditional pacemaker is a device with the size of a tea bag, which is surgically implanted under the skin in the upper chest. The system requires leads to be connected to the pacemaker which are threaded into the heart. The lead carries electrical signals from the pacemaker to the heart to help it beat regularly. Leadless pacemaker is the world’s smallest pacemaker leaving no bump under the skin, no chest scar and requiring no lead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/more-takers-for-leadless-pacemakers-dr-vanita-arora-315993
25-09-2021||---||DC visits two industrial units in Jalandhar, discusses job avenues with owners||Jalandhar, September 24To get feedback from industry for manpower requirements, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday visited two industrial units in the city and held deliberations with the owners for creating of job openings under Ghar Ghar Rozgar programme in the district.The DC met the owners of Alpha hockey and KCSAD (LED light manufacturers) and solicited their active participation to benefit the unemployed youth by opening new vistas of employment for them. He also sought their suggestions and feedback to provide them skilled and educated manpower as per their need.Thori asked the industrialists to provide the data regarding the kind of skilled workers they required so that administration can work accordingly. He mentioned that the collective efforts of the administration and industrialists can eliminate unemployment from the state by generating maximum job opportunities for unemployed youth.He said the administration has already shaped its skill training programme as per the needs of local industry and hence feedback from respective industries holds significance in terms of ensuring availability of quality workforce to business establishments.Meanwhile, the DC also took round of the manufacturing units in these industries where owners apprised him about the several production phases. Welcoming the Deputy Commissioner, owners of Pooja Enterprise (Alpha Hockey) Jitin Mahajan and Sukhdev Raj Mahajan provided an insight into the wooden and composite hockey production, including hockey sticks which were produced for the members of Olympics winner Indian hockey team.While at KCSAD LED lights, the DC was impressed by a fully automated manufacturing unit where company’s MD Rajiv Gupta, Director Anil Kapoor, Ankush Gupta and Sanchit Gupta introduced the working of this unit. The DC visited the various sections of the industry and appreciated the owners for setting up this automated unit in Jalandhar district.Thori hailed the efforts of industrialists in making the district a manufacturing hub in the country in production of various items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-visits-two-industrial-units-in-jalandhar-discusses-job-avenues-with-owners-315992
25-09-2021||---||Delhi couple wanted in 5-kg heroin case held||Jalandhar, September 24The Kapurthala police have arrested a Delhi-based proclaimed offender couple on the run since 2019 in a 5-kg heroin supply case after tracking them while travelling in a train. The arrested couple has been identified as Deepak Kumar and his wife Preeti of J 17/B Beri Wala Bagh Gali No. 2, Hari Nagar, Mayapuri, Delhi.Givng information in a press release, the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, said, “A special campaign has been started against proclaimed offenders in drug-related cases in the district.”Kapurthala police teams received a tip-off regarding the couple travelling in a train from Delhi towards Punjab and tracked them near Jalandhar Cantonment railway station, the SSP added. They were apprehended from the train, the SSP said.The couple was wanted by the police in case registered on August 1, 2019, at the Kapurthala Sadar police station under various sections of the NDPS Act in which 5-kg heroin was recovered from the accused, who were declared proclaimed offender by the court, the SSP added.During interrogation, the couple revealed that they were going to deliver a consignment of heroin, which was hidden in a bag they had left under their seat in the train, the SSP said.The police team was not informed about the bag at that time of the arrest of the couple, the SSP added.Later, the bag was recovered unclaimed under seat number 21,22 in AC compartment A1 by the Railway police party at the Pathankot railway station, the SSP said. The Pathankot police also registered an FIR (No. 32) on September 9, 2021 under Section 21 of the NDPS Act at the GRP police station, the SSP added.The Kapurthala police produced the couple before magistrate, who sent them to police remand, the SSP added. Their interrogation could help in busting the entire drug supply chain and identif other members of the gang, the SSP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/delhi-couple-wanted-in-5-kg-heroin-case-held-315991
25-09-2021||---||Need to empower people with relevant info: Expert||Jalandhar, September 24Pushpa Gujral Science City, jointly with Vigyan Prasar, organised an international webinar on Science Journalism: ‘From Print to Digital’, to provide a platform for budding journalists to improve their skills and develop professionalism in science communication.The webinar was attended by more than 100 participants, including young journalists, students and teachers of journalism and mass communication from different universities and colleges across the country. It was supported by Vigyan Prasar.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, in her welcome address, said science journalism has been progressively developing in India in terms of quality and quantity. It is for science communication to effectively place public interest at the heart of ‘how’ and ‘what’ of scientific knowledge produced, shared and applied. Digital science magazines, social media, feature services and programmes have led to progress in the field. Hence, there is a growing need for digital media skills among journalists and communicators.Dr Rintu Nath, scientist, Vigyan Prasar, during his talk, said reporting and disseminating scientific content through print, digital, electronic, and social media needs to be taken up on a large scale and Vigyan Prasar was constantly making endeavours in this direction. Time has come to realise that empowering people with relevant information will go a long way in creating a society where everybody will reason and act scientifically.Kathryn Tuccelli, an alumni of Purdue University and Communication Analyst and Content Strategist at OXY, USA, delivering her key-note talk on ‘Effective Science Communication in a digital world’, said, the digital medium of mass communication was the most effective to get in touch with people living in the remotest corners of the world and delivering messages to defined target audience comprehensively.Nishat Nayla, SDG Educator, Bangladesh, spoke on how digitisation of journalism has improved lives of people of Bangladesh. Dustin Wenzel, an alumni of the University of Texas at Austin, USA, and a communications consultant, in his interesting talk, said, it was a proven fact that there existed no parallel system that holds superiority over the far-reaching and efficient delivery mechanism of the mass media.An essay competition on Swatantrata ka Amrit Mahotsav was also organised as a part of ongoing celebrations of the 75th Independence Day. About 200 essay entries were received from the participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/need-to-empower-people-with-relevant-info-expert-315990
25-09-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar-based PCS trainee cracks UPSC||Dilpreet had cleared the PCS exam two years ago (12th position) and had been undertaking training as tehsildar. In June this year, he stood eighth and qualified for the executive post.Dilpreet hopes to get picked for the IPS or IRS. This was his third attempt. A resident of Kalia Colony, Dilpreet did his BTech in mechanical engineering from Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh. His father, Manmohan Singh, is a Power Grid Corporation of India employee and his mother is a headmistress at Lidran Government School. His sister is serving as a doctor.His friends said, “Dilpreet’s UPSC exam date was just a few days ahead of his sister’s wedding. But he went into hibernation. Keeping the UPSC as his priority, he burst into celebration mode after appearing for exam. We are happy that his hard work has finally paid off.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-pcs-trainee-cracks-upsc-315988
25-09-2021||---||1 tests positive for Covid, no death in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 24One new Covid case was reported in Jalandhar district today, taking the total district tally to 63,295 cases. No Covid death was reported in the district on Friday. The deceased tally remained 1,494. As many as 61,779 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 22. Of the 16,53,679 samples collected in the district so far, 15,20,964 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 420 tests are yet awaited. There are 13 people in home isolation in the district currently.All well in KapurthalaNo case of Covid was reported positive in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally remained 17,825. No death from Covid was reported at Kapurthala today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-tests-positive-for-covid-no-death-in-jalandhar-district-315987
25-09-2021||---||Jalandhar: ASHA workers seek salary hike, write to PM||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 24Members of the ASHA Workers and Facilitators’ Union submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Ghanshyam Thori addressed to the Prime Minister in support of their demands here on Friday.One of their major demands was that they wanted a salary of Rs 24,000 per month on a regular basis. Their second major demand was restarting of Rs 2,500 as allowance they were receiving until last month for Covid-19.The other demands of the union included suspending a host of other works ASHA workers were being asked to do, apart from their primary duties, appointment of adequate ANMs to carry out duties, ASHA workers and volunteers’ monthly allowances be doubled, incentives for pulse polio duties be increased.Rajwinder Bala, president of the ASHA Workers and Facilitators’ Union, said, “The ASHA workers get a mere Rs 1,500 in allowances per month and Rs 250 to Rs 100 as incentives for domestic and institutional deliveries, respectively. “This is very little and we can barely survive on it. On top of it, our Covid allowance of Rs 2,500 per month has also been stopped from this month onwards, even though we are continuing with all the duties assigned to us. There is too much pressure on us as we have lots of jobs to do related to pulse polio, deliveries and vaccination duties to attend, but we are getting a pittance in return. The government is totally dependent on us for providing healthcare services on the doorstep of the common populace.”General secretary Mashu said, “Previously, we were carrying out seven visits for maternal care. Now, the number of visits has been increased to 12 to take care of mother and child. While our work is piling up, our allowances are decreasing. We want the Covid allowance to be restarted. At a time when the inflation is spiralling, it has become difficult for us to make ends meet with meagre allowances.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-asha-workers-seek-salary-hike-write-to-pm-315986
25-09-2021||---||Jalandhar: Hoardings get pics of new team after change of guard||Jalandhar, September 24With Charanjit Singh Channi taking over as the new Chief Minister of Punjab, old hoardings bearing pictures of Capt Amarinder Singh are now getting replaced with that of new head of the state government.Since Channi visited Doaba for two consecutive days this week, including Jalandhar and Kapurthala, congratulatory messages for him can now be seen across almost all important intersections of roads. Channi had travelled by road to Kapurthala from Chandigarh as his chopper could not take off in time owing to bad weather yesterday.Even a day before, his chopper had landed near DAV University from where he travelled by road to Dera Sachkhand Ballan. All along his route, hoardings were put up by party workers in his support.Initially, most Doaba leaders other than MLAs Pargat Singh and Bawa Henry had largely supported Capt Amarinder Singh, but after the change in the government and on the orders of the party high command, almost all of them now stand with Channi.Almost all MLAs from Jalandhar and Kapurthala had shown up at a function held at the IKGPTU yesterday. Even Mayors of Jalandhar and Kapurthala Jagdish Raja and Kulwant Kaur, respectively, attended the function.Members of Parliament Chaudhary Santokh Singh from Jalandhar and Jasbir Dimpa from Khadoor Sahib, who were staunch loyalist of Capt Amarinder Singh, too came along Channi yesterday.Clearly, with almost all Congress leader backing Channi now, the change in hoardings was set to come. Today, employees of the Punjab Roadways also removed old stickers on some buses bearing pictures of Capt Amarinder Singh. The Public Relations Department is yet to prepare new stickers for pasting on buses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-hoardings-get-pics-of-new-team-after-change-of-guard-315984
25-09-2021||---||Gate installed at ‘behest of Capt Amarinder Singh’s aide’ in Model Town opens, finally||Jalandhar, September 24An illegal gate installed in Model Town, which had become a bone of contention between residents and authorities, has been finally opened.The gate had been installed on a road near Geeta Mandir. While several colonies across the city have gated roads, but managements of all such areas ensure that they keep the gates open during the day and close them only at night for security reasons.But the gate near Geeta Mandir had become a sort of a temporary wall and used to remain locked 24X7.Residents and commuters, who had been protesting on social media, maintainend that it was illegal to raise any kind of obstruction on a public road for any sort of personal inconvenience.Irked residents had been blaming a hotelier, closely associated with ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh, for the same alleging that his house was situated on this stretch and the blockade had been done on his insistence.Residents taking a jibe said within days of resignation of Capt Amarinder Singh, the gate has been opened.The issue had taken a political colour, especially after Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh, in whose constituency the area falls, had written to Municipal Corporation Commissioner Karnesh Sharma asking him to get the gate opened for the convenience of residents. Residents had lodged numerous complaints on the matter with the Commissioner as well as Mayor Jagdish Raja, but both had been doing only lip service.The issue had been taken up residents on Facebook community page of Jalandhar ‘NoticeBoard – Jalandhar by Tinu Luthra’. They had been venting out their ire on this page earlier. The page has 93,600 followers.Sumit Arora, a resident, mentioned that the gate was just an example how the bureaucracy was fully controlled by politicians.Gurpreet Singh, another complainant, said, “As the ruler just changed, now they have got the guts to act and open the gate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gate-installed-at-behest-of-capt-amarinder-singhs-aide-in-model-town-opens-finally-315983
25-09-2021||---||Roadways strike: Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s assurance fails to break deadlock||Jalandhar, September 24Even as Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced on Thursday that he would regularise drivers, employees of Punjab Roadways, Punbus and PRTC, chose not to budge and went ahead with their strike from 10 am to12 noon today.The protesters closed the gates and did not let any government or private bus enter or leave the bus stand. Buses coming from outside halted at a flyover near the bus stand and passengers had to walk with their luggage.Preeti, a mother of two, who had come from Patiala, said, “Our bus stopped one km ahead of the bus stand. I failed to figure out where I was. There were no rickshaws around and I had to pick my luggage along with kids on the busy road.”Private bus operators, too, had to pick passengers from outside the bus stand, which led to chaos in the area. The buses remained queued all around and passengers had to walk down a long distance to catch a bus to their destination. Even the traffic police personnel had to face a lot of difficulty in manning the traffic.Sangeeta, who was heading back to Phillaur, said, “It is becoming increasingly cumbersome to travel on bus these days. Even though my ride has become free because of the state government’s policy, frequent strikes by employees have made travel very chaotic.”Gurpreet Singh from the Punjab Roadways, Punbus and PRTC Contractual Employees Union, said: “We will not budge till the words of leaders translate into action. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has not said this for the first time. Even ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh had been giving us assurances for over four years. We are 8,000 drivers, conductors and office duty staff, who are awaiting to be regularised. The day the process gets started, we will end our strike.”After today’s protest, the bus stand will be shut once again in support of farmers who have announced ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 27. On October 6, roadways employees have planned a gate rally. There would be three-day strike again from October 11 to 13. On October 12, some unions would be holding a protest outside the CM’s residence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roadways-strike-punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-singh-channis-assurance-fails-to-break-deadlock-315982
