26-09-2021||Jalandhar||Award for Sanskriti KMV principal||Priya wins silver in karate contestPriya, a student of CSE (Sem V) of Lyallpur Khalsa Technical Campus, Jalandhar-School of Engineering, participated in Inter District Karate Championship held at Ludhiana and won silver medal in the district tournament. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, Director Academic Affairs, KCL Group, congratulated the student and encouraged other students to participate in such kind of activities. Dr R S Deol, Deputy Director, Academic Affairs KCL Group, congratulated her for the success and said sports are very essential for every student which keep them fit also improves the personality and motivated all the students for playing some kind of sports.Show & Tell Competition organisedIvy World School, under the aegis of the Vasal Education Society, organised ‘Show and Tell Competition’. Show and tell sets the stage for children to become comfortable when speaking in public. Students talked about a variety of topics, organised their thoughts and conveyed main ideas. It helped students with planning their presentation, public speaking, using different types of vocabulary and descriptive language. Children described and spoke few lines on the object of their own choice. They even managed to include a social message in their descriptions. They came up with various interesting objects like story book, model of solar system, globe, tree etc. and explained their characteristics in an impressive manner. Students were excited throughout to share their descriptive skills by communicating feelings, thoughts and emotions using words. S. Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School congratulated and appreciated the efforts of Ivyians.Quiz maths competition heldThe Mathematics Department of Apeejay School, Mahavir Marg, organised an Inter-house quiz competition for Classes VI to VIII on zoom platform. The two-member quiz teams from all the four houses were quizzed in eight rounds out of which the last one was the most entertaining round named ‘Hollywood Bollywood’ based on movies. With names of rounds as engaging as the questions, the contestants were kept on their toes, being tested on diverse range of topics drawn from the depths of mathematics. It was a riot of cold logic, razor sharp reflexes and analytical reasoning with the excited contestants flushed with the rush of adrenaline by the mental workout. The contestants gave a good fight to the finish and the winning House was Shivaliks with an impressive lead of 1,175 points followed by team Vindhyas at 850 points and team Aravalis closing at third position at 525 points. Principal Girish Kumar applauded the efforts of the organisers as well as the students in putting up such a commendable presentation.Copyright granted to KMV principalProf Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi, Principal, Kanya Maha Vidyalaya, has been granted copyright from Copyright Office, Government of India. Copyright has been granted for the Foundation Programme innovated for the new entrants and for the book ‘The Human Story’ which carries articles on the various modules presented during the Foundation Programme. Foundation programme, a unique initiative of KMV’s Principal Prof. Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi is a first of its kind programme offered by any college in India for the new students which aims to bridge the gap between high school and higher education. The programme aims at strengthening students’ intellectual foundation by providing them a view of world issues, human intellectual history, making of modern India and other important areas of knowledge so they can carry forward the rich legacy of humanity as responsible and humane citizens of the world.‘Dad and Me’ Day celebratedApeejay Rhythms Kinderworld, celebrated ‘Dad and Me’, an event celebrating the unique bond between the father and his child. Students of the Kindergarten thronged to the school campus with their parents to celebrate the day. The chief guest for the day was Dr Surjit Kaur Madaan. The guest of honour was Jagjit Singh and Gurpreet Singh Khalsa. The father and child duo presented foot tapping dance and song performances eulogising the special bond. Fun games like doing squats and tying the tie with the fathers brought out the best of them as they enjoyed the games to the core. A ramp walk was also organised for the fathers and their kids. An event replete with emotions usually reserved for mothers, ‘Dad and Me’ truly celebrated the pillar of strength of the family. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/award-for-sanskriti-kmv-principal-316341
26-09-2021||Jalandhar||Skill-based training a ray of hope for jobless youths||Emphasizing the significance of skill development in one’s career, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday termed Punjab Skill Development mission another benchmark initiative of the state government aimed at eliminating unemployment in the state.During his visit to two multi-skill development centres situated on the Kapurthala road and Maqsudan, the DC said skill-based training would transform the lives of unemployed youths by opening new vistas of employment for them.He said the problems of unemployment and poverty could be overcome easily by imparting quality skill training to the youth. He asserted that skill training in various courses could open up new avenues of employment for the youth, which was the need of the hour.The DC said skill training could also provide several self-employment opportunities to the youth, enabling them to live their lives with dignity and pride. He added that now skill development courses related to IT and healthcare services were being initiated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/skill-based-training-a-ray-of-hope-for-jobless-youths-316345
26-09-2021||Jalandhar||Ludhiana shuttlers to feature in ‘Mann ki Baat’ show today||The players practising at the Raizada Hansraj Stadium are a happy lot as they will be featuring in the ‘Mann ki baat’ radio programme of Prime Minister Narendra Modi tomorrow.Former national-level player and member of the interim committee of the District Badminton Association, Ritin Khanna said he had received a call from the PMO few days back that the national-level players from the stadium will be picked for interaction with the PM. He said Raizada Hansraj Stadium will be one of the 10 centres from across the country from where people from different walks of life will be interacting virtually with the PM tomorrow.The other centres include Gujarat University, Ahmedabad, Taj Palace Banquet Hall at Bareili, and Bharat Swabhiman Gaushala, Goa. The Jalandhar stadium will be the only place from where the players will be talking to him. This will be the 81st edition of ‘Mann ki Baat’ show. The event will be telecast live on Doordarshan and other social media platforms. The PM holds this show on the last Sunday or every month. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ludhiana-shuttlers-to-feature-in-mann-ki-baat-show-today-316342
26-09-2021||---||CRPF cycle rally reaches Kartarpur||Jalandhar, September 25Marking 75th Independence Day, the CRPF on Saturday organised cycle rallies from the four directions of the country, which will culminate at Rajghat, New Delhi, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation (October 2).In this regard, the cycle rally from the North was flagged off from Group Centre, CRPF, Jammu, by the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu-Kashmir, on September 23. The rally arrived at Jang-E-Azadi Memorial, Kartarpur, in Jalandhar district this evening after paying homage at Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar. A felicitation function was organised to welcome the cycle rally at Jung-E-Azadi by Group Centre, CRPF, Saraikhas, Jalandhar. These rallies commemorate the history of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/crpf-cycle-rally-reaches-kartarpur-316343
26-09-2021||---||Innovesta — an opportunity for students to collaborate across nations: Expert||Jalandhar, September 25Innovation Club, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar (NITJ), has organised a two-day mega International event Innovesta—2021 on September 25-26.The event aimed at creating an inspiring and vibrant environment that not only helps the students and faculty but society as a whole to study and foster values, creativity and innovation culture to come up with newer technologies and innovations.The mega event witnessed huge participation of around 80 teams from various institutes of repute across the globe. The young innovators are from France, Austria, South Korea, Utah, Bangladesh, Nepal, and India.The event was inaugurated by Prof L K Awasthi, Director NIT Jalandhar, and guest of honour, Dipan Sahu Assistant Innovation Director, Ministry of Education’s Innovation Cell and AICTE, Government of India on September 25. Innovesta-2021 comprised international workshop on Innovation, IPR and commercialisation, and International Symposium on Innovation, IPR and Entrepreneurship.Prof Awasthi, in his address, stated, “NITJ enunciates and upholds the fundamental principles and commitments of higher education in the rapidly altering milieu of a global and digital innovative world.” He further added, “Critical thinking, creativity and collaboration are need of the hour. Technical events, such as Innovesta is an opportunity for students to collaborate across disciplines and nations. The students should strive for excellence to contribute to growth of the nation by solving problems. The faculty and industry should nurture the innovative ideas and mentor the students. NITJ believes that our students should be job creators not seekers.”Prof Awasthi also appreciated NITJ faculty members as the institute has filed more than 60 patents during pandemic period and transferred five technologies to industry for commercial use. NITJ has also established Space Technology Incubation Centre supported by ISRO India. The dynamic faculty members of the institute have published 600 peer reviewed journal papers. He further emphasised that at least 10 per cent of publishable work should be filed for IPRs and 1 per cent of overall publishable work should finally reach to technology transfer in a year.Dipan Sahu appreciated efforts of NIT Jalandhar in promoting and nurturing the innovation among the faculty and students. He stressed the need of improvement in the entrepreneurship index along with the innovation index. He also shared improvement in the IPR status of India from 2020-2021.Dr LP Singh, faculty coordinator, Innovation club traced the journey of the Innovation club and said that Innovesta-2021 has received overwhelming response across the world with active participation from seven nations. Dr RK Garg, President, Institute Innovation Council, Dr T Srinivas, Dr Samayveer Singh, Dr Mahesh Kumar Sah, Dr O P Verma. Dr Shyamkiran Kaur were also present in the inaugural event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/innovesta-%E2%80%94-an-opportunity-for-students-to-collaborate-across-nations-expert-316344
26-09-2021||Ajay Joshi||Sustainable Agriculture: Progressive farmers show the way||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 25Ahead of the paddy harvesting season, progressive farmers of the district have started acting as guides to help fellow farmers to efficiently manage crop residue. They are using high-tech machines for proper management of stubble where they are not only getting a good yield of potato, but are also contributing in not polluting the environment.Amandeep Singh, a farmer from Lallian Khurd village on the Nakodar road, has held the baton to judiciously use the paddy straw instead of setting it on fire. The 26-year-old farmer owns nearly 300 acres and grows all seasonal crops. For the past six years, he has been mixing crop residues in soil to turn these into natural compost.“After harvesting paddy and wheat, we use mulcher and other machines to mix stubble in soil. We then sow potato or some other crop on the same soil and after they are reaped, the soil automatically becomes nutrient-rich,” added Amandeep, who has done a course on Agriculture Machinery Operator. He has also formed a group of farmers in his village, who motivates others to not burn the stubble.Similarly, Jagjit Singh, sarpanch of the village, has not burnt stubble in his fields for the last four years. By doing decent management of stubble in the fields, potatoes are sown in an area of about 200 acres. He says that by doing so, the health of the soil has improved immensely and the use of fertilisers has reduced.Notably, he has also been honoured by the district administration for the correct management of stubble on August 15, 2019. He has taken a pledge to make his village free from stubble smoke, under which he offers his own in-situ machines to other farmers of his village for eco-friendly management of stubble.He says he is sowing potatoes by managing stubble with in-situ machines in an area of about 150 acres and with this, the cost of cultivation has come down while the quality and production of potatoes has also increased.Harmohinder Singh, a farmer of Kadian Wali village, says that for the last three years, potato has been sown in his 250 acres of land by decent management of stubble, bringing him decent profits.Naresh Gulati, a district-based agricultural expert, says farmers have been using stubble to increase the fertility of the soil. Under the Crop Residue Management Scheme, subsidies are being provided on SMS, super seeder, happy seeder, paddy stray chopper or mulcher, hydraulic reversible model for disposal of paddy stubble on behalf of the state government.DC Ghanshaym Thori has also appealed to the farmers to take advantage of the government scheme. “Instead of burning the paddy straw, it should be properly managed in the fields so that the environment could be saved from getting polluted,” he said.Turning stubble into compostAmandeep Singh, a farmer from Lallian Khurd village on the Nakodar road, has held the baton to judiciously use the paddy straw instead of setting it on fire. The 26-year-old farmer owns nearly 300 acres and grows all seasonal crops. For the past six years, he has been mixing crop residues into the soil to turn it into natural compost. “After harvesting paddy and wheat, we use mulcher and other machines to mix stubble in soil. We then sow potato or some other crop on the same soil and after they are reaped, the soil becomes automatically nutrient-rich,” said Amandeep, who has done a course on Agriculture Machinery Operator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sustainable-agriculture-progressive-farmers-show-the-way-316349
26-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Four booked for forging papers in Hoshiarpur||Grain market closed tomorrowHoshiarpur: The grain market of Hoshiarpur will be completely closed in view of the Bharat Bandh on September 27 in support of the call given by farmers’ organisations in protest against the agricultural laws. Giving the above information, Jagdish Paul, the president of Arhtiya Association said that on Monday (September 27), there will be no business of any kind in the grain market, nor will any goods be auctioned. He said that the said decision has been taken unanimously on behalf of the association. OC2-day workshop on phoneticsJalandhar: The Personality Development Centre organised a two-day workshop on ‘Phonetics and Public Speaking’ for 120 trainees which concluded on Friday. Dr Pradeep Bhandari said a team of professional teachers trained students in public speaking, phonetics and spoken English to prepare them for the global competitive world. Prof Sandeep Chahal, coordinator of the centre, taught in detail about the art of public speaking, debate and group discussion. Dr Namrata Nistandra taught sound systems in English, phonetics and impact of the regional language on English. Dr Ambika Bhalla discussed a pair of words, common errors and confused words. Prof Rahul Hans discussed table manners. Lieutenant Prof Rahul Bharadwaj discussed the dress code for interviews. TNSHit by bus, bike rider dies Hoshiarpur: A bike rider died after being hit by a bus. The Sadar police have registered a case against the accused driver. Vasudev, a resident of Harmoye village, has lodged a complaint with the police. He told the police that Amrik Lal, a resident of Niyada village, was going on his bike. When he reached near Purhiran, a bus hit him. As a result, he died on the spot. The police have registered a case against the accused bus driver Navtejpal, a resident of Ludhiana district. — OC12 students from IKGPTU get jobsJalandhar: Twelve students of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) have been selected by global company IBM. The selection has been made under the online recruitment process and all the selected students are from the final year of their B.Tech courses. Out of 12 selected students, 10 are from IKGPTU main campus, while two students are from Mohali campus of the university. IAS Ramesh Kumar Ganta, Vice Chancellor of the University-cum-Principal Secretary, Department of Technical Education and Jaspreet Singh, Registrar, have conveyed their best wishes to all the selected students. TNSFreshers’ party at apeejay CollegeJalandhar: The MAC Forum of Apeejay College of Fine Arts organised Fresher party 'Exuberanza 2021' for the first and second year students of Commerce Department. Dr Monika Arora, Head of the Department, and faculty members welcomed Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra as the chief guest for the occasion. Aarti Verma and Garima Arora organised the event, welcomed the students. The seniors had prepared music and dance performance. The students participated in modelling, where they showcase their talent and communication skills. Utkarsh was adjudged Mr. Fresher 2021, Samridhi was declared Ms Fresher 2021, Raghav was declared Mr. Fresher 2020, Khushi Bansal was declared Ms. Fresher 2020, Asees was declared Cynosure, Shabad Arora was declared Mr. Handsome, Sejal Katyal was declared Ms. Elegant and Jasmine Gill was declared Ms. Charming. TNSMike session at Eklavya SchoolJalandhar: To boost the morale of the students, Eklavya School organised various types of activities. All students of Nursery, LKG and UKG participated in the mike session. Nursery students gave self introduction. LKG students spoke about their favourite fruit, colour and hobbies. UKG students came up with new ideas of show and tell activity. MS Shikha said that one of the best ways to improve confidence is to engage kids in various self-esteem activities. Chairperson JK Gupta and Director Seema Handa appreciated the efforts of the teachers as well as the students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-booked-for-forging-papers-in-hoshiarpur-316346
26-09-2021||Ajay Joshi||A pedagogue of bodybuilders||Tribune News ServiceHoshiarpur, September 25Call it mere coincidence or destiny, Padma Shri awardee Prem Chand Degra (64), was born to become a bodybuilder.Like Arnold Schwarzenegger, Degra is considered as a pedagogue, who has touched lives of many athletes and bodybuilders.Even at this age, he never forgets to hit the gym and lift weights. Owing to his achievements, he was awarded Padma Shri in 1990, Arjun Award in 1988 and Maharaja Ranjit Singh Award in 1994.Degra said after the Partition, his family settled in Gurdaspur, without his father. He said to get out of shock, he started wrestling. His muscular built, made him popular as a ‘desi’ wrestler. He used to do 2,000 push ups and squats and run for around 15 km daily. Even though, he won various medals at a young age, he wanted to get a job for himself, so as to get his family out of the clutches of poverty. Subsequently, he joined the Punjab Police in 1975.In 1980, his schoolteacher saw him at a wrestling ground (akahda), and asked him to do professional bodybuilding. Degra held his mentor’s hand and participated in the north India-level body building auditions. Surprisingly, without any preparation, he ranked first.He said it was August 14,1980 when the bug of bodybuilding bit him. He worked hard to mould his body into a better muscular delight.Ghee (clarified butter), milk, exercise, fruits and every food item available became a part of his daily routine. His efforts fetched him the title of the ‘State Champion’.Kicking off his international career, he first clinched Mr Asia 1983 (Lahore, Pakistan), Mr Asia 1984 (Seoul, South Korea), Mr Asia 1985 (Singapore), Mr Asia 1986 (Taipei, Taiwan), Mr Asia 1987 (Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia), gold in Pro-Am Classic 1990 and 1991 (Singapore) and Mr Asia 1996 (New Delhi, India). In addition to these titles, he also won the ‘Mr India’ title nine times in a row.Degra stuck to middle-weight class in all the appearances. He first competed for the World title in 1984 in Las Vegas, where he finished 14th. He moved up to 4th position in 1985 in Sweden and was named the ‘Most Improved Bodybuilder’ of the year. He won a silver medal in Tokyo in 1986 and was again placed 4th in Madrid in 1987.The high point came in 1988 when in Queensland in Australia, he won a gold in middle-weight class and was crowned ‘Mr Universe ‘in 1988. At this point, Degra was working out for eight hours and used to eat eight vegetarian meals throughout the day.To follow his passion, he left his job in 1984 as an Assistant Sub-Inspector.Degra said, “Mr Universe title in 1988 was a life changing moment. Americans used to appreciate and criticise at the same time and used to say, how a man from a poor country like India won the prestigious title, with dope-negative reports. I was even called to America to train athletes, but I chose to stay in my country and represent India.”Currently serving as executive vice-president of the India Body Building Federation (IBBF), Degra trains budding bodybuilders and counsel them about steroid abuse. He runs ‘World 88 Gym’ near his residence on Sutehri Road in Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-pedagogue-of-bodybuilders-316347
26-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Sangat Singh Gilzian likely to be part of Cabinet||Hoshiarpur, September 25Sangat Singh Gilzian, who was elected MLA for the third time in a row from the Vidhan Sabha constituency, Urmar Tanda, will likely be inducted in the new Punjab Cabinet. There was a wave of happiness among area residents and Congress workers. As soon as the news of Gilzian’s name for the Cabinet made rounds, workers started gathering at the Block Congress office and distributed sweets.Gilzian is known as a leader with a strong support base at the grassroots level, had contested election in 2007 as an independent and became an MLA by winning with a huge lead, in 2012 and in 2017 he contested on the Congress party ticket and got elected as an MLA. The then Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had appointed him as his political advisor. Recently, he was made the working president of Punjab Congress. Gilzian began his political career as sarpanch and contested the first election to the Legislative Assembly in 2002, in which he was defeated with a small margin.Gilzian’s brother, Mahinder Singh Gilzian is the head of the Indian Overseas Congress in America and is close to the Gandhi family. By profession, he’s a farmer while his brother and son are businessmen in America.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sangat-singh-gilzian-likely-to-be-part-of-cabinet-316348
26-09-2021||---||Bharat Bandh: Cops to remain on toes, traffic routes diverted||Jalandhar, September 25Following the Bharat Bandh call by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha on September 27, the police have framed an alternative route map for those using the highways to reach their respective destinations.While nearly a 100 traffic police personnel will remain deployed on highways and other roads for the safe passage of commuters, the anti-riot police squad will also be present at the protest sites to ensure safety of both commuters and agitators.The traffic police are on its toes to assist commuters on the bandh day. The traffic coming from Amritsar will be diverted towards Hoshiarpur to join the NH1 route; those coming from Ludhiana will be diverted towards the Cantt Road to enter the city and people heading to Hoshiarpur would be diverted via Chuggitti. Similarly other routes have also been chalked out. Naresh Dogra, DCP TrafficThe Bharat Bandh will be organised in 10 different sites in the district. Apart from road, rail traffic will also remain affected on Monday between 6am and 4pm. Meanwhile, most of the schools, colleges and other private institutions have also announced work from home on bandh day.Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) and Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Rajewal, district president, Mandeep Singh Samra, said around six farmer outfits, including BKU Doaba, BKU Rajewal, BKU Ughrahan, Kisan Sangharsh Morcha and Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, among others, would participate in the Bharat Bandh protest, comprising 500-1000 farmers in each union.He said farmers and their supporters would forcefully shut shops, banks or any other organisation found open during the bandh hours. Besides, major protest sites include PAP-Rama Mandi flyover, Jalandhar-Nakodar Road, Kartarpur-Amritsar highway, Jalandhar-Pathankot and Jalandhar-Kapurthala road.DCP Traffic Naresh Dogra said the traffic police were on its toes to assist commuters on the bandh day.“The traffic coming from Amritsar will be diverted towards Hoshiarpur to join the NH1 route; those coming from Ludhiana will be diverted towards the Cantt Road to enter the city and people heading to Hoshiarpur would be diverted via Chuggitti. Similarly other routes have also been chalked out,” he said.However, he appealed to locals to avoid any travel on Monday to avoid any inconvenience as farmers would block the road from all sides,” Dogra said. In addition, traffic jam problem could also trouble people on the village road, if heavy vehicles also use the same routes.Similarly, DCP Jagmohan Singh said a large number of cops would also remain deployed on the protest sites to avert any untoward incident. Companies of anti-riot squad would also be present to make sure nothing goes wrong.Farm leaders have, however, given exemption to the personnel of police, Army, Paramilitary forces, students going for examinations, ambulances, fire tenders, people in need of medical care etc.As the railway tracks are also likely to be blocked, around 50 sets of trains have also been either cancelled, short-terminated or diverted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bharat-bandh-cops-to-remain-on-toes-traffic-routes-diverted-316337
26-09-2021||---||Covid-19: One tests +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 25One fresh Covid case was reported in Jalandhar district on Saturday. With this, the tally increased to 63,296 cases.The health authorities reported no Covid-19 related death in the district today. The toll stands at 1,494.As many as 61,779 people have recovered from the virus in the district so far. The district has 23 active cases. Thirteen people have been under home isolation in the district.No case, death reported in Kapurthala districtThe health authorities reported no positive case and death in Kapurthala today. The tally stands at 17,825.One tests positive in Hoshiarpur districtA person tested positive in Hoshiarpur district on Saturday, taking the district tally to 30,768 cases. No death due to Covid was reported in the district on Saturday. The toll remains at 981. As many as 29,775 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases is 12. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-one-tests-ve-in-jalandhar-district-316350
26-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Cabinet revamp: Wait may finally be over for Pargat Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 25Known to be nurturing his aspiration to get inducted in the Cabinet for long, wait for Jalandhar Cantonment MLA and Olympian Pargat Singh may finally be over.A protégé of PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who toppled Capt Amarinder Singh from the post of CM, Pargat’s name figures in the list of the probables that Congress is contemplating as fresh addition in the new Cabinet.Already made general secretary (organisation) of the PPCC recently by Sidhu, Pargat has been reportedly eyeing the portfolio as Sports and NRI Affairs Minister, which was with Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi earlier. Pargat had never gone along with Sodhi and had rather taken on him for poor performance even in the Assembly.Pargat had embarrassed the minister and even his own government saying that the department had not issued any tenders even for ‘knickers’. He had gone vocal saying that there was no practical work being done on ground and trials for academies were often held very late.On being asked if he was interested in these portfolios, Pargat said, “I want to work for the state. I am ready to take any assignment the party wants to offer me.”Though there has been no official announcement yet, Pargat’s supporters, including his friends associated with him because of his game, have already started celebrating the occasion offering sweets to one another.There’s also a buzz that Rana Gurjit Singh, who had to resign as a Power and Irrigation Minister, at the start of the tenure of the incumbent government over allegations against him for sand mine allocation could make a comeback.Even his supporters shared their excitement and had reportedly even performed ardas at a gurdwara.Rana Gurjit’s opponents within the party and in the opposition fired salvos at him and the party leadership for deciding to take a ‘tainted’ leader back in the Cabinet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cabinet-revamp-wait-may-finally-be-over-for-pargat-singh-316335
26-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Dengue raising its head, tally reaches 31 in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 25Amid a visible decrease in Covid cases in the district, a substantial rise in dengue cases was observed in the district in the past few days.The number of dengue cases reported in Jalandhar has risen to 31. Of these, as many as 24 are Jalandhar residents, while the rest are from other districts.We are carrying out surveys of at least 150 houses per day barring Saturday every week. Many houses have already been checked and dengue larvae destroyed. More checks are being conducted daily. Dr Aditya Paul, District EpidemiologistWhile the early monsoon months until August did not see major dengue cases, a steep rise has been registered in September, especially in the fag end of the month. Until September 17, there were only nine dengue cases in Jalandhar, an additional 22 were reported in the last one week.Of the 22 recent cases, as many as 15 are from Jalandhar, while the remaining seven are from Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Fatehgarh.Of the 15 Jalandhar cases, eight are from urban areas including Jagatpura Mohalla, Basti Danishmandan, Panj Peer Colony, Gopal Nagar, Basti Sheikh, Raseela Nagar and Gobind Nagar (near Sodal), while the remaining are from rural areas, including Phillaur (2), Noorpur (Bulanpur Colony) (1), Kadianwali (1), Pandori Khas (Nakodar) (1), Nagar Fatak (1) and Nangal Shahpur (1). Also, four of the total cases were from Civil Hospital Jalandhar, while the remaining were suspected dengue cases that came from PIMS and private hospitals.Of the first nine Jalandhar residents who tested positive for dengue, six were reported at DMC Ludhiana and were notified to Jalandhar Health Department. The remaining three were reported at Civil Hospital Jalandhar, Sacred Heart Hospital and PIMS. In these three, dengue was reported in a 7-year-old-boy, a resident of Gandhra; a 49 year old woman of Bachint Nagar; and a 59-year-old man from Rishi Nagar in Jalandhar.Notably, almost all persons that tested positive in urban areas of the district were from semi-slum areas.District Epidemiologist Dr Aditya Paul said: “As many as 22 samples tested positive for dengue at the Civil Hospital recently, of which 15 are from Jalandhar. The health teams have visited the homes of patients who tested positive. The larvae from the house of one of the Gobind Nagar patients were found in a cooler. Water was drained and the cooler was cleaned. A majority of dengue larvae were found from coolers and pots. We are carrying out surveys of at least 150 houses per day barring Saturday every week. Many houses have already been checked and dengue larvae destroyed. More checks are being conducted daily.”Epidemiologist Dr Shobhna said: “The breeding period of dengue culminates these days, so there is an expected rise in cases. We are carrying out stringent checks and surveys in residential areas daily.”Health teams have also been inspecting and surveying residential areas, police stations, offices etc. and spraying insecticides on the premises where accumulated water is being seen.This Friday, 193 homes were inspected in Jalandhar. Health officials have been divided into two to three teams and they are visiting homes daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dengue-raising-its-head-tally-reaches-31-in-jalandhar-district-316334
26-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Ignored, Hoshiarpur MLA Sunder Sham Arora vacates house within one hour||As soon as Hoshiarpur MLA Sunder Sham Arora came to know that he did not make it to the new Cabinet, he immediately renounced the government facilities he had received as a minister and vacated his official residence in Chandigarh.Arora left the official residence within an hour after the new Cabinet list was released. Handing over the accommodation to the officials concerned as per the rules, Arora said: “I am only concerned about serving people. Government facilities and security cover do not matter to me.” — OCProbable ministers wary of celebrationsMuktsar: After last-minute flip-flop over names of the CM and Dy CMs, the probable Cabinet ministers seem to be cautious. Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, who is likely to be sworn in on Sunday, has reportedly asked his supporters to not celebrate before the oath ceremony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ignored-hoshiarpur-mla-sunder-sham-arora-vacates-house-within-one-hour-316253
