27-09-2021||Ajay Joshi||Bharat Bandh: Farmers stop Army convoy in Jalandhar for half an hour||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 27A high drama was witnessed on Monday near PAP-Rama Mandi flyover in Jalandhar, when the agitating farmers stopped an Army convoy on routine exercise.It took the convoy half an hour to cross the blockade after showing relevant documents to the farmers.The incident took place around 7 am when the Army convoy coming from Amritsar wasn't allowed to move near the PAP flyover. The convoy with nearly a dozen Army trucks and jeeps was heading towards Rohtak in Haryana.An officer leading the convoy asked the farmers at the protest site to remove the barricades.The farmers lead by Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) allowed the Army personnel to pass after checking their documents and identities.The convoy left the spot around 7.30 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bharat-bandh-farmers-stop-army-convoy-in-jalandhar-for-half-an-hour-316893
27-09-2021||---||Jallianwala renovation: DBYC to hold protest in Amritsar on Oct 20||Jalandhar, September 26The Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee (DBYC) will hold a protest in Amritsar against the recent changes made at Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar. The announcement was made by members of the DBYC here on Sunday. They stated that they would hold a protest from the Bhandari bridge to Jallianwala Bagh on October 20.The committee said the decision was taken after detailed discussions with various people’s groups following a meeting held on the issue.Members from various farmer groups and other public organisations also joined the committee members in the meeting. They said while Jallianwala Bagh was a monument which bears testimony to the freedom struggle and sacrifices made by countrymen, the changes made to it have been disturbing for countrymen.A meeting on the issue was held under the leadership of DBYC president Ajmer Singh at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall here on Sunday. While sharing information on the decision taken during the meeting, committee general secretary Gurmeet Singh and cultural convener Amolak Singh said, “Despite repeated appeals to the Prime Minister, the President, the Jallianwala Bagh Trust and the administration, seeking restoration of the monument to its previous form, these communications have evinced no response. Therefore, the decision to take the path of protest was taken in the meeting. The march on October 20 will be the first vocal reaction to the changes made to the monument.”A committee member said the future course of these protests will be intimated on October 20. The protest will be taken to its logical conclusion and if required, a series of stirs will be held. It was decided that the participating organisations would independently work to raise the issue of the Jallianwala Bagh alterations.The DBYH had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also Chairman of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, on September 8 expressing anger over recent the alterations to the Jallianwala Bagh. It had sought the constitution of a committee of prominent historians and also sought restoration of the monument to its earlier form and layout.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jallianwala-renovation-dbyc-to-hold-protest-in-amritsar-on-oct-20-316816
27-09-2021||---||De-addiction, OOAT clinic workers seek regular jobs||Jalandhar, September 26The contractual employees of the Government Drug De-Addiction and Rehabilitation centres and the Outpatient Opioid-Assisted Treatment (OOAT) clinics across the state have been demanding a rise in their salaries for the past four years. Forced to work overtime, the workers are also demanding that their services should be regularised.Hired under the National Health Mission (NHM), the workers are seeking salaries on a par with the NHM workers.Addressing members during a meeting at the Jalandhar Press Club on Sunday, Prashant Aadia, general secretary of the Government Drug De-Addiction and Rehabilitation Centre Workers’ Union, said though we provided our services during the Covid-19 pandemic and remained deployed in the isolation wards, we were not offered any relief in the shape of increment. Whereas the NHM workers were not only given a 12 per cent Covid relief increment but also a 9 per cent special service increment.“Apart from managing de-addiction and OOAT centres, the workers also discharged duties at government hospitals,” added Prashant.There are around 255 contractual workers and 600 outsourced workers working under the drug-free mission of the state government, who were inducted in the department in 2013 under the Cancer and Drug-Deaddiction Infrastructure Act Board 2013. The workers said there were currently around 22 de-addiction centres and 200 OOAT centres in the state. The union workers threatened to hold a protest on September 30 if the Health Department failed to address their demands. Like the previous year, the working of the OOAT and deaddiction centres could also be affected due to the strike, causing a great inconvenience to patients.Parminder Singh, state president of the union, said they were working on meagre salaries. After their recruitment on various posts in 2014, the first increment of 6 per cent was offered in 2018. Owing to meagre salaries, many workers have already left their jobs. Now many posts of ward attendant and staff nurse are lying vacant.Harman, a ward attendant who is receiving Rs 10,000 as a monthly salary, rues, “It has become almost impossible to run the household with a meagre salary. After the lockdown, our expenses have increased. While being posted on Covid-19 duty, we had to cover a distance of 80-100 km everyday on rented transport to reach our workplace, but the government never offered any travel allowance. Even after working for eight years, there is negligible increment in our pay scales.”“We have been demanding the regularisation of our services for the last six years, but to no avail,” he added.Parminder Singh said they were serving the state, but the Punjab Government was ignoring their demand of regular jobs. “Even after an extra load of patients during the lockdown, we never refused to offer our services and worked extra hours, but the government is unwilling to pay our rightful dues. It is very difficult to meet household expenses with meagre salaries. If we had been covered under the NHM, would we be getting salaries accordingly,” added Parminder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/de-addiction-ooat-clinic-workers-seek-regular-jobs-316817
27-09-2021||---||Bharat bandh: Rainak Bazaar shopkeepers extend support to farmers||Jalandhar, September 26The Rainak Bazaar Shopkeepers’ Association announced to shut the market in solidarity with farmers who will hold Bharat bandh on Monday. After organising a meeting with farmers, members of the association, said it was unanimously decided that they would not open shops on September 27 on account of Bharat bandh declared by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha.“In order to avoid inconvenience during bandh, members of the Rainak Bazaar Shopkeepers’ Association would not open thier shops on Monday and support the cause of farmers,” said Sherry Chaddha, vice-president of the association.Weapons banned in HoshiarpurRailways on high alertConsidering the bandh and rail roko protest by farmers, the Ferozepur Division has asked its officials to remain on high alert. Officials have been asked to immediately report to the CHC or division officials for any unusual activity they come across.The order of the Ferozepur Division reads, “From 6 am on Monday, trains should be allowed to move from station only after taking clearance from gateman of all gates for any gathering even near the track etc. All possible help should be rendered to stranded passengers at the stations. Regular announcement on the movement of trains, maintain coordination with RPF or GRP staff, ensure refreshment shops remain open if any and they have ample stock of snacks and bottled water, refunds if demanded by passengers be arranged smoothly, one ticket inspector or station supervisor to remain present at important stations where trains are likely to be regulated. Any complaint regarding water facilities in coaches, charging facility and others be immediately attended to and concerned supervisor be called.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bharat-bandh-rainak-bazaar-shopkeepers-extend-support-to-farmers-316818
27-09-2021||---||2-day ‘Innovesta-2021’ concludes on a high note||Jalandhar, September 26The Innovation Club, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar (NITJ), organised a two-day mega international event Innovesta - 2021 on September 25 and 26. The valedictory function of the event concluded today with the participation of people from across the globe. The mega event witnessed around 80 teams from various institutes of repute. The young innovators were from France, Austria, South Korea, Utah, Bangladesh, Nepal, and India.The event is aimed at creating an inspiring and vibrant environment that not only helps the students and faculty but also the society as a whole to study and foster values, creativity, and innovation culture to come up with newer technologies and innovations.The event was inaugurated by Prof LK Awasthi, Director, NIT Jalandhar, and guest of honour, Dipan Sahu Assistant Innovation Director, Ministry of Education’s Innovation Cell; AICTE, Government of India on September 25. Prof Awasthi in his address stated, “NITJ enunciates and upholds the fundamental principles and commitments of higher education in the rapidly altering milieu of a global and digital innovative world.”He also highlighted Innovesta as an opportunity for students to collaborate across disciplines and nations. Prof Awasthi also appreciated the contribution of NITJ faculty members for filing more than 60 patents during the pandemic and transferring five technologies to industries for commercial use. NITJ has also established a Space Technology Incubation Centre supported by ISRO India. The dynamic faculty members of the institute have published 600 peer-reviewed journal papers. He further emphasised that at least 10% of publishable work should be filed for IPRs.Dipan Sahu, Assistant Innovation Director, gave the inaugural address on Covid opportunities for Startups’. Sahu appreciated the efforts of the organisers of the event, NIT, in promoting and nurturing innovation among the faculties and students. He stressed the need of improvement in the entrepreneurship index along with the innovation index. Later, Divya Kaushik, Scientist, PSCST, Chandigarh, gave a talk on ‘Promoting & Monetising Innovations through IPRs’. On the second day, Pooja Kumar, Director, Innove Intellects, Ghaziabad, gave a lecture on ‘Intellectual property rights filing’. The sponsors discussed ‘Education Counselling Training and Recruitment’ and promised training support to NIT, Jalandhar. Along with the workshop, an International Symposium on Innovation, IPR, and entrepreneurship was also organised by the club in which participants from various institutions presented their innovative ideas, projects, and research findings through PPTs and posters. The tracks of the symposium included sustainable development, smart agriculture, smart cities, environmental pollution (air, soil, and water), water conservation, solar energy, smart vehicles, IoT applications, health care system, transportation and traffic management, smart/green houses, green energy, smart payment systems, surveillance and security, touchless attendance, effective online education systems, and other emerging areas of innovation and startup opportunity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-day-innovesta-2021-concludes-on-a-high-note-316819
27-09-2021||Prevention is always better than cure||Open House:  What steps should be taken by the Health Dept & MC officials to stop breeding of dengue larvae?||Many people become victim of seasonal ailments every year. Due to change in weather, infections such as cough, cold, sore throat and nasal disorders are quite common. While mild body problems wither away after little care, but some acute infections become a cause for concern. The risk of dengue and malaria should not be taken lightly. These are caused by the mosquito bite and spread wildly due to the negligence of authorities and people in maintenance of proper sanitation and poor environmental protection. The larvae grow fast in stagnant water. It is rightly said prevention is better than cure. While expert medical care is essential if one finds even mild symptoms of the disease, but more significant is that the people be proactively sensitised to follow the preventive steps. Avoid breeding of mosquito larvae by keeping clean stagnant water containing objects such as tires, plastic covers, flower pots, pet’s water bowls, water coolers, public lavatories etc. Windows be closed properly to prevent the chances of any mosquitoes entering the rooms. Use mosquito repellents. The Health Department and Municipal Authorities must ensure periodic spraying of DDT or other disinfectants at all vulnerable areas. Drainage and sewerage pipes must be kept in order to ensure proper flow of water and avoid any stagnation in localities.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathMaintain cleanliness at homes, public placesRising cases of dengue, malaria, chikungunya and other vector and water-borne diseases in Punjab, particularly in Bathinda, Mohali and Hoshiarpur, amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, have flagged serious concern once again this year. Rapid urbanisation, unplanned growth of cities and towns, mushrooming of slums, erratic social behaviour, faulty water storage practices and disposal of solid waste materials, lack of any specific vaccine or treatment, inadequate healthcare infrastructure and lackadaisical attitude of health and civic administrations are the major contributory factors. No doubt, it is the social and constitutional responsibility of the state government to protect public health. But only concerted and collaborated efforts by the general public and the district authorities will help fight the fatal dengue epidemic successfully. A sustained awareness campaign about the importance of better civic sense should be undertaken on a war-footing through print and electronic media, NGOs and civil society organisations. First and foremost, all perfect mosquito breeding habitats such as water containers, flower pots and desert coolers should be emptied of stagnant water. People should keep their surroundings clean, use mosquito repellents and nets, wear long-sleeved shirts and loose pants, and avoid travelling to mosquito-infested places and stay at home to remain safe. The Health Department and Municipal Corporation should regularly survey, clean and sanitise the vulnerable and high-risk water logging areas like lanes, parks and markets. Adequate medical facilities should be created in government hospitals and dispensaries to save innocent patients from being fleeced at private clinics and laboratories. People flouting the mandatory health instructions should be strictly penalised and the erring government officials and MCs should be held squarely accountable for dereliction of duty. Sincere and dedicated endeavours will surely make the country dengue and malaria-free like Sri Lanka.DS KangKeep surroundings, environment cleanPunjab has been grappling with the dengue epidemic every year for decades. Despite warning by medical experts, both the public and the district authorities are equally blameworthy for the evolving situation which usually goes out of control and poses a potential public health challenge. People are caught unawares as they do not follow the protocols and succumb to the deadly disease. It is shameful that the putative preparedness of the Health Department and the Municipal Corporation to meet any medical calamity stands completely exposed. Heaps of garbage, pools of overflowing sewerage and stagnant water, and wild growth of grass, weeds and bushes can be seen everywhere in urban and rural areas due to the apathetic and indifferent attitude of the concerned officials and the municipal councillors. Moreover, the government bodies are riddled with corruption, favouritism and inefficiency. For checking the spread of dengue, reduce the loss of precious human lives and prevent its occurrence in future, the government should adopt a comprehensive strategy. Local community and its leadership should actively participate in the joint efforts of the local administration, NGOs and social and religious bodies in this regard. People should avoid body exposure to mosquito bites and take immediate medical aid in case of high fever, body pains and bleeding under the skin, fatigue and restlessness. Proper disposal of solid waste, cleaning of domestic water containers, sanitisation of neighbouring environments, management of water supply, sewerage and drainage systems and updating medical infrastructure for proper fever survey, contact tracing and maintaining adequate stock of blood platelets are the other effective preventive measures.Tajpreet S KangAugment, reorient medical facilitiesThe local authorities must ensure that there is no water-logging anywhere and random checking at government offices and homes be carried out. Simultaneously, there is urgent need of massive fogging drive in the city besides special efforts for maintenance of cleanliness and quick disposal of garbage. The medical facilities need to be reoriented and augmented for effective treatment of dengue affected patients.Jagdish ChanderProvide proper treatment to patientsMosquitoes breed in areas where water accumulates and which do not have proper drainage system. The Health Department should give proper treatment to the people for cure of this disease. They should educate the public by teaching them some general precautions for the prevention of the disease and should provide cost-free services to the people who can’t afford treatments in big hospitals and should also provide regular checkups to the citizens. Additionally, civic body officials should also play their cards by providing basic necessities to the poor ones. They should sanitise the areas regularly, especially during the monsoon season. At last, people need to get aware of the situation and should adopt necessary precautions to fight against the disease. The government should put efforts to build a well organised system for putting this disease to an end.SamCarry out fogging on a war footingDengue is not a new for the masses as earlier apart from dengue, chikangunia, viral fever was witnessed during the monsoon season. Stagnant water provides a breeding ground for dengue mosquito. We should pledge to drain out the water from our homes, water tanks and coolers. We should follow the norms strictly to keep our selves safe from dengue and other water-borne diseases during the monsoon season and the Health Department should carry out fogging on war footing.Rajat Kumar MohindruChange Water kept for birds dailyDengue can be fatal as it decreases platelet count in blood. As of now no vaccine is available to treat dengue. We have to be extra cautious to stop breeding of mosquitoes. Cleaning house from junk is the first and basic step to stop breeding of mosquitoes. Clean pots and coolers time to time. Water kept for birds should be changed daily. Use of insecticide, spray in dark corners, under the bed and sofa, behind the curtains and burn repellents. Open windows to allow sunshine in the house. Wear full sleeves shirt and full pants. The government should do fogging once in a week before the start of rainy season. Media coverage and debate should be held to create awareness. Prevention is better than cure so don’t rely on government and take all precautions. Stop eating junk food, eat citrus foods in more quantity and use of garlic which helps in building strong immunity.Shashi KiranTake preventive measures at homeMalaria and dengue are an annual affair in our cities because of the carelessness of the public health and civic authorities. Both the diseases are transmitted by mosquitoes. Dengue is usually transmitted during daytime and malaria during the night. Unfortunately, the civic authorities don’t care about the health of the people. The drainage system is very poor. A few days back heavy showers inundated the low lying areas of the city and even some squares, which is a routine affair every year. People should also be made aware of the sanitation, more so not allowing the water to stagnate in their surroundings, flower pots, water coolers and other containers.Dr JS WadhwaStart fogging with the advent of monsoonAmritsar witnessed sharp rise in dengue cases due to lack of preparedness on the part of the Municipal Corporation (MC) and health authorities. Despite the early warning and full-fledged malaria wing at its disposal, no fogging and spray work was undertaken in vulnerable habitats to check dengue spread especially after onset of rainy season. Most of the areas were left un-attended even after reporting of dengue cases citing manpower shortage leading to spread of deadly disease. Both the MC and nodal district malaria officer should work in tandem to deal with dengue menace by earmarking zone/ward wise work operations to avoid overlapping. Procure more fogging and spray machines at present in limited numbers to deal with rise in cases. Rope in private players to undertake house to house survey and awareness campaign by distributing pamphlets citing steps to check larvae formation in and around of residential areas. Outsource the fogging work on contractual basis at the beginning of monsoon. The government and private hospitals be advised to report dengue cases immediately to concerned health authorities to check breeding source to save others from being infected with deadly disease. Impose fines and issue challans to errant residents who failed to follow the guidelines in taking preventive measures.Anil VinayakDon’t confuse it with common flu or Covid  QUESTIONAre transfers/postings of police commissioners/IAS officers after the change at the helm of affairs in a state justified? How does it affect their functioning?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 30)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-what-steps-should-be-taken-by-the-health-dept-mc-officials-to-stop-breeding-of-dengue-larvae-316820
27-09-2021||---||3-day pulse polio drive kicks off||Jalandhar, September 26Around 30 per cent of children in the age group of 0 to 5 years were administered polio drops on the first day of the Pulse Polio Campaign today.The three-day Pulse Polio Campaign was kick-started at the pulse polio unit of the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar by Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh here today. The CS exhorted the health teams to administer polio drops to children.Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said, “Even though our country has already been declared polio free by the WHO, polio cases were still coming to the fore in the neighbouring countries. Keeping this in mind, National Migratory Pulse Polio Campaign has been launched in the country. The campaign will go on from September 26 to September 28." The campaign was started by administering polio drops to children from 0 to 5 years of age here today. District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said in Jalandhar, a target of 1,31,761 children has been set. For the purpose 1,048 teams have been constituted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-day-pulse-polio-drive-kicks-off-316821
27-09-2021||---||Jalandhar district reports four cases, no death||Jalandhar, September 26Four new Covid cases were reported in Jalandhar district on Sunday, taking the total district tally to 63,300 cases. No Covid death was reported in the district today. The deceased tally remained at 1,494. As many as 61,781 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 25.Of the 16,60,034 samples collected in the district so far, 15,26,586 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,278 tests are awaited. There are 12 persons in home isolation in the district currently. One positive case was reported in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally reached 17,826. No Covid death was reported in Kapurthala today.In Hoshiarpur district, one person tested positive on Saturday, taking the district tally to 30,769. No death due to Covid was reported in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-four-cases-no-death-316822
27-09-2021||---||60 shuttlers attend PM Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’||Jalandhar, September 26Sixty national and international-level shuttlers who have been undergoing training at Raizada Hansraj Stadium attended the 81st ‘Mann ki baat’ programme of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday.The players sat before a huge screen put up for the event and a team of Doordarshan reporters with Outdoor Broadcasting van were there for the show. The players listened to the PM’s speech and said they felt motivated to strive more for the country after the session.A similar set up was arranged at nine other locations across the country, including Wood Craft Designing and Development Society, Saharanpur, Landhaura at Roorkee, and Kelo Rania village in Khunti.Medal winner of the Commonwealth Games Pranav Chopra, international shuttler Sachin Ratti and national player of table tennis Vikas Mahajan attended the event. The three players were also felicitated by the District Badminton Association.Former national player and member of the interim committee Ritin Khanna said the players were very excited about the event for the past one week since they got the information about their selection to attend the event. He said, besides sports, the PM also asked the youth to join the movement to clean rivers as it was World Rivers Day today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/60-shuttlers-attend-pm-modis-mann-ki-baat-316823
27-09-2021||---||Recruitment of constables: Jalandhar witnesses huge rush of aspirants||Jalandhar, September 26A huge rush was witnessed at the Jalandhar bus stand as thousands of aspirants appeared for the exam of constables in the district. While over 4 lakh candidates had applied for the same, the exam was held at 187 centres in the state.In the view of the Bharat bandh call by farmers on Monday, aspirants thronged the bus stand in the evening and jostled with each other to board the buses in order to reach their respective destinations.Sunil, who appeared for the exam, said, “I have to reach Moga in time. There is a massive rush at the bus stand. I began my journey early in the morning to reach the centre, but seeing the crowd, I am bound to get late.”Another aspirant Rakesh said, “I have been working as a schoolteacher for the last five years, but due to limited earnings it’s not possible for me to continue. A police job will be hopefully much better. I hope I will make it through this time.” The Police Department had hired a consultancy firm to conduct the examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/recruitment-of-constables-jalandhar-witnesses-huge-rush-of-aspirants-316830
27-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||6 Doaba MLAs seek Rana Gurjeet Singh’s ouster||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 26Even as Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat has defended the induction of Rana Gurjeet Singh into the Charanjit Singh Channi Cabinet, six party MLAs from the Doaba region opened a front against the elevation today, saying they will continue their “crusade against corruption” and try to convince the high command to remove him from the Cabinet.SC leaders ignoredWhy has corrupt and tainted Rana Gurjeet been given Cabinet berth? Representation may instead be given to a clean SC leader. Six Doaba MLAsCharges not provenLeadership has verified facts. No charges have been proved against them (Rana Gurjeet and Gurkirat Kotli) and they had been exonerated. — Harish Rawat, Punjab Affairs InchargeAhead of the declaration of the state Cabinet this morning, the leaders, including six Congress MLAs, three of them from the SC community, met PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and asking him to impress upon the high command to drop Rana Gurjeet from the Cabinet.Their prime objections were the sand mining charge against Rana Gurjeet and lack of enough SC faces in the Cabinet, even though 38 per cent of Doaba’s population belonged to the community.SC MLAs Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal (Phagwara), Raj Kumar Chabbewal (Chabbewal) and Pawan Adia (Sham Chaurasi) were among those who raised the objections. Besides, three Sikh MLAs — Navtej Singh Cheema (Sultanpur Lodhi), Bawa Henry (Jalandhar North) and Sukhpal Khaira (Bholath) — along with ex-PCC chief Mohinder Singh Kaypee, who is also from the SC community, sought dropping of Rana Gurjeet.The MLAs said all three leaders given Cabinet berths from the SC-dominated Doaba region were Sikhs. “At least one berth could have been given to an SC or a Mazhabi Sikh. Even a Hindu face has been removed. That is our argument. It’s not division — we have only tried to oppose a person who carries a taint,” they said. While Doaba has 23 Assembly segments, 18 of these are represented by Congress MLAs. Of these, eight seats are reserved. The three MLAs from Doaba inducted into the Cabinet include two Jat Sikhs — Pargat Singh (Jalandhar Cantt) and Rana Gurjeet Singh (Kapurthala) — and an OBC Sikh — Sangat Singh Gilzian (Urmar).Meanwhile, defending the induction of Rana Gurjeet and Kotli, Punjab affairs incharge and AICC general secretary said the party leadership had gone into the details and verified facts in both cases.Seniority sees Nabha throughThe seniority of four-time MLA Kaka Randeep Singh Nabha worked in his favour as his case was taken up by the party high command. He ousted two-time Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Nagra from the race for a Cabinet berth.Four-time legislatorKaka Randeep Singh Nabha, 50, AmlohThe four-time MLA took the primary membership of the Congress in 1985 and went on to serve as the convener of the Indian Youth Congress (Kisan Cell). A product of The Lawrence School, Sanawar, Kaka Randeep first contested the Assembly elections from Nabha in 1997 as an Independent, but lost by a narrow margin in an Akali wave. In 2002, he contested on a Congress ticket and won. He went on to get re-elected from the seat twice i.e. in 2007 and 2012. In 2017, he shifted to the Amloh seat in Fatehgarh Sahib, after Nabha was declared a reserved constituency, and won. He was deputed by Rahul Gandhi to oversee the Assembly elections in Mizoram. He also worked for the party in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, UP, HP, Haryana and Punjab. Married into the royal family of Afghanistan, Kaka Randeep is a member of Khalsa College, Patiala, Khalsa College, Amritsar, and lifetime member of the Blind Institute, Chandigarh. Surinder BhardwajWhat went against themSC Post-Matric Scholarship scamFormer Minister for Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Sadhu Singh Dharamsot figures in a probe into disbursal of SC Post-Matric Scholarship. The case pertains to a probe report tabled by former ACS Kirpa Shankar Saroj into the Rs55.71 crore scam. Though Capt Amarinder government gave him clean chit, the CBI and ED are investigating the disbursal of funds.‘Bungling’ in prime land auctionFormer Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora’s name figured in alleged bungling in the JCT Electronics’ 31-acre land auction worth Rs90 crore. Former Deputy Speaker Bir Devinder had complained to Punjab Lokpal seeking an investigation into the matter. Then Advocate General Atul Nanda had said the deal caused a loss of Rs125 crore to the state exchequer.Double compensation caseFormer PCC chief Sunil Jakhar played a key role in Rana Gurmit Sodhi’s ouster. A bête noire, Jakhar has opposed his inclusion in the 2018 Cabinet expansion. He had written to AICC general secretary KC Venugopal and then CM Capt Amarinder Singh, seeking criminal proceedings against Sodhi in alleged double compensation case. Rana had won the case in SC. “I have every right to claim genuine compensation for ancestral property. I have won cases right up to SC,” Sodhi maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-doaba-mlas-seek-rana-gurjeet-singhs-ouster-316547
27-09-2021||Ajay Joshi||Apple supply to Punjab slumps as Himachal private firms procure crops||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 26The procurement of apples by private firms in Himachal Pradesh has affected supply in the local markets here.Traders say there is a slump of around 20-30 per cent as compared to last year. This has caused a hike in the prices of the apples. Arhtiyas selling apples in the wholesale market say there is a hike of Rs 20-30.Ravi Shankar Gupta, a trader at the Maqsudan fruit mandi, said: “Apples from HP start arriving in the local mandis in August. Last year, by this time, around 40-50 Jeeps containing 20-25 quintal apples had arrived, but this season, just 7-10 Jeeps have reached. Subsequently, the prices have increased by almost 20 per cent. In the wholesale market this year, the 2X quality apples are being sold at Rs 30-35/kg, 3X at Rs 40-55/kg, 4X at Rs 60-70/kg and 5X at Rs 80-100/kg. On the contrary, last year, the prices were between Rs 20-30/kg, Rs 35-50/kg, Rs 55-60/kg and Rs 70-80/kg, respectively.”Kuldeep Raj (50), another fruit dealer, said owing to the drop in supply, traders were selling the fruit kept in the cold stores here.The local apple traders are now waiting for the arrival of apples from Jammu and Kashmir. Amar Singh Dogra (60), a Himachal-based apple farmer and dealer, confirmed the slump in the export of the apples to Punjab. “While the production doubled this year, the quantity of apples of large size, which are usually sold in Punjab, remained lower than the last year. Consequently, private firms procured fine quality apples before they could be transported to other states,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/apple-supply-to-punjab-slumps-as-himachal-private-firms-procure-crops-316566
