28-09-2021||---||On Bhagat Singh’s birth anniversary, CM Channi distributes sports kits to 30 corona volunteer clubs at Khatkar Kalan||Jalandhar, September 28On the 114th birth anniversary of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi distributed sports kits to 30 corona volunteer clubs during a function at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Memorial and Museum at the ancestral village of the martyr, Khatkar Kalan (Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar).Channi honoured the family members of Bhagat Singh, Satwinder Singh and Harjivan Pal Singh Gill (maternal grandsons of the sister of Bhagat Singh, Amar Kaur), Kiranjit Singh (grandson of the brother of Bhagat Singh, Kultar Singh), Tejwinder Kaur Sandhu (Bhagat Singh's niece-in-law), Bibi Anushpriya (granddaughter of the brother of Bhagat Singh, Kulbir Singh) and maternal grandson of Shaheed Sukhdev, Vishal Nayyar, with a shawl.On visitors' diary, Channi wrote that as CM he would take every step thinking he was being watched by Bhagat Singh.Meanwhile, Nawanshahr Congress MLA Angad Singh sat on a dharna as he alleged that he was not allowed to enter the memorial. He was pacified by an SP and called inside the memorial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/on-bhagat-singhs-birth-anniversary-cm-channi-distributes-sports-kits-to-30-corona-volunteer-clubs-at-khatkar-kalan-317391
28-09-2021||---||Total shutdown: Shops closed, road & rail services hit||Tribune ReportersJalandhar, September 27“Eh tan sirf trailer hai. Je saddiyan mangan nhi manniyan gayian tan aan wale dina ch hor vi vadda protest hoyega. (This is just a trailer of what lies ahead. If our demands are not fulfilled, there will be a bigger protest in the coming days),” said farmers addressing the gathering during Bharat bandh near PAP Chowk today.The national and state highways at seven major locations were blocked in the district. Farmers blocked the national highway near Bath Castle, Lohian T-Point and Shahkot-Malasian, Adampur T-Point in Mallia village, Bhogpur, Nakodar-Jalandhar bypass, Pratappura-Lambra stretch on Nakodar road and Mehatpur toll plaza. The road from Haveli to Jalandhar Cantonment had also been closed.Jalandhar-Ferozepur rail operation was completely cut off. Farmers closed Dakoha railway gate by putting up a tractor-trailer. They also sat on Cheheru railway track.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), district chief, Mandeep Singh Samra, said around six farmer outfits, including, BKU (Doaba), BKU (Rajewal), BKU (Ughrahan), Kisan Sangharsh Morcha and Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, participated in the Bharat bandh.The traffic police had to remain on their toes to divert commuters from highways and direct them to alternative routes. Traffic coming from Amritsar was diverted towards Hoshiarpur to join to NH-1, people coming from Ludhiana were diverted towards Cantt road to enter the city using Model Town road and people heading to Hoshiarpur were diverted via Chuggitti.Only emergency services—ambulances, medical services and students—were allowed to cross barricades installed by farmers. The bandh initially had a mixed response in the district. To force the shutdown between 6 am-4 pm, farmers took out motorcycle and tractor rallies and forced banks, malls and shops to follow the bandh call.Buses remain off roadThe bandh gave a tough time to inter-state and inter-district commuters. Only a few private buses operating via alternate routes were plying as most buses remained off the roads and the bus stand wore a deserted look. The transporters suffered huge financial losses due to the bandh.Bank forcibly shutAt around 12.30 pm, a group of farmers entered inside the Model Town branch of Punjab National Bank to force the bank officials to close the bank. After a minor argument with agitators, the officials preferred to adhere to the bandh guidelines. Similarly, a group of farmers also assembled outside the main branch of State Bank of India amid presence of heavy police force. Farmers squatted outside the bank to get it closed. Shutters of few malls and shopping stores were also pulled down by farmers. Amarjot Singh, a farmer said, “We carried a tractor march across the city to demand solidarity from locals.”Over 2,000 cops on roadsTo ensure safety of commuters and avert any untoward incident, around 2,000 cops from both the city and rural police remained present throughout the day on the roads and protest sites. The traffic police personnel also came on roads to channelise the peaceful movement of traffic. Normalcy returned after 4 pm and shopkeepers opened their shops.Chakka jam in KapurthalaComplete bandh and chakka jam was observed in the district as farmers’ organisations, fighting against the Centre agri laws had given a call for Bharat bandh today. The farmers had started pitching their tents on Kapurthala-Jalandhar highway from 6 am. Only ambulances and health services were exempted.Farm leaders Harpreet Singh and Manpreet Singh said the United Kisan Morcha ensured peaceful bandh in Kapurthala city. At 9 am, farmers also held a protest outside Gurdwara Sahib Dhudianwal to get the agricultural laws repealed. After this, they staged a sit-in against the Central Government at DC Chowk in Kapurthala. Apart from this, farmers demonstrated at six places in the district. A protest march was also taken out in different markets of the city.Praveen Kumar, General Manager, Pepsu, said buses did not ply today and the roadways incurred a loss of around Rs8 lakh. The bus service, however, resumed after 4 pm.The Kapurthala SSP said 1,000 police personnel were deployed in the district in view of the security. PCR, traffic police, women police, in-charge of police stations were also posted at different intersections. Civil Hospital SMO Dr Sandeep Dhawan said hospital services remained functional as usual. Chemist shops also remained open.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/total-shutdown-shops-closed-road-rail-services-hit-317308
28-09-2021||---||Rail passengers left to fend for themselves||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 27Considering the bandh, the Indian Railways had cancelled, short-terminated and diverted around 50 trains, including, New Delhi-Amritsar Sachkhand Express, Delhi-Pathankot Express, Chandigarh-Amritsar Intercity and Nangal Dam-Amritsar special train. While the railways had made apt arrangements for stranded passengers, those who had to reach their destinations early looked for alternatives.Karanvir Singh (32), an Ambala-based man, who had to attend an important event in Amritsar, said, while there were no buses and trains, he approached taxi operators, who in return demanded Rs3,500-3,800 for dropping him through diverted routes.Similarly, migrants sitting outside railway station said, they were not aware about the bandh. After finding their scheduled trains cancelled, they had to rebook their tickets for other trains.Divisional Railway Manager Seema Sharma said some passenger trains were cancelled while some other services had been rescheduled. DRM said the railway authorities tried to halt the trains at proper railway stations so that the stranded passengers could get some facilities. Station Superintendent Phagwara Devinder Singh said the Amritsar-bound Howrah Mail coming from Kolkata was stopped at 6.35 am, while Jammu-bound Begampura Express had to be halted at Phagwara at 6.46 am. He said though the Begampura Express had no scheduled halt at Phagwara, it had to be stopped due to track blockade near Jalandhar.The Indian Railways said Amritsar-Katihar Express, the Saharsa-Amritsar Express and the Uchahar Express trains were halted at the Ambala Cantonment railway station, while Ambala-Saharanpur passenger train was halted at the Jagadhri railway station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rail-passengers-left-to-fend-for-themselves-317309
28-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Bhagat Singh: A martyr who dreamt of egalitarian India||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 27Enclosed within the 1929 edition of the Kirti Magazine issue was one of Bhagat Singh’s iconic essay Achoot Da Sawaal or ‘Question of Untouchability’, penned by a 16-year-old him. “The upper castes should also realise that their own status in life cannot change for the better as long as they persist in considering these people as inferiors, calling them menials, and keeping them under their heels. It is argued, they are unclean. The harsh truth is that they are poor; remove their poverty and they shall be clean. Don't we find that the poor even among the upper castes are no less unclean?” — Bhagat Singh, Achoot Da Sawaal, Kirti magazine, 1929 It was a scathing critique on the age-old discrimination meted out to the oppressed and a vigorous exhortation to Dalits to arise! “So called untouchables, the real sustainers of life, awake and reflect over your past,” he mentioned.Bhagat Singh’s call for Dalit consciousness and simultaneous exhortation against fundamentalism rings true even in the present times. Achoot Da Sawaal also bears an important reference to the Ad Dharam Movement of Punjab, led by Doaba-based ideologue and Dalit pioneer Babu Mangu Ram Mugowalia, born in Hoshiarpur. With the help of Seth Kishan Das (a wealthy merchant of Boota Mandi) the headquarters of the Ad Dharm Mandal were established at Jalandhar.In ‘Achoot Da Sawal’ Bhagat Singh wrote... “When they (untouchables) discovered that the Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs were raking profits due to them (untouchables), they gave a thought to re-organising on their own. No one is certain whether they are doing so as a result of official prompting or at their own but once this line of thinking takes roots, this trend will be fully backed up by official quarters. “Ad Dharam Mandal” and the like are the end result of this trend...The answer is quite obvious; above all, it needs to be settled for good, that all humans are equal without distinctions of birth or vocation.”Scholars today say Bhagat Singh’s constant exhortations on Dalits along with the Ad Dharam Movement have had a major impact on the Dalit consciousness in the state, the references to these however, are only found in academic circles and scholarly works while no prominent reminders are found in the mainstream political discourse.ExpertspeakProf Raunki Ram, Political Science professor at Panjab University and an expert on Dalits, said, “As far as equality and the social justice are concerned, Bhagat Singh was very clear that caste and religion were two categories which were responsible for the rift in the society. Bhagat Singh had his own unique understanding of the Dalit cause. He was very supportive of the Ad Dharam movement and believed that such movements were necessary because they fight against the caste oppression. The Ad Dharam Movement stressed that empowerment of the oppressed castes was only possible if they got due share in the local structures of power. It asked for shares in the agricultural land, in education, in government structures at par with others. Ad Dharam Movement and Bhagat Singh’s thinking have both contributed hugely to the Dalit and progressive consciousness in Punjab.”He adds, “When the question of the real leader of the oppressed classes arose, Mangu Ram wrote many telegrams to London, proclaiming Dr BR Ambedkar as their leader. He said our leader was Ambedkar, not Gandhi.”Chiranji Lal Kangniwal, eminent historian and Independence movement scholar, said, “Babu Mangu Ram started the Ad Dharam Mandal in Punjab highlighting the demands of Dalits. The movement started two years before Bhagat Singh’s Achoot Da Sawal was penned. In 1927, Katherine Mayo has also just released her book ‘Mother India’ which was a strong critique on oppression against Dalits. All these factors shaped the times in which Bhagat Singh lived.”Noted Bhagat Singh scholar Professor Chaman Lal said, “Bhagat Singh’s Achoot Da Sawal has come again into focus in the past three decades. It has had a major impact in shaping Dalit consciousness. However, all radical thoughts are being diluted by the establishment. And in the present times, caste has become a major socio-political factor.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bhagat-singh-a-martyr-who-dreamt-of-egalitarian-india-317310
28-09-2021||---||Surjit Hockey’s 38th edition from Oct 23||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 27The 38th edition of the prestigious Surjit Hockey Tournament will start from October 23. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, who is also the president of the Surjit Hockey Society, said, “The tournament is organised every year by society to keep alive the name of ex-Olympian Surjit Singh Randhawa, who had lost his life in a fatal car accident near Jalandhar in 1984”.Thori further said that the 38th edition of the tournament would be played on league-cum-knockout basis. “This year, all 12 teams have been seeded directly into quarter finals league stage and are divided into four pools with three teams each. The top four teams from each pool will qualify for the semifinals, scheduled to be held on October 30 and no gate entry money will be charged from the spectators who will come to witness the game of hockey. The tournament will be played at Army AstroTurf Hockey Ground, Katoch Stadium, Jalandhar Cantonment, as the work to replace the old astroturf at Surjit Hockey stadium is being carried out and is likely to be completed in November”According to Punjab Cabinet Minister and Olympian Pargat Singh, who is also working president of the society, the winner team will get cash prize of Rs 5 lakh sponsored by the renowned sports promoter and NRI Amolak Singh Gakhal, CMD of Gakhal Group of USA, whereas the runners up team will win a cash award of Rs 2.5 lakh, which is sponsored by Baba Tarlok Singh Satsang Ghar, Kahna Dhesian (Jalandhar). As in the past, the best player of the tournament will get Mohinder Singh Tut Memorial Award along with a cash prize of Rs 25,000. This prize is sponsored by Ranbir Singh Rana Tut.Iqbal Singh Sandhu, general secretary of the society, said defending champions Punjab & Sind Bank, Delhi, and runners-up team Indian Oil, Mumbai, along with 10 other top teams of the country will take part in the event. The other participating teams include Air India Mumbai, Indian Army, Delhi, Indian Navy Mumbai, Indian Railways, Indian Air Force Delhi, CRPF, Delhi, Punjab Police, Punjab National Bank, Delhi, BSF Jalandhar and RCF, Kapurthala, which will take part to exhibit their skills.Lakhwinder Pal Singh Khaira, senior vice-president of the society, said arrangements have been made for the live telecast of both the semi-finals and final match of the tournament on TV channels on October 30 and 31, respectively. All India Radio, Jalandhar will also relay the ‘Ball-to-Ball’ running commentary of the final match, Sandhu added.Surinder Singh Bhapa said CM Charanjit Singh Channi would give away the prizes to the finalist and Pargat Singh will preside over the function whereas Sujoy Choudhary, Executive Director, IOCL, will be the guest of honour during the final day of the tournament on October 31. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Deputy Chief Minister, Punjab, would also be the chief guest on the semi-finals on October 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-hockeys-38th-edition-from-oct-23-317311
28-09-2021||---||No licence for cracker sale this year: Jalandhar DC||Jalandhar, September 27In view of the orders issued by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, no licence would be issued this year to store or sell firecrackers in the district, said Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori. In an order issued today, the DC said as per the High Court orders 20 per cent licences were to be issued of the total licences issued in the year 2016. He added that in that year only two licenses were issued by the administration of which 20 per cent constitutes 0.4. Thus, no licence would be issued this year in the district.However, he clarified that the decision has been taken for the areas falling outside the MC limit because the city area comes under the jurisdiction of the Commissionerate of Police, which would take the decision for the explosive licence for their area accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-licence-for-cracker-sale-this-year-jalandhar-dc-317312
28-09-2021||---||Girl cadets of 1st batch visit Sainik School Kapurthala||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, September 27Sainik School Kapurthala celebrated the Daughters’ Day on Sunday in a unique way by inviting the first batch of 10 girls for a campus tour. Even as the girl cadets had been inducted in the ongoing academic session in Class VI, they had not even been able to see the campus till date as the Sainik Schools across the country are so far taking only online classes. While seven of the 10 girls in the school are from Punjab as per the 67 per cent state quota, the remaining three are from other states.Principal Col Prashant Saxena and Vice-Principal Wing Commander Deepika Rawat welcomed the girls. They along with the staff first took them to Smriti Sthal, a memorial in the campus in the name of war heroes. They were then taken around for a campus walk showing them their classrooms, auditorium, grounds and hostel. The girls also went to the mess where they were served lunch alongwith the staff.Shalvi Singh, on behalf of the girl students, delivered a speech sharing her excitement on attending the campus for a day. She said that she wished that regular classes started soon. She also said that she hoped that the girls outperformed the boys, who are in larger strength, in the coming years. Old students from the school, including Lieutenant General Gurdeep Singh (retd), Air Vice Marshal Sarvjit Hothi and PPS officer Rajpal Sandhu, also attended the event. A group photo was taken at the end to remember the historic day of the school. In the evening, the girls went back home with their parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/girl-cadets-of-1st-batch-visit-sainik-school-kapurthala-317313
28-09-2021||Jalandhar||Ex-Army man’s wife found murdered||An elderly woman was strangled to death in the Sant Vihar residential area. The incident came to light in the morning, after the woman did not come out of the house to collect milk. When the police reached the spot, they found her lying in a state of unconsciousness.The deceased has been identified as Balbir Kaur (62), wife of retired Army personnel. After the demise of her husband around seven years ago, she was residing alone in her house near the Verka milk plant. Fingerprint experts and dog squad teams also assisted the police in collecting the evidences. The help of CCTV footage is also taken to trace the accused.A murder case has been registered against the unknown persons.As per the police, the milkman knocked at Balbir’s door at around 9:30 in the morning. He failed to get any response despite knocking and calling out the woman several times. Subsequently, he, along with the neighbourers, who gathered outside her house, sneaked through a window and found her lying on the floor. Afterwards, they broke open the door and found her lying unconscious. The police were also intimated about the incident.Prima facie, the police considered it to be a case of robbery, however, denied the claims later after seeing the situation. A gold chain was also lying on the bed in the woman’s room and other things were also scattered all over the room.SHO police division said, “So far, we have established that it wasn’t a robbery attempt, in fact, things were scattered after the murder, to create a loot scene. Besides, nothing was missing from the house.”DCP Investigation, Gurmeet Singh, said it was a pre-planned murder case. The investigating teams are collecting evidences and locals are being quizzed.The cops also recovered a diary from the woman’s room, in which the numbers of all visitors and relatives are written. Based on the numbers, her family members are also being interrogated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ex-army-mans-wife-found-murdered-317314
28-09-2021||---||Complete bandh in Hoshiarpur||Tribune News ServiceHoshiarpur, September 27The roads, markets and banks, remained closed in the district as farmers observed Bharat bandh today from 6 am to 4 pm on the call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. Schools and colleges did open, but students were either absent or sent back home, after the protesters urged the managements to close the institutions.Farmers blocked Phagwara bypass, Singriwala-Jalandhar bypass, Lachowal toll plaza, Nangal Shahidan toll plaza on Chandigarh road and Bajwara adda on Una road, among others.In Dasuya and Mukerian farmers blocked road and rail traffic. The protesters held a march in Hoshiarpur city and requested a few shopkeepers who opened their establishments to support them.The bus stand and the railway station remained deserted and passengers had to return dissapointed.Meanwhile, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha continued to protest outside reliance outlets, toll plazas and the District Administrative Complex.Phagwara, Phillaur, Banga witness complete bandhA complete shutdown was observed in Phagwara, Phillaur, Goraya, Banga, Nawanshahr, Nurmahal, Nakodar, Lohia, Shahkot, Sultanpur Lodhi and Bholath, with all transport services remaining and shops and other commercial establishments also remaining closed at all places.Normal life was hit as farmers blocked highways, roads and squatted on railway tracks at many places. All major political parties —Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal— had extended their support. Government employees also supported the bandh by taking mass casual leave.In Phagwara, thousands of farmers including Punjab Agro Industrial Corporation chairman Joginder Singh Maan, and Congress leader Daljit Raju sat on a dharna and blocked traffic at Sugar Mills Chowk.Traffic between Phagwara-Nakodar, Phagwara-Jalandhar, Phagwara-Hoshiarpur and Phagwara-Ludhiana and Phagwara-Nawanshahr remained suspended for 10 hours today. Most of the grain markets of several towns, educational institutes and several commercial establishments remained closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/complete-bandh-in-hoshiarpur-317315
28-09-2021||---||Incidents of shoplifting mar Bharat bandh in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 27A few incidents of shoplifting and gheraoing of owners of showrooms in the city marred the nation-wide bandh today. The incident occurred at Emmson Bakery on Circular Road today afternoon. The video of the incident went viral. In the video, it was seen that some anti-social elements within the farmers’ group had tried to lift certain items from the bakery, including cold drink bottles from its refrigerator while going inside its premises to close it forcibly.Around 10 youths went inside the shop and tried to create the ruckus. The entire episode was captured on CCTV of the shop as well as by those making video from outside. The shutter of the shop was closed, but not locked from outside. The farm activists had gone inside after lifting up the shutter.As farm leaders who were on the road got to know about the incident, immediately directed the youngsters to either return the items or pay for them. “The image of our protest will get maligned by your actions. I direct all the volunteers to go inside the shop with folded hands and request employees to leave. The owners too must be politely told to shut down the shops,” the farm leaders can be heard saying it in the video.In another incident, activists entered Lovely Autos to get it closed. They raised slogans and got the showroom at Nakodar Road forcibly closed. They then went to Lovely Sweet shop where they gheraoed owner Ramesh Mittal and argued with him for keeping the shop open.Police personnel were present at almost all the spots where farmers went to get the shops and commercial centres closed, but they remained mute spectators only allowing the volunteers to act in a harsh manner.Meanwhile, all schools and colleges remained shut today. The staff of the government schools came to the campus, but since there were no students they did their own work and left later in the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/incidents-of-shoplifting-mar-bharat-bandh-in-jalandhar-317316
28-09-2021||Jalandhar||Tourism day at Innocent Hearts, Jalandhar||webinar on tourism at dipsDIPS Institute of Management and Technology organised an online webinar on tourism for inclusive growth on World Tourism Day. During the course of the webinar, HOD Sandeep Kumar and Professor Javed Ahmad mentioned to students that this year tourism theme was centred around aiding and assisting people involved in the tourism sector. The idea was to ensure the progress of the tourism sector in such a way that only generates new opportunities but also guarantees equitable distribution of benefits to all section of the society. Dr Pankaj said that the main purpose of organising this webinar was to highlight the importance of tourism internationally and to spread its societal, cultural, political and economic ethos worldwide. Principal Dr Simranjit Singh while addressing the students commented that an individual can get to know his her own country other countries, other cultures and other civilisations with the help of tourism. CEO Monica Mandotra while congratulating the students on this occasion said that the tourism sector was severely affected due to Covid-19 pandemic.prabhjot tops in BBA examStudents of BBA Semester VI of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya made the institute proud with their academic performance. Prabhjot Kaur got the first position with 1,727/2,150 marks, Sukhdeep Kaur bagged the second position with 1,708/2,150 marks, Harman and Manveer have jointly bagged the third position with 1,692/2,150 marks. Seven students from the class have passed the examination with distinction. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated students and Dr Neeraj Maini, Head and the faculty members, for their untiring efforts in grooming the students. She averred that in KMV the most suitable ambience is provided to the students so that they can excel in their studies. She expressed confidence that the students ably guided and mentored by the extremely qualified and dedicated faculty will continue their journey of success in the future as well.tributes paid to BHAGAT SINGHEklavya School, Jalandhar, paid tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh on the occasion of his 114th birth anniversary. JK Gupta, Manager, Eklavya School, while addressing students, said Bhagat Singh’s personality attracts youth as an ideal leader and a hero. Bhagat Singh had envisioned a post independence society without any differences and discrimination, where every citizen has an equal opportunity to grow. It is the need of the hour to make youth aware about his sacrifices and his vision, he added. Earlier, an audio recording of Bhagat Singh’s last letter was also presented in the form of a visual documentary which touched the emotional chords of the audience. Director Seema Handa said we should learn from his sacrifice and one should become the master of his/her own fate. Principal Komal Arora and administrator Dimple Malhotra said independent thinking is required for the change and success.150 jabbed at Vaccination campThe Department of Physiotherapy of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, in collaboration with Civil Hospital, organised the 5th vaccination camp. As many as 150 doses were provided to the faculty and students of the college. On the occasion, Principal Neerja Dhingra said the Department of Physiotherapy has been making consistent efforts to vaccinate maximum people and raise awareness about its necessity. She appreciated the efforts of Dr Neeraj Katyal, HOD, Dr Nitika Gupta and Prabhneet Kaur, Department of Physiotherapy, for organising the camp.Parmeet bags Rs32L pay packageParmeet Singh Lamba, a student of BSc (Airlines, Tourism & Hospitality), of Lovely Professional University (LPU) has been selected by USA’s leading hospitality investment and management company ‘Highgate’ on a CTC of Rs 32 lakh per annum. Parmeet is presently working in Florida, USA. Prior to this, an engineering student of LPU has also got package of Rs 42 lakh. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal holds: “We are proud of all our students like Parmeet, who pursue their programmes with dedication to make a place for them in this competitive world.” LPU’s School of Hotel Management grooms students through industry endorsed curriculum and service oriented hands-on traning programmes. Parmeet had also availed LPU scholarship during his studies. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tourism-day-at-innocent-hearts-jalandhar-317317
28-09-2021||Garhshankar||Three booked for theft at NRI's home||MUV hits divider, two injuredTalwara: A multi-utility vehicle (Bolero) crashed into a divider near Sabzi Mandi Chowk. As a result, the MUV turned turtle and out of the four occupants, two suffered injuries while two had a narrow escape. The MUV was heading towards Hajipur from Old Talwara when it suddenly rammed into the divider. Two of the car occupants fled after the accident while their injured accomplices were admitted to the BBMB Hospital in Talwara, where doctors referred them to the Mukerian Civil Hospital. Police officials said they have marked the probe in the matter. OC35 cases solved at ‘bijli panchayat’Jalandhar: As per the instructions of A Venu Parsad, a ‘bijli panchayat’ or power camp was held at the Chabbewal under the Mahilpur division, Hoshiarpur circle. The camp was organised to resolve the complaints, problems regarding billing, concession and supply complaints of the PSPCL consumers of the Chabbewal area. As many as 80 complaints from 20 villages were received in the camp and 35 complaints were resolved on the spot. Instructions were issued to resolve 55 complaints within next week. Engineer Dania addressed the staff after the camp. TNStwo human skeletons foundTalwara (Hoshiarpur): The Talwara police have found two human skeletons from the forest falling under Nathuwal-Rakdi on Monday. Surinder Kumar, husband of sarpanch of Dalwali Kalan, told the police that forest guard Pawan Kumar, in-charge of Nathuwal beat, informed the sarpanch that two human skeletons along with a pair of shoes and slippers were found. SHO Ajmer Singh Chahal said on the basis of the statement of Surinder, a case has been registered against an unknown person. OCDrugs, liquor seized; 2 heldHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two smugglers and seized narcotics and smuggled liquor from them. The accused Pankaj, alias Goldie, was nabbed from near the cremation ground of Haveli village last night and 33 gram of heroin was seized from him. He has been booked under the NDPS Act. The City police station have arrested Vikas and seized 11,250 ml of smuggled liquor from him. He has been booked under the Excise Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-booked-for-theft-at-nris-home-317318
28-09-2021||---||Bharat Band: Industrial activity comes to standstill in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar||Chandigarh, September 27Amid farmers’ protest across the state, industrial production and dispatches came to a standstill, affecting all major industrial clusters — Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar.Though it’s difficult to quantify the losses, industry veterans claim it may run into crores and it would also affect investor sentiments in near future.“Not only normal life, but the industrial production and dispatches also came to a standstill as transporters did not operate amid Bharat Bandh. This is peak time for industries. Many goods produced by Ludhiana industries have to be delivered in time considering the festival season,” said Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Associations (FOPSIA).Contrary to other industrial cities, a majority of the industrial units in Mohali were operating, sources said.Farmers across the state blocked highways and railway tracks at many places to mark Bharat Bandh on the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a coalition of farmers’ unions, to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three agricultural laws. At various places, transport services were also suspended. Besides, shops and commercial establishments remained shut at many places.“It’s a double whammy for industry. Initially, the industry had to shut operations for a few days in July amid power shortage. Now, again a day was lost. The worst-affected are the exporters as they have to deliver the export consignments in a time-bound manner. Amid bandh, they were not in a position to produce or dispatch the finished goods,” said an exporter from Amritsar.As many industries are striving hard to survive after recovering from the pandemic-induced crisis, the bandh has further aggravated the problem. “Normally, on an average, we have 24-25 working days in a month. Due to protest and bandh, almost 5 per cent of the industrial production was affected across the state. This may have serious implications on domestic as well as export market,” said another industrialist who did not wish to be named.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bharat-band-industrial-activity-comes-to-standstill-in-ludhiana-jalandhar-amritsar-316980
28-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Private firm manager booked for fraud||Selection trials for girl playersJalandhar: With the initiative of the Surjit Hockey Society, the Punjab Sports Department, has opened the Surjit Mahila Hockey Academy with hostel facility at Surjit Hockey Stadium, Jalandhar, for the 2021-22 session. The selection trials for the same will be held on September 28 at Lyallpur Khalsa for Women. Olympian Rajinder Singh Dronacharya Award winner and coach at the hockey academy said, those athletes who were born on and after 01-01-2003 could participate in these trials for the Under-19 group. Besides, the participating players should bring their original certificate of birth, original certificate of sports achievements and their certified photocopies with two recent passport-size photographs. TNSTravel agent dupes womanHoshiarpur: Hariana police have booked a travel agent for allegedly duping a woman of Rs 9 lakh on the pretext of sending her to Cyprus on a study visa. According to information, Suman Lata, a resident of Bhulana village, lodged a complaint with the SSP that travel agent Omkar Singh, a resident of Kotli, had signed a deal for sending her to Cyprus on a study visa. According to her, after taking the said amount, the accused neither sent her abroad nor returned the money. The complaint was investigated by the economic offences wing of the police on the orders of the SSP. On the basis of the investigation report, Hariana police have registered a case against the accused. OCAssault: Panch among 3 bookedHoshiarpur: Mehtiana police have registered a case against three persons, including a panchayat member, for forcibly entering a house, assaulting and indecent acts. Investigating officer Des Raj said Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of Attowal village, lodged a complaint with the police that at around 8.15 am on September 24, panchayat member Balbir Kaur, alias Rani, Davinder, alias Shally, and Sukhwinder Singh, alias Gilehri, entered the complainant’s house and vandalised it. He said the three accused threatened to kill him after assaulting and abusing his wife present there. A case under Sections 452, 354, 427, 506 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/private-firm-manager-booked-for-fraud-316826
