29-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh, SSP Harmanbir Gill face-off again||Tribune News ServiceKhatkar Kalan, September 28Less than two weeks after, a face-off between Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh and SSP Harmanbir Gill was once again witnessed here on Tuesday. The MLA sat on a dharna in protest against alleged beefed-up security arrangements just to cause inconvenience to them during the visit of CM Charanjit Singh Channi for the birth anniversary programme of Bhagat Singh at his ancestral Khatkar Kalan village.Angad Singh reportedly turned up nearly half an hour before the CM’s visit. He said, “As soon as I was about to enter the museum gates, I saw about 15 elected representatives, including MC members, Block Samiti chairmen, Zila Parishad chairmen and others from Banga, Balachaur and Nawanshahr, standing outside the gate.“I asked them why they were not going inside, to which they replied that they were not allowed to enter. I beseeched for them, but the security personnel said that I could enter but others could not as per the orders from their seniors. I then decided to sit on a protest on a raised platform and chose not to go inside till they all are taken in.”He made his point, “I have already got many chances to meet the CM. More than me, it is important for these local leaders to catch up with the CM. I also felt that the Congress workers were being deliberately harassed at the behest of the SSP.”An SP was later sent to pacify the MLA, but he remained adamant saying that he would only follow the 15 Congress leaders barred from entering today. Later, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring came out to inquire about the matter. He ordered the security personnel to let everyone in. It was then that finally Angad came in.Asked about the matter, SSP Harmanbir Gill said he was not aware of the MLA’s dharna. He, however, later clarified, “We had told all MLAs to bring along just four persons at the function and had given the same directions to our security. But I am told that he came along with more than the required number, so my staff objected. It was a routine security matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-mla-angad-singh-ssp-harmanbir-gill-face-off-again-317733
29-09-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu’s resignation spoils Pargat Singh’s party||Jalandhar, September 28The much-awaited announcement of the ministerial berth of Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh and his taking over of the office today got marred by the resignation of PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu, whom he had always sided since they joined Congress.Also read: Won’t budge, Navjot Singh Sidhu tells Congress party leadersAs expected Pargat got the bonanza of all much-sought after portfolios. Other than the portfolios of Sport and Youth Affairs Minister and NRI Affairs that were expected to be with him, he also got departments of School Education and Higher Education.Pargat took over his office today, which he joined in the presence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, but the excitement could not be pompous as Sidhu resigned this afternoon. Being the closest confidant of Sidhu, Pargat also got appointed as the general secretary of Congress.Even as there were reports this evening post the resignation of Razia Sultana that even Pargat could resign, his team said nothing of the sort was being contemplated as of now. Pargat went to Patiala to meet, convince and cajole Sidhu to take back his resignation and work for the party.Pargat’s supporters and sports lovers from the region, who had been planning a grand welcome for him since he took oath on Sunday, were a bit upset. They too are curiously watching his moves, hoping that all goes well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/navjot-singh-sidhus-resignation-spoils-pargat-singhs-party-317734
29-09-2021||---||SAD, BSP go into overdrive as Congress faces turmoil||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 28Calling in a joint meeting of SAD-BSP leadership of Doaba and planning an aggressive campaign at a time when the Congress is facing turmoil, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal today announced two programmes for Jalandhar in the coming days.On October 5, he will hold an interactive, mass contact session with the city residents. “He will meet the people from various walks of life. He will take their suggestions and consult them on various issues affecting them. There will be no big speeches. Ex-minister Harsimrat Badal too would accompany him for the event”, said the party leaders who attended the meeting.The meeting also had the presence of Punjab BSP chief Jasvir Garhi, all announced candidates from the various seats of Doaba from both the parties and the halqa in-charges from the remaining seats. The city-based leaders from both the parties were asked to decide the venue for the mass contact programme.Sukhbir announced that programmes in this pattern would be held through the state in October. He told the candidates to start door-to-door campaigns and start booth-level planning. He also announced to form a coordination committee that would liaison between the SAD and BSP in the event any issued cropped up between the workers of the two parties in the ongoing campaign.Both the parties also announced to hold a state-level function on the occasion of the death anniversary of BSP founder Kanshi Ram. The function has been planned for October 9 at a site near DAV University on Pathankot Road.Incidentally, Sukhbir is learnt to have been holding the meeting when the reports of PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu quitting the post started appearing. Sukhbir told the party workers to make the most of the mayhem in the ruling party and take on campaign for the alliance well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-bsp-go-into-overdrive-as-congress-faces-turmoil-317735
29-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Sangat Singh Gilzian: Will ensure early completion of projects||Hoshiarpur, September 28Punjab Forests, Wild Life and Labour Minister Sangat Singh Gilzian on Tuesday asserted that the Punjab Government would fulfill each and every promise made to the people of the state, besides ensuring holistic development in all sectors.The minister, who arrived in the city for the first time after being sworn in as a Cabinet minister a few days ago, took the guard of honour from Punjab Police personnel at the local PWD Rest House, where MLAs and senior civil and police officers also gave a warm welcome to Gilzian.While interacting with mediapersons, the minister said the Punjab Government, led by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, would ensure early completion of 18 major projects. “The state government has over three months for the all-round development and completion of the remaining projects,” said the minister, adding that all the works would be commenced and completed within a stipulated time-frame.As for the farmers’ demands, Gilzian said the Punjab Government was with farmers and supporting their demands from day one. He said the Punjab Cabinet expressed solidarity with the farmers over the black farm laws, besides extending all possible help to the families of those farmers, who lost their lives during the protests against the laws.The minister said the Punjab Government would soon provide appointment letters to the family members of these farmers while the process of providing appointment letters in the remaining cases was also being expedited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sangat-singh-gilzian-will-ensure-early-completion-of-projects-317736
29-09-2021||---||Students remember Bhagat Singh on 114th birth anniv||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 28The youth in various schools, colleges and clubs across Doaba celebrated the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh on Tuesday. Numerous organisations paid homage to the martyr at his ancestral town.Advocates from the region carried out a bike rally remembering the youth icon. A Jalandhar-based advocate, Yuvraj Singh, distributed copies of the book titled “Jeevni – Krantikari Bhagat Singh” penned by Prof Sukhdev Singh, HoD (History), Guru Nanak Dev University. He distributed over 2,000 copies of the book free of cost.The post graduate department of history, Lyallpur Khalsa College, celebrated the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh with great enthusiasm. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra said it’s time to adopt thinking and ideology of the martyr. He added that on this day the youth should take pledge that they, like the patriots, would give the right direction to society by creating awareness regarding national integration and patriotism.Dr Suman Chopra, HoD (History), Lyallpur Khalsa College, congratulated students for their enthusiastic participation and encouraged them to follow the thinking of great patriots, including Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru. OnStudents delivered speeches contemplating Bhagat Singh’s thinking. The NSS volunteers and NCC cadets of the college vowed to adopt Bhagat Singh’s principles.The NSS department of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, Jalandhar, also paid tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh. Students were shown a documentary based on the life of the freedom fighter. Principal Dr Navjot said, “We need to inculcate the qualities of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, including patriotism and respect towards nation. Today is the need to make our country a nation he dreamt of. It is our foremost duty to transform this society into a conducive and congenial place”. Towards the end, she appreciated the efforts of NSS officers Manita, Manjeet Kaur and Atma Singh.The Shaheed-e-Bhagat Singh Youth Club, Kapurthala, celebrated the 114th birth anniversary of revolutionary Bhagat Singh. Rinku Kalia, Vishal Rajput, Vishu Sharma, Amandeep Goldie of the club said Shaheed Bhagat Singh relentlessly fought against the Britishers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-remember-bhagat-singh-on-114th-birth-anniv-317737
29-09-2021||Jalandhar||Faux pas by Chaudhary Santokh Singh: Confuses Bhagat Singh’s birth anniversary with martyrdom day||Jalandhar MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh committed a faux pas when he went to pay tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary at Bhagat Singh Chowk here.As soon as he was stepping down, he interacted with the media present at the site and said he had come to pay tributes to Bhagat Singh on his martyrdom day. As soon as he said this, Mayor Jagdish Raja intervened and told him that it was not martyrdom day but the birth anniversary. He asked the videographers to take his byte again but this video went viral.As the video spread, the members of Fan Bhagat Singh Club gathered outside his place and held a protest this evening. Manish Rajput, president of the club, even made Chaudhary Santokh Singh apologise for his mistake telephonically before ending the protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/faux-pas-by-chaudhary-santokh-singh-confuses-bhagat-singhs-birth-anniversary-with-martyrdom-day-317738
29-09-2021||Jalandhar||Indefinite dharna by KMSC begins outside Jalandhar DC office||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, led by Jalandhar district president Salwinder Singh Janian and general secretary Gurmel Singh Rerwan, started their indefinite dharna in front of DC office here on Tuesday.Gurlal Singh Pandori, state treasurer of the committee, also participated in the protest. He asked the government to provide an assistance of Rs 5 lakh to the family members of those farmers who lost their lives in the protest and a government job to one member of the family.The farmers asked the administration to end the shortage of urea and other fertilisers for agriculture.Besides, they put forth a demand to the government to repeal the three agricultural laws. Their main demands include enact the legislation guaranteeing the purchase of 23 crops, withdraw the drastic hike in oil prices, the Power Amendment Bill, 2020, and air pollution. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/indefinite-dharna-by-kmsc-begins-outside-jalandhar-dc-office-317739
29-09-2021||Jalandhar||Mishap: Rs 50K aid to woman by DC||19 Divyangs get disability cardsHoshiarpur: Under a series of special camps being organised by the Social Security Department of the Punjab Government for the benefit of divyangs (persons with disability), 50 such persons were registered for the camp at Phuglana village on Tuesday. During the camp, 11 divyang certificates and 19 Unique Disability Identification (UDID) cards were issued on the spot. District Social Security Officer Mukesh Gautam said in the camps, certificates were issued by specialist doctors on the spot after due medical examination. He said in the camp held in the community hall of the village, teams led by Dr Gurminder Singh, Dr Baldeep Singh, Dr Kamlesh Rani and Dr Rajwant Kaur made UIDs for various facilities to divyang persons. OCtwo killed in road accidentsHoshiarpur: Two persons were killed in separate road accidents in the district in the last 24 hours. The police have registered cases against the accused drivers. According to information, Pargat Singh, a resident of Chhawni Kalan, told the police that his brother Devraj was going home on his cycle when an oil tanker hit him. He was killed on the spot. Sadar police have registered a case against accused driver Shambhu, a resident of Ambala. In another accident, Balveer Singh, a resident of Chakk Alla Baksh, has lodged a complaint with Mukerian police that his father Jaspal Singh was pedalling his cycle-rickshaw when he was hit by a bus near Mata Rani Chowk in Mukerian, leading to his death. The police have registered a case against accused driver Ashok Kumar, a resident of Talwara. OCthree held with45-kg poppy huskHoshiarpur: Dasuya police have arrested three smugglers and recovered 45 kg of poppy husk from their car stopped at a naka set up in the area on Monday night. The accused have been identified as Tajinder Singh, Simranjot Singh and Teerth Singh, all residents of Sudhar, Ludhiana. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused by Dasuya police. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mishap-rs-50k-aid-to-woman-by-dc-317741
29-09-2021||Ajay Joshi||Army chopper crash: Missing pilot’s father urges Prez to intensify search||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 28Even as the defence forces managed to retrieve the mortal remains of one of the pilots of the Ranjit Sagar chopper crash incident, the endless wait to receive his son “in whatever condition he is in” has taken a toll on the health of the parents of the missing pilot.It has been 56 days since the bereaved parents are staying at the Mamun Cantt to hear any news about their son from the teams deployed for the search operation at the crash site. Harish Joshi, father of missing pilot Capt Jayant Joshi, has subsequently reached out to President Ram Nath Kovind to enhance efforts and procure high-end equipment to search his son.Rudra WSI (Weapon System Integrated) Helicopter crashed into Ranjit Sagar lake on August 3. With Lt Col AS Bath and Capt Joshi, the chopper had left from Mamun Cantt for low-level sorties around the region, before it crashed into the reservoir after a technical snag. While Bath’s body was recovered after 12 days of the crash, the co-pilot is still missing.Seeking personal intervention of the President, Harish Joshi said: “We appreciate the efforts of the Army and Navy personnel, but there is still no news about our son. We continue to hope and trust the defence forces’ capability and efforts to maintain the rigour of search so that we get our son back.”His wife Col Jiwan Tara has been serving the Army for almost 40 years in the Military Nursing Service.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-chopper-crash-missing-pilots-father-urges-prez-to-intensify-search-317518
29-09-2021||Jalandhar||Tainted ministers belie Cong’s claims: Raghav Chadha||Criticising the move to include tainted ministers in the Cabinet and appoint APS Deol as Advocate General, AAP Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha today said CM Charanjit Singh Channi had forgotten his claim of ‘either Channi will remain or corruption will be there’.“It is clear that the Congress cannot change its character. The inclusion of Rana Gurjeet Singh, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Gurkirat Kotli in the Cabinet shows the Congress has changed only ‘Ali Baba’ but the thieves are still there,” he said.“Channi had stated of not meeting the mining mafia after taking over as CM, but Rana Gurjeet, who faces allegations of illegal mining, will be his Cabinet colleague. It only goes on to prove that appearances are deceptive,” he said. — TNSRemove A-G in 10 days: CheemaAAP senior leader Harpal Singh Cheema has warned that if the Channi government doesn’t remove Deol from the office within 10 days, the party would wage a decisive struggle against the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tainted-ministers-belie-congs-claims-raghav-chadha-317474
