30-09-2021||---||Dal Khalsa honours plane jackers||Jalandhar, September 29Radical Sikhs today honoured five members of the Dal Khalsa, who led by Gajinder Singh, had hijacked an Indian plane to Pakistan 40 years ago on this day to secure the release of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale.The five hijackers were honoured with gold medals expressing deep gratitude for their long imprisonments and exile. Of the five, Gajinder Singh, Jasbir Singh and Karan Singh are reportedly still in exile while Satnam Singh and Tejinderpal Singh have returned to Punjab after completion of their life sentences in Pakistan prisons.To mark the 40th year of hijacking, a samagam was organised by the Dal Khalsa at Gurdwara Nauvi Patshahi in GTB Nagar here, in which representatives of different groups participated.Son of Bhindranwale, Ishar Singh, former militant leader Narien Singh, SGPC members Sukhdev Singh Bhaur and Karnail Singh Panjoli, and brother of Gen Shabeg Singh, Beant Singh, bestowed the honour on the hijackers. Since three of them are in exile, their near and dear ones took the gold medal on their behalf. While Gajinder is believed to be in Pakistan, Karan and Jasbir are in Switzerland.Recalling the background in which the top brass of the Dal Khalsa had to take the extreme step to hijack the plane, party spokesperson Kanwar Pal Singh said in the late ’70s of the last century, the Sikhs of Punjab faced attacks.Pushed to the wall, with no possibility of justice and fair play in sight, Dal Khalsa men led by Gajinder Singh decided to hijack an aeroplane on September 29, 1981, to protest against the arrest of Bhindranwale.Dal Khalsa head Harpal Singh Cheema said hijackers suffered the agony of prison life in Pakistan for 14 years. After release, Gajinder Singh and two others chose to lead a life in exile. Pertinently, the Indian establishment has declared Gajinder Singh as one of the most wanted persons and demanded his extradition from Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dal-khalsa-honours-plane-jackers-318203
30-09-2021||---||Keeping Covid at bay: 85% people jabbed, claims Jalandhar DC||Jalandhar, September 29Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today said the district administration has covered over 85 per cent of the eligible population under the vaccination drive by administering nearly 20 lakh doses to beneficiaries. He said a total of 19,87,875 doses, including 14,34,948 first and 5,52,927 second doses, have been given so far to beneficiaries, which amounts to 85 per cent coverage. He further added that around 33 per cent of the population had been fully vaccinated with both doses of vaccine.While handing over appreciation letters to the members of mobile vaccination units at the district administrative complex, the DC said due to concerted efforts of healthcare and frontline workers, the district has achieved this feat.The DC further hailed the efforts of officials/officers for their professional commitment in ensuring vaccination of the maximum population, thereby mitigating the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. He said the zeal and passion expressed by these officials during the call of duty needed special note, thus district administration has been felicitating such officials to acknowledge their contribution during the pandemic. He also added that so far about 600 officials/officers have been honored by the administration with appreciation letters adding that more such events would be held to recognise the services of remaining members of our teams.District Immunisation Officer Rakesh Chopra said those who received appreciation included doctors, ANMs, computer operators, college faculty, and others tasked with vaccination drives. He added that these team members have played a stellar role in the drive by inoculating lakhs of beneficiaries across Jalandhar. He further thanked the DC for the unique initiative to honor those tackling the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/keeping-covid-at-bay-85-people-jabbed-claims-jalandhar-dc-318204
30-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Hindu bodies seek ban on B-town’s Ravan Leela||Hoshiarpur, September 29Hindu organisations are up-in-arms against the upcoming Hindi film ‘Ravan Leela’, which is set to be released on October 1, accusing it of hurting the religious sentiments of the Hindus by portraying Sita in wrong light.In Hoshiarpur, protests were held against the movie. Parshuram Sena, led by Ashutosh Sharma, observed the protest by burning an effigy at the Ghanta Ghar Chowk and also handed over a memorandum to the district administration, the copies of which were sent to the PM, I&B Minister and CM Punjab, demanding a ban on the movie and cancellation of the certification issued to it by the censor board.Shiv Sena also held a protest against the movie and burnt the posters and pictures of the actors of the movie. In Garhshankar, leaders of various organisations of the Hindu religion, Valmiki community and the Ravidasia community handed over a memorandum to the SDM and demanded the government to take legal action against the producer, director, writer and cast of the film. They sought a complete ban on the release of the film. They said Lord Valmiki had described Sita as a holy and virtuous woman in the Ramayana and an attempt has been made to create confusion among people through this film.They warned that if the film was not banned, there would be massive protests against it in the near future, for which the administration and the government would be held responsible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hindu-bodies-seek-ban-on-b-towns-ravan-leela-318205
30-09-2021||---||Her garden is lively round the year||Jalandhar, September 29When Jaswinder Kaur got her house constructed at Wadala village near the city, the first thing that she had in mind was that there must be some greenery outside every window of the rooms.With that concept in mind, this head of the zoology and botany department of Lyallpur Khalsa College ensured that there is some garden area or at least some layers of pots in every nook and corner of front yard, back yard, side passage, balconies of the two upper floors and even terrace.Even now when there are hardly any flowers in the garden with summer flowers having dried up and winter flowers just sown, Jaswinder Kaur’s garden was lively. The varieties of foliage plants including ficus bushes, caladiums, crotons, palms, coleus, ferns, jades, asparagus and some flowering begonias and lilies have brightened up her garden.The best part about her frontal garden is her collection of brightly coloured ceramic pots. In different prints of bright red, blue and white, these have been arranged nicely along huge piles of stones. She has also kept shells, garden designer ware, stone-craft items and earthen ware here and there to team up with her plants.The side passage garden is also unique since she has arranged her pots on two huge logs of trees. Switching on the fancy lights and fan in this area where she had arranged garden furniture, she said. “This is our favourite area for sipping tea every morning and evening. Sitting amidst the greenery freshens me up for starting the day’s activities,” she explains.She takes us to the backyard where she has planted various trees, including those of lemon, narangi, mangoes etc. There are some cacti also kept safely in pots along the walls away from her pet dog Murfi. “I have tacked them in a corner even though Murfi generally does not go near plants. He neither digs up the soil nor tramples my plants.”The next points are the balconies, which have again been done nicely with decorative plants. Terrace area is a bit different. Almost the entire terrace has been covered keeping huge grow bags. Even crates usually used by the fruit sellers have been kept on the terrace with a lining of jute or polysheets at the bottom and along edges.Some summer vegetables including lady fingers, brinjals, chillies etc are already growing here. Spinach too has been planted for the coming season. The most attractive part here is tiny chikoos and pomegranates growing on the trees planted in the bags. “Since this area gets good Sun all through the day, I found this to be the best area for growing fruits and vegetables,” she explains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/her-garden-is-lively-round-the-year-318206
30-09-2021||Jalandhar||Talks with Punjab Dy CM fail, KMSC to continue stir||Members of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) today held a protest for the second consecutive day in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner. The protesters said the talks of their state representatives with Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa at Chandigarh failed today. They said they had thus decided to continue with the protest for the third day tomorrow.Led by district president Salwinder Singh Janian and general secretary Gurmel Singh Rerwan, the members have been demanding Rs 5 lakh compensation and a job for every farm labourer who lost his life during the ongoing protest against the Centre over the farm laws at the Delhi borders. They are also demanding the entire loan amount of these families should be waived of.The farmers are also protesting against the reduction of the subsidy on farm machinery from 80 per cent to 40 per cent. The farmers said the government must also ensure timely availability of fertilisers, including urea. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/talks-with-punjab-dy-cm-fail-kmsc-to-continue-stir-318207
30-09-2021||Our Corrospondent||BJP SC Morcha burns effigy of Punjab Chief Minister||Hoshiarpur, September 29An effigy of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was burnt at Ghantaghar Chowk in Hoshiarpur by members of the BJP SC Morcha on Wednesday. Morcha secretary Surinder Pal Bhatti said the CM was accompanied by his bodyguards wearing shoes when he went to pay obeisance at the Valmiki shrine in Amritsar.By doing this at the Valmiki pilgrimage site, the dignity of the pious centre was violated, he said. Bhatti threatened that if Chief Minister Channi did not apologise, more protests will be organised across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-sc-morcha-burns-effigy-of-punjab-chief-minister-318209
30-09-2021||Jalandhar||2 fresh Covid cases surface in Jalandhar district, no death||As many as two new Covid cases were reported today from the district, taking the total district tally to 63,316 cases. No Covid death was reported today in the district. The deceased tally remained at 1,494. As many as 61,792 people have recovered from Covid while the number of active cases is 30. Of the 16,65,194 samples collected in the district so far, 15,31,909 have tested negative.No case, no death at KapurthalaNo fresh Covid case was reported from Kapurthala, keeping the Covid tally at 17,829. No death from Covid was recorded in the district either.All well in HoshiarpurNo new Covid case was reported from the district on Wednesday, keeping the tally at 30,770. The authorities reported no Covid-19 related death in the district. The toll stood at 981. As many as 29,779 patients recovered from the virus. The district has 11 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-fresh-covid-cases-surface-in-jalandhar-district-no-death-318210
30-09-2021||Jalandhar||Sikh bodies: Withdraw appointments of Punjab DGP & AG||Recent appointments made by the state government have snuffed out any remaining hope for justice in the Bargari issue. This was stated by the Alliance of Sikh Organisations, a conglomerate of various Sikh groups. It demanded withdrawal of appointments of the DGP and the AG while criticising CM Charanjit Singh Channi for siding with accused in sacrilege cases.Sukhdev Singh Phagwara, coordinator of the political wing of the alliance, said the recent appointments reveal the intentions of the state government on the issue. He said after 2015, Channi is the third such CM of the state who has displayed the same approach to justice on the issue.Phagwara raised questions on the SIT headed by DGP Iqbalpreet Singh Sahota, formed on the issue of sacrilege, on its soft approach to question Dera followers facing charges in the case. He said the previous government’s action in the case was inconclusive. He also added the recommendation of registering FIRs against ‘unidentified police officers’ responsible for the Behbal Kalan firing incident was also made under the SIT headed by Sahota.He further added that AS Deol, the chief counsel for the main accused DGP Sumedh Saini in the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing incidents, being appointed as Advocate General, Punjab, clearly makes the present government’s intentions clear.He said what is surprising is that previously both former CMs Sukhbir Badal and Capt Amarinder Singh have lost their chair due to their lackadaisical approach in ensuring justice in these cases. But the third CM who promises not to repeat the previous mistakes of the twin CMs, actually surpasses them in backing those with questionable conduct in the sacrilege cases. He said “The Alliance of Sikh Organisations appeals to the Congress government and its MLAs that they pressurise the CM to withdraw these twin appointments.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sikh-bodies-withdraw-appointments-of-punjab-dgp-ag-318211
30-09-2021||---||Nawanshahr boxer skips 290 times in a minute||Jalandhar, September 29From throwing a jab to attaining new levels in fitness, Ranjit Aujla, a Nawanshar-based boxer, has now added more feathers to his cap by featuring in the World Book of Records, London. He attained this feat by skipping the rope 290 times in one minute. What’s more challenging was jumping with the rope with 120-kg weight, which is considered to be the highest in the skipping weight category.He was felicitated with the ‘World Book of Record’ by Jasbir Singh Shinda, India Adjudicator of the World Book of Records on September 2.He said he was preparing for clinching the record for the past three months. “My day used to begin with running and doing other cardio exercises for nearly one hour, followed by skipping. Increasing weight was a bit challenging and lethargic while exercising but I eventually managed to do so,” added Aujla.The 30-year-old Banga-based boxer had earlier created a new Asian record in skipping. With 115-kg weight, he skipped 285 times in one minute. The India Book of Records, Asia team, presented him with a gold medal and a certificate.While the road to success wasn’t a smooth sailing, Ranjit took three months to register the new record. Besides, he is also a state-level boxer and has also proved his mettle in the European boxing championship.Aujla further said, “Having dealt with weight issues, my life changed after opting for sports. Now, I am a true blue sportsperson. I have been practising boxing since 2006. Therefore, building endurance to improve my performance is a crucial part of my game. And I believe, skipping regularly plays an important role not only in enhancing agility but also in building muscles. While I was doing my regular practice, one of friends, after watching me skip faster told me to attempt my maximum bounces. In the month of February this year, I created my own personal best of nearly 255 bounces in one minutes. Subsequently, after searching for skipping records, I noticed that there wasn’t any record holder in above 100-kg weight category. Since then the hustle begin to create a new record.”After this new record, he is aiming hard to register himself in the Guinness book of World Record, for which his skipping record will be verified by the end of this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-boxer-skips-290-times-in-a-minute-318212
30-09-2021||---||Nine days on, no headway in snatching case||Jalandhar, September 29Even as the case involving snatching of Rs 15 lakh from CP Sikka, wife of Dr Vijay Sikka, is about to complete 10 days, the police are still groping in the dark.On September 20, two bike-borne miscreants snatched a bag containing Rs 15 lakh from CP Sikka outside a private bank, where she had gone to deposit the amount.As soon as the incident was reported, Rajesh Kumar, in-charge of police station 4 and Ramandeep Singh, in-charge of CIA Staff-1, reached the spot and started the probe. Despite retrieving the CCTV footage of the incident, the accused are still on large.In the statements given to the police, CP Sikka said she went to Punjab and Sindh Bank branch opposite Sikka Hospital to deposit the amount. When she reached near the bank and stepped out of the car, two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched her purse and fled from the spot.ACP (Central) Balwinder Iqbal said the police teams have traced the locations of the accused and they would be arrested shortly.Goods train derailsA goods train derailed near Bashirpura railway gate on Tuesday. Although no casualty was reported, the movement of other trains had to be stopped. Three wagons of goods train derailed on Jammu line between Guru Nanak Pura crossing to Bashirpura phatak. Movement of several trains using the track was hit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nine-days-on-no-headway-in-snatching-case-318213
30-09-2021||Jalandhar||1.31 lakh kids given polio drops in Jalandhar||3 held with drug money, heroinHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested three persons with 70-gm heroin and Rs10.9 lakh drug money. SP (D) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu said on Tuesday, a team consisting of DSP (D) Rakesh Kumar and CIA In-charge Inspector Shiv Kumar had set up a naka near the Corporation office T-Point and arrested three smugglers who were already facing charges under the NDPS Act. He said the accused have been identified as Pavitar Singh, a resident of village Hasalpur, Patiala, Sanjay Yadav, a resident of Ward Number 14, Sunder Basti, Patran, and Narinder Singh, a resident of Bhamian village, Fatehgarh Sahib. Sandhu told that the kingpin of the gang is Amrik Singh, a resident of Sirhind Road, Patiala, who is wanted in a case of seizure of 8-kg heroin. He told that the arrested smugglers were aboard a Creta car which has also been seized. OCCyclists get a warm welcomeHoshiarpur: On their arrival to Hoshiarpur, five cyclists who are on a cycle tour from Kolkata to Ladakh were welcomed by social worker Paramjit Singh Sachdeva. He wished them good luck for the onward journey. He said cycling across the country spreads the message of unity and peace which has a great impact on the general public. He expressed happiness that he gets an opportunity to welcome cyclists and said our youths will take inspiration from such tours and work in the interest of the country. ocCong ignoring Rajputs: PammaHoshiarpur: Thakur Paramvir Pamma, president, Rajput Sabha, California, said the Congress Government has neglected the Rajput community by not giving them representation in the government. He said Rajputs have always fought in the forefront for the protection of religion and society. He urged his brethren to stand firm for their rights. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-31-lakh-kids-given-polio-drops-in-jalandhar-318214
30-09-2021||---||P Sainath to be key speaker at Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 29Renowned journalist, winner of the Ramon Magsaysay Award and founder of the People’s Archive of Rural India (PARI) P Sainath will be the keynote speaker at the 30th Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da which be held at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall this year.The Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da in 2021 will be held from October 30 to November 1 and dedicated to the centenary year of the Babbar Akali Movement and farmers protest. Three-day mela from oct 30In a meeting held under Ajmer Singh, president of the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee today, committee general secretary Gurmeet Singh and Cultural Convenor Amolak Singh said in the first session on October 31, farm laws, farm crisis and kisan andolan will be discussed.On November 1, Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee Trustee Bhagat Singh Jhungian will hoist the Ghadar Party Flag and an address will be delivered by the President and the General Secretary of the committee.Jhande Da Geet penned by Amolak Singh on Babbar Akalis, Jallianwala Bagh and Kisan Andolan would be performed. P Sainath would be the key speaker on the first day of the mela. ‘Sees Tali Te’ a play penned by Gursharan Singh on Babbar Akalis will be performed in the evening by Chandigarh School of Drama (Ekattar). Folk and cultural music performnces will be performed till 4 pm and at 6 pm Phulwari Kala Kendra (Jagir Josan) will present a Jago.On the night of November 1, plays including Prof Ajmer Singh’s theatre team Lok Kala Manch, Mansa’s ‘Ain Kiven Khoh Lainge Zameenan Saadiyan’; Man Rang Amritsar under direction of theatrist Kewal Dhaliwal will present ‘Khooni vaisakhi’; Adakar Manch Mohali (Dr Sahib Singh) Dhann Likhari Nanka; Suchetak Rang Manch, Mohali, under Anita Shabdeesh shall present Italian playwright Dario Fo’s play’s Punjabi adaptation “Eddan Tan Fer Eddan Hi Sahi’; and Rang Manch Sirora (Ludhiana) will present the play ‘Ghaseya Hoeya Admi’ under the direction of Sherry Siora and Pavel Sirora.A painting exhibition will also be held in the mela this year. A book fair starting October 30 will also continue till the dawn of October 2 at the Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/p-sainath-to-be-key-speaker-at-mela-ghadri-babeyan-da-in-jalandhar-318215
30-09-2021||---||Family of Jalandhar Congress leader Anupam Pathak refuses to perform last rites||Jalandhar, September 29Tension prevailed at Pucca Bagh area as the family members of Congress leader Anupam Pathak (52), who had committed suicide last evening, refused to perform his last rites till the arrest of the accused whose names he had mentioned in the four-page suicide note.Anupam, who was more popular as Anup, was the husband of Congress councillor from Municipal Corporation Ward No. 51 Radhika Pathak. Known for his jovial behaviour, Anup reportedly took the extreme step after receiving threats from three persons in a land dispute. He had hanged himself with the ceiling fan of his room. His son and wife, who saw him in the condition, immediately took him to a hospital where he was declared brought dead.The police had registered a case against four persons. Karan Pathak (27), son of the Congress leader, alleged that the police have so far not been showing any seriousness over the matter. “The police were not even registering the case earlier. Now after registering the case, the cops were not making any effort to nab the accused. Due to this, my family members have decided that the last rites will not be performed until the accused are arrested,” added Karan.Cremation was scheduled to be held at Harnamdasspur ground at 2 pm today. After the family’s protest, the police sought 24-hour time from the family members for making a headway in the case.In the suicide note, the deceased had named Inderjit Chaudhary, Amrik Sandhu and Ravinder Singh Chaudhary for forcing him to end his life. Due to property dispute, the 52-year-old deceased mentioned in his suicide note that he was being harassed by the accused consistently, who wanted to usurp his property. They also used to give him and his family life threats.Today, a large number of supporters of Pathak had gathered outside, his house at Pucca Bagh and threatened to hold a dharna if the police did not arrest the accused.After receiving the information, ACP Balwinder Iqbal Singh Kahlon and SHO Rajesh Kumar reached the spot. The ACP said: “We have registered a case under Section 306 of IPC (Abetment to suicide) at police division number four. Besides the police are tracing the location of the accused to nab them. The body has been kept at the morgue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/family-of-jalandhar-congress-leader-anupam-pathak-refuses-to-perform-last-rites-318217
30-09-2021||As part of the series of mega job fairs started by the Punjab Government under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Scheme to provide employment to the youth||789 get jobs at mega fair||Weekly langar sewaA weekly langar sewa service has been launched by Jugal Kishore, chief attendant of Shri Khatu Shyam Temple in Phagwara. SI Gurjit Kaur, SHO, Industrial area police station, inaugurated the langar service and offered food to the people outside the Phagwara railway station. The organisers said the langar service would be organised every Sunday to provide food to passengers, porters and other needy people outside the station. The food will be cooked at Shyam Rasoi, situated outside the station. The temple organisers had reportedly also provided food to many people during the Covid lockdown also.‘curb dengue spread’Considering the surge in dengue cases and its precautions, members of the All-India Anti-Corruption Forum met Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Lamber Ram to take necessary steps to protect residents from dengue. Forum members Raman Nehra, Ashwani Baghania and Amarjit Singh also asked the SMO to spray disinfectants in the residential colonies to kill the dengue mosquitoes. They appealed anti-larvae team to swing into action and check residential colonies and issue safety guidelines. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/789-get-jobs-at-mega-fair-318219
30-09-2021||Jalandhar||Tributes paid to Bhagat Singh at Kanya Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar||Workshop on oil extractionLyallpur Khalsa College conducted a hands-on training workshop on “Essential oil extraction and analysis”. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra congratulated the department for this programme. Encouraging the students, he explained how science and technology are playing a role in our personal lives. He said hands-on training is very important in the field of science. He also said researching teachers and students should take advantage of this programme. Dr Arun Dev Sharma informed about the importance of pytho chemicals. He said in his speech that consumption of herbal products such as tulsi, essential oil, lemon grass oil etc. can prevent various diseases. For example, he said these products have a great contribution in the prevention of deadly diseases such as Covid-19 and black fungus.World Tourism Day celebratedWorld Tourism Day was celebrated with enthusiasm at Eklavya School. Director Seema Handa made them aware that students the purpose of tourism is to foster awareness among the global community of tourism’s social, cultural, political and economic value and the contribution the sector can make in reaching the Sustainable Development Goals. Educator Anamika Nirmohi shared the information about World Tourism Day with the students of senior School and Principal Komal Arora and Administrator Dimpal Malhotra said such kinds of days should be observed among youngsters in order to make them fully aware. Essay writing and poster-making activities were also organised amongst all the students of Senior School. Students appreciated their creativity and original ideas. The event enthused everyone to embrace the ethos of creating accessible environments for tourists from all walks of life, irrespective of age, disability, gender, race or physical barriers. Chairman of the school JK Gupta said it is very important to teach the children about significance of tourism industry.Harpreet secures 1st spot in MComIn the MCom second semester examination held by the GNDU, DIPS, College (Co-educational), Dhilwan, Harpreet secured the first position. College coordinator Harpreet Kaur said Harpreet secured 94.5 percent marks with first position in the university, Jaspinder Kaur secured 92.9 per cent marks bagging the fifth position. Komalpreet secured 89.6 per cent and Simran Kaur 82 per cent marks. College coordinator Harpreet Kaur awarded the position holders for the examination. DIPS chain MD Tarwinder Singh, CAO Ramneek Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra congratulated staff members, students and their parents and expressed their heartiest felicitations. They also expected students to further scale greater heights and bring laurels to alma mater. TNSUrvashi, Prabhjot emerge toppersStudents of Diploma in Counselling of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya secured all positions in Guru Nanak Dev University. Urvashi Malhotra got the first position with 484 marks, Prabhjot Kaur got the second position with 479 marks, Muskan secured the third position with 473 marks, Geetayani Khanna got the fourth position with 467 marks, Sukriti Arora got fifth position with 462 marks, Anmol Beli got sixth position with 456 marks ad Mallika Gupta got the seventh position with 448 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated students and Head of Department Dr Ashmeen Kaur.National Nutrition Month observedNational Nutrition Month was observed at Emm Aar International School, Adampur, as per the guidelines issued by Dr Joseph Emmanuel, Director Academics, CBSE. The purpose of nutrition month was to help students become aware of a healthy lifestyle with a healthful eating plan. Dr Sarav Mohan Tandon, Chairman, enlightened students on the types of diet and the importance of following a balanced diet which must green leafy vegetables, and guided them to avoid junk food. Students from classes I to V celebrated this occasion online by making yummy ‘Corn Salad’ and making this day memorable with learning, creating, caring, and sharing under the guidance of the Director Dr Simmi Tandon with the help of Deepika Chawla and Pallavi.DC visits skill centreDeputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori visited Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY) centre established at CT Group of Institutions. He visited all labs where students were doing their practical work. He asked trainers of all trades about the details of the course and the job placement after completion of the course. Welcome kits were distributed by him to the students. He advised them to never stop learning and always learn skills and hone yourself in special skills. Companies always respect employees who specialise in specific skills. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tributes-paid-to-bhagat-singh-at-kanya-maha-vidyalaya-jalandhar-318220
30-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Tussle at top has Congress Doaba leadership in flux||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 29The ongoing tussle at the top after the resignation of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has led to tussle and confusion among Congress leaders of Doaba. Since two new ministers from the region are involved in the ongoing tussle — Pargat Singh as a part of the coordination panel to resolve issues with Sidhu, and Rana Gurjeet Singh, whose ouster from the Cabinet has been demanded — it has created a sort of division among MLAs. Both the leaders have so far not been able to return to Doaba since their oath-taking on Sunday.Showing their direct opposition to the induction of Rana Gurjeet, seven leaders of Doaba, including ex-president of PCC Mohinder Singh Kaypee and MLAs Navtej Singh Cheema from Sultanpur Lodhi, Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal from Phagwara, Bawa Henry from Jalandhar North, Dr Raj Kumar from Chabbewal, Pawan Adia from Sham Churasi and Sukhpal Singh Khaira from Bholath, had already written to the state leadership.To thwart their campaign on the day of oath-taking, Rana, too, is learnt to have got a counter-signature campaign done wherein 22 MLAs are learnt to have signed in his favour. Despite having clearly taken sides with Sidhu in his recent tussle with ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh, the Nawanshahr MLA is now in favour of Rana Gurjeet and sort of differs with Sidhu on opposing his re-entry into the Cabinet. “I personally feel that no one is guilty until proven. I think it is wrong to target Rana. Moreover, I feel this is the time when we all 117 leaders need to work in one direction collectively. If we remain divided like this, we may fall behind to 58 or 59 seats, which will ultimately lead us nowhere”, he said.Spotlight on two ministersTwo new ministers from the region are involved in the ongoing tussle — Pargat Singh as a part of the coordination panel to resolve issues with Sidhu, and Rana Gurjeet Singh, whose inclusion in the Cabinet has been opposed by many.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tussle-at-top-has-congress-doaba-leadership-in-flux-317978
