09-07-2021||World||RDIF says gap between two Sputnik V doses can be increased to 180 days: Report||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) on Friday said that the gap between two doses of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine could be extended upto 180 days and it will remain effective. RDIF’s remarks came as some countries such as Kazakhstan and Argentina have decided to increase the gap between the two doses of the vaccine.Sputnik V, a vaccine against the coronavirus disease developed in Russia, is marketed abroad by RDIF. The comments on widening the gap between two doses were made by an official at RDIF in a statement, news agency Reuters reported, without naming the official. However, HT has not individually verified the statement. While Kazakhstan has increased the duration between two doses of the vaccine citing stronger immune response, Argentina has done so to ensure that the maximum number of people possible are covered by at least one dose of the vaccine, the Reuters report showed.Also read | India’s Morepen Labs begin manufacturing test batches of Sputnik VData from trials conducted by the Gamaleya Research Institute, the developer of the Sputnik V vaccine, showed that longer gaps between two doses provided a better immune response, the RDIF official said, without providing any further details about the trials. He also denied any connection between widening the duration between two doses and the supply of the vaccine by Russia, Reuters reported.He further said that all foreign partners and vaccine buyers have been notified by the RDIF that a gap of 90 days between the two doses would help to slightly increase the immune response.A gap of 21 days between two doses of 0.5ml each was prescribed by India’s Union health ministry in April 2021, when Sputnik V was granted a permission for restricted use in emergency situations by the country’s regulators. Also, in April, director of the Gamaleya Institute Alexander Gintsburg said that the gap between two shots of the vaccine could be increased to 90 days.Indian pharmaceutical company Morepen Laboratories earlier on Tuesday (July 6) said that it has started manufacturing test batches of the Sputnik V vaccine in India.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rdif-says-gap-between-two-sputnik-v-doses-can-be-increased-to-180-days-report-101625851549079.html
09-07-2021||World||Mystery swirls around Haiti president Jovenel Moise's murder||A 28-member hit squad made up of Colombians and Americans murdered President Jovenel Moise, Haitian police say, but little is known about who masterminded the assassination and their motives as the investigation pressed on Friday.Seventeen suspected assailants in Wednesday's pre-dawn attack have been arrested, including 15 Colombians and two Americans of Haitian origin, the country's police said Thursday at a press conference.Three Colombian gunmen were killed by police, while eight members of the hit squad are at large, Haiti's police chief Leon Charles said, though the figures differed slightly from other official sources.But little has been revealed on why gunmen broke into the president's personal residence, riddling him with bullets and wounding his wife, Martine.Authorities have caught the perpetrators of the attack, Leon said, but are now looking for the masterminds.Police paraded some of the suspects before the media Thursday, along with Colombian passports and weapons they had seized.At least six suspected members of the hit squad appear to be former Colombian soldiers, said Colombian Defense Minister Diego Molano.According to Interpol, the ex-military men were two retired non-commissioned army officers and four former soldiers, said General Jorge Vargas, national police director. Two were among those killed by the Haitian police.Colombian President Ivan Duque assured interim Haitian Prime Minister Claude Joseph "the collaboration of his country in advancing the investigation."Colombian media reports on Friday said four of the former military suspects left Bogota on June 4 for Haiti's neighbor the Dominican Republic, crossing the border on June 6.Taiwan confirmed late Thursday that 11 of the suspects were arrested on its embassy grounds, after security discovered a group of armed men had broken into the courtyard of the property that had been shuttered "for safety reasons" after Moise's murder.The US State Department, without confirming the arrest of any American nationals, has indicated it will help the Haitian investigation.The United States will help with the investigation by sending senior FBI and other officials as soon as possible, White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Friday.- 'We need to know' -After days of paralysis in the capital, Port-au-Prince saw the timid return of people to the streets, shops opening and the resumption of public transport on Friday morning.People scrambled to stock up on basic necessities at supermarkets in anticipation of more days of instability.Gang violence, rife in the Caribbean nation, also picked up again on Friday, with clashes between groups paralyzing traffic on a major highway.The city's airport, shuttered in the wake of the attack, is expected to re-open Friday.But questions continued to swirl in the country over who killed the president and why."Foreigners came to the country to perpetrate this crime. We, Haitians, are appalled," a resident of the capital told AFP."We need to know who is behind this, their names, their backgrounds so that justice can be served," he added.Senior police officers, directly responsible for the security of the Haitian president, are in the hot seat and have been summoned to appear before the courts, said Port-au-Prince government commissioner Bed-Ford Claude on Thursday."If you are responsible for the security of the president, where were you? What did you do to avoid this fate for the president?" Claude said.Others have speculated on the possible involvement of security agents in the killing, adding to the confusion."The president of the Republic, Jovenel Moise, was assassinated by his security agents," former Haitian senator Steven Benoit said on Magik9 radio Friday."It is not Colombians who killed him. They were contracted by the Haitian state."- Political chaos -The attack has further destabilized the poorest country in the Americas, plagued by insecurity.Two men are now vying to lead the country of 11 million people, more than half of whom are under age 20. There is no working parliament now.One of Moise's last acts as president was to appoint on Monday a new prime minister, Ariel Henry. He had not taken office when Moise was killed.Several hours after the assassination, Henry's predecessor, interim premier Claude Joseph, declared a national "state of siege" for fifteen days and said he was now in charge.While the opposition has accused Joseph of power-grabbing, the United Nations envoy to Haiti, Helen La Lime, has said he had authority because Henry had not been sworn in.The country was already in the midst of in an institutional crisis: Moise had not organized an election since he came to power in early 2017 and as the country has had no parliament since January 2020, Moise had been ruling by decree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mystery-swirls-around-haiti-president-jovenel-moise-s-murder-101625850548690.html
09-07-2021||World||UK police officer pleads guilty to Sarah Everard's murder||A British police officer on Friday admitted murdering Sarah Everard, whose killing sparked anger, protests and soul-searching across the country about what the authorities and society could do to stop male violence against women.Wayne Couzens, 48, a serving London officer who guarded diplomatic premises, had previously admitted rape and kidnap.He abducted Everard, 33, into a hire car as she walked home from a friend's house in south London on March 3 and her body was later found in woodland around 50 miles (80 km) away in southeast England. A post-mortem last month concluded she had died as a result of compression of the neck.Appearing by videolink from prison for a hearing at London's Old Bailey Court, Couzens, bearded and wearing a blue sweatshirt, sat with his head bowed and said "guilty ma'am" when asked how he pleaded to the charge of murder.Prosecutor Tom Little said the officer had never met Everard prior to kidnapping her from London's South Circular road and they were "total strangers".Judge Adrian Fulford said Couzens had previously only given an entirely false account of events, an elaborate story involving an eastern European gang."This has been a mammoth investigation which has produced some very significant results in terms of being able to understand what happened," Fulford said.London Metropolitan Police Commissioner Cressida Dick, Britain's most senior officer, told reporters outside court she had personally apologised to Everard's family."All of us in the Met are sickened, angered and devastated by this man's crimes. They are dreadful," she said.Everard's murder provoked outpourings of anger from women who have recounted their own experiences and fears of walking the streets on their own at night, prompting Prime Minister Boris Johnson to promise action including money for better street lighting.Couzens' lawyer, James Sturman, said his client's pleas represented "truly genuine guilt and remorse for what he did"."As he put it to us this morning he will bear this burden for the rest of his life, and he deserves to - his words 'and I deserve to'. He accepts the victims in this case are the Everard family and friends, not him," Sturman told the court.A two-day sentencing hearing, which will consider psychiatric reports, will begin on Sept. 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-police-officer-pleads-guilty-to-sarah-everard-s-murder-101625832787603.html
09-07-2021||World||UN expert calls on countries to designate Israeli settlements as 'war crimes'||A UN human rights investigator on Friday called on the countries to designate the Israeli settlements in east Jerusalem as “war crimes” under the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Michael Lynk, the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the occupied Palestinian territory, told the Human Rights Council in Geneva that the Israeli settlements in East Jerusalem violate the absolute prohibition against transferring of its civilian population by an occupying power into occupied territory.“For Israel, the settlements serve two related purposes. One is to guarantee that the occupied territory will remain under Israeli control in perpetuity. The second purpose is to ensure that there will never be a genuine Palestinian state,” said Lynk.The session of the UN Human Rights Council addressed by Lynk was boycotted by Israel which does not recognise the investigator’s mandate or cooperate with him.Also Read | Israeli settlers agree to leave flashpoint West Bank outpost: OfficialsThe region recently witnessed indiscriminate rocket firings from Gaza and retaliatory attacks from Israel that claimed many lives, including that of dozens of children, renewing the concern over Israeli occupation. According to the report, there are now close to 300 Israeli settlements in occupied East Jerusalem and the West Bank, with more than 680,000 Israeli settlers.Lynk said Israeli settlements were “the engine of Israel’s 54-year-old occupation, the longest in the modern world.” “It is a tragic paradox that, while the Israeli settlements are clearly prohibited by international law, the international community has been remarkably reluctant to enforce its own laws,” he said.The Special Rapporteur urged the international community to adopt a plan of action, which includes calling upon Israel to fully dismantle its settlements and ensuring full accountability of Israeli leaders who are “responsible for grave breaches of international law” in the occupied Palestinian territory.“The time for criticism of the Israeli settlements has passed...a new approach grounded in international law is the only path to a just end to this perpetual occupation,” said Lynk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-expert-calls-on-countries-to-designate-israeli-settlements-as-war-crimes-101625850180222.html
09-07-2021||World||‘Hope Pakistan begins to play more constructive role in peace process’: Afghan ambassador||Air power is essential for Afghan security forces to successfully take on the Taliban, and the Afghan government is looking to India and the US to provide more combat helicopters and associated logistics support, Afghan ambassador Farid Mamundzay said on Friday in an interview with Hindustan Times. On Pakistan’s role in the peace process, Mamundzay said Islamabad has not delivered as expected. Here are excerpts from the interview:Q: With the US president announcing the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan will be completed by August 31, which is much earlier than expected, what is your assessment of the security situation? Would you agree with the feeling in some quarters that the US drawdown could have been handled better? A: Following the announcement by the US president about the withdrawal of US and international troops, the Taliban has waged a war against the Afghan government and the public. And that has made the situation very dire, not only in terms of security, but this has caused a humanitarian catastrophe. Over 200,000 people have been displaced since April 14, 2021, close to 4,000 civilians who have been killed. So this could have been handled in a more organised and planned manner. Now, the withdrawal would be completed in several weeks time. We were expecting that we will go through a very troubling time once these forces leave. And we are right, we are going through that phase now. There is an active conflict going on and in almost 150 districts, the Taliban have captured many centres of our districts. Now, just remember that some of our districts are very large. So it’s difficult for them to hold the entire district. But what is significant for both the Taliban and our government is to hold the centre or capital of the district. Taliban has been capturing a number of capitals of the districts, which has caused an outcry from the local population and the government. In the past three days, we have been able to recapture 10 districts. Now, this would continue for a number of months, we would capture districts, they would recapture them. The withdrawal comes in a very un-fashioned manner. This could have been handled properly. Q: How do you look at assessments by some Western capitals that the Afghan forces are not prepared and they’re going to collapse? And how much of a factor is air support? A: First, if you have looked at US President Biden’s interview on Thursday, [he] denied that there has been any such assessment on the part of the US intelligence community, but in any case, the assumption that the government would collapse in six or 12 months, I think, is a very unrealistic assessment. We outnumber the Taliban by five or six times, a force of 70,000 to 75,000 cannot face a force of around 400,000. Also, given our landmass, our country consists of 652,000 sq km, one-fifth the size of India with almost 400 districts. It’s a very big country with very difficult terrain and it’s very difficult to be guarded by 400,000 people with a population of over 35 million. So the assessment, I think, is unrealistic. Like I said, we are going through a turbulent time, but the resilience of our people and the heroic patriotism of our forces is there to defend Afghanistan. In terms of air support, that’s the game-changer for us. Our assessment is, if we have the required air support, the Taliban would never be able to capture any district. And just to give you one instance, should we have 15 to 20 Mi-35 helicopters, or 30 to 40 Black Hawks or Chinook gunships, they would not be able to hold ground. The Afghan forces are still in their development phase, we have not yet got to a stage where we have a full conventional army. Taliban have the same equipment, weapons and ammunition that we have. Our superiority lies in air support and we appreciate the support that the US has recently promised, that they would support us with more air support. We call on all responsible countries in the region, including Russia, Iran and India, to provide us with the required air support. There are two components in air support – one is logistics, which also requires support, and one is helicopters used for fighting on the battleground, which is more critical than the logistic support. Q: So if India could provide more helicopters, that would be welcomed? A: We look to India for the light combat helicopters or LCH, of which we recently received two. We would want more of these helicopters. Q: Have you raised this officially? A: Not yet, no, we are waiting for the helicopters to be received from the US. Once we receive delivery of those, we are also raising our air force, which is not big enough to look after these precious assets. We are also in the training phase of growing the air force. So should we get to that stage, we will be requesting India to provide us with more support. Q: The Taliban’s current strategy seems to be a mix of getting hold of territory and capturing key trade posts on the borders with Central Asian states. What could be their game plan? What do you think is behind this strategy? A: There are several components. First, the Taliban are delaying the peace process. On July 5, they announced they would come up with a peace proposal next month. So, effectively they’re giving themselves two months’ time. Now, next month is a very vague term, when you are in the very first week of July, and you give yourself the luxury of prolonging that duration to next month. Technically, it could be the end of August, which leaves us with eight or nine weeks. You make Afghan people suffer for eight more weeks, inflicting heavy human and property losses. So it indicates that first, they want to delay the peace process despite the fact that there have been efforts on part of Iran to bring the [Afghan] government and Taliban to the negotiating table and have some sort of breakthrough, which didn’t happen sadly. Taliban are delaying this because they want to gain more territory so that they would speak from a position of strength should we get to the negotiating table again. Second, they want to prove to their foot soldiers, ground commanders and affiliates and associates that they are back in power. We have reports that Al-Qaeda, Jundullah, ETIM, LeT and JeM are celebrating Taliban’s victories. So the joyous moment for them is that the emirate is back, they would have a place where they could be used as a launching pad again for their operations. So in order to justify to those supporters, it is crucial for them to gain more territory and hold it. Third, some Taliban leaders say they want to settle previous scores. For them, an element of revenge also exists, they think they have been treated badly in the past and it’s time for them to do the same, which goes against Islamic values and principles. Q: There are a multiplicity of processes involving Iran, Russia, Qatar and Turkey to negotiate with the Taliban. Do you think these processes are really delivering? A: I think none of these processes delivered sadly. We started the process with very good faith back in September, fulfilling all those commitments that a responsible government was supposed to do. But we were faced with a group that didn’t respond positively to the requests and desires of the Afghan people. If you look at the US-Taliban agreement, there were six commitments made – three on the part of the American and three on the part of the Taliban. The American commitments were they would release 6,000 Taliban prisoners, they would help form a negotiating team from the Afghan republic, and that they would withdraw from Afghanistan. The Taliban commitments were that they will cease violence, cut ties with international terrorist groups and they would enter the peace process with good faith. Now, without being party to [the agreement], we delivered on the two commitments made by the US and released 6,000 prisoners and formed a team for negotiations. On the part of the Taliban, none of the three commitments was honoured. And President Biden said [on Thursday] that he doesn’t trust Taliban. This comes from the failure of the Taliban to honour any of those three commitments. You saw the recent UN Security Council report which states Taliban have not cut ties with international terrorist groups, including al-Qaeda or with any regional or international terrorist groups. Second, they didn’t stop the violence. There has been no suspicion of violence. We are on the brink of a huge influx of refugees to neighbouring countries, Turkey and the West. This is caused by the Taliban. In the past 20 years, this is the first time that Afghans are leaving their home. We invested heavily to bring those people back. So none of those processes, whether it was the extended Troika in Moscow, Tehran, Istanbul, Qatar, delivered any results. We feel that the Taliban are buying time for themselves to continue with their military adventurism and capture more land. And then when we get to winter, they will propose peace negotiations when fighting is difficult. And then they speak from the position of strength that we hold XYZ percentage of the landmass, now agree to a peace deal on our terms, or else face defeat. Q: The situation in Afghanistan can’t be delinked from the role of regional players, especially Pakistan. What do you think of efforts made by regional players so far to get the peace process moving? Have they delivered? A: I think the country in the region with the most influence over the Taliban is Pakistan, which has been hosting the Taliban over the past 20 years. The Quetta Shura, Miranshah Shura, Peshawar Shura – they all exist in Pakistan. We understand that Pakistan may not fully control the Taliban, but they have a significant amount of leverage and influence over the Taliban. We expected Pakistan to play a very constructive role to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table, use that influence that the Pakistanis used to help the Americans. We understand that had Pakistan not supported the deal between the US and Taliban, there would have been no deal. We expected the government of Pakistan to help us in the same manner, in the same spirit so that Kabul and the Taliban reach a dignified and lasting deal. We sadly have not seen the kind of role that we expected Islamabad to play. I hope in the weeks ahead, that calculus will change and they will begin to play a more constructive role. Q: India is the largest regional donor in Afghanistan and has done a lot of work on the development side. What are your country’s expectations now from India and what kind of support are you looking for? There’s been some talk of Afghanistan seeking help from India for the listing and delisting of Taliban leaders at the UN Security Council because there is a feeling they have possibly been given too much freedom to travel. Could India play a role there? A: I think the three things that India can do – first, extending to us the required political and diplomatic support, which has always been there, but enhancing and strengthening that role both at the UN and other regional and international forums, with things like listing and delisting, raising the voice of the Afghan people, getting the consensus required in the region for the peace process. And being an active member in the peace process on the side of the Afghan people, so that’s the first thing – where India can use its convening power to support the peace process. Two, India can and should continue with economic and development assistance. And that could be used as leverage. When peace talks begin, it could be used as a way to send the right signals to the Taliban, that should they value democratic processes and preserve the gains of the past 20 years, India would continue assisting the Afghan people. Third, together with diplomatic and political and economic assistance, is possible security assistance should we not reach a dignified and lasting peace deal with the Taliban. If we get to a stage where war is imposed on the Afghan public, then we look at India for military and security assistance to protect our people and to fight terrorist groups. So we have not yet got to that stage, we’re still giving peace a chance. Q: Would this assistance involve troops or is Afghanistan opposed to boots on the ground? A: We would want no boots on the ground. There is the required manpower who are willing to take arms and fight for their country and sacrifice. Despite the fact that there’s a lot of violence there, the people have always been there to be recruited for our security forces. [We want] more support for our military, more military hardware, more intelligence and logistics support, financial resources, things of those nature. The fighting could be done by the Afghans. And one fact to be remembered – we are not fighting a civil war, we are fighting regional and global terrorism. In the Taliban and their ranks, there is a big percentage of foreign fighters. Those foreign fighters are irreconcilable. We want the Taliban to become part of mainstream society, come back and live in peace with us, integrate back into the mainstream polity of Afghanistan. But we would always have a problem with foreign fighters, with irreconcilable elements. Therefore, India with other major powers in the region, including Russia, China and Iran, should come forward and support the Afghan and Afghan army, who are fighting a major war on behalf of the region and the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hope-pakistan-begins-to-play-more-constructive-role-in-peace-process-afghan-ambassador-101625848231278.html
09-07-2021||World||Diamond sold for $12 million in cryptocurrency||A 101.38-carat diamond was sold at Sotheby’s for HK$95.1 million ($12.3 million) in cryptocurrency, becoming the most expensive piece of jewelry sold through such type of payment, the auction house said.The pear-shaped diamond was sold to an unidentified private collector on Friday, Sotheby’s said in a statement.Prior to the sale, the international auction house said it would take Bitcoin or Ether as payment for the diamond, which fetched less than the estimate of as much as $15 million in the single-lot offering in Hong Kong. The auction was livestreamed and attracted no more than a dozen bids.Earlier in the week, Sotheby’s said it was the most expensive physical object ever publicly offered for purchase with cryptocurrency.Auction houses are increasingly accepting cryptocurrencies for payment, with Phillips offering a piece from street artist Banksy last month for Ether or Bitcoin. Christie’s accepted payment in Ether in March for the record $69.3 million sale of Beeple’s “Everydays: the First 5,000 Days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/diamond-sold-for-12-million-in-cryptocurrency-101625845323364.html
09-07-2021||World||Hungary concerned over efficacy of China's Sinopharm vaccine||Hungary's capital city is offering free antibody testing to its elderly residents in a bid to ratchet up pressure on the government over concerns that certain vaccines don't provide adequate protection against the coronavirus.The offer of 20,000 free tests, available for Budapest residents over 60, came after many fully vaccinated people reported that tests they had undergone at private laboratories indicated that they hadn't developed antibodies to defend against Covid-19.Budapest Deputy Mayor Ambrus Kiss said those reports came primarily from people who received China's Sinopharm vaccine, convincing city leaders that there was “a genuine problem." He said the government should consider offering third doses to those with inadequate immune response.“If there is such a loss of confidence in certain vaccines, then the government needs to order a third dose and free up the capacities for giving them,” Kiss told The Associated Press, adding that the tests are available to anyone over 60 regardless of which vaccine they received.“We think the the more tests we perform, the more societal pressure there is for a third dose,” Kiss said. The testing drive will continue next week, and initial results will likely be released next week with the full results expected by the end of the month.Hungary was an early vaccination leader in the European Union, due largely to its procurement of jabs from eastern countries like Russia and China, on top of vaccines received through the EU.It was the first country in the 27-member bloc to approve Russia's Sputnik V vaccine, and is the only one to deploy China's Sinopharm. More than 5.1 million doses of the jab have been distributed to Hungary, of which it has administered more than 2 million, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.While government officials insist there is no reason to offer a third dose of the Sinopharm vaccine, critics of the jab - including Budapest's liberal mayor Gergely Karacsony - have cast doubt over its efficacy.In announcing the city's antibody testing campaign in June, Karacsony referred specifically to the Chinese vaccine as the reason for the measure. He pointed to other countries like Bahrein and the United Arab Emirates, which have offered booster shots for some Sinopharm recipients amid efficacy concerns.Both Sinopharm and Sinovac, another Chinese company who has produced its own vaccine, said in April that they were looking at whether a booster shot could help better protect against Covid-19.Karacsony often spars with Hungary’s right-wing government and is considered a front-runner for replacing Prime Minister Viktor Orban in national elections next year.Sinopharm jab recipient Maria Szaniszlo, 78, said she backed a move to offer booster shots to anyone who needs them.“There is news that the Chinese vaccine isn’t reliable because it doesn’t offer protection to many people,” said Szaniszlo after showing up on Thursday for an antibody test in the capital. “I decided that I wanted to know too ... They sent me the (immunity) card saying I’m protected, but I’ll find out tomorrow if I really am.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hungary-concerned-over-efficacy-of-china-s-sinopharm-vaccine-101625842378752.html
09-07-2021||World||Germany lists all of Spain as Covid-19 risk area||Germany declared all of Spain a coronavirus risk area on Friday after Spanish COVID-19 infection rates more than doubled in a week as the Delta variant spread rapidly among unvaccinated young adults.The move, which includes the Balearic and Canary islands and takes effect on Sunday, will have a small immediate impact on travellers as it merely means they have to provide a negative test to avoid quarantine.However, a further rise in Spain's infection rate could lead to mandatory quarantine for unvaccinated travellers, causing uncertainty ahead of the peak school summer holiday season, when Germans flock to beach destinations abroad.Highly dependent on tourism, Spain is trying to strike a balance between opening up enough to entice back travellers while keeping infections in check to avoid putting off potential visitors.Spanish travel associations said the measure would further damage the already struggling sector."It's ridiculous the lack of coordination between EU member states on travel recommendations," said Juan Molas, head of the Mesa del Turismo association.Mallorca's FEHM hotel federation, whose members rely heavily on German travellers, said the move was far from trivial."It serves as a clear disincentive for tourists, further complicating the fragility of this season," the group said.Tourism Minister Reyes Maroto said Spain was a safe destination for tourists, citing its vaccination programme and hospitalised patient numbers being kept under control.She spoke after a report that Germany planned to add Spain to its risk list and after French Junior European Affairs Minister Clement Beaune advised French people to avoid Spain and Portugal for their summer holidays.Germany's foreign ministry said it was also designating Cyprus as a high incidence area, meaning that incoming travellers must quarantine - which can be shortened if they test negative five days after entering the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-lists-all-of-spain-as-covid-19-risk-area-101625838296123.html
09-07-2021||World||North Korea rejected free AstraZeneca jabs, not keen on Chinese vaccines: Report||North Korea has rejected the shipments of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine and is not keen on Chinese vaccines as well, a South Korea think-tank has said. COVAX had decided to provide nearly two million doses to North Korea under its global distribution scheme, of which the Serum Institute of India is a major contributor.South Korea said that the first batch of Covid-19 vaccines was expected in May but the delivery was delayed amid protracted consultations, according to news agency Reuters. The reclusive country has not reported a single case of coronavirus disease to date, a claim many experts are apprehensive about.Institute for National Security Strategy (INSS), affiliated with South Korea’s spy agency, said in its report that Pyongyang has rejected the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine over safety concerns. Apart from AstraZeneca, North Korea is also not keen on Chinese vaccines due to concerns over their efficacy, the INSS report said.North Korea has reportedly shown interest in vaccines developed by Russia, hoping that the neighbouring country would provide the shots free of charge. “It’s leaning towards the Russian vaccine, yet no arrangements have been made,” Lee Sang-keun, director of strategic research on the Korean peninsula at INSS, told Reuters.Several European countries and the United States earlier this year halted administering the AstraZeneca vaccine after severe blood clotting events were reported in some recipients. While the US decided to not use its AstraZeneca shots, many European countries resumed vaccination following a report by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) that said the vaccine’s benefits continue to outweigh its risks.But western countries have the option of purchasing high-cost vaccines developed by Pfizer-BioTech and Moderna. On the other hand, North Korea is hugely dependent on donations as the country is witnessing a serious economic downturn, exacerbated by sanctions imposed by the United States."We continue to work with DPRK authorities, as we work with all the countries we serve, to help respond to the Covid-19 pandemic," a spokesperson for the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) alliance told Reuters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-rejected-free-astrazeneca-jabs-not-keen-on-chinese-vaccines-report-101625844234948.html
09-07-2021||World||Covid-19 not slowing down yet, Delta variant spreading rapidly: WHO’s chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan||With the spread of the Delta variant of Covid-19, the number of infections has been rising across most regions of the world, chief scientist of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Soumya Swaminathan said on Friday. She also called it clear evidence that the pandemic is not on the wane yet, news agency Bloomberg reported.In an interview to Bloomberg Television, Dr Swaminathan said that most parts of the world have been facing a shortage of medical oxygen, a lack of hospital beds and higher mortality rates while the vaccination levels in some countries have been mitigating severe cases of infection and also the hospitalisation.“In the last 24 hours, close to 500,000 new cases have been reported and about 9,300 deaths -- now that’s not a pandemic that’s slowing down,” Bloomberg quoted Dr Swaminathan as saying.Also read| 'We should be watchful': Govt on Covid's Lambda variant in IndiaFive out of the six WHO regions have witnessed an increase in the number of cases being reported and in Africa, mortality rates spiked by 30% to 40%, she mentioned. She also said that the “fast-spreading” Covid-19 Delta variant is the main reason behind the increase in the infection while the slow rate of vaccination rollout across the world along with the relaxation of safety measures like mandatory wearing of masks and physical distancing rules.Earlier in the day, director-general of the WHO Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus too emphasised on the need for increased vaccinations against the coronavirus disease. “I'm worried about the emergence of a potent #COVID19 virus variant, like Delta. Unless we increase vaccine access to those who need them first & need them now, we're collectively at high risk of losing the gains we've made. Speed is very important,” he said in a tweet.The WHO chief’s warning came ahead of the restrictions set to be relaxed in the United Kingdom on July 19. Also, the US and some countries in Europe have already eased some restrictions following the fall in the number of cases.As of 2pm (IST) on Friday, 185,038,806 cases of Covid-19 have been reported globally, according to the WHO’s dashboard and 4,006,882 people have lost their lives so far.(With inputs from Bloomberg)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-not-slowing-down-yet-delta-variant-spreading-rapidly-who-s-chief-scientist-dr-soumya-swaminathan-101625843487253.html
09-07-2021||World||11 armed suspects try to break into Taiwan embassy in Haiti; arrested||Two days after the assassination of Haitian president Jovenel Moise, 11 armed suspects tried to break into the Taiwanese embassy in Port-au-Prince, said Taiwan foreign ministry on Friday. The ministry said that all suspects have been arrested, without giving any details about their identities or their reason for the break-in.“As for whether the suspects were involved in the assassination of the President of Haiti, that will need to be investigated by the Haitian police,” Taiwan’s foreign affairs spokesperson Joanne Ou told The Associated Press.The suspects attempted to break into the embassy while Taiwanese diplomats were working from home. The embassy security guards alerted the police regarding criminal trespass, officials said. According to Taiwan’s foreign ministry, some doors and windows were broken but there was no other damage to the embassy.Also Read | PM Modi sends condolences to Haiti over assassination of President Jovenel MoiseHaiti is one of a handful of countries that maintain diplomatic ties with Taiwan instead of the rival mainland Chinese government in Beijing. The Caribbean island of more than 11 million people had grown unstable under Moise but the president’s assassination has exacerbated the uncertainty over the country’s politics.Moise was found assassinated at his private residence on Wednesday. Haiti’s interim prime minister Claude Joseph said in a statement that a group of unidentified assailants attacked Moise’s home at around 1am and fatally shot the head of the state. First Lady Martine Moise also sustained injuries and is currently receiving treatment at a hospital in Miami, US.Seventeen suspects have been detained so far in connection with Moise’s assassination but officials have not revealed the motive behind the killing. Among the suspects are two US citizens who were arrested by the Haitian police on Thursday. One of the arrested men was a former bodyguard at the Canadian embassy in Haitian capital Port au Prince, as per Associated Press report.(With AP inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/11-armed-suspects-try-to-break-into-taiwan-embassy-in-haiti-arrested-101625840237104.html
09-07-2021||World||‘Devastating: South Africa buckles under Covid-19 wave driven by Delta variant||South Africa on Friday announced its plan to start vaccinating people under 50s as the country buckles under the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) largely driven by the highly contagious Delta variant. South Africa last week reported the highest single-day infections since the start of the pandemic, and reports suggest that South Africa’s healthcare system is at a breaking point.A senior doctor at a major public hospital in Johannesburg said that Covid-19 patients are dying while waiting to be admitted in a ward, reported CNN. “It's devastating, it's soul destroying. We are trained to save lives, but you revert to that wartime mentality. You revert to becoming numbed, you revert to becoming blunted," the doctor was quoted by CNN as saying.The decision to expand the age group for vaccination eligibility comes at a time when the number of daily new deaths related to Covid-19 is witnessing another surge. Reported average Covid-19 cases per day in South Africa over the past week has been hovering around 333 per million people, making it one of the worst-affect countries in the region per capita.South Africa has administered at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine to around 6% of its population and the percentage of the fully vaccinated population is just over 2%, making the country vulnerable to deadly coronavirus variants, especially the Delta strain which has higher chances, as per recent studies, of evading vaccine-induced immunity as well as natural immunity.With more than 2.1 million overall Covid-19 cases so far, South Africa accounts for 37 per cent of the continent's infections, followed by Morocco and Tunisia with nine and eight per cent respectively, according to the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Leading virologist Tulio de Oliveira told a weekly media briefing that the Delta variant "is still fast spreading" in the country."What's happening in South Africa is happening in many countries that still have low vaccination rates."The South African government recently approved the use of Chinese vaccines Sinovac and Sinopharm, extending the list of approved vaccines along with Pfizer-BioNTech and Johnson & Johnson jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/devastating-south-africa-buckles-under-covid-19-wave-driven-by-delta-variant-101625837321458.html
09-07-2021||World||Afghanistan not heading to ‘dark age’, ties with India intact, says envoy||Afghanistan is not heading back to the “dark age” as 40 member states of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) are currently fighting a war on terror, said the country’s envoy to India Farid Mamundzay. After the withdrawal of the NATO forces, it was expected that the country would have to face a difficult period, he added.“We are not heading to a dark age. We need to remember there were 40+ NATO member countries fighting a war on terror. After their withdrawal, this was expected that we would be going through a difficult period,” the Afghan ambassador was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Friday.Speaking on ties with India, Mamundzay said it has been a major partner of Afghanistan and can play a constructive role in “our peace process, together with other regional actors”. “India can utilise its convening power to put more pressure on the Taliban through diplomatic channels to come to the negotiating table,” he said while urging the latter to cease violence as the process of withdrawal of US troops nears completion.“We are concerned over the intensity of violence and we call on the Taliban that they need to cease violence since the withdrawal of international forces is complete to a larger extent. It's time to put an end to the bloodshed of innocent people,” he said.Also Read: No military solution': Biden says war in Afghanistan will end August 31Mamundzay’s statement came hours after AFP reported that Taliban negotiator Shahabuddin Delawar has claimed the group now controls "85 percent of Afghanistan's territory", roughly covering some 250 of the country's 398 districts. Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova also spoke about Taliban’s growing influence in the region, as the group "currently controls about two-thirds" of the country’s border with Tajikistan.More than 1,000 Afghan soldiers were forced to flee to Tajikistan this week after clashing with the Taliban, marking the third time this month Taliban has forced troops to flee to save their lives. Regarding the recent spate of violence, the envoy said, “Over 3,600 people have been killed since April, civilians alone. Close to 1,000 soldiers have been martyred, over 3000 have been wounded. So the cost that we pay with human lives is unparalleled.”Mamundzay said there have been no talks on closing the Indian consulate in his country as there is no immediate security threat. “The people of Afghanistan value and want the presence of Indian consulates, its decision for the people and government to make with the Indian government. We see no immediate threat. There are no such talks on closing Indian consulates,” he said.He also spoke about the presence of Shuras in Pakistan which he said was “something of great concern to us”. “Their families still live there. They have the support and infrastructure currently present in Pakistan, we would want to see that changed.”Meanwhile, external affairs minister S Jaishankar, who held a meeting with Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, during the day said the situation in Afghanistan occupied a lot of our attention because it has a direct implication for regional security. “We believe that the immediate need of the day is really a reduction in violence,” he said.Also Read: 'Legitimacy aspect' of ruling Afghanistan should not be ignored, says JaishankarUS President Joe Biden told reporters on Thursday that US troops will completely withdraw from the war-ravaged country on August 31, while stating that America did not go to Afghanistan to “nation build” and that “Afghan leaders have to come together and drive toward a future”. The Biden administration’s plan to evacuate thousands of Afghans who helped the US military as translators, informers, and drivers during their deployment, is also under intense scrutiny from many Congressional lawmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-not-heading-to-dark-age-ties-with-india-intact-says-envoy-101625832508060.html
09-07-2021||World||Afghan pilots assassinated by Taliban as US withdraws||Afghan Air Force Major Dastagir Zamaray had grown so fearful of Taliban assassinations of off-duty forces in Kabul that he decided to sell his home to move to a safer pocket of Afghanistan's sprawling capital.Instead of being greeted by a prospective buyer at his realtor's office earlier this year, the 41-year-old pilot was confronted by a gunman who walked inside and, without a word, fatally shot the real estate agent in the mouth.Zamaray reached for his sidearm but the gunman shot him in the head. The father of seven collapsed dead on his 14-year-old son, who had tagged along. The boy was spared, but barely speaks anymore, his family says.Zamaray “only went there because he personally knew the realtor and thought it was safe," Samiullah Darman, his brother-in-law, told Reuters. "We didn’t know that he would never come back."At least seven Afghan pilots, including Zamaray, have been assassinated off base in recent months, according to two senior Afghan government officials. This series of targeted killings, which haven't been previously reported, illustrate what US and Afghan officials believe is a deliberate Taliban effort to destroy one of Afghanistan's most valuable military assets: its corps of US- and NATO-trained military pilots.In so doing, the Taliban -- who have no air force -- are looking to level the playing field as they press major ground offensives. The militants are quickly seizing territory once controlled by the US-backed government of President Ashraf Ghani, raising fears they could eventually try to topple Kabul.Reuters confirmed the identities of two of the slain pilots through family members. It could not independently verify the names of the other five who were allegedly targeted.In response to questions from Reuters, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid confirmed the group had killed Zamaray, and that it had started a program that will see Afghan Air Force pilots “targeted and eliminated because all of them do bombardment against their people."A U.N. report documented 229 civilian deaths caused by the Taliban in Afghanistan in the first three months of 2021, and 41 civilian deaths caused by the Afghan Air Force over the same period.Afghanistan's government has not publicly disclosed the number of pilots assassinated in targeted killings. The nation's Defense Ministry did not respond to requests for comment. The Pentagon said it was aware of the deaths of several Afghan pilots in killings claimed by the Taliban, but declined comment on US intelligence and investigations.Afghan military pilots are particularly attractive assassination targets, current and former US and Afghan officials say. They can strike Taliban forces massing for major attacks, shuttle commandos to missions and provide life-saving air cover for Afghan ground troops. Pilots take years to train and are hard to replace, representing an outsized blow to the country's defenses with every loss.Shoot-downs and accidents are ever-present risks. Yet these pilots often are most vulnerable in the streets of their own neighborhoods, where attackers can come from anywhere, said retired US Brigadier General David Hicks, who commanded the training effort for the Afghan Air Force from 2016 to 2017."Their lives were at much greater risk during that time (off base) than they were while they were flying combat missions," Hicks said.Although Taliban assassinations of pilots have happened in years past, the recent killings take on greater significance as the Afghan Air Force is tested like never before.Just last week, US forces left America’s main military bastion in Afghanistan, Bagram Air Base outside Kabul, as they complete their withdrawal from the country 20 years after ousting the Taliban following the Al Qaeda attacks of Sept. 11, 2001."Pilots are on top of the Taliban's hit list," the senior Afghan government official said.That Afghan official and two others, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they're working to protect pilots and their families, moving some to on-base housing and relocating others to safer civilian neighborhoods.A White House National Security Council spokesperson strongly condemned “all targeted assassinations in Afghanistan” and stressed US commitments to continue providing security assistance to the Afghan military.The Afghan Air Force is heavily dependent on US training, equipment and maintenance as well as logistics to ensure a reliable pipeline of munitions and spare parts. The Pentagon has yet to fully detail how it will keep Afghan aviators flying after the US-led mission formally ends in coming weeks, as ordered by President Joe Biden.The Pentagon told Reuters it would seek to provide Afghanistan with extra aircraft to ease the strain of combat losses and maintenance downtime.David Petraeus, a former CIA director and former commander of US forces in Afghanistan, warned that failure of the United States to provide enough support for the Afghan military could be disastrous."We are potentially consigning Afghanistan and the Afghan people to a civil war," Petraeus said in an interview.Washington is moving to evacuate interpreters who worked for the US military, but it’s unclear if the Biden administration would risk doing the same for Afghan forces, like pilots. Some officials believe offering an exit strategy for elite Afghan troops could accelerate a feared collapse following the US withdrawal.US intelligence assessments have warned that the Afghan government could fall in as little as six months, two US officials told Reuters."No one wants to have the (Afghan forces) preemptively throw in the towel," another US official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.Precious, Over-stretchedTwo Afghan Air Force pilots were killed on June 7 while trying to evacuate troops wounded during a surge of fighting against the Taliban insurgency.The Taliban claimed responsibility for shooting down their Russian-made, US-financed Mi-17 helicopter. Local media identified the deceased pilots as Milad Massoud and Abdul Alim Shahrayari. The Afghan Defense Ministry said in a statement that the aircraft crashed, but it did not say why, nor would it identify the pilots. An Afghan official, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed the chopper was shot down.Both the crew and the aircraft were precious.The Afghan fleet contained just 13 Mi-17 helicopters and 65 qualified aircrews of pilots and co-pilots to fly them, according to US military data from April 2021 and November 2020, respectively.Those data show the entire Afghan Air Force comprises 339 qualified aircrews and 160 aircraft -- less than a quarter of the fleet size of US commercial carrier Southwest Airlines. The "usable" fleet is even smaller - around 140 aircraft - after accounting for aircraft undergoing maintenance, according to the same April data.Built in America's image, the Afghan Air Force is equipped with UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters and lumbering C-130H transport aircraft, neither of which Afghans know how to maintain, according to a Pentagon report released in April. Those aircraft are serviced by US-funded contractors, which also handle most maintenance for the rest of the fleet, including A-29 Super Tucano light attack aircraft, AC-208 Eliminator planes and MD-530 helicopters, according to that report.A separate 2020 report by the Pentagon's Lead Inspector General warned that Afghanistan's fleet would stop being "combat effective" within a few months if the Afghan Air Force were to lose contractor support. The Pentagon has not said how many contractors will remain in Afghanistan.Reuters contacted two large US defense contractors that support the Afghan Air Force: Leidos Holdings Inc and DynCorp International, now part of Amentum Services Inc. Spokespeople for those companies declined to say how many contractors, if any, were still in Afghanistan.In comments to Reuters, the Pentagon acknowledged the withdrawal of contractors could impact routine maintenance, something it was working to address. Spokesman Major Rob Lodewick said it had already become common practice to send aircraft abroad for heavy maintenance.Petraeus said that’s not only costly, but it’s "impractical" in a wartime setting to fly aircraft out of Afghanistan for repairs. Remote instruction and meetings via video-conference also have natural limitations.Along with Afghanistan's Special Forces, the Afghan Air Force is a pillar of the nation's strategy for preventing a Taliban takeover of cities. In addition to providing air cover and performing bombing raids, pilots conduct medical evacuations, ferry supplies and transport troops for the country's over-stretched army.Since Biden’s April withdrawal announcement, Taliban militants have more than doubled the number of districts under their control in Afghanistan to 203, which is nearly half the country’s 407 districts, according to the Long War Journal, an online publication associated with the conservative think-tank Foundation for Defense of Democracies in Washington. Reuters could not independently verify the data.Western security officials said insurgent forces have captured more than 100 districts, but the Taliban say they have control of more than 200 districts in 34 provinces comprising over half the Central Asian country.The US military has stopped releasing its tally of Taliban-controlled districts and says that information is now classified. But on Thursday, a Pentagon spokesman acknowledged the Taliban had taken "dozens" of district centers.Swift gains by the Taliban are putting more strain on Afghan Air Force crews and aircraft to repel the advances, four US officials said.Even before the latest wave of Taliban offensives, the Afghan Air Force was flying missions at a faster pace than anticipated, piling up maintenance checks that took more planes out of circulation, according to a May report by the Pentagon's Inspector General.General Austin Miller, the commander of US-led forces in Afghanistan, warned on June 29 that he was concerned about "overuse" of the Afghan Air Force."If you overuse the organizations, it's difficult for them to ... reconstitute," Miller told reporters.In remarks from the White House on Thursday, Biden said aid to Afghanistan’s military would continue after the US military mission ends on Aug 31. But Biden was hardly optimistic about Afghanistan’s future, casting doubt on the two-decade-old project to preserve a unified, centralized state. Still, he said a Taliban victory was not inevitable."I trust the capacity of the Afghan military, which is better trained, better equipped and more competent” than the Taliban, he told reporters.Stay and Fight?It wasn't just Taliban death threats against him and his family that drove decorated Afghan helicopter pilot Major Naiem Asadi out of Afghanistan. Asadi said the Afghan Air Force had failed to do enough to protect pilots vulnerable to off-base assassinations."They spend a lot of money on (the training) of these pilots, but they can't spend any money on the pilots for their security," Asadi told Reuters in an interview, after arriving in New Jersey in June to start his bid for asylum.Asadi complained that not all Afghan pilots got paid the same or even regularly. As a member of the ethnic Hazara minority, Asadi believed he was also passed up for promotion."They are not taking care of every pilot equally," he said.The Afghan military did not respond to requests for comment on Asadi’s case. Asadi did not show Reuters documentation to support his discrimination claims.Experts say the morale of Afghan forces could prove critical in preventing collapse, given the momentum of the Taliban and the perceived weakness of the Afghan central government in key parts of the country.On Sunday, more than 1,000 Afghan security personnel fled across the border into Tajikistan following Taliban advances in northern Afghanistan. Almost 300 flew back to Afghanistan on Wednesday, and officials in Kabul continue to express confidence in the Afghan security forces.A review by a US government watchdog found nearly half of all foreign military trainees who went Absent Without Leave (AWOL) while training in the United States since 2005 were from Afghanistan. The Pentagon eventually halted training of Afghan pilots inside the United States.Niloofar Rahmani, the first female fixed-wing pilot in the Afghan Air Force, won asylum in the United States in 2018 after receiving death threats from the Taliban and others in Afghan society who condemned her for working alongside the US military.Rahmani, who is now training in Florida to become a flight instructor, said the Afghan government didn't take those threats seriously enough and that even some of her fellow pilots didn't think women should fly. She said she wasn't paid for a year.Still, the decision to leave Afghanistan wasn’t an easy one."It honestly broke my heart, I was depressed for two years just thinking about it," Rahmani said, explaining she felt like she had abandoned her family and what once seemed like a promising military career. She said she feared many pilots would drop out of the force "because of lack of support, because of the threat."The Afghan military did not respond to a request for comment on Rahmani’s case.An active-duty Afghan pilot, speaking to Reuters on condition of anonymity from Afghanistan, said he, too, was trying to figure out a way to flee the country in the face of deteriorating security.Some are finding the US door shut. Mohd Hamayoun Zarin, a former A-29 pilot, expressed shock that the US Embassy in Kabul rejected his visa request in March.As an Afghan Air Force veteran who spent years training in America, Zarin is convinced the Taliban will make good on their many threats to kill him and his family now that US troops are leaving.It would be payback, he says."I wasn't dropping flowers on them. These were bombs," Zarin said in an interview, detailing his case publicly for the first time in the hopes that the United States might reconsider.In its letter to Zarin, viewed by Reuters, the US Embassy in Kabul said he was ineligible for the same visas set aside for interpreters because he did not work directly for the United States, but rather for the Afghan government.Zarin said that distinction makes little difference on the ground in Afghanistan, where he was known as an English-speaking pilot who spent years training in the United States.The State Department declined comment on Zarin’s case, saying visa applications are confidential.Trained KillersMasood Atal, a Black Hawk helicopter pilot, was driving on his day off on Dec. 30 to buy fruit for his mother when two motorcycles flanked his gray Toyota Corolla on a Kandahar city highway, one on each side of the car.Gunmen on the back of both bikes opened fire on Atal, shooting him 11 times, once in the face, six times in his right arm and hand, the rest in his chest, his family said.Atal had confided to his family that he had received Taliban death threats, the latest in an expletive-laced phone call just two days before he was killed."We're killing you," they told him, recounted Bashir Ahmad, one of Atal's brothers.Atal had asked for bodyguards and a bullet-proof car but the Afghan military turned him down, Ahmad said, accusing it of being "very weak on these things."An Afghan military spokesman, Sadeq Esa, confirmed Atal had been killed by the Taliban but did not provide further comment about his case.The Taliban confirmed it killed Atal and said it would do the same to other pilots.“Targeting those who bombard civilians, who drop blind bombs on civilian houses, is an obligation for us and we will do this,” Mujahid, the Taliban spokesman, told Reuters.For Atal's parents, it was their fifth child killed in the many decades of fighting in Afghanistan. In 1984, during the Soviet occupation, a rocket fired by an anti-Soviet mujahideen landed in front of their children's school in Kandahar, killing another son and three daughters, the family said.Such crossfire has killed untold numbers of Afghan civilians. But there was nothing indiscriminate about Atal's killing, his family said. The Taliban "are absolutely focusing on the pilots first ... to make the Afghan government vulnerable enough so they can be beaten," said another brother, Waheed.Catching the killers of Afghan pilots has proven difficult.A few weeks after the January shooting of Zamaray, the airman shot dead in his realtor's office, Kabul police told the family they had made an arrest. They asked Zamaray's 14-year-old son to identify the suspect.Glimpsing the detainee at the police station, the teen informed police they had the wrong man. Police tried to convince the boy that the suspect might now look different because he had a broken nose, the family said."The police were pushing (Zamaray's) son to identify and implicate the wrong person just to hide their weakness and show an achievement," Darman, Zamaray's brother-in-law, said.Afghan authorities did not respond to a request for comment on the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-pilots-assassinated-by-taliban-as-us-withdraws-101625828943049.html
09-07-2021||World||Indian-origin man arrested in Canada for smuggling 112 kg cocaine worth $14 mn||An Indian-origin man has been arrested in Canada for allegedly smuggling about 112.5 kg of cocaine into the country from the United States. Pardeep Singh, 24, was arrested after a commercial truck driven by him entered Canada at the Peace Bridge in Fort Erie in Ontario and was pulled aside for a secondary examination.Border agents discovered the cocaine, estimated at $14 million, inside five duffle bags, the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) said in a statement. Singh was arrested and transferred to the custody of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP). He has been charged with the importation of a controlled substance, contrary to the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act.CBSA district director Kim Upper hailed the seizure as an “integral role” of the agency in safeguarding the borders. “Our officers have interrupted the smuggling attempt of a massive amount of narcotics, and have put a full stop to the ripple effect these narcotics would have in neighborhoods across our country,” Upper said in a statement.Singh is set to make a court appearance in St Catharines on Friday.Despite border restrictions in place due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, commercial traffic remains open to maintain the flow of goods including food and medical supplies, vital for all Canadians.Starting July 5, some exemptions have been granted to fully vaccinated individuals for entry in certain cases. Currently, Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca/Covishield and Janssen (Johnson & Johnson) are the accepted vaccines to benefit from the exemption. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, Sputnik V, Sinopharm and Sinovac have not been approved by Canada for granting fully vaccinated status.Meanwhile, restrictions on non-essential travel are expected to remain in place until at least July 21 as the fear of the highly contagious Delta variant has caused concern for authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianorigin-man-arrested-in-canada-for-smuggling-112-kg-cocaine-worth-14-mn-101625823611714.html
09-07-2021||World||'Legitimacy aspect' of ruling Afghanistan should not be ignored, says Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday said that the issue of Afghanistan occupied a lot of attention during a meeting with his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, given its direct implication for regional security. Speaking at a joint press conference in Moscow, Jaishankar stressed the need for an immediate reduction in violence in Afghanistan."And if you have to see peace within Afghanistan and around Afghanistan, that's important for India and Russia to work together to ensure that much of the progress we have seen in economic and social and democratic terms are maintained," the external affairs minister said.Amid the Taliban's offensive to capture more parts of Afghanistan, Jaishankar underlined that whoever governs the country has a legitimacy aspect to it "which can not and should not be ignored." He said that India and Russia are committed to "independent, sovereign, united and democratic Afghanistan." The two leaders also talked about what was happening in countries like Syria, Iran and Libya as both India and Russia have long-standing interest in the region, he said. "We believe peace and stability in such a sensitive region is very important for global interest," the minister added.Earlier today, Jaishankar met Russia’s deputy prime minister Yury Borisov and also delivered a speech on “India-Russia ties in a changing world” at Primakov Institute of World Economy and International Relations in Moscow. Speaking at the event, Jaishakankar said that India-Russia relations have been among the steadiest of the major relationships in the world after the Second World War.The external affairs minister, who is on a three-day visit to Russia, acknowledged that there have been changes in the bilateral ties and issues over a period of time. But at the end of the day, Jaishankar said, the “logic of geo-politics was so compelling that we barely remember these even as minor aberrations.”“The undeniable reality of the exceptional resilience of our ties is surely a phenomenon that is worth analyzing. The paradox though is that precisely because it has held so steady, this relationship is sometimes taken for granted,” the minister said.“The case for its constant nurturing is therefore as powerful, if not more, than with the more volatile ones,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-occupied-a-lot-of-attention-jaishankar-after-meeting-with-lavrov-101625824152974.html
09-07-2021||World||China to safeguard its firms against US blacklist||China will take all necessary measures to protect its companies, the foreign ministry said on Friday when asked about a Reuters report that the United States is set to add more Chinese firms to its economic blacklist.The Biden administration is expected as early as Friday to add at least 10 more Chinese companies and other entities to the list over alleged human rights abuses and high-tech surveillance in the Chinese region of Xinjiang, the report said.Foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin made the comments at a regular news conference in Beijing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-safeguard-its-firms-against-us-blacklist-101625817378348.html
09-07-2021||World||Zaila, 14, creates history, becomes first African-American to win Spelling Bee||Zaila Avant-garde, a 14-year-old schoolgirl from the state of Louisiana, scripted history on Thursday by becoming the first African-American contestant to win the hugely popular Scripps National Spelling Bee crown.The achievement saw her break the Indian-American community’s 13-year hold on the trophy that the immigrants had come to see as their stamp of arrival in the United States.Avant-garde’s winning word was “murraya” - a genus of tropical Asiatic and Australian trees having pinnate leaves and flowers with overlapping petals.The 14-year-old who had emerged as a popular contestant with quick and easy repartees with the competition’s long-time pronouncer Jacques A Bailly, beat Chaitra Thummala, the last of the Indian-Americans in the finals of the 93rd Spelling Bee, who got the compound word - neroli oil - wrong. Neroli oil is known to be a type of essential oil that is extracted from the flowers of bitter orange trees.Balu Natarajan was the first Indian-American winner of the Spelling Bee way back in 1985.Indian-Americans won many spelling bee crowns subsequently since 2008. Their unrelenting hold on the competition has been the subject of popular documentaries.Asked about her victory, Avant-garde said, “I mean, I was a bit surprised.”“I had been warned about the confetti,” she said, referring to the celebration. “But I didn’t quite understand what they meant, so that was a bit surprising.”Nine of the 11 finalists were Indian-Americans who have dominated contest for more than a decade now.The contest was cancelled last year due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/zaila-14-creates-history-becomes-first-african-american-to-win-spelling-bee-101625816849943.html
09-07-2021||World||China evacuates 210 nationals from Afghanistan amid US troops pullout||BEIJING (AP) — China sent a flight to bring home 210 of its nationals from Afghanistan, state media reported Friday, as the US military prepares to leave the country and the security situation grows increasingly fraught.The Global Times newspaper published by the ruling Communist Party said the Xiamen Airlines flight departed July 2 from the capital Kabul and landed in the central province of Hubei. The airline confirmed the report in a post on its Twitter-like Weibo account but offered no additional details.The Global Times and other reports said 22 of those onboard tested positive for Covid-19, although those numbers did not appear on the National Health Commission’s daily report of new cases.US forces are scheduled to leave Afghanistan by Aug. 31 after nearly 20 years of battling the Taliban.Chinese companies have invested in Afghan mining and infrastructure, but those assets appear increasingly in jeopardy as the Taliban seize large amounts of territory, possibly placing Kabul at risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-evacuates-210-nationals-from-afghanistan-amid-us-troops-pullout-101625814627798.html
09-07-2021||World||With eye on Delta cases, Canada allows only fully vaccinated inbound travellers||As Canada has decided to gradually open up to international travel, the country has also seen an uptick in the number of Covid-19 cases related to the highly infectious Delta variant over the last few weeks. More than 4,600 cases related to the Delta variant of the coronavirus have been reported in Canada so far and its spread is being watched carefully by the country’s health authorities. However, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said the government was proceeding on a “step-by-step” basis and the “next step will be looking at measures that can allow for international travellers who are fully vaccinated. That will be our first focus”. Non-essential travel to Canada has been prohibited since March last year, when the Covid-19 pandemic first took hold in the country and across the world. “We are going to make sure we are moving forward on that in the coming weeks,” Trudeau said on easing restrictions on non-essential travel. However, such a move will not apply to those who are not vaccinated against the disease. “That’s not going to happen for quite a while,” the Canadian PM clarified. Canada announced easing of restrictions for citizens and permanent residents that came into effect on July 5. The requirement of isolating at a government-approved hotel for three days while results of a Covid-19 test on arrival are available was dropped for fully vaccinated individuals that qualified for the exemption. The categories of travellers benefitting from the relaxation in rules included citizens, permanent residents, their immediate and extended family members, international students with a valid study permit at a designated learning institution with a Covid-19 readiness plan approved by its province or territory, and temporary workers with valid work permits. The move also applied to those vaccinated with a jab approved for emergency use authorisation by Health Canada. Health Canada has so far approved the Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Astra Zeneca/Covishield, and Johnson & Johnson vaccines. While Covishield, the Indian version of the AZ vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, is accepted in Canada, Indian-made Covaxin and Russian-made Sputnik V are not. The Pennsylvania-based firm Ocugen has partnered with Bharat Biotech to make Covaxin available in North America, and has entered into discussions with Health Canada for regulatory approval. The vaccine has yet to receive emergency use authorisation. Restrictions remain in place for those not fully vaccinated or vaccinated with a jab not authorised in Canada. Such travellers have to complete the three-day quarantine at a government-approved hotel while awaiting results of their tests, submit to a second test on day eight of their arrival, and complete the full 14-day period of self-isolation. Travellers arriving in Canada still have to provide a negative molecular test result taken within 72 hours prior to departure. RISE IN DELTA VARIANT CASES Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam said there were 4,654 cases caused by the Delta variant, which was first detected in India. Tam released these numbers during the course of a briefing on Thursday during which she also said that this was a variant health authorities were “keeping track of quite closely”. This was the first time that Canadian health authorities have given a composite count of the number of cases linked to the Delta variant. The agency Canadian Press had reported three weeks earlier that there were approximately 2,000 cases of the variant in the country. That would mean the caseload connected to this particular variant has more than doubled in the space of 21 days. Delta was upgraded to a variant of concern (VOC) by Canadian health authorities in mid-May as it caused a severe crisis in India. There are four VOCs listed by the Canadian government, of which Alpha has been linked to 225,287, Beta to 2,298 and Gamma to 18,957 cases. In a statement released on Thursday, Tam said “recent evidence shows that all Covid-19 vaccines in use in Canada provide substantial protection against symptomatic illness and severe outcomes caused by variants of concern, with excellent protection after the second dose”. The emergence of the Delta variant also led to the imposition of a ban of direct flights from India on April 22. That suspension remains in place, after it was renewed twice despite the total cases in India falling considerably over recent weeks. Prior to the flight ban, both Air Canada and Air India were operating almost daily flights between the Canadian cities of Toronto and Vancouver and New Delhi in an air corridor arrangement that came into place last summer. Passengers from India who arrive via an indirect route, through a third country, will have to provide a pre-departure negative coronavirus test result from the last port before continuing their journey. Tam also addressed the issue of the Lambda variant, which originated in Peru and said there were 11 cases reported so far in Canada and it is considered a variant of interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-eye-on-delta-cases-canada-allows-only-fully-vaccinated-inbound-travellers-101625814150509.html
09-07-2021||World||Flooding reported in parts of New York ahead of Storm Elsa's expected arrival||Several subway stations were flooded and major roads were cut in New York on Thursday ahead of the expected arrival of Storm Elsa, which has moved up the US East Coast after lashing Florida with wind and rain.Between 2 and 4 inches of water fell in a series of thunderstorms over the city and surrounding areas on Thursday afternoon, the National Weather Service (NWS) said, "causing extensive flash flooding in certain places."Subway passengers posted video footage on Twitter of flooded platforms at the 157th Street station north of Manhattan.Commuters could be seen waist-deep in the water, crossing a dark pool to reach the station's platforms."Lines 1 and A have really taken a hit, with a lot of flooding in the stations," Sarah Feinberg, head of the MTA, New York's public transport authority, said on Thursday at a press briefing.Some major roads, including in the Bronx, were temporarily closed, disrupting traffic. New York police tweeted footage of motorists being stranded by the water.The NWS warned of possible new flooding by Friday morning, with the expected arrival of heavy rains brought by Storm Elsa, which is moving up from Florida.Despite work to protect the city against flooding since Hurricane Sandy in 2012 -- which killed 44 people and paralyzed the American economic capital for days -- New York remains very vulnerable to flooding, with such incidents expected to increase because of climate change.Several officials, including Eric Adams, president of Brooklyn and the favorite for the November mayoral election in New York after winning the Democratic primary this week, called for urgent investments to fortify the city's infrastructure."Extreme weather episodes like this are not going to go away," warned one of his primary opponents, Kathryn Garcia, who oversaw the water pumping after Hurricane Sandy."We must invest in strategies to protect the city," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/flooding-reported-in-parts-of-new-york-ahead-of-storm-elsa-s-expected-arrival-101625813143423.html
09-07-2021||World||Bilwal Bhutto of PPP slams Pak PM Imran Khan; says US did not ask for a military base||The opposition party in Pakistan dismissed the claims by Prime Minister Imran Khan of "taking a stand" on a military base request by the United States to keep a watch over Afghanistan amid the ongoing troops pullout process. Terming the claims as "false," Pakistan Peoples Party chairperson Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari said, "no one has asked him for a base.”Zardari made the remarks at a public gathering in Haveli during his campaign for the upcoming Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) elections. "To tell you the truth, no one has even asked him, no one has made a phone call, no one has asked him for a base, he is just saying it on his own," the Pakistan’s Dawn newspaper quoted Zardari as saying.In an interview with Axios last month, Prime Minister Imran Khan categorically said that he would not allow any bases and use of its soil to the United States for action inside Afghanistan. "Absolutely not. There is no way we are going to allow any bases, any sort of action from Pakistani territory into Afghanistan. Absolutely not," Khan told Axios in the interview.Continuing his attack against the Pakistan Prime Minister, Zardari further said that "this puppet government (the Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf government) does not have that strength to do such big things."As American troops are leaving war-torn Afghanistan, experts of international affairs have speculated that Washington, DC may seek to set up military bases in nearby countries, including Pakistan, to ‘monitor’ the situation across the border.On May 26, a Reuters report said that US officials are exploring potential basing options in countries near Afghanistan, like Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. However, they have not come to an agreement with any of them.Pakistan shares a border with Afghanistan that runs along heavily contested areas of south and eastern Afghanistan where the Taliban have a large presence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bilwal-bhutto-of-ppp-slams-pak-pm-imran-khan-says-us-did-not-ask-for-a-military-base-101625799059484.html
09-07-2021||World||United States: Earthquake of 5.9 magnitude rattles California-Nevada border||An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 5.9 rattled the California-Nevada border Thursday afternoon, with people reporting feeling the shaking hundreds of miles away, according to the US Geological Survey.There were no immediate reports of serious damage or injuries.The earthquake struck at 3:49 p.m. in a region about 250 miles (402 kilometers) east of San Francisco and south of Lake Tahoe. Its epicenter was 4 miles (6.5 km) west-southwest of Walker, a California town of fewer than 900 residents. It was followed by a dozen aftershocks, with at least one with a 4.6 magnitude, the USGS said.“The ground was shaking pretty bad, and then everything started falling,” said Carolina Estrada, manager at the Walker Coffee Company. Syrup bottles broke, dishes fell to the ground and the roof of the shop caved in a bit.The shaking lasted 30 seconds or more, she said.“We ran out of the building,” Estrada said. But the shaking continued, and “boulders the size of cars” fell onto nearby US 395, she said.Cars were struck by rocks, but nobody was injured, the California Highway Patrol reported.At one point, rockslides closed about 40 miles (64 km) of the interstate, a major route through the northern Sierra Nevada, authorities said. Portions of the interstate were later reopened, but crews remained at the scene in case of aftershocks, according to the California Department of Transportation.In Nevada, Reno City Hall was evacuated, Mayor Hillary Schieve told the Reno Gazette Journal.“It shook pretty good,” Schieve said.Regionally, “this would be the largest one in almost two and a half decades,” said Graham Kent, director of the University of Nevada, Reno’s seismological lab.Communities all around Lake Tahoe and as far south as Fresno, California, felt the earthquake, which had a depth of 6 miles (9.8 km).The quake was “a classic normal faulting earthquake for eastern California," and aftershocks were common in the region, seismologist Lucy Jones tweeted.More than 30 aftershocks were reported in the first two hours, including at least five of magnitude-4.0 or greater, the USGS reported.“People in the area should expect aftershocks for days following an earthquake of this size,” said Jason Ballman with the Southern California Earthquake Center at the University of Southern California. “We’ve already seen a pretty vigorous aftershock sequence.”Ballman cautioned that reports of damage or injury might not be available for days because a lot of the shaking was felt in remote areas.Preliminary reports had indicated two earthquakes striking 25 seconds but 100 miles apart. But the U.S. Geological Survey revised the shaking and removed the report of a magnitude 4.8 quake in Farmington, about five miles (8 km) southeast of Stockton, the Sacramento Bee said.“While there are no preliminary reports of damage or injuries, this is a rapidly evolving situation & more details will emerge in the coming hours.” California’s Office of Emergency Services tweeted. “We are working closely with local officials to ensure they have the resources and support to rapidly respond to these earthquakes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-states-earthquake-of-5-9-magnitude-rattles-california-nevada-border-101625795155168.html
09-07-2021||World||Jovenel Moise assassination case: Cops arrest 17 suspects including 2 Americans||The Haitian police arrested two US citizens on Thursday in connection to the ongoing investigation into the assassination of President Jovenel Moise by unidentified gunmen at his home a day before. According to a report by the Associated Press, one of the arrested men was a former bodyguard at the Canadian embassy in Haitian capital Port au Prince.Hours after the arrest of Americans, Taiwan officials also said that 11 suspects were detained from its embassy grounds. The police launched an operation around 4pm (Thursday) and successfully arrested 11 suspects," Taiwan's embassy said, adding it had agreed to a police request to search the grounds "without hesitation". Others are reported to be of Colombian origin."We have arrested 15 Colombians and the two Americans of Haitian origin. Three Colombians have been killed while eight others are on the run," national police director general Leon Charles said at a news conference.The police have also recovered "weapons and materials used by the assailants," Charles said, adding, "We will strengthen our investigation and search techniques to intercept the other eight mercenaries," he also said.President Moise and his wife Martine were attacked by gunmen at their private residence in the capital Port-au-Prince on Wednesday. During the attack, Moise was shot dead, while his wife sustained injuries. She is currently being treated at a hospital in the United States’ Miami and is reported to be in a stable condition.The killing of Moise has pushed Haiti, an economically-backward country in the Americas, into a political crisis. It now has no president or working parliament, while two men -- Ariel Henry, Claude Joseph -- are claiming to be in charge as prime minister.Officials have not given a motive for the killing so far. Since he took office in 2017, Moise had faced mass protests against his rule - first over corruption allegations and his management of the economy, then over his increasing grip on power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/haiti-cops-arrest-two-us-citizens-in-president-jovenel-moise-assassination-case-101625793822711.html
09-07-2021||World||Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine may require third dose, companies seek approval||The Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, sold under the brand name 'Comirnaty', may require a third dose to work more effectively against the original strain of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agencies reported on Friday morning, citing a statement from the companies from a day ago. The third Covid-19 shot is also expected to provide better protection against the Beta variant, first identified in South Africa, and the Delta variant, found in India, as per interim data from an ongoing trial into the vaccine.Also Read: When will Moderna and Pfizer Covid vaccines reach India? Latest updatesPfizer and BioNTech announced on Thursday that they would seek regulatory approval for the third dose of their Covid-19 vaccine, in view of the interim trial data which showed that a third dose can push antibody levels five to 10 times higher against the said variants of the coronavirus compared to the first two doses alone. This will, in effect, provide better protection than the current practice of administering two shots, the statement read.The development comes after the vaccine was reported to be less effective against the Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. A study, published in the journal 'Nature', showed that a single shot of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, or even the AstraZeneca shot for that matter, "barely" induces any neutralising antibodies against the Delta Covid-19 strain.The Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine was reportedly dropping in efficacy after six months, the Israeli government said earlier this week. According to Bloomberg, data from Israel’s health ministry showed the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine protected 64% of the country’s people against the virus between June 6 and early July, down from the earlier 94%.This decline has been observed amid the emergence and rise in cases of Delta variant in the country, the data revealed. Commenting on the matter, Pfizer-BioNTech said that the third dose may be needed within six to 12 months after full vaccination for complete protection.Also Read | Moderna, Pfizer vaccines warn of heart inflammation riskIn light of these findings, Pfizer-BioNTech announced that the companies are working on a Delta-specific vaccine, the first batch of which has already been manufactured at BioNTech's facility in Mainz, Germany.However, more studies are needed in this area and the companies anticipate the clinical trials to begin in August, subject to regulatory approvals."The companies expect to publish more definitive data soon as well as in a peer-reviewed journal and plan to submit the data to the FDA (Food and Drug Administration), EMA (European Medicines Agency) and other regulatory authorities in the coming weeks," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizerbiontech-covid-19-vaccine-may-require-third-dose-companies-seek-approval-101625790454549.html
09-07-2021||World||Multiple dead after small plane crashes in Sweden||Several people have died after a small aircraft used for skydiving with nine people on board crashed near an airport outside Orebro in Sweden on Thursday, police and rescue services said.A small propeller plane crashed near Orebro airport, about 160 kilometres (100 miles) west of Stockholm, according to an alert received by Sweden's Joint Rescue Co-ordination Centre (JRCC)They located the aircraft alongside one of the runways, Carl-Johan Linde, spokesman for the Swedish Maritime Authority which oversees the JRCC, told AFP.As far as they could tell, the accident happened as the plane was taking off, he added. Nine people were reported to be on board: eight skydivers and the pilot.Lars Hedelin, spokesman for the Bergslagen region police referred to "multiple" deaths. While he would not give a specific figure, he did say that one person had been taken to hospital with serious injuries.In 2019, nine people were killed when a plane carrying skydivers crashed outside the city of Umea, northeast Sweden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/multiple-dead-after-small-plane-crashes-in-sweden-101625787303179.html
09-07-2021||World||Afghan mission will end on August 31: Joe Biden||America’s military mission in Afghanistan will end on August 31, US President Joe Biden said on Thursday, announcing an “end to America’s longest war” amid concerns that the Taliban could retake control following a surge that is already underway.Stressing that “speed is safety”, the President said the US military has “achieved” its goals in the country to degrade al Qaeda and prevent more attacks on the US.“We did not go to Afghanistan to nation-build,” he said in a speech in which he also said the American support to Afghans will endure.Biden called on countries in the region to step up efforts to bring about political solution in Afghanistan, and reiterated that the future of the country must be in the hands of Afghans, even as he acknowledged that the Islamist Taliban was at its strongest since 2001.“Do I trust the Taliban? No,” he said, before adding that it was not inevitable that the country would fall to the hardline rulers who were in power before the US launched an invasion in retaliation to the September 11 attacks.The US last weekend abandoned Bagram air base, the long-time staging ground for US military operations in the country. Washington agreed to withdraw in a deal negotiated last year under Biden’s Republican predecessor, Donald Trump.Biden has since overruled military leaders who wanted to keep a larger presence to assist Afghan security forces and prevent Afghanistan from becoming a staging ground for extremist groups. On Thursday, Biden said the country will refocus its counterterrorism efforts in other regions such as Syria and Yemen where terror groups had gained strength.The Taliban on Thursday seized a third Afghan border crossing, this time with Iran.The Taliban now control roughly a third of all 421 districts and district centres in Afghanistan. Their victories are also putting pressure on provincial cities and taking away government control of key transportation routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-mission-will-end-on-august-31-joe-biden-101625783709194.html
09-07-2021||World||Justin Trudeau says Canada will not welcome unvaccinated tourists for some time||Foreign tourists who are not vaccinated against Covid-19 will not be allowed to enter Canada for quite some time because the government is unwilling to jeopardize progress made on containing the virus, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Thursday."I can tell you right now that's not going to happen for quite a while," said Trudeau, when asked by reporters when Canada would allow unvaccinated tourists to enter the country.Canada, as of this week, has waived quarantine requirements for fully vaccinated citizens. But non-essential foreign travelers are still not allowed to enter despite pressure from the country's hurting tourism sector.The United States does not have vaccine requirements for visitors. At this point talks about lifting border restrictions are focused on fully vaccinated travelers, Trudeau said."The next step we'll be looking at what measures we can allow for international travelers who are fully vaccinated," he said. "We will have more to say in the coming weeks."Trudeau has previously said authorities are looking closely at domestic vaccination rates, the spread of variants of concern, and how the rest of the world deals with Covid-19.Some 78% of people aged 12 years or older in Canada have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, health officials said on Thursday. About 44% of people 12 years or older are fully vaccinated.Governments in Canada and the United States have faced pressure to reopen the world's largest land border, which has been shuttered to non-essential travel since March 2020. The current restrictions are in place at least until July 21.A White House official told Reuters on Wednesday that a reopening of US borders to many global tourists will still need more discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/justin-trudeau-says-canada-not-to-welcome-unvaccinated-tourists-for-some-time-101625775298784.html
09-07-2021||World||Haiti's President Jovenel Moise assassination: Police arrest 6 in last 36 hours||Two men believed to be Haitian Americans — one of them purportedly a former bodyguard at the Canadian Embassy in Port au Prince — have been arrested in connection with the assassination of Haiti's president, a senior Haitian official said Thursday.Mathias Pierre, Haiti's minister of elections, told The Associated Press that James Solages was among six people arrested in the 36 hours since the brazen killing of President Jovenel Moise by gunmen at his home in the pre-dawn hours Wednesday.Four other suspected assailants were killed and two are still missing, Pierre said.Pierre would not provide additional details about Solages' background, nor would he provide the name of the second Haitian-American he said was arrested.Solages describes himself as a “certified diplomatic agent,” an advocate for children and budding politician on a website for a charity he established in 2019 in south Florida to assist residents.On his bio page for the charity, Solages said he previously worked as a bodyguard at the Canadian Embassy in Haiti. Calls to the foundation and Solages' associates at the charity either did not go through or were not answered.“The pursuit of the mercenaries continues,” said Léon Charles, director of Haiti's National Police, in announcing the arrest of suspects. “Their fate is fixed: They will fall in the fighting or will be arrested.”Witnesses said two suspects were discovered hiding in bushes in Port-au-Prince on Thursday by a crowd, some of whom grabbed the men by their shirts and pants, pushing them and occasionally slapping them.Police arrived shortly afterward to arrest the men, who were sweating heavily and wearing clothes that seemed to be smeared with mud, an Associated Press journalist at the scene said. Officers placed them in the back of a pickup truck and drove away as the crowd ran after them to the nearby police station.Once there, some in the crowd chanted: “They killed the president! Give them to us. We're going to burn them!”One man was overheard saying that it was unacceptable for foreigners to come to Haiti to kill the country's leader, referring to reports from officials that the perpetrators spoke Spanish or English.The crowd later set fire to several abandoned cars riddled with bullet holes that they believed belonged to the suspects, who were white men. The cars didn't have license plates, and inside one of them was an empty box of bullets and some water.At a news conference Thursday, Charles, the police chief, asked people to stay calm, go home and let police do their work as he warned that authorities needed evidence they were destroying, including the burned cars.Officials did not provide any details about the suspects, including their nationalities, nor did they address a motive or say what led police to them. They said only that the attack condemned by Haiti's main opposition parties and the international community was carried out by “a highly trained and heavily armed group.”Prime Minister Claude Joseph assumed leadership of Haiti with the backing of police and the military and on Thursday asked people to reopen businesses and go back to work as he ordered the reopening of the international airport.On Wednesday, Joseph decreed a two-week state of siege following Moïse's killing, which stunned a nation grappling with some of the Western Hemisphere's highest poverty, violence and political instability.Inflation and gang violence have spiraled upward as food and fuel grew scarcer in a country where 60% of Haitians earn less than $2 a day. The increasingly dire situation comes as Haiti is still trying to recover from the devastating 2010 earthquake and Hurricane Matthew in 2016 following a history of dictatorship and political upheaval.“There is this void now, and they are scared about what will happen to their loved ones,” said Marlene Bastien, executive director of Family Action Network Movement, a group that helps people in Miami's Little Haiti community.She said it was important for the administration of US President Joe Biden to take a much more active role in supporting attempts at national dialogue in Haiti with the aim of holding free, fair and credible elections.Bastien said she also wants to see participation of the extensive Haitian diaspora: “No more band-aids. The Haitian people have been crying and suffering for too long.”Haiti had grown increasingly unstable under Moïse, who had been ruling by decree for more than a year and faced violent protests as critics accused him of trying to amass more power while the opposition demanded he step down.According to Haiti's constitution, Moïse should be replaced by the president of Haiti's Supreme Court, but the chief justice died in recent days from Covid-19, leaving open the question of who might rightfully succeed to the office.Joseph, meanwhile, was supposed to be replaced by Ariel Henry, a neurosurgeon who had been named prime minister by Moïse a day before the assassination.Henry told the AP in a brief interview that he is the prime minister, calling it an exceptional and confusing situation. In another interview with Radio Zenith, he said he had no dispute with Joseph. “I only disagree with the fact that people have taken hasty decisions ... when the moment demands a little more serenity and maturity,” he said.Moïse had faced large protests in recent months that turned violent as opposition leaders and their supporters rejected his plans to hold a constitutional referendum with proposals that would strengthen the presidency.On Thursday, public transportation and street vendors remained scarce, an unusual sight for the normally bustling streets of Port-au-Prince.Marco Destin, 39, was walking to see his family since no buses, known as tap-taps, were available. He was carrying a loaf of bread for them because they had not left their house since the president's killing out of fear for their lives.“Every one at home is sleeping with one eye open and one eye closed,” he said. “If the head of state is not protected, I don't have any protection whatsoever.”Destin said Haiti has always been a complicated country and that he wasn't sure what the upcoming days would bring. “Haiti doesn't know what direction it's heading in right now,” he said. “To be honest, I don't know what the solution is. There's always been a fight for power.”Gunfire rang out intermittently across the city hours after the killing, a grim reminder of the growing power of gangs that displaced more than 14,700 people last month alone as they torched and ransacked homes in a fight over territory.Robert Fatton, a Haitian politics expert at the University of Virginia, said gangs were a force to contend with and it isn't certain Haiti's security forces can enforce a state of siege.“It's a really explosive situation,” he said, adding that foreign intervention with a UN-type military presence is a possibility. “Whether Claude Joseph manages to stay in power is a huge question. It will be very difficult to do so if he doesn't create a government of national unity.”Joseph told the AP that he supports an international investigation into the assassination and believes elections scheduled for later this year should be held, as he promised to work with Moïse's allies and opponents alike.“Everything is under control,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/haitis-president-jovenel-moise-assassination-2-haitian-americans-detained-101625774680297.html
09-07-2021||World||'No military solution': US President Joe Biden says war in Afghanistan will end August 31||President Joe Biden on Thursday said the US military mission in Afghanistan will conclude on Aug. 31, saying “speed is safety” as the United States seeks to end the nearly 20-year war.“We did not go to Afghanistan to nation build,” Biden said in a speech to update his administration’s ongoing efforts to wind down the US war. “Afghan leaders have to come together and drive toward a future.”Biden also amplified the justification of his decision to end US military operations even as the Taliban make rapid advances in significant swaths of the country. The administration in recent days has repeatedly sought to frame ending the conflict as a decision that Biden made after concluding it’s an “unwinnable war” and one that “does not have a military solution.”“How many more, how many more thousands of American daughters and sons are you willing to risk?” Biden said to those calling for the US to extend the military operation. He added, “I will not send another generation of Americans to war in Afghanistan, with no reasonable expectation of achieving a different outcome."Biden said he didn't trust the Taliban but trusted the capacity of the Afghan military to defend the government.Before his speech, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Biden administration officials always anticipated an “uptick” in violence and greater turmoil as the US withdrawal moved forward. She added that prolonging US military involvement, considering former President Donald Trump had already agreed to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan by May 2021, would have led to an escalation of attacks on American troops.“The question fundamentally facing him was after 20 years was he going to commit more American troops to a civil war in Afghanistan,” Psaki said.Biden said it was “highly unlikely” that one government will control Afghanistan after the US pullout, and urged the Afghan government to reach a deal with the Taliban.The president added that there is no “mission accomplished” moment as the US war comes to an end.“The mission was accomplished in that we got Osama bin Laden and terrorism is not emanating from that part of the world," he said.US forces earlier this week vacated Bagram Airfield — the US epicenter of the conflict to oust the Taliban and hunt down the al-Qaida perpetrators of the 2001 terrorist attacks on the US that triggered the war.Remaining US troops are now concentrated in Kabul, the capital. The Pentagon said the top US commander in Afghanistan, Gen. Scott Miller, is expected to end his tour of duty later this month as final arrangements are made for a reduced US military mission.Biden in recent days has bristled at reporters when asked about the drawdown and the security situation in Afghanistan. Asked last week at an event to highlight a strong jobs report whether he was concerned that the Afghan government could fall in a matter of months, he didn’t hide his annoyance.Biden, answering questions from reporters after his remarks on Thursday, said that Kabul falling to the Taliban would not be an acceptable outcome. But the president also pushed back against the notion that such a scenario was certain.“Do I trust the Taliban? No," Biden said. “But I trust the capacity of the Afghan military, who is better trained, better equipped and more competent in terms of conducting war.”Biden continues to face pressure from congressional lawmakers to offer further detail on how he intends to go about assisting thousands of Afghans who helped the US military as translators, drivers and in other jobs who are now fearful they will be targets of the Taliban once the US withdrawal is complete.The White House says the administration has identified US facilities outside of the continental United States, as well as third countries, where evacuated Afghans would potentially stay while their visa applications are processed. Biden added that 2,500 Afghans have been granted special immigrant visas since he took office in January.“Our message to those women and men is clear,” Biden said. “There is a home for you in the United States if you so choose. We will stand with you, just as you stood with us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-military-solution-us-president-joe-biden-says-war-in-afghanistan-will-end-august-31-101625770286087.html
