01-11-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana: Buses continue to halt illegally on Jalandhar bypass flyover||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 31A major tragedy had averted on Tuesday night as a speeding truck rammed into a stationary bus on the Jalandhar bypass flyover. Fortunately, no loss of lives reported in the accident but the collision was so intense that both vehicles had entangled into each other badly.The bus had around 15 passengers and they suffered only minor injuries. Even drivers of both vehicles were safe.The illegal stoppage of buses on the national highway has been posing risks to commuters’ lives and despite the presence of traffic police personnel at the Jalandhar bypass, such vehicles were never stopped and challaned by them.The buses, mainly coming from the Jalandhar side, stop on the flyover illegally as they drop and pick passengers. Another reason of resorting to the illegal halt is it cut shorts the distance to the bus stand terminal. If the buses will not pass through the flyover, these have to cover more distance.As per information, when a private bus, ‘Gagandeep’ coming from Jalandhar, stopped on the flyover for picking and dropping passengers, a speeding truck which was also coming from Jalandhar rammed into the rear of the stationary bus. Bus passengers felt a huge jerk and fell off from their places due to the intense collision.Driver of the truck Vijay said: “The bus was standing almost in the middle of the highway, since I was driving on the highway at a good speed, I failed to make out whether the bus was staitonary or moving. Before he could apply brakes, his vehicle rammed into it.”The bus driver when asked why he stopped the vehicle on the highway putting lives of the passengers at risk, he said his bus was not the only such vehicle that stops at the point daily, in fact, many buses have made this halt, though illegal, as their permanent stop for dropping and picking passengers.After the accident, passers-by gathered at the spot. They blamed bus drivers for deliberately putting the lives of passengers at risk. People said the traffic police should not allow the the buses to stop at such illegal points. A resident said who would take responsibility if somebody dies in such mishaps.Haphazard parking costs lifeA haphazard parking of a loaded tractor-trailer on the Hambran road near Kutbewal village had also cost the life of a motorcyclist on Tuesday.The motorcycle had rammed into the stationary tractor-trailer, which killed the biker on the spot. The deceased, Dharminder Singh, is a resident of Garha village. His brother Bhupinder Singh told the police that on Tuesday night his brother was going to his house. When he reached Kutbewal, he failed to notice a stationary tractor-trailer and rammed into it. It was parked in the middle of the road. Its parking lights were also not kept on. The police had registered a case against the driver of the vehicle, Lakhwinder, on the charges of culpable homicide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-buses-continue-to-halt-illegally-on-jalandhar-bypass-flyover-332679
01-11-2021||---||Fire breaks out at yarn mill in Ludhiana, goods worth lakhs destroyed||Ludhiana, October 31A major fire broke out at a yarn mill on the Kakka road this morning. Goods worth lakhs were reportedly gutted in the fire.The fire broke out at the rear of Modern Acrylics Private Limited and firefighters took more than five hours to douse the flames.Factory workers were on duty but all escaped unhurt. The workers initially tried to douse the flames with available resources but when it went out of control, they called the Fire Department.Aatish Rai, a sub-fire officer, claimed that a fire call was received around 9.15 am and fire tenders from Sundar Nagar reached the spot, followed by a fire tender from Vardhman mill. The factory owner said had the firefighters not controlled the fire on time, it would have spread to the entire factory.Rai said fire officials had to call JCBs to raze the rear wall of the factory to get in as the raging fire did not allow them to douse the flames from the front side. He said over 24 fire tenders were pressed into service to control the fire till 2 pm.The police struggled to control a crowd gathered around the factory when the firefighters were controlling the fire. The factory owner had failed to make necessary safety arrangements to protect the factory from fire. There were no fire hydrants installed due to which fire tenders had to return to the Sundar Nagar fire station to refill fire tenders. Officials said they would also check whether the factory had obtained NOC from the Fire Department or not.Safety measures missingThe owner of Modern Acrylics Private Limited had failed to make necessary safety arrangements to protect the factory from fire. Fire hydrants were not installed due to which fire tenders had to return to the Sundar Nagar fire station to refill the vehicles. Officials said they would also check whether or not the factory had obtained an NOC from the Fire Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fire-breaks-out-at-yarn-mill-in-ludhiana-goods-worth-lakhs-destroyed-332680
01-11-2021||---||Ludhiana Muthoot loot bid: Kingpin hatched conspiracy from jail, suspect cops||Ludhiana, October 31In the Muthoot Finance Limited loot attempt case, police sources said the Ludhiana police probe had found that the kingpin who orchestrated the entire conspiracy of robbery is lodged in some jail in Bihar.The four miscreants who had come to commit the robbery at the gold loan company were also sent by the convict. The police are likely to bring him from jail for questioning.Notably, yesterday the four accused had entered the Muthoot office to commit robbery but the bravery of the guard, Surjit Kumar, foiled the robbery attempt as he had shot dead one of the robbers, following which the three other accused fled to save their lives. The accused who died was identified as Amar Partap Singh, a resident of Bihar.The police sources said a notorious element who could be a gangster, who was said to be lodged in a jail in Bihar, could have given the task to his team from the jail.Meanwhile, the police conducted raids at various places across the state to trace the three accused, who are yet to be arrested.Joint CP J Elanchezhian said the police probe was on to identify and trace the remaining three accused. The entire conspiracy behind the robbery attempt could be cracked after their arrest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-muthoot-loot-bid-kingpin-hatched-conspiracy-from-jail-suspect-cops-332681
01-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Ludhiana: Traders protest removal of tiles, reduction of road width in Vikas Nagar||Ludhiana, October 31Shopkeepers of Vikas Nagar (behind Suvidha Kendra) on Pakhowal Road staged a protest under the banner of the Vikas Nagar Shopkeepers Association against the ‘whimsical’ action of the Municipal Corporation of removal of interlocking tiles from a portion of the road in front of the local market on Sunday.They alleged that due to this move, not only the width of the road had been curtailed to less than half but also the portion from where tiles had been removed had become prone to waterlogging and also turned a garbage disposal site.Leading the protest, Kuldeep Chopra and Deepak Sabharwal, office-bearers of the association, said the MC had curtailed the width of the 35-feet wide road to about 17 feet by ordering removal of interlocking tiles on a stretch of the road in Vikas Nagar on Sua Road (rear of Suvidha Kendra).“As a result, the stretch from where interlocking tiles had been removed has become a source of trouble,” they said.In a complaint submitted to the MC Commissioner and the Mayor, the affected shopkeepers said water-borne and mosquito-borne diseases had already spread in several parts of the city and the ‘kacha’ portion of road (from where tiles had been removed) being prone to waterlogging, was posing a threat of outbreak of such diseases. To make the matters worse, residents of the area and even some shopkeepers had started throwing garbage and waste on that part of the road, they said.The association has made an earnest appeal to the civic body to take action for laying the rain water drainage system (pipes) and reinstallation of the interlocking tiles of the stretch of the Vikas Nagar market soon to ensure smooth flow of vehicular traffic, check water stagnation and save the area residents from threat of water-borne and vector-borne diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-traders-protest-removal-of-tiles-reduction-of-road-width-in-vikas-nagar-332682
01-11-2021||---||No fresh Covid case, no death in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, October 31No person tested positive for Covid and no death was reported in the district today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.58 per cent and at present, there are 18 active cases in the district. Seventeen persons were sent for home isolation today.Four patients are undergoing treatment for Covid at various city hospitals. Of these, one patient belongs to Ludhiana district and three are from other districts.Till date, a total of 27,22,184 samples have been taken, of which 26,22,871 were found negative. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,608 while 11,705 belong to other districts/states.Total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,106 persons from Ludhiana and 1,053 from other districts.As many as 4,435 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-fresh-covid-case-no-death-in-ludhiana-district-332683
01-11-2021||Prevention is better than cure||Open house: What efforts are needed to tackle  the current dengue situation?||With a number of dengue cases on the rise, order of the day is to take precautions. Dengue fever is caused by the bite of an Aedes aegypti mosquito. These mosquitoes typically live around houses, breeding in stagnated clean water that gets accumulated due to rain, gardening and even car washing. Always remember that treatment without prevention is unsustainable.Novin ChristopherSuggestions for tackling dengueTo prevent the spread of dengue, all parks and gardens should be cleaned. Stagnating water places such as pits and pot holes should be filled. The beds for dengue patients should be arranged at places other than hospitals such as club houses, party halls, palaces and all hospital equipment should be installed there temporarily.Anwita DixitNeed to boost health infraThe city is experiencing a huge dengue outbreak. There is a need to boost health infrastructure. If the Civil Hospital is not catering the needs of the public then government should make a big hospitals like PGI and AIIMS. In order to prevent the spread of dangue, fogging must be done in all areas of the city on regular basis.Through awareness camps, the MC must inform parents about the safety of their kids from this drastic disease. The need of the hour is vaccine for dengue.Ritu PriyaDeploy Health staff for dengue campaignAs people are still recovering from the Covid- 19 trauma, dengue fever is continuously spreading its tentacles fast and wide, which can further create a serious health challenge for local people and authorities in the upcoming festival season. MC health workers should be used for door-to-door awareness campaign to control and prevent dengue fever.Simran Aroravigilant about stagnant waterWith the danger of third wave of Covid-19 looming large, the month of October has also brought with it the diseases like malaria, dengue, etc. In recent days there has been a steady rise of dengue cases in the region. The main reason for the spread of dengue seems to be unclean surroundings. We should keep our surroundings clean so that the mosquitoes spreading dengue cannot breed. We should be especially vigilant about stagnant water, either fresh or dirty, as this is the best breeding place for the mosquitoes spreading this disease. We need not store water in buckets in the bathrooms. Mosquito coils, repellents, etc. should be used. Avoid eating from outside. Prefer home cooked fresh food. The MC should also increase the practice of fogging in the infected areas.Bir Devinder Singh BediPvt labs charging high for dengue testThe number of dengue patients undergoing treatment in Ludhiana hospitals is much more than the Covid patients. After Covid, now dengue is keeping the Health Department on its toes. The Health Department has failed to act in time and fogging has still not been done in many areas. Private laboratories are charging as high as between Rs1,000 and 1,500 for the dengue test. Dengue can be prevented from spreading if residents sleep under mosquito net, use insect repellents and wear socks. Medical advice be sought immediately if dengue symptoms appear in any individual.RS SEMBHIFollow govt guidelinesYet we have not fully recovered from the effects of Covid, the dangerous dengue has entered into our life. The obvious reason is that we have not become fully health conscious as yet. We suffer due to our negligence and hesitant attitude in life. Time and again the Health Department announces various guidelines for the wellness of residents, but we react like a child and take it lightly. There is only one way to escape from this dreaded disease, we need to become health conscious.JBS NandaImprove hygiene and sanitary conditionsThe city is full of garbage dumps lying here and there .These heaps of refuse and water collected in uncountable potholes on our roads are breeding ground of the mosquitoes. To add insult to the injury, our MC does fogging in a very casual and random manner. Thus lack of hygiene and sanitary conditions is responsible for more and more dengue cases. Soon the hospitals will be full and there will be shortage of RDP and SDPs in blood banks . To be on the safe side, all of us should try to cover our bodies fully with clothings and invariably use mosquito repellants.Dr Sunil ChopraAuthorities concerned are ill-preparedThe rising dengue cases in Ludhiana and other districts of Punjab certainly leading to an epidemic-like situation. The authorities concerned are ill-prepared for this. Fogging/spraying in hot spot areas is need of the hour. This problem is to be handled on priority basis unless it is too late.R V SinghReserve ward for dengue patientsA sound mind lives in a sound body. Similarly, the development of a nation depends upon the responsiveness and sensitiveness of its citizens. Every year we have to face and suffer with various types of diseases such as, dengue, chikungunya, malaria, swine flu, etc. It is the duty of the local, state and Central government to provide medical facilities in civil and private hospitals to look after the dengue patients. The government should order managements of hospitals to keep one ward reserve for dengue patients.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiPeople face same issues every yearEvery year people face same health issues like dengue. Emergency provision of medicine and other facilities must be there in each hospital. Infrastructure such as proper roads and ambulance service must be in order to carry patients without any delay and hurdle. One should make sure that the living areas and surroundings should be clean. Change the water in room coolers once in a week. The government should make maximum use of electronic and print media to make people aware of the disease.Farzana KhanDengue grips cityThe district administration is facing the twin challenge of Covid and dengue. The outbreak of dengue has spread its wings. No vaccine can protect against dengue fever. Only avoiding mosquito bites can prevent it. There are some measures from dengue fewer prevention like wear full body clothes, avoid heavily scented soaps, perfumes and remove stagnant water from surroundings.Adish SoodUse mosquito repellent creamsThe most efficient way to prevent dengue fever is to use mosquito repellent creams. The higher the concentration, the longer the protection. Also, wear clothing with long sleeves and long pants that cover the skin as much as possible. It is also advisable to wear light-coloured clothing as this usually repels mosquitoes. Having a clean and tidy home is extremely important to prevent dengue mosquitoes from infecting you.Devna MunjalHold fogging drives to fight dengueThe unprecedented rise in dengue cases requires the government to ensure affordable and accessible test and treatments such as by converting community centres into healthcare units, fixing maximum ceiling price for dengue test and treatment. To prevent further rise in cases, the government should undertake regular fogging and spread awareness to prevent its spread.Medha BatraQUESTIONRecent incidents of road cave-ins have caused panic and fear among motorists. Commuters always remain jittery about the occurrence of such mishaps as they move around in Ludhiana. Should these incidents, which put public lives at risk, be overlooked as other cases of official apathy are or criminal negligence be fixed against those responsible?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-efforts-are-needed-to-tackle-the-current-dengue-situation-332684
