03-11-2021||Ludhiana||Anil Arora denied anticipatory bail in case of hurting religious sentiments||In a dramatic twist of events, the counsel for the accused withdrew his power of attorney by making a statement in the court. Former DBA president and Shiromani Akali Dal Legal Cell national president Parupkar Singh Ghumman along with a battery of lawyers was present in the court to oppose the grant of bail to the accused from the complainant side. The court waited till 3.35 pm but no one filed power of attorney for pursuing the bail application. Then the court dismissed the anticipatory bail application for want of prosecution. A case against Anil Arora was registered at the Division No 5 police station a few days back but the accused could not be arrested. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/anil-arora-denied-anticipatory-bail-in-case-of-hurting-religious-sentiments-333745
03-11-2021||Ludhiana||Shaan, Ekamjot wrap up titles  in golf meet||Shaan Singh and Ekamjot Kaur, both students of Delhi Public School, Khanna, wrapped up titles in the boys and girls sections, respectively, in the DPS Open Junior Golf Competition held at the school golf course, Khanna, on Monday.As many as 64 budding golfers from different schools and teaching centres participated in the competition in which Shaan Singh played a round of 30 in nine holes to romp home victorious, Gobind Seep Singh (31 holes) and Sanampreet Singh (32 holes) finished as first and second runner-up, respectively.In the girl’s category, Ekamjot Kaur (27 holes) came out triumphant while Nisha of the SK Golf Centre (34 holes) finished at the second place and Rekha Mehra of Government High School, Rahon (41 holes), settled for the third place.In the putting competition (U-11), Ekashpreet emerged winner, followed by Alamjit and Gurbaaz Singh at the second and third spot, respectively, while in the U-15 group, the first three positions were bagged by Paramvir Singh, Paras Manku and Manik, respectively.Col Harcharan Singh Bajwa gave away prizes and certificates to the position holders. Principal S Mukherji was the guest of honour. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shaan-ekamjot-wrap-up-titles-in-golf-meet-333744
03-11-2021||Sports Correspondent||Ludhiana player Vaasvi bags three medals in badminton||Ludhiana, November 2Local girl Vaasvi Singal hogged limelight, winning three medals in the Punjab State Badminton Championship for Boys and Girls (U15 and U-17) held at Pathankot from October 26 to 31. She was the only player from the city who won a gold medal in the championship.Vaasvi, a student of Class IX at Sat Paul Mittal School, here, competed in the U-15 group and wrapped up a gold medal in the doubles category, besides securing bronze in the girls’ singles and mixed doubles categories.A trainee of an NIS-qualified former national badminton coach, Mangat Rai Sharma, Vaasvi brought laurels to her parents, school and the district by finishing at the victory podium in the badminton championship.In the doubles’ group, Vaasvi and partner Samridhi Bhardwaj from Jalandhar came out triumphant to clinch the title. In the final, they outperformed Sangrur pair of Sadia Shiekh and Agamya Rishi in straight sets (21-13, 21-15) to lay their hands on the trophy.In the girls’ singles category, Vaasvi went down fighting against Samridhi Bhardwaj (21-12, 18-21 and 19-21) to settle for a bronze medal while in the mixed doubles category, she, paired with Ishaan Sharma of Jalandhar, lost to Samridhi and Divyam from Jalandhar (14-21 and 18-21) in the semifinal and had to content with a bronze medal.After her outstanding performance at Pathankot, Vaasvi has been selected to represent the state in the ensuing National Badminton Championship.Principal of Sat Paul Mittal School Bhupinder Gogia congratulated her for the achievement in the state championship and selection in the state team for the nationals.The achievementVaasvi, a student of Class IX at Sat Paul Mittal School, Ludhiana, competed in the U-15 group and wrapped up a gold medal in the doubles category, besides securing bronze in the girls’ singles and mixed doubles categories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-player-vaasvi-bags-three-medals-in-badminton-333743
03-11-2021||Ludhiana||Festival special train between Jammu Tawi and Katihar today||The Northern Railway authorities have announced to run yet another festival special train between Jammu Tawi and Katihar on November 3 to cope with the spurt in passenger traffic due to the festival season. One festival special train had operated on the route on October 29.The train 04746 (single trip) would depart from Jammu Tawi at 12 noon on Wednesday and reach Katihar at 9.45 pm the next day. It will have a 10-minute stoppage (4.55 pm to 5.05 pm) at Ludhiana. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/festival-special-train-between-jammu-tawi-and-katihar-today-333725
03-11-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Mandi Ahmedgarh: Vigilance Awareness Week ends||The celebrations regarding the Vigilance Awareness Week, being observed by various departments, concluded here on Monday.While office-bearers and activists of various organisations of the area vowed to be honest and transparent in their day-to-day life, Ahmedgarh Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Harvinder Cheema cautioned officials at various police stations to work diligently to end corruption at various levels.The police officials supervised by Malerkotla Senior Superintendent of Police Ravjot Kaur had launched a crusade against the corruption menace and called upon all concerned to support the movement.Members of the Rotary Club, led by president Ajay Jain and assistant governor Dr Ravinder Sharma, had organised a series of workshops and seminars on the subject.SP Harwant Kaur too cautioned all concerned that corruption had emerged as the gravest danger to the democracy of the country, which, if not curbed, would hinder the progress and prosperity of the region, besides maligning the image of the country at the international level.Maintaining that the government had already implemented a policy to make working of all public dealing departments transparent, the SP said: “Contrary to earlier trend when people were not aware of procedures and functions of various departments, everything has been transparent, with accountability of designated officials fixed regarding completion of a certain job within the stipulated period. Only precondition of fighting against corruption is that people should be determined to get their works done without bribing government officials.”— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mandi-ahmedgarh-vigilance-awareness-week-ends-333724
03-11-2021||Doraha||Delegation of rural college staff meets Punjab Education Minister Pargat Singh||A delegation of rural staff, including principals and senior faculty from different colleges met Minister for Higher Education Pargat Singh to discuss a road map for bringing rural higher education back on track. The delegation was led by Kuldeep Batta of GN College, Narangwal.Batta along with others apprised the minister about the economic condition of the state, especially the rural youth, for whom it had become hard to find avenues for future growth or education in their vicinity. Most of them have given up studies after matriculation due to meagre resources. As a result, the gross enrolment ratio remains low.The teachers told the minister that rural areas were passing through a critical phase. “Teaching as well as non-teaching staff of colleges is finding it hard to continue in their present position due to the financial crunch, falling student strength and apathetic attitude of the government. There is lack of facilities due to which rural students have no attraction to join such colleges. The first and the foremost need is the need for transportation in the absence of which most of the students, especially girls, have to discontinue their studies at the senior secondary level.” they said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/delegation-of-rural-college-staff-meets-punjab-education-minister-pargat-singh-333723
03-11-2021||Ludhiana||Release Rs 2,500 monthly allowance to unemployed: AAP to Punjab government||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders on Tuesday raised the issue of unemployment in the state. They blamed the Congress government in the state for failing to fulfil poll promises.The leaders demanded from the Congress government to release an allowance of Rs 2,500 per month to all unemployed in the state with pending dues.Suresh Goyal, district urban president of the party, demanded that 80 per cent quota should be fixed for the unemployed in the state in private jobs.AAP leader Daljit Singh, aka Bhola Grewal, said the age limit should be removed for candidates of police recruitment examinations which were being postponed time and again. “As the recruitment has not been done for a long time, a large number of youngsters have become overage. Thus, the condition of the upper age limit should be removed.”Meanwhile, the leaders staged a protest at Gian Singh Rarewala Market in Ludhiana against the alleged illegally plying private buses from Ludhiana to other states. AAP leader Ashok Prashar Pappi alleged that these buses were plying illegally from the market here by charging double fares from passengers. He alleged that no action was being taken against the same.Meanwhile, an employee of a private bus that was supposed to ply from Ludhiana to Ballia in UP denied the allegations levelled by the AAP leaders. A man who claimed to be the owner of the private bus said they pay all taxes to the government and the buses were plying between Ludhiana and UP with the required approval. He said allegations levelled by AAP were completely false. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/release-rs-2-500-monthly-allowance-to-unemployed-aap-to-punjab-government-333722
03-11-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Raikot||Eatables distributed to celebrate green Diwali||Employees of various departments of the Shreyans Group of Industries vowed to observe an eco-friendly green Diwali by planting trees and shunning bursting of crackers on the occasion.An oath was taken in response to an appeal made by senior functionaries of the group, led by chairman and managing director Rajnish Oswal and assistant general manager Arshia Oswal. The organisers distributed sweets, other eatables and ration among poor families of the region.“Contrary to earlier trend when we used to give cash for celebrating festivals to needy families, we have decided to greet them with essential items required for keeping their kitchens running,” said Rajnish Oswal.Appreciating the gesture shown by the organisers, president of the Municipal Council Vikas Tandon and former president Ravinder Puri said the trend, if continued by other commercial and industrial organisations, would help check pollution caused due to bursting of crackers on Diwali. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/eatables-distributed-to-celebrate-green-diwali-333721
03-11-2021||---||Illegal constructions: NGO protests against Ludhiana MC’s building branch officials||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 2As the Municipal Corporation authorities have allegedly turned a blind eye towards frequent violations of the building bylaws, many people are forced to suffer. A city-based NGO, Yuva, staged a protest against the MC’s building branch officials, outside the MC’s Zone B office near Shingar Cinema on Tuesday.With displaying pictures, Kumar Gaurav, leader of the NGO, raised questions over the role of MC’s building branch officials and higher authorities. He also questioned why are allegedly tainted officers being posted in the building branch?Gaurav said: “The building branch has failed to curb illegal constructions in the city. The erring officials have created a big mess in our city by allowing violators to construct illegal buildings. When I sent pictures of under-construction illegal multi-storey buildings in different areas, the ATPs concerned at Zone A and B did not take any action. Also, an official said the illegal buildings are being constructed with the support of political leaders.”Questions are also being raised as to why the state government failed to act against these rampant violations. Gaurav said: “On the one hand, the government is making tall claims to eliminate mafias from the state, on the other no action is being taken against the mafia behind the illegal constructions. Illegal buildings are being constructed in many parts of the city. I will raise the matter before Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi that when this mafia behind the illegal constructions would be eliminated from the city.”A few months ago, the MC Commissioner had ordered the building branch to act against the illegal constructions and colonies but the drive was mere an eyewash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/illegal-constructions-ngo-protests-against-ludhiana-mcs-building-branch-officials-333720
03-11-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Dhanteras: Ludhiana residents flock to jewellers for buying gold ornaments||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 2In modern times, Dhanteras is considered to be the most auspicious occasion for buying gold, silver and other metal items, especially kitchenware, etc. To celebrate the festival, it seems the entire city is out to make purchases today. Stores of gold, silver, metals and kitchenware, decorated for the occasion, witnessed a huge rush of buyers.One of the jewellers on Mall Road said maximum buyers had purchased pure gold coins, starting from 10 gm.“Pure gold is an investment. After worshipping the metal on Diwali, one can keep it in safe and when the need arises, the gold can be used accordingly,” said the jewellery owner.While Rahul, a salesman at a crockery store in Ghumar Mandi, said it was being difficult to manage the huge rush of buyers. “The owner has called extra workers for these few days to manage the rush. On Dhanteras, purchases are on till late hours,” he said.Not all can afford to buy gold, silver or other metals. People from weaker sections of society said they purchased rice and barley as these were signs of health and wealth.As the festival of lights is on November 4, festivity is in the air. Be it markets or shopping malls or exhibitions or private parties in the city, all these are thronged by people for celebrations.Markets are having a dazzling look with the display of colourful and decorative products to attract buyers. It is not that just shops or stalls of Diwali-related products are pulling the crowd but sweet meat shops and stores dealing in electronic gadgets and dress material are witnessing a big footfall.“Till 2 am or even later than that, we unload stocks at our godowns as stock keeps on coming. We are being given extra bucks these days for the work,” said a salesman working at a crockery store.It seems there is no threat of Covid as nobody is seen wearing mask or even maintaining social distancing. Shopkeepers have extended their stalls outside their shops to sell more items. Though these are encroachments, the police seem to look the other way as during the recent visit of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to the city, he had stated that the police should not harass shopkeepers during the festive season.Reena, a homemaker, said with happiness and festivity, the festival brings stress also.“The gifting culture, which was stopped last year, is back with a bang. But traffic jams, long queues, huge rush brings a lot of stress. But since this is one of the best occasions to celebrate, I don’t mind being stressed for a day or two,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dhanteras-ludhiana-residents-flock-to-jewellers-for-buying-gold-ornaments-333717
03-11-2021||---||One fresh Covid case in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 2One person tested positive for Covid and no death due to the disease was reported in the district today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.57 per cent and there are 19 active cases in the district at present. Seventeen patients were asked to undergo home isolation today.A total of six patients — two from Ludhiana and four from other districts — are undergoing treatment for Covid at various city hospitals here.Till date, a total of 27,34,540 samples for Covid test have been taken, of which 26,35,223 samples were found negative. Now, the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,611, while 11,706 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of patients who lost their lives to Covid is 2,106 from Ludhiana and 1,053 from other districts.Samples of 6,781 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-fresh-covid-case-in-ludhiana-district-333716
03-11-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district attracts 745 new projects at Rs 14,058 cr since 2017||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 2The district has attracted the second highest new projects in the state during the present regime, the government has confirmed.The biggest and largest district of the state, in terms of area and population, stood third in the state when it comes to investment cost and commissioning of new units in the state since 2017, the officials have revealed.Sharing details, Rajat Agarwal, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Invest Punjab, the state government’s one-stop unified regulator controlling 23 different departments to provide advanced single-window facilitation to the investors, told The Tribune on Tuesday that 3,411 new projects, involving investment of Rs 1,00,181 crore, have arrived in the state during the current government regime.While 1,822 new projects, which account for 54 per cent, have already been commissioned, another 1,487 units, accounting for 44 per cent, are under construction.The data of district-wise investment under the present regime, compiled by the Invest Punjab, showed that Ludhiana got 745 new projects, which accounted for 21.84 per cent of the total new units that had arrived in the state during the past four and a half years, at the investment cost of Rs 14,058 crore, accounting for 14.19 per cent.While 449 new projects, which accounted for 60 per cent of the total new units, have already been commissioned in the district, another 295 projects, accounting for 40 per cent, are under construction.Mohali led the state with the highest count of 748 new projects, which accounted for 21.93 per cent, at the investment cost of Rs 30,038 crore, accounting for 29.18 per cent. While 288 new units, which accounted for 39 per cent, have already been commissioned in Mohali, another 458 projects, accounting for 61 per cent, are in the commissioning stage.Among other districts, Bathinda got 95 new projects at Rs 25,034 crore, of which 72 have been commissioned and 22 are under construct, Patiala 297 units at Rs 6,646 crore, of which 157 commissioned and 138 under construction, Fatehgarh Sahib 294 projects at Rs 4,169 crore, of which 183 commissioned and 109 under construction, Amritsar 166 units at Rs 3,695 crore, of which 122 commissioned and 46 under construction, Nawanshahr 32 projects at Rs 3,102 crore, of which 15 commissioned and 13 under construction, Hoshiarpur 98 units at Rs 2,326 crore, of which 43 commissioned and 53 under construction, Ropar 60 projects at Rs 2,028 crore, of which 20 commissioned and 35 under construction, Sangrur 176 units at Rs 1,739 crore, of which 109 commissioned and 63 under construction, Barnala 63 projects at Rs 1,205 crore, of which 25 commissioned and 41 under construction, Jalandhar 159 units at Rs 1,169 crore, of which 37 commissioned and 56 under construction, Pathankot 43 projects at Rs 1,083 crore, of which 26 commissioned and 12 under construction, Gurdaspur 71 units at Rs 758 crore, of which 49 commissioned and 22 under construction, Muktsar 39 projects at Rs 615 crore, of which 17 commissioned and 19 under construction, Ferozepur 40 units at Rs 589 crore, of which 19 commissioned and 17 under construction, Kapurthala 37 projects at Rs 421 crore, of which 20 commissioned and 17 under construction, Faridkot 36 units at Rs 406 crore, of which 26 commissioned and 11 under construction, Mansa 35 projects at Rs 401 crore, of which 17 commissioned and 17 under construction, Fazilka 63 units at Rs 368 crore, of which 40 commissioned and 20 under construction, Moga 79 projects at Rs 246 crore, of which 57 commissioned and 21 under construction, and Tarn Taran attracted 35 new units at the investment cost of Rs 174 crore, of which 31 have already been commissioned while two are under construction.Figures at a glanceChiefMinisterSpeaksOur government has provided a conducive and safe environment to attract fresh investment and ensure expansion of the existing industry in the state. We will continue to make all-out efforts to make Punjab the best investment destination in the country. Charanjit Singh Channi, Chief Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-attracts-745-new-projects-at-rs-14-058-cr-since-2017-333706
03-11-2021||---||Ludhiana Mayor, MC Commissioner inspect flooded railway underbridge||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 2Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal on Tuesday inspected the under-construction railway underbridge (RUB-2) from the Pakhowal Road towards Sarabha Nagar) site as a huge amount of sewage has accumulated there. They also inspected the static waste compactor system near Dugri Road canal bridge as the compactor has stopped functioning.A chamber of 72-inch sewerage line had got damaged due to which the sewage accumulated at the RUB. Sandhu said the O&M branch staff has been asked to take the required steps to repair the sewer manhole. “The flow of the sewer water is high. We can’t stop the flow of the sewage. If we stop the flow, the sewage would accumulate in various areas. So, the damaged chamber wall is required to be repaired as soon as possible. The O&M branch has been asked to make required arrangements for the repair work,” said the Mayor.As the city’s first static waste compactor system near the Dugri bridge has stopped functioning, the Mayor gave directions to the staff to take the required steps to replace both machines of the static waste compactor. When Sandhu visited the site, he also asked the officials to ensure the lifting of the waste. The waste was later cleared from the dumpsite. The static waste compactor system was installed near the Dugri bridge here in 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mayor-mc-commissioner-inspect-flooded-railway-underbridge-333705
03-11-2021||Manav Mander||Ludhiana students fare well in NEET||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 2City students have fared well in the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET). The result was sent to the candidates on their e-mail addresses.A daughter of a doctor couple, Shreya Chopra, secured the All India Rank 470.Shivam Singla got the AIR 509, Divye Ahlawat AIR 546, Anika Sehgal AIR 636, Arnav AIR 841 and Saurish Ohri AIR 877 among others.For Shreya, online studies during the pandemic came as a blessing in disguise as she got more time to focus on her preparation for NEET. “Time that was earlier lost in commuting to school was saved and I used that time for my studies. My study schedule was from 7 am-12 noon. In between, whenever, I felt tired, I use to do painting to de-stress myself,” said Shreya, who passed her Class XII from GRD Academy.Shreya’s father Dr Sandeep Chopra is a cardiologist at Fortis Hospital and mother, Dr Rupali, is an ophthalmologist at the CMCH. Shreya is now focussing on MBBS and wishes to take admission either in Chandigarh or Delhi.Shivam, who secured AIR 509, has burnt the midnight oil to secure the rank. “I use to study late till 2 am and in between the study hours I took small breaks for relaxation as well. Cricket and playing guitar are my hobbies and nothing de-stresses better than playing my favourite song on the guitar,” said Shivam, who has passed Class XII from Guru Harkrishan Public School and now wants to take admission in Chandigarh. Shivam’s father is in insurance company and his mother is a banker.Divye Ahlawat, who secured AIR 546, said, “Finally my efforts paid off and I managed to secure the rank. Now my focus is on the further admission,” he said.Anika Sehgal’s parents are doctors. Her father is a neurologist and mother is a professor in preventive medicine. Anika now is focusing on her MBBS admission. “My hard work and dedication as well as the support of my parents and teachers have finally paid off,” she said.Toppers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-students-fare-well-in-neet-333704
