06-11-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana to host 3x3 basketball championship||Continuing its efforts to promote basketball activities in the talent-rich state of Punjab, the 3BL has announced to conduct the first ever ‘Punjab Open 3x3 Championship for boys and girls and for men and women with assistance of the Punjab Basketball Association (PBA) at Guru Nanak Stadium from November 8 to 14. Competition for boys and girls U-18 will be held from November 8 to 11 and in the men and women sections from November 12 to 14.The open 3x3 championship is the fastest and shortest format of basketball in the world. All you need is one hoop, a half court and six players. It’s a 10-minute game. Highest score in 10 minutes or first team to score 21 points wins. It is not only the International Basketball Federation (FIBA’s) second official discipline, but will be played at the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham 2022 and in the Paris 2024 Olympics. Interested participants need to register themselves on the 3BL app, available for download on both Android and iOS platforms.Rohit Bakshi, 3BL Commissioner, said, “Our mission is to spread 3x3 basket ball format across the country.” Teja Singh, PBA general secretary, said, “We hope our boys and girls will shine in 3x3 basket ball.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-to-host-3x3-basketball-championship-334655
06-11-2021||Raikot||Major fire at Raikot power grid||Major part of the town plunged into darkness after officials of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) had to disconnect all supplies following a major fire at the power grid here today evening.Though coordinated and prompt rescue operations conducted by officials of the civil and police administration, besides the PSPCL controlled the fire, supply was expected to resume after technical teams undertook repair work on Saturday.The Municipal Council president, Sudarshan Kumar Joshi, informed that some children had noticed fire in a power grid section at 4.35 pm.Six fire tenders from the Municipal Council Raikot, Barnala, Jagraon and the Halwara Air Force Station managed to douse the flames at 7.30 pm. Claiming that senior functionaries in the PSPCL had started the process for necessary repairs to be undertaken on Saturday, SDM Gurbir Singh Kohli said the cause behind the accident would be ascertained after conducting an inquiry.Apprehending disruption of power supply for a longer period, residents had started queuing up at petrol pumps to procure diesel for their generators. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/major-fire-at-raikot-power-grid-334654
06-11-2021||Harshraj Singh||Day after Diwali, air turns ‘very poor’ in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 5Following the Diwali night, a thick layer of smog enveloped the city here on Friday. The air quality index (AQI) on Friday evening reached the ‘very poor’ zone as its level was recorded at 303 (very poor) on 8 pm at the air monitoring station in Punjab Agricultural University, one of the cleanest places in Ludhiana district.The prominent pollutant was PM 2.5 and its maximum level was recorded at 500 at around 2 am on Friday.A large number of people in the city burst firecrackers till late on Thursday night on Diwali. The AQI level had reached at 300 at 10 am today at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. The AQI, however, later declined to 292 at 4 pm but the levels again started increasing in the evening. AQI 295 was recorded at 5 pm, 297 at 6 pm and 300 at 7 pm.If the AQI level is between 201 and 300, it is remarked as ‘poor’ and the possible health impacts include breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure. If AQI is between 301 and 400, it is called ‘very poor’ and its possible health impacts include respiratory illness on prolonged exposure. The AQI is considered to be severe if levels are between 401 and 500 and it affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/day-after-diwali-air-turns-very-poor-in-ludhiana-334653
06-11-2021||Ludhiana||SAD to set up board to address 1984 riot victims’ grievances, says Sukhbir Badal||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president today said the next SAD-BSP government would form a ‘Riot Victims’ Welfare Board’ to address grievances of Sikh migrants now settled in Punjab after systematic targeting of Sikhs in 1984 anti-Sikh riot. He said the board would be given sufficient funds to settle all issues of the riot-affected families.Badal was interacting with mediapersons after attending ‘bhog’ of the ‘path’ in memory of the 1984 riots victims at CRPF Colony here today. The SGPC president, Bibi Jagir Kaur, was also present on the occasion. Expressing his deep concern over denial of justice to riot-affected families, the SAD president announced that his party would move a resolution in the forthcoming Vidhan Sabha session demanding action against the Gandhi family at whose behest the 1984 genocide was initiated as well as arrest of Jagdish Tytler and other Congressmen responsible for it.Badal also asked Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi as well as the Punjab Congress leadership to clear its stand on Tytler’s appointment to a top party panel. “They should tell Punjabis why they supported this appointment,” he added.He also asked the Chief Minister to immediately reduce state VAT on petrol and diesel by Rs10 per litre each. While paying his respects to Lord Vishwakarma, Sukhbir Badal announced that the next SAD- BSP government would constitute Baba Vishwakarma Skill University to impart technical training to youth, which would help them gain employment in the industrial sector. Sukhbir also appointed Ludhiana-based industrialist Gurmeet Singh Kular as the SAD-B adviser on industrial affairs. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sad-to-set-up-board-to-address-1984-riot-victims-grievances-says-sukhbir-badal-334652
06-11-2021||---||Protest against rising steel, raw material prices enters Day 4 in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, November 5Industrialists continued their dharna against the continuous rise in prices of raw material and steel here today. Their protest entered the fourth day today.Industrialists are raising a hue and cry over the monopoly of big industries dealing in steel and other raw material for making it difficult for the local industry to work smoothly.Industrialists maintain that due to increasing prices of raw material they were not able to work smoothly. They said the Central Government was hardly paying any attention towards controlling prices of raw material by constituting a regulatory committee.Manjinder Singh, general secretary, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, said the industry was left with no other option, but to protest against rising prices at the UCPMA office here.“The industry is filling stomachs of lakhs of unemployed people. Instead of boosting the morale of the industry, the government prefers to look the other way. There is no regulatory body to keep a watch on the monopolistic approach of big industries, which are increasing rates of steel and raw material with each passing day,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protest-against-rising-steel-raw-material-prices-enters-day-4-in-ludhiana-334651
06-11-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Ludhiana businessmen offer prayers at factories, workplaces||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 5Vishwakarma Puja was done in factory premises and workplaces by many industrialists in the city today. Though it was a holiday all over the state, workers in the industrial town gathered at their workplace to celebrate the day and offer prayers to Lord Vishwakarma, the God and divine architect. He is considered as creator of the world and of many weapons for Gods.To celebrate the occasion, industrialists and devotees, especially those who work on machines, prayed to the Lord. They also worshipped all machinery at homes, offices and shops, including cycles, cars, machines, computers and other equipment. Devotees across the city offered prayers to the Lord in their respective offices, factories, and industrial areas.Naresh Jain, one of the hosiery manufacturers here said, “The tradition of worshipping Lord Vishwakarma is here since the past four decades. Earlier, my grandfather, then father and now I continue to perform puja on the factory premises along with my workers. The workers bring all material. After worshipping machinery and Lord we distribute sweets among all present on the occasion. Many factory workers light firecrackers after puja as it is a holiday for them.”Also on the occasion of Govardhan Puja, in many temples, ‘annakoot’ was distributed amongst devotees. The day holds a special significance in Hindu mythology as Lord Krishna, on this day, defeated Lord Indra by lifting ‘Govardhan Parvat’ on his little finger and saved villagers and animals from the wrath of nature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-businessmen-offer-prayers-at-factories-workplaces-334650
06-11-2021||---||Manpreet Singh Badal pays obeisance to Lord Vishwakarma at state-level function in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, November 5Finance and Taxation Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Friday said the Punjab Government would take decision on reducing petrol and diesel prices at the next Cabinet meeting scheduled tomorrow.Speaking to the media after paying obeisance to Lord Vishwakarma at the state-level function organised to commemorate birth anniversary of the Lord here today, Manpreet said, “The Punjab Government is also keen to slash the prices of petrol and diesel to give more relief to the people, but the final decision would be taken at the upcoming Cabinet meeting.” The Union Government should have reduced more excise duty on fuel, Manpreet said.“The state government has to take care of every sector, including education, health, electricity, police and infrastructure development and run several social welfare schemes for the people. The Union Government charges more taxes on petrol and diesel as compared to states. The Punjab Government is keen on reducing prices of petrol and diesel. The price reduction will be announced at the Cabinet meeting tomorrow,” added Manpreet.Earlier, presiding over the state-level function, the Finance Minister said Lord Vishwakarma was God of craft, architecture and engineering. “Lord Vishwakarma is divine draftsman of whole universe. Whatever industrial and infrastructure growth today we observe around, is happening only with blessings and mechanical skills created by Lord Vishwakarma,” Manpreet added.The Finance Minister also announced a grant of Rs1 crore for revamping Lord Vishwakarma Temple. Meanwhile, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Industry and Commerce Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli also paid obeisance to Lord Vishwakarma and announced Rs10 lakh each for the temple respectively.Vishwakrama Maha Utsav observed with fervourAhmedgarh/Raikot: Office-bearers and activists of various organisations paid tributes to Lord Vishwakarma at functions held to observe Shri Vishwakarma Maha Puja Utsav at Ahmedgarh, Raikot, Dehlon, Malaudh, Payal and Sadhar.Speakers, including Congress’ halqa-incharge Kamil Boparai, Raikot Municipal Council president Sudarshan Joshi, Amargarh legislator Surjit Singh Dhiman, Gill MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Payal legislator Lakhvir Singh Lakha and former MLA Iqbal Singh Jhoondan, said, “Modern society owes a lot to Lord Vishwakarma, who paved way for all mechanical and technical developments.”“Even if we talk of having explored possibility of life beyond Earth, it is due to basics and fundamentals of science and technology illustrated by Lord Vishwakarma, who was a great architect and led the humanity to the age of ultramodern gadgets, submarines and space aircrafts,” said Kamil Boparai while addressing participants at a function in Raikot.Langars were organised at all functions. The organisers also felicitated outstanding performers in various fields on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/manpreet-singh-badal-pays-obeisance-to-lord-vishwakarma-at-state-level-function-in-ludhiana-334649
06-11-2021||Nitin Jain||Dengue cases start decreasing, Ludhiana district still remains high burden||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 5Even as the number of dengue patients has started decreasing, Ludhiana continues to remain among the high-burden districts of the state, the government has confirmed.With 1,377 confirmed and 3,845 suspected cases, besides four deaths due to the vector-borne disease till Friday, Ludhiana ranked seventh worst-hit district in the state, the official figures have revealed.The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is available with The Tribune, showed that 25 fresh cases of dengue fever were reported in the district on Friday, of which 24 were residents of other districts and states, who tested positive in Ludhiana. However, no dengue death was reported in the district on Friday.Similarly, 710 of the total 1,377 confirmed dengue patients reported in the district so far were from other districts and states, which accounted for more than half of the total cases (precisely 51.56 per cent).Of the total 3,845 suspected cases of dreaded vector-borne disease reported here so far, 3,395 were from Ludhiana district while remaining 450 were outsiders. The downward trend was witnessed since October 27 when daily cases touched a record high of 122. Since then dengue incidencde has been lowering with the district reporting 74 cases on October 28, 63 on October 29, 35 on October 30, 30 on October 31, 29 on November 1, 38 on November 2, 40 on November 3, 17 on November 4 and 25 on November 5.When it comes to the urban-rural divide, 1,136 dengue cases were reported from the urban areas, including 1,035 from Ludhiana, 44 from Khanna and 57 from Jagraon, while 241 patients belonged to the rural areas, including 11 from Raikot, eight from Samrala, 12 from Hathur, 42 from Koom Kalan, 14 from Malaud, nine from Machhiwara, 17 from Manupur, 23 from Pakhowal, five from Payal, 41 from Sahnewal, 23 from Sidhwan Bet and 36 from Sudhar.Among other districts, Mohali continues to remain worst-hit with a maximum of 3,051 confirmed and 6,599 suspected dengue cases and 31 deaths till Friday, followed by Bathinda 2,309 confirmed, 4,261 suspected cases and four deaths, Amritsar 1,612 confirmed and 3,157 suspected, Hoshiarpur 1,590 confirmed and 4,634 suspected, Pathankot 1,574 confirmed and 3,334 suspected patients and one death, Muktsar 1,388 confirmed and 2,174 suspected cases and five deaths, Patiala 717 confirmed and 2,652 suspected patients and one death, Kapurthala 688 confirmed and 1,677 suspected cases, Ropar 618 confirmed and 1,590 suspected cases and four deaths, Gurdaspur 602 confirmed and 1,186 suspected cases, Faridkot 534 confirmed and 1,684 suspected patients and four deaths, Sangrur 443 confirmed and 1,548 suspected cases and two deaths, Nawanshahr 403 confirmed and 1,130 suspected patients and two deaths, Jalandhar 325 confirmed and 841 suspected cases and three deaths, Tarn Taran 284 confirmed and 1,053 suspected cases, Fatehgarh Sahib 255 confirmed and 654 suspected patients and one death, Fazilka 178 confirmed and 721 suspected cases, Ferozepur 125 confirmed and 1,098 suspected cases, Barnala 98 confirmed and 847 suspected cases and one death, Mansa 90 confirmed and 524 suspected cases and Moga reported 87 confirmed and 436 suspected cases.25 fresh cases The Health Departments on Friday confirmed 25 fresh dengue cases in Ludhiana district. Of them, 23 cases are from the city and one each from Khanna and Sidhwan Bet. In the city, confirmed cases were reported from Janta Nagar, Kitchlu Nagar, Model Town, Basant Vihar, New Maya Nagar, New Vijay Nagar, Haibowal Khurd, Sector 32A on Chandigarh Road Patel Nagar, Civil Lines, SBS Nagar, Bajwa Colony and Giaspura. Worst & least hitMohali remains worst-hit district with 3,051 confirmed, 6,599 suspected cases and 31 dengue deaths, while Moga continues to be the least-hit district with 87 confirmed, 436 suspected cases and no death till Friday.State tally||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dengue-cases-start-decreasing-ludhiana-district-still-remains-high-burden-334647
06-11-2021||---||Seven fresh Covid cases in two days in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 5Seven more cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district during the past two days. Four cases were reported on Thursday while three cases on Friday.Civil Surgeon Dr SP Singh informed that a total of 87,620 Covid cases of Ludhiana district and 11,708 of other districts or states have been confirmed here till date.Out of the 87,620 confirmed cases in the Ludhiana district, 79,865 are from the Ludhiana city subdivision, while the remaining cases belong to five subdivisions of Jagraon, Raikot, Khanna, Samrala and Payal.Besides, a total of 2,106 patients of Ludhiana district and 1,053 patients belonging to other places have died of the virus till date here, according to the Health Department.A total of 2,087 samples were collected for Covid-19 test.COVID-19 figures||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seven-fresh-covid-cases-in-two-days-in-ludhiana-334645
06-11-2021||---||Illicit liquor seized from banks of Sutlej||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 5The CIA wing of the Ludhiana rural police yesterday conducted a raid on the banks of the Sutlej near Sherewal village and recovered illicit liquor.The four bootleggers after noticing the police party fled from the spot leaving behind the raw material for preparing country liquor, drums, tarpaulins, etc. The bootleggers have been identified as Sulakhan Singh, Gurmit Singh, Kala Singh and Gurnam Singh, all residents of Sherewal village.The CIA chief, Ludhiana rural, Inspector Prem Singh Bhangu, in a statement said secret information was received that some bootleggers were preparing illicit liquoron the banks of the Sutlej and they had already prepared a huge quantity of liquor which they would sell in retail to their clients.When the police party raided the spot, the four bootleggers immediately jumped into the river and fled towards the other side of the river. CIA cops tried to chase them but they managed to flee, said Inspector Prem.The police recovered four iron drums, 300 bottles of illicit liquor filled in rubber tubes, 1,000 litre lahan, four big utensils, four plastic pipes and some logs of woods from the spot.The police registered a case under the Excise Act against the bootleggers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/illicit-liquor-seized-from-banks-of-sutlej-334640
06-11-2021||Harshraj Singh||Over 30 patients with burns visit Ludhiana hospitals||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 5Over 30 patients, including children, with burn injuries due to bursting of crackers reached the major city hospitals on Diwali night.Three patients suffering from major burn injuries have been admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), while many others were discharged after receiving the required treatment. The patients had received injuries mainly on the arms or face while some had also received injuries in eyes.According to an official of the CMCH, 12 injured patients, including five children, visited the hospital on Diwali night. “Three patients have received major burn injuries. Two of them have received major eye injuries, while one has got major burn injuries on body. These have been admitted to the CMCH. Besides, nine patients, who had received minor injuries, were discharged after providing the required treatment,” he said.Eight patients were rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana. Dr Rajinder Mittal, head of the Plastic Surgery Department of the DMCH, said a total of eight patients visited the hospital last night. “Five patients had hand burn injuries, while three patients had injuries on the face. One out of three patients with facial injuries had received an eye injury. All these patients had visited OPD and nobody was admitted,” he said.Dr Baldeep Singh of Deep Hospital informed that seven-eight patients with minor to moderate burns visited the hospital last night. Besides, around five patients visited the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, as per information.On Thursday night, people were seen bursting crackers in the middle of roads at different locations in the city by ignoring the safety of the passersby. Even the crackers were burst after midnight in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/over-30-patients-with-burns-visit-ludhiana-hospitals-334639
06-11-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||43 fire incidents on Diwali night in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 5This Diwali, the industrial hub witnessed as many as 43 fire incidents, which kept the firemen on toes for the entire night.As per the data obtained from the Fire Department, out of 43 incidents, 11 took place at various factories, while the remaining were reported in empty plots, shops, houses and on roads. Only a few fire incidents were major, while rest were minor ones, hence controlled in no time.Fire officials said last year 32 fire incidents had taken place in the city on Diwali night and this Diwali witnessed nine more incidents.The first incident took place at a hosiery unit in Shivpuri at 8.05 pm. The factory was closed when the fire broke out. It was suspected that some burning crackers could have fallen inside the factory, which caused fire. To reach the spot, firemen had to struggle hard as roads leading to the factory were narrow and also congested with traffic.Another major incident took place at Sundar Nagar at around 9.15 pm where goods and machinery worth several lakhs of rupees were gutted in the fire. Firemen took more than three hours to control the flames. The third major incident took place in the two halls of the washing unit of a hosiery unit on Kali Sadak at around 10.20 pm. Fire was intense and firemen took more than three hours to completely douse the flames. Although the factory was closed but some factory workers were present in the factory and they had to rush out immediately from the factory to save their lives.Aatish Rai, Sub Fire Officer said firemen were already prepared to tackle fire incidents for Diwali night and firefighters quickly reacted to the fire calls and reached everywhere in the minimum possible time.Meanwhile, son of a sub fire officer Rajinder Pal died of dengue last night. Rajinder was on duty on Thursday night when he heard the news. All fire officials extended condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/43-fire-incidents-on-diwali-night-in-ludhiana-334637
