07-11-2021||Ludhiana||DLSA to hold mega legal services camp on November 9||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) in collaboration with the Ludhiana district administration is set to hold a mega legal services camp at the Gulzar Group of Institutes, Khanna, on the occasion of Legal Services Day on Tuesday (November 9).The CJM-cum-DLSA secretary, PS Kaleka, said during the camp, National Legal Services Authority (NLSA) and various government departments would put up stalls to provide information about schemes and programmes to the people.Applications from residents would be received and forwarded to respective departments to ensure that they could avail benefits if found eligible, Kaleka added.Representatives of departments would also deliver services to beneficiaries on the spot, said Kaleka. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dlsa-to-hold-mega-legal-services-camp-on-november-9-335059
07-11-2021||Ludhiana||Child lost at Civil Hospital found after 4 hours||Fifteen days old baby girl went missing from the Civil Hospital’s Mother and Child Hospital today. Later, the girl was recovered from the hospital premises after four hours.According to information, an attendant of a new mother handed over the girl child to a woman, who was standing in corridor, as she was taking baby’s mother to washroom.When they came back from washroom the woman was not there. High drama was witnessed at the hospital and a police complaint was lodged.“The woman to whom baby was handed over by attendant before going to washroom took the girl child to ward where her mother was admitted. Fours hours passed, but she did not come to return the girl,” said SMO Dr Amarjit Kaur. “The woman is in police custody ans is being interrogated. Patients should not trust strangers,” she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/child-lost-at-civil-hospital-found-after-4-hours-335057
07-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Provide hassle-free services to people, officials told||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Amargarh, November 6Officials of the subdivision and block-level government offices and public departments have been advised to ensure presence at their seats during working hours so that residents get services without any hassle.Having received instructions from Deputy Commissioner (DC) Madhvi Kataria, Ahmedgarh SDM Harbans Singh and Amargarh SDM Javir Singh have cautioned all officials concerned to provide corruption free and transparent governance at their respective offices and ensure that benefits of social welfare schemes being launched by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi from time to time are availed by eligible residents.The DC also announced that grievances of those failing to get their work done promptly would be heard by her from 11 am to 1 pm on all working days.Meanwhile, office-bearers and activists of various outfits of employees working at block, subdivision and district-level offices have also vowed to work diligently and follow orders of their seniors despite continuing their protest to get their long-pending demands fulfilled as usual.Employees posted at government offices of Ahmedgarh and Amargarh subdivisions, led by the chairman, Punjab Government DC Office Employees Union, Amritpal Pannu, said they would ensure that nobody visiting their seats for getting work done was harassed.The DC said providing corruption free, prompt and transparent services to residents at offices in the district was her prime agenda. Organised steps would be taken to ensure that grievances of people were redressed on priority and benefits of government welfare schemes percolated to beneficiaries without hassle, the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/provide-hassle-free-services-to-people-officials-told-335056
07-11-2021||Sports Correspondent||Ludhiana edge out Jalandhar to lift women’s title in Senior Punjab Softball Championship||Ludhiana, November 6Hosts Ludhiana edged out Jalandhar to clinch the title in the women’s section of the 29th Senior Punjab State Softball Championship being held here at Guru Nanak Stadium here on Saturday.The final turned out to be a one-sided affair in which Ludhiana players blanked their opponents 3-0 to lift the winners’ trophy.In the match to decide the third position, Gurdaspur proved too good for Fazilka whom they outperformed 6-2 to settle for the bronze medal.Earlier, on way to the final, Ludhiana routed Malerkotla 10-0, overwhelmed Patiala 10-0 and blanked Gurdaspur 5-0 to secure berth in the title clash whereas Jalandhar drubbed Ferozepur 13-4, overpowered Amritsar 13-6 and got the better of Fazilka 4-0 to join Ludhiana in the summit clash.Pran Nath Passi, honorary general secretary, Punjab Softball Association, gave away prizes to the winners. Office-bearers of the association and coaches, besides members of the Ludhiana District Softball Association were present at the prize distribution function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-edge-out-jalandhar-to-lift-womens-title-in-senior-punjab-softball-championship-335054
07-11-2021||Lovleen Bains||Colleges laud Panjab University Youth Fest theme||Doraha, November 6Panjab University Youth Festival theme “Love and respect the nature” has been lauded by colleges affiliated to the xuniversity as they consider it to be most befitting in the current scenario when humanity is paying heavily for its unnatural selfish deeds.While sharing views the director, youth welfare, Panjab University, Dr Nirmal Jaura said, “The theme selected for this years’ PU Youth and Heritage Festival is ‘Love and respect the nature’. The youth are most powerful sector of a social set up. Once our youth is awakened from within, no power can let us down. The ills ailing society will vanish if the energy of the youth is recognised and channelised in proper direction.”“Today’s younger generation needs to understand that artificial eating habits and lifestyle is leading to health ailments, which were never known earlier. Our forefathers’ inhaled pure air, ate pure and lived pure and simple life,” he added.The Principal, AS College, Khanna, Dr RS Jhanji opined, “This is the most appropriate theme provided by the university since loving and respecting nature is the need of the hour. Distancing from nature has resulted in the coronavirus onslaught, which forced the world to think twice about irreparable damage caused by unnatural activities pursued by people. The logo of the theme shall be projected on all stages at different levels throughout the year to provide a good food for thought to youth.”The director, education, SGPC, and Principal, GN College, Muktsar, Dr Tejinder Kaur Dhaliwal, said, “Youth is the real carrier of every thought and dream. When the theme of loving and respecting nature is floated by more than 200 colleges affiliated to Panjab University through different competitions and preservation of nature takes the centre stage at all zonal, inter-zonal and university festivals, it will leave an indelible imprint on the minds of the youth, who are the main participants of these festivals.”Former Principal, Ramgarhia College, Ludhiana, Dr Narinder Sandhu said, “The passion and devotion to nature, which shares a common bond between man and the Almighty, is sadly missing in the world throughout. The richness achieved in terms of hi-tech developments and cut throat competition has unfortunately made people oblivious of all noble and finer feelings of life.”“It’s the light of peace, wisdom, joy, happiness, fellow feeling and concern, which is sadly lacking in the human race. The theme has been thoughtfully ascribed to the youth and heritage festival to be held this year,” he added.The Principal, Guru Nanak National College, Doraha, Dr Narinder Sidhu said, “The issue of stubble burning and consequent damage to environment and health of the people can best be carried forward by young boys and girls especially from the rural areas, who can convince villagers not to resort to such measures, destructive for the present and future generations.” “Festivals are a stage where such burning issues can be addressed and brought home in a subtle and significant manner. The theme is appropriate according to the current need,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/colleges-laud-panjab-university-youth-fest-theme-335053
07-11-2021||---||FIR against SAD activists on culpable homicide charge proved false: MLA||Ludhiana, November 6The Dakha MLA from Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Manpreet Singh Ayali, has alleged that in a five months’ old case registered in connection with death of former Sohian village sarpanch Mukhtiar Singh in which five SAD activists of the village were implicated as accused, was false. The board of doctors had termed the cause of death as natural, added Ayali.While addressing a press conference on Saturday Ayali said the declaration of the board of doctors came after the arrival of the postmortem and viscera report of the deceased.Ayali blamed Congress constituency in-charge Capt Sandhu (retd) for being involved in politics of hatred and forcing the police to register case against SAD workers.Deceased Mukhtiar Singh had locked the building of Gurdwara Dukh Nivaran Kainthsar Sahib of Sohian village and desecrated Guru Sahib, added Ayali. This act of the deceased led to protest by villagers of the area to get the gurdwara free from his clutches, said Ayali. The civil administration managed to get locks of the gurdwara opened, Ayali added.After a few days Mukhtiar died on his own, but Capt Sandeep Sandhu (retd) played ugly politics over his sudden demise and pressurised the police to book five SAD workers, including Sukhminder Singh, Gurdeep Singh, Nirbhai Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Gurdev Singh, who were natives of Sohian village, under Section 304 (culpable homicide), IPC, at Jagraon Sadar police station, said Ayali.He pursued the FIR and during postmortem, no bodily injuries were detected, Ayali added. After arrival of the viscera report, the board of doctors declared Mukhtiar’s death as natural death in their report, added Ayali. This proved that booking of SAD activists was nothing, but politics of hatred and revenge, said Ayali.When contacted, Congress leader Sandhu categorically denied allegations levelled by Ayali. “Had I forced the police to register an FIR, kin of the deceased would not have sat outside the SSP office with his body to get the accused booked. If Ayali smells anything fishy in the police probe then courts are there. Legal system will decide if any wrong FIR has been registered or not,” said Sandhu. Ayali had the habit of playing dirty politics, added Sandhu.Meanwhile, the Sadar SHO, Inspector Jaspal Singh, said the police was yet to receive the board of doctors’ report. If any such report comes, the police would attach it with the case file, the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fir-against-sad-activists-on-culpable-homicide-charge-proved-false-mla-335052
07-11-2021||Manav Mander||Siblings from Ludhiana develop portal to connect blood donors with recipients||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 6Dengue cases are being reported every day from the district. Amid this situation, many patients require platelets and hence, arises a need to arrange a blood donor.Keeping these difficulties in mind, city-based brother-sister duo, who themselves are specifically abled, have come up with a website, which will help in making a direct contact of the donor with the recipient.“Our father is a regular blood donor. He often discusses with us difficulties faced by the people in arranging blood as there is no common platform. Seeing all these hardships of the people and dengue spreading its tentacles in the city this year, we thought this is the right time to start a website where people in need of blood can search for donors,” said Sara, a third year law student, who has zero vision, but a dream for bright future.The website — www.blood4you.in — has already been developed and gone live for donor registration. Once donors are registered they will wait for the needy to call them from the city they live in. The website is now waiting for sufficient number of registrations to kick start blood donation.Sahir Chawla, a specially abled Class XII student of Sat Paul Mittal School, is looking after the technical part of the website. “The feeling of giving back and contributing to society is unparalleled. Blood donors are life saviours. Nothing else can be more kind/great to give our society back,” said Sahir.The brother-sister duo was disheartened to know that every year five crore units of blood were required for patients out of which only 2.5 crore units were available through blood donation camps.“We are requesting youth to support the cause by registering on the portal. We have given special privilege to NGOs to register people through this platform. NGOs will have access to data of donors they register,” said the brother-sister duo while signing off.The websiteThe website — www.blood4you.in — has already been developed and gone live for donor registration. Once donors are registered, they will wait for the needy to call them from the city they are staying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/siblings-from-ludhiana-develop-portal-to-connect-blood-donors-with-recipients-335051
07-11-2021||Harshraj Singh||Bumpy ride on 200-foot road tests commuters’ patience||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 6Lack of coordination between two government departments and incomplete process of handing over road maintenance work from one department to another has left commuters inconvenienced. The authorities concerned have failed to pay attention to the badly broken 200-foot road, which connects Phullanwal Chowk and Dugri-Dhandra Road, Ludhiana.At present, the broken road falls under the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), which has not ensured its re-carpeting.An official said GLADA had already started the process to handover the road to the Municipal Corporation (MC). But, the MC had not yet taken over the road maintenance work, he added.Meanwhile, no steps have been taken to fill big potholes on the road even after the passing of the rainy season leaving thousands of commuters to suffer.It is one of the widest roads in the city. Due to the apathy of the authorities concerned, the broken road not only invites mishaps, but also damages vehicles. Also, the poor condition of service lanes is being ignored by the authorities.A city resident Dr Amandeep Singh Bains said, “The 200-foot road near Flower Chowk and in the Dugri Phase II and III areas is in most deplorable condition on both sides. The commuters are forced to apply sudden brakes and then move ahead slowly and carefully due to big and deep potholes even during the daytime. The road is dangerous for two-wheeler riders as nine inch deep potholes are not visible at night. The authorities concerned must wake up and pay attention to problems being faced by a large number of commuters.”A Dhandra Road resident, Sanjay Tewari said, “The main 200-foot road was repaired last year, but now it is more broken. The service lanes are too in shambles. The authorities concerned should pay attention and take required measures immediately to provide relief to commuters. The responsibilities of the contractor and officials should be fixed if any road is damaged in a short span after re-carpeting or construction.”A GLADA official Parminder Singh said, “Earlier, GLADA floated tenders for the 200-foot road work. These tenders have been cancelled as the stretch is to be handed over to the Ludhiana MC. A draft has been sent to handover the 200-foot road to the MC recently. The civic body has not yet accepted it.”Newly appointed GLADA Chief Administrator Rishipal Singh said he would look into matter regarding broken stretch.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said, “GLADA will have to ensure re-carpeting of the 200-foot road if it has to handover the stretch to the Municipal Corporation. It’s a rule that the department concerned is responsible to ensure re-carpeting before handing over any road to another department.”Traffic lights cry for attentionTraffic lights are not functional at an intersection near Phullanwal village on the 200-foot road. Jaswinder Singh, a pedestrian, said: “It is difficult to cross the stretch from here. If traffic lights are available these should be made functional to avert accidents on the road.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bumpy-ride-on-200-foot-road-tests-commuters-patience-335050
07-11-2021||Ludhiana||Youth dies as bike rams scooter||18 held for gamblingLudhiana: The Dugri police conducted two separate raids on Friday and nabbed eight persons on gambling charges. The first raid was conducted at a park in the D Block, Dugri, from where four persons were nabbed. The police also seized Rs 7,500 in cash from them. Another raid was conducted at the E Block from where four persons were nabbed while gambling. A case under the Gambling Act was registered. The Haibowal police nabbed 10 persons on gambling charges on Friday. The police also recovered Rs 50,080 in cash from the spot. They were nabbed from an empty plot near the cremation ground in Haibowal. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/youth-dies-as-bike-rams-scooter-335049
07-11-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||21 months on, no recovery in 2-kg gold robbery case||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 6Over one year and nine months have been passed but the Ludhiana police have failed to recover 2 kg of gold that was looted by armed robbers from VK Jewellers, Ghumar Mandi, here.The owner of the jewellery, Vinay Verma, has been running from pillar to post for the recovery of gold worth lakhs.On January 29, 2020, masked robbers barged into VK Jewellers in Ghumar Mandi, where they had held its owner and a worker captive and looted 2 kg of gold worth Rs 90 lakhs.Talking to The Tribune, Vinay said since the day robbers looted gold from his showroom, he had been visiting offices of the Police Commissioner, Ludhiana, and other senior officials. Every time he met the officials, they assured that the looted gold would be recovered soon. However, more than 21 months have been passed but the gold is yet to be recovered.Verma said all accused in the case were nabbed by the police and they were also questioned by the police. Still, there was no sign of any gold recovery.“We had also met former DGP Dinkar Gupta and other senior officials at the Punjab Police headquarters and they also given directions to the Ludhiana police in this regard. Now, we will meet the newly appointed Police Commissioner, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, and will request him to expedite the probe and bring the accused for questioning again so that our valuables could be recovered,” alleged the jeweller.He said if the police would not speed up probe, he would approach the state Chief Minister and the Punjab DGP soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/21-months-on-no-recovery-in-2-kg-gold-robbery-case-335047
07-11-2021||---||Guest teachers seek job security||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 6Members of the Guest Faculty Assistant Professors Association, Punjab, staged a protest at the Government College for Girls here on Saturday. The guest faculty teachers demanded from the state government to secure jobs of guest faculty/part time/contract teachers working in the Higher Education Department, government colleges of Punjab for the past 15-20 years and give timely promotions to regular professors and promote principals. They have also been demanding hike in salaries.Falwinder Verma of the Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, said it was the sixth day of their protest in government colleges of the state. Guest faculty assistant professors said: “The Punjab Government is fully prepared to make us unemployed. If that happens, then we would lose our jobs.”“The government is talking about door-to-door employment and on the other hand, it is preparing to fire teachers who have been working in government colleges for the past 15-20 years. Moreover, letters have been issued for direct recruitment of principals. On the other hand, instead of promoting principals and appointing them to the post of DPI, DPIs have been introduced from PCS / IAS cadres,” the protesting members said.“As a result, direct recruitment from outside has been started by restricting the departmental promotion. This has caused a wave of resentment among the principals and regular staff of government colleges in the state. The environment of Punjab Government College is deteriorating day by day due to the ‘deadly’ policies of the Department of Higher Education, Punjab”, they said.Their demandsThe guest faculty teachers’ association demanded from the state government to secure jobs of guest faculty/part time/contract teachers working in the Higher Education Department, government colleges of Punjab for the past 15-20 years and give timely promotions to regular professors and promote principals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/guest-teachers-seek-job-security-335046
07-11-2021||---||Farmers hold protests against BJP leaders||Ludhiana, November 6Farmers and their supporters staged protests and opposed BJP leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP from Haryana Ram Chander Jangra and Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma, here today. Heavy police force was deployed to control the situation.Jangra and Sharma visited the city to attend an event to mark Vishwakarma Day, organised by Shri Vishwakarma Ramgarhia Foundation at Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan today. A protest was staged by the farmers and their supporters, opposing the BJP leaders outside the bhawan.A protester, Surjit Singh, said: “BJP MP Ram Chander Jangra had faced a massive protest by farmers in Haryana yesterday. When we came to know about his visit to the city, we gathered outside Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan to oppose him.”When Ashwani Sharma visited the Circuit House here today, the farmers and supporters held a protest to oppose him there. The road outside the Circuit House was, however, barricaded by the police and the farmers were not allowed to move ahead. They were demanding from the government to repeal the three farm laws.Meanwhile, during the visit to Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan, Jangra said opposition parties, including the Congress and the Left parties, are misguiding the farmers. He said policies formed by the Narendra Modi-led Central Government are benefitting the OBC community.The BJP state president congratulated everyone on the occasion of Vishwakarma Day. If the BJP comes to power in the state, the BJP government would form an OBC commission for the welfare of the community, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-hold-protests-against-bjp-leaders-335045
07-11-2021||---||No fresh Covid case in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, November 6No person tested positive for Covid and no death was reported in the district due to the virus today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.58 per cent and at present, there are 18 active cases in the district. Sixteen persons were sent for home isolation today.A total of six patients are undergoing treatment for Covid at various city hospitals and of these, two belong to Ludhiana district and four are from other districts.Till date, a total of 27,53,687 samples have been taken, of which 26,54,359 were found negative. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,620 while 11,708 belong to other districts/states.Total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,106 persons from Ludhiana and 1,053 from other districts.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid suspect, their samples are sent for testing. As many as 3,945 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.DCVarinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to continue to follow the Covid safety guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-fresh-covid-case-in-ludhiana-district-335044
07-11-2021||Manav Mander||21 dengue cases reported in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 6With the nip in the air, cases of dengue have subsided a little but breeding of mosquitoes will stop only when the temperature goes below 20°C.The minimum temperature was 13°C and the maximum was 26°C on Saturday. Today, 21 cases of dengue were reported and now, the total cases from Ludhiana district have reached 1,398.“Dengue cases have started decreasing with a dip in the temperature but breeding of mosquitoes will stop when the temperature goes below 20°C. At present, the minimum temperature has gone down but we are still waiting for the maximum to go down further so that breeding doesn’t takes place,” said Civil Surgeon SP Singh.He said the dengue situation would improve further by the end of the month. The life span of a mosquito was around one month and the cordial conditions for the breeding of mosquitoes will also diminish by the month end.“For the past few days I have seen that the number of patients have come down. Hopefully with further dip in the temperature, the cases will come down further,” said city based Dr Avinash.“Cases are coming down but city residents should be cautious and do not allow water to get stagnant near their homes. One should not keep uncovered utensil, pots and tyres on roof tops or in the open,” the Civil Surgeon said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/21-dengue-cases-reported-in-ludhiana-335037
07-11-2021||Nitin Jain||Finally, AAI nod to Rs 4,691.12L international airport terminal building at Halwara||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 6After much dilly-dallying and extensive deliberations, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has finally approved the construction of a new interim terminal building for the upcoming international airport at Halwara here, the government has confirmed.OFFICIALSPEAKSAn interim building will be constructed to begin airport operations before raising the regular terminal. The international airport, which is aimed at giving a fillip to the economic development of state’s business and industrial hub Ludhiana, will improve the air connectivity of the industrial capital of the state, besides attracting more investment and jobs for the district. Varinder Kumar Sharma, DCFollowing the AAI nod, the work to develop the internal approach road, taxiway, car parking and apron has already been allotted and would begin by November 10 while the second tender for the construction of the interim terminal building has been floated, bids for which were being invited till November 17 and the work would kick-start by December 15, officials have said.Confirming the development, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told The Tribune here on Saturday that the new interim terminal building for the upcoming international airport at Halwara at an estimated cost of Rs 4691.12 lakh had been approved by the AAI at its board meeting held recently.The project entails construction of the interim terminal building spread over 2,000 sq m area with other associated works, including construction of apron, taxiway, car parking and development of internal approach road.Sharma, who has been reviewing the progress of the project on a daily basis, said a six-month deadline had been fixed for the construction of the interim terminal building and associated works, to be completed till June next year.The delay in granting the in-principle approval to the project has missed the January 2022 deadline earlier set by the state government to make the airport operational.According to the AAI nod, the interim terminal building will be constructed by the state government through its funds, which will be reimbursed to Punjab or its designated agency by the AAI after monetisation of its land at the existing Sahnewal airport in Ludhiana.Already, the construction of the airport link road and 2,333-meter-long boundary wall has been completed.In a bid to give a boost to the industrial and economic activity in the state, the state government and the AAI are jointly setting up a new international civil terminal at the Air Force Station in Halwara, which is one of the oldest frontline airbases of the Indian Air Force (IAF), close to Ludhiana.The development assumes significance as Ludhiana is Punjab’s largest industrial and business city with a population of nearly 4-million, which is at present serviced by a small airport at Sahnewal. Ludhiana also has the advantage of being at the geographical centre of the state.The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) had acquired land measuring 161.28 acres, including 135.54 acres for airport and 25.74 acres for future development.While the work on the construction of 3-meter-high with 660-mm thick punch tape concertina and barbed wire fencing has been completed by the PWD (B&R) at Rs 301.16 lakh provided by GLADA, the widening and strengthening of the existing 5.1-km link road from Aitiana village to international airport from existing 10-feet to 18-feet width has been completed by the Punjab Mandi Board at Rs 8.17 crore. The work also included construction of two bridges, each of 8-meter span, on the Halwara drain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/finally-aai-nod-to-rs-4-691-12l-international-airport-terminal-building-at-halwara-334848
