08-11-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: 4 insurance firm employees booked for fraudulently withdrawing cash||The Ludhiana rural police have registered a fraud case against four employees of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance for fraudulently withdrawing Rs 14.20 lakh from the bank account of an NRI living in Canada.The Jagraon police yesterday registered a case of fraud and criminal conspiracy against the four employees, Abhishek Walia of Hari Singh Nalua Chowk Raikot (then dy manager), Ankita (then cashier) of Avtar Nagar, Jalandhar, Deepak Bhatt (clerk) of Neelkanth Enclave, Dehradun, and Pawandeep Kaur of New Rajguru Nagar.Complainant Mahinder Singh told the police that the complaint was submitted to the SSP, Ludhiana rural, after some fraudulent withdrawal was noticed in the account of Ramnik Toor, the NRI. “When the police started a probe, it was found that the accused had first got issued a cheque book in the name of the NRI and they withdrew three cheques worth Rs 14.20 lakh,” said the complainant.ASI Surjit Singh said role of the accused was confirmed. Further probe was on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-4-insurance-firm-employees-booked-for-fraudulently-withdrawing-cash-335489
08-11-2021||---||Sikh outfits block Bharat Nagar chowk to protest ‘derogatory’ remarks against Guru Nanak||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 7Various Sikh organisations held a protest at the Bharat Nagar chowk today against the police and the state government for failing to nab Anil Arora, who had allegedly spoken against Guru Nanak Dev.The protesters also burnt an effigy of the state government and condemned the role of the police in the matter.Commuters faced inconvenience as the traffic remained disrupted for almost two hours due to the protest.Notably, the police had already registered a case under various sections of the IPC against the accused at the Police Division 3.Taranjit Singh Nimana of Bhai Ghanayia Ji Mission Sewa Society said the accused had allegedly used derogatory remarks against Guru Nanak Dev around two weeks ago but he could not be arrested till date. It was a failure of the state government and the police.Nimana alleged that if the police would not arrest him, Sikhs would start a manhunt at their own level to trace the accused and to teach him a lesson for hurting the sentiments of the community.The protest was held for around two hours and it was lifted only when senior police officials assured the protesters that their teams were already on the job and they would soon arrest the accused.Police sources said to trace the accused, not only the police station concerned was conducting raids at suspected whereabouts of the accused but several wings of the Ludhiana police were also making efforts.Since their was no information regarding holding of the protest, a huge traffic jam was witnessed and it was only after police officials reached the spot and diverted motorists, the traffic movement started.Traffic disrupted for two hoursThe protest was held for around two hours and it was lifted only when senior police officials assured the protesters that their teams were already on the job and they would soon arrest the accused. Police sources said to trace the accused, Anil Arora, not only the police station concerned was conducting raids at his suspected whereabouts but wings of the Ludhiana police were also making efforts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sikh-outfits-block-bharat-nagar-chowk-to-protest-derogatory-remarks-against-guru-nanak-335466
08-11-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Rlys cracks whip against ticketless travellers, makes record recovery||Ludhiana, November 7The Northern Railway authorities in the Ferozepur Division have created a history of sorts by recovering Rs 16.43 lakh as penalty from ticketless travelers, which was the highest amount recovered on a single day in the history of the division.According to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Ferozepur Division, of the Northern Railway Chetan Taneja, a special drive against ticketless travelers was carried out on Saturday in the Amritsar-Ludhiana and Jammu Tawi-Ludhiana sections in which as many as 2,413 cases of ticketless or invalid tickets were detected and recovery of Rs 16.43 lakh was made.He said the drive was launched on the directions of Divisional Railway Manager Seema Sharma in which 34 ticket checkers were deployed and the drive was carried out under the supervision of head ticket collectors. “The ticket checking staff caught ticketless travelers and also checked their identity proof, which was a statutory requirement under revised rules.”Taneja made an appeal to the public to always travel with a valid ticket and carry their identity proof while travelling. Tickets purchased from reservation counters were required to be carried in original as Xerox copy of the same was not considered valid, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rlys-cracks-whip-against-ticketless-travellers-makes-record-recovery-335468
08-11-2021||Ludhiana||One tests +ve for Covid in Ludhiana district||One person tested positive for Covid and no death was reported in the district. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.58 per cent and at present, there are 17 active cases in the district.Fifteen persons were sent for home isolation today.A total of six patients are undergoing treatment for Covid at various city hospitals and of these, two patients belong to Ludhiana district and four from other districts.Today, three patients (one new patient from the district and two from other states/districts) tested positive in the past 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-tests-ve-for-covid-in-ludhiana-district-335471
08-11-2021||---||Reconstruct streets dug up for sewer works: Residents to Ludhiana MC||Ludhiana, November 7Residents of Jagjit Nagar near the Shastri Nagar railway crossing have sought from the civic body to reconstruct streets that were earlier dug up for sewer-related works in the area. The residents said the sewer work had already been done but the streets were yet to be reconstructed.After the sewer-related work, the surface was not levelled due to which commuters are facing inconvenience these days. They demanded from the Municipal Corporation to get the streets reconstructed at the earliest.Dr Jagdeep Madaan, a resident of the area, said: “The sewer-related work has already been completed in the area. It is difficult to pass through streets that have not been metalled after completion of the sewer works. We want the authorities to take required steps for the early reconstruction of the streets.”The residents demanded that the streets should be levelled properly and soil compaction be done in a right manner before the reconstruction of the streets. According to information given by the office of the ward councillor concerned, there was a need to upgrade the old sewer system in the area.Zonal Commissioner at the MC’s Zone D Neeraj Jain said he had asked the officials concerned to level streets where sewer pipes were installed and do the needful regarding the road works in Jagjit Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/reconstruct-streets-dug-up-for-sewer-works-residents-to-ludhiana-mc-335473
08-11-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana: 3 years on, Sector 32-A road still in poor state||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 7The Police Colony Chowk to Sector 32-A road is in a shambles for the past more than three years. The authorities concerned are yet to ensure the safety of commuters even after occurrence of a number of accidents on the dilapidated stretch.When residents had raised questions over the dilapidated condition of the road in 2019, elected representatives had then assured that the road would be reconstructed once a sewer line for the industry was installed. The sewer line was already laid but the road has not been reconstructed till date, leaving the commuters in the lurch.It is one of the posh areas under the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA). The residents said several people, including children, received injuries in road mishaps due to the poor condition of the road.A resident of Sector 32-A on Chandigarh Road, Jatinder Verma, said: “In September this year, the authorities had made a claim that the work would be started soon but nothing has been done at the ground level till date. Accidents often take place on the badly broken stretch.”“Many students pass through the dilapidated stretch while going to a nearby school. People are being forced to suffer for a long time as the main road has not been reconstructed despite our repeated demands,” he said.Another resident of Sector 32-A said: “The condition of the road had turned worse during the previous rainy season. Big potholes were being ignored for three years. The public had also suffered when the sewer-related work was going on the road. Now, the sewer related work has been completed. The department concerned should ensure reconstruction of the road without any further delay.”Ludhiana East MLA Sanjay Talwar said: “The dyeing association had got a sewer line installed and they were supposed to get the road construction work done after completion of the sewer work. But, the dyeing association concerned did not get the road reconstructed due to which the road work has got delayed. Now, GLADA would reconstruct the road soon.”A GLADA official had stated last month that the file was sent to the higher authorities for required approval to float tenders. However, the GLADA SDO concerned could not be contacted for comments today.Assurance given in 2019 but work not doneWhen residents had raised questions over the dilapidated condition of Police Colony Chowk to Sector 32-A road in 2019, elected representatives had then assured that the stretch will be reconstructed once a sewer line for the industry is installed. The sewer line was laid but the road has not been reconstructed till date, leaving the commuters in the lurch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-3-years-on-sector-32-a-road-still-in-poor-state-335476
08-11-2021||Fix responsibility for negligence||Open house: Should road cave-ins be overlooked or criminal negligence be fixed against those responsible?||Road cave-ins is not new phenomenon especially during the monsoon season in the city. Generally, such incidents happen all of a sudden because during rains soil around underground pipelines is washed away after losing grip. And if it rains continuously, the pressure of water in pipes makes the internal area weak and the surface above it caves-in. The Municipal Corporation should ensure that restoration work of pipelines is done properly in order to avert such incidents. Besides, negligent contractors should be made accountable.Novin ChristopherFirm, contractor must be punishedRecent incidents of road cave-ins are a matter of serious concern. Such incidents can be fatal as these could cause loss of property and life. General public is paying huge amount of taxes to the Municipal Corporation, which should be used to provide benefits to them. Unfortunately, the authorities concerned give contracts for the development and maintenance of infrastructure to those, who don’t qualify. This results in construction of poor-quality roads. First, officials, who take bribes for giving contracts to wrong contractors must be fined and punished. Secondly, companies or contractors, who don’t provide good-quality infrastructure must be penalised. They must compensate the victim for the loss of property or life due to road cave-in.Ritu PriyaInitiate fair inquiry to find exact causeRecent road cave-in at Deep Nagar has again spread panic among residents. Lack of workmanship in the Municipal Corporation is one reason behind such incidents. The civic body should first focus on developing basic infrastructure in the city only then smart city can be developed. It’s duty of the ruling dispensation to ensure roads are safe for commuters. Private telecom firms are responsible for reckless drilling and cutting of roads, which leads to frequent cave-ins. A fair enquiry should be instituted to probe the cause and culprits should be brought to the books.RV SinghAuthorities least concerned about livesIt’s unfortunate that the authorities are least concerned about human lives. The Municipal Corporation gives contracts to lay sewer or water pipelines to contractors or firms. The company or individual, who is awarded contract, is not bothered about problems faced by commuters. Residents inhale thick dust and may meet with an accident when refilled part of any road caves-in. Such incidents have occurred in the near past. Contractor/firm must be held responsible and their licence must be cancelled. Contracts must be time bound. Contractors/firms must carry out work after diverting traffic or they can start working after midnight. Traffic should be allowed on roads only after completing the re-carpeting/repair work.Dr Mohd Saleem Farooquilackadaisical attitude cannot be toleratedIt’s sad to read such news that a car driver or motorcyclist met with an accident when their vehicle got stuck in a deep pothole. In the Haibowal area a car slipped into a caved-in main road. The contractor, awarded the road maintenance contract, must be held responsible and sent behind bars. Human lives are more important than money. Any negligence on the part of the contractor or official of the local government should not be tolerated. Boards displaying information about broken stretches ahead must be fixed to caution commuters in the city. Civil work must be completed in time so that residents don’t face any problem. Jassian Road and many more stretches are still broken in the city. Residents are facing hardship while commuting on these roads. The authorities concerned are overlooking these problems and not bothered about safety of citizens. A committee should be formed to report delay in repair of roads in every area of the city to the government or the ministry concerned.Farzana KhanFour incidents of cave-ins at Deep NagarHeavy rainfall causes road cave-ins in the city. Sometimes these occur due to leakage in underground water pipelines. Reckless drilling and road cutting by private telecom companies for laying fibre optical cables also damages sewer and water pipelines, which results in leakage further leading to road cave-in. Criminal proceedings should be initiated against telecom companies. With four incidents of cave-ins in the Deep Nagar area during the last two years, panic has spread among residents. Besides taking criminal action against erring officials, sewer and water pipelines in the entire city should be checked so that no such incident is reported in future. Repair of storm water pipelines should be initiated without further delay. IIT Roorkee is reported to have some technique to scan roads to identify underground portions vulnerable to cave-ins. The civic body should explore possibility of its implementation in the city.RS SembhiDurable material not used for repairsMany accidents take place due to cave-ins on roads in the city. Most potholes emerge overnight due to heavy rains. Accumulated water makes it impossible for commuters to locate potholes/cave-ins on roads. This increases chances of road accidents. Not so durable material is used to fill potholes/cave-ins. As there is dire need initiate criminal proceedings against the department concerned in case of accidents due to potholes/cave-ins in which precious lives are lost.Adish Sood, AmlohCheck condition of roads before rainMany accidents are reported resulting in injuries and deaths of commuters due to road cave-ins. The Municipal Corporation must check the condition of roads in the city especially before the rainy season and ensure that there are no cave-ins on any stretch. There must be a law to ensure proper maintenance of roads. The department/officials concerned responsible for road maintenance should be penalised for not repairing cave-ins.Gautam DevPoor supervision by civic bodySome roads have caved-in and accidents happened in Ludhiana. There are many causes like poor supervision by the Municipal Corporation and contractor’s failure to use high quality sewer lines and road repair material. Therefore, the authorities concerned should register criminal charges against officials/department concerned.Dr Sukhdev SharmaCommuters not able to spot cave-insRoads often cave-in during the rainy season in the city. Frequent accidents are reported because commuters are unable to spot cave-ins due to waterlogging on roads. A few roads like the ones leading to Ishmeet Chowk, Gobind Nagar and Habowal have caved-in spreading panic among citizens about their safety. The authorities must book the department and contractor concerned, who are responsible for maintaining and planning roads in the city, if a cave-in is reported on a stretch under their jurisdiction.Vikas SharmaQUESTIONThe sudden increase in farm fires and indiscriminate bursting of firecrackers on Diwali night has led to widespread pollution, causing thick smog and deterioration of the air quality to ‘very poor’ level in Ludhiana. What should be done to check rising air pollution, which experts say can also lead to Covid resurgence, besides causing serious complications among bronchitis and heart patients?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to  ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-should-road-cave-ins-be-overlooked-or-criminal-negligence-be-fixed-against-those-responsible-335478
08-11-2021||---||Ludhiana man held with 500-gm opium||Ludhiana, November 7The anti-narcotics cell of the city police have arrested a smuggler and recovered 500 gm of opium from his possession.The accused has been identified as Harsh Verma, alias Kaka, of Mahavir Colony, Bhamian. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against the accused yesterday at the Moti Nagar police station here.Anti-narcotics cell in-charge Rajesh Sharma in a statement issued stated that a tip-off was received that the accused was into the illegal trade of opium smuggling and he was on the way to deliver a consignment of narcotics to his clients.Following which, the police party conducted a raid and nabbed him along with opium.During preliminary questioning, the accused admitted that he owns a lottery stall but for the past few months, he started consuming opium. To bear its expenses, he also started selling the same and was making money from the illegal trade.Rajesh said the accused also had a notorious past as he was earlier nabbed by the Special Task Force wing with drugs and after coming out on bail, he again started the illegal trade.The police would take further police remand of the accused so that in further questioning, the entire supply line could be busted and more recovery of opium could be made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-man-held-with-500-gm-opium-335479
08-11-2021||Ludhiana||SAD asks Cong  not to engage  in disruptive politics over PPAs||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today asked the Congress government not to engage in disruptive politics at the cost of the people and challenged it to get the issue of power purchase agreements (PPAs) probed by any independent agency of its choice.Addressing a news conference here today, party spokesperson Maheshinder Singh Grewal said the Congress government should not try to derive cheap publicity on the issue of PPAs knowing well that it was only two months ago that the industry in the state remained closed for days altogether and consumers faced massive power cuts due to closure of private thermal plants.Asking the government not to do politics on an issue, which could harm the people, Grewal said merely passing resolutions to cancel the PPAs in the forthcoming special session of the Vidhan Sabha was a meaningless exercise.“Vidhan Sabha neither proposed the PPAs nor ratified them. These are a contract between the Punjab Government and private companies, which have been executed on the basis of guidelines proposed and approved by the UPA government headed by then Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh,” Grewal added.The SAD leader dared Channi government to tell Punjabis if any state had arrived at any PPA with private thermal plants at rates lower than those fixed by Punjab.“I even challenge the government to tell if it has purchased more than 100 mega watts of power at rates lower than those fixed by the PPAs,”, said Grewal. Ridiculing the state government’s intention to pass resolutions on the issue of extension the BSF jurisdiction and the three farm laws Grewal added, “The Punjab Assembly has already passed a resolution under the leadership of Captain Amarinder Singh calling for repudiation of the three farm laws. Now, another resolution is being passed on the same issue under Channi’s leadership. The government must tell Punjabis the difference between both resolutions and how they will help them.” If the government was serious about giving relief to Punjabis regarding farm laws it should issue a notification stating these would not be implemented in the state, said Grewal. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sad-asks-cong-not-to-engage-in-disruptive-politics-over-ppas-335480
08-11-2021||Manav Mander||Women have a healthier liver than men: Doc||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 7Liver, an essential organ that performs over 500 vital functions, is an important part of our body and needs to be taken care of. In the last decade, liver disease has become rampant in the region of Punjab due to large burden of obese and diabetic population with fatty liver, alcohol and drug abuse and high rate of HCV infection. Amid this, an observation that has come forward is that women have a healthier liver as compared to their men counterparts.Dr Nirmaljeet Singh Malhi, gastroenterologist, AGI-The Gastrociti, which collaborated with Jaypee Hospital (Noida) and started liver transplantation services in Ludhiana in February this year said, “It has been observed that liver of women is healthier than males as they do not indulge in drinking or drugs.”To ascertain the observation, Dr Malhi said in their hospital they had done five liver transplants in a short span of six months (barring three months deferment due to second Covid-19 wave when services were temporarily interrupted). Four of the donors were women, Dr Malhi added.“For keeping the liver healthy, one should maintain a healthy weight, eat balanced diet, drink alcohol responsibly, avoid use of illicit drugs and exercise regularly,” said Dr Malhi.Recalling his experience, the first liver transplant patient Naresh Soni (name changed) said life had become too difficult due to repeated abdominal fluid collection and blood loss as a result of end stage liver disease. His life span was limited to a few weeks to months without liver transplant. His daughter came forward to donate a part of her liver to her ailing father despite being young and unmarried.“Nothing was more than the life of my father and I was ready to do anything for him. I did not think about a second and decided to donate my liver and here I am with my father,” said 26-year-old Soni’s daughter.Another three patients underwent liver transplant where in their spouses donated a part of liver for the procedure. Such successful cases and courageous donors are the need of the hour for liver patients in Punjab. “I was a habitual alcoholic which led to my liver damage and it was none other than my better half, who donated her liver and saved my life,” said another patient, who went through successful transplant at AGI-The Gastrociti.“Some patients don’t have any eligible family donors. Since organ donation is the most generous gift known to mankind, which can create a legacy of life, the fifth transplant patient at the hospital was fortunate that he could get cadaveric liver as he was listed in cadaveric list prior. A special “Green Corridor” was created in Delhi for the procedure,” said Dr Rajiv Grover, gastroenterologist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/women-have-a-healthier-liver-than-men-doc-335481
08-11-2021||---||Bizmen resort to ‘Gandhigiri’ to protest against inflation||Ludhiana, November 7On the sixth consecutive day of protest against inflation, industrialists resorted to ‘Gandhigiri’ here today. During the protest, industrialists applied ‘teeka’ on foreheads of powerful political leaders ruling the country to mark their protest against them and their policies due to which they said inflation had gone up manifolds.It is the sixth day of the protest by industrialists outside the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) office on Gill Road. Industrialists feel that the industry, which has been faltering due to the all-round impact of inflation, was now on the verge of collapse.Reiterating their demands, protesting businessmen said the policy and intention of the government were not clear. Excise duty on petrol and diesel had now been reduced due to upcoming elections while the general public, including industry, was suffering due to rising prices, they added. “It also proves that the government is looking at inflation only from an election point of view,” they said.“The fluctuating and increasing prices of steel and other raw material should be controlled. The industry feeds lakhs of unemployed people. Instead of boosting morale of the industry the government prefers to look the other way,” said Manjinder Singh, general secretary, UCPMA. “There is no regulatory body to keep a watch on the monopolistic approach of big industries, which are increasing rates of steel and raw material with each passing day,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bizmen-resort-to-gandhigiri-to-protest-against-inflation-335482
08-11-2021||Ahmedgarh||Experts advocate frequent screening for early diagnosis, treatment of cancer||Office- bearers and activists of various social and medical organisations vowed to associate with a crusade launched by the Rotary International District 3090 against cancer.An oath was administered in response to the call given by enthusiasts led by district governor Parveen Jindal and Executive Magistrate Pawandeep Singh during meetings and workshops held in the town and surrounding localities on the occasion of National Cancer Awareness Day on Sunday.Jain presided over the function held at Jain Samadh, near grain market, while assistant governor Dr Ravinder Sharma and Dr Rajiv Bhakoo were keynote speakers on the occasion. Speakers claimed that at least four out of 10 cancer cases were preventable by following the universal code and prevention protocol.Healthy weight, balanced diet, physical activity, protection from ultraviolet rays of sun, abstinence from drugs and narcotics, besides tobacco, and regular check-up were cited as main preventive measures against the menace of cancer.Addressing meetings at various places speakers, including Dr Sunit Hind, Dr Punit Dhawan, Dr Puneet Hind and Dr Girish Singla, said the National Cancer Awareness Day highlighted cancer across the country, to reduce the risk of dreaded diseases and provide knowledge on how to tackle the malignant disorder, besides enumerating probable symptoms, which should not be neglected.Consistent cough or blood in saliva, unexplained anaemia, loss in weight, breast lumps, urination change, change in bowel habits, including continuous diarrhoea and blood in stool were cited as some symptoms for general cancer. However, medical experts advocated frequent and appropriate screening for early detection of cancer as there was lack of symptoms for the disorder. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/experts-advocate-frequent-screening-for-early-diagnosis-treatment-of-cancer-335483
08-11-2021||Sports Correspondent||Softball (Men): All set for title clash between Amritsar, Jalandhar||Ludhiana, November 7Amritsar and Jalandhar recorded win in contrast ways to set up the title clash in the men’s section of the 29th Senior Punjab State Softball Championship being held here at Guru Nanak Stadium on Sunday.In the semi-finals, Amritsar faced a little challenge from Ferozepur before clinching the issue comfortable 10-1 while Jalandhar survived a scare against hosts Ludhiana and managed to scrape past with a narrow margin 4-3 to secure berths in the summit clash.In the league matches, Gurdaspur thrashed Mohali 13-0; Ferozepur prevailed over Patiala 2-1; Amritsar trounced Malerkotla 13-0; Ludhiana toiled hard to pip Gurdaspur 3-2; Jalandhar survived many anxious moments against Sangrur before wrapping up the issue 1-0; Ferozepur defeated Moga 3-1 and Amritsar edged out Fazilka 3-2. The final and the match for hard-line cup will be played on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/softball-men-all-set-for-title-clash-between-amritsar-jalandhar-335484
