11-11-2021||Sports Correspondent||Students vie for honours in GNPS athletics meet||Ludhiana, November 10A large number of students, representing different houses competed in track and field events on the opening day of the 45th Annual Inter-House Athletics Meet of Guru Nanak Public School (GNPS), Sarabha Nagar, here, on Wednesday.Surinder Singh, general secretary, GNPS committee, unfurled the flag and declared the meet open. He was accorded a warm welcome by principal of the school GS Nagi and faculty members. Divjot Singh, a national-level cyclist, took an oath on behalf of the participants to play in the true spirit of sportsmanship.Today’s resultsBoys — Class VI: 100m race - Kulraj Singh 1st, Harjot Singh 2nd, Bhavnoor Singh Jassal and Prabhsimar Singh 3rd; 200m race - Sehjit Singh 1st, Janamveer Singh Dhillon 2nd and Ashnoor Singh 3rd; 400m race - Aryan Patiyal 1st, Adesh Partap 2nd and Harshnoor Singh 3rd; Class VII: 100m race - Ravinder Singh 1st, Jasdeep Singh 2nd, Gurleen Singh and Gurnoor Singh 3rd; 200m race - Karanveer Singh 1st, Jashanpreet Singh 2nd and Jaiveer Singh 3rd; 400m race - Kanwarbir Singh 1st, Darpanjot Singh 2nd and Agamdeep Singh 3rd; Class VIII: 100m race - Vardaan Goraya 1st, Aaishdeep Singh 2nd and Fatehbir Singh 3rd; 400m race - Rishit Thakur 1st, Shubham 2nd and Navdeep Singh 3rd; Class IX: 400m race - Prabhnoor Singh 1st, Sehajdeep Singh 2nd, Parivansh Singh and Gurasees Singh 3rd. Long jump - Gurmeet Singh 1st, Prabhjot Singh 2nd and Birinder Singh 3rd; Class X: 400m race - Harshdeep Singh 1st, Tejinder Singh 2nd and Suhird 3rd; 800m race - Imrozpreet Singh 1st, Abhijeet Singh 2nd and Manavjot Singh 3rd; Long jump - Gursimran Singh 1st, Imrozpreet Singh 2nd and Harjot Singh 3rd; Class XII: 100m race - Gurasees Singh 1st, Vishwasjot Singh 2nd and Tamandeep Singh 3rd; 200m race - Arnav Goraya 1st, Karanveer Singh Sekhon 2nd and Agampreet Singh 3rd; 800m race - Vishal 1st, Gunjot Singh 2nd and Gurasees Singh 3rd; long jump - Tamandeep Singh 1st, Mehma Singh 2nd, Karanveer Singh and Harshdeep Singh 3rd; Shot put - Hardiljeet Singh 1st, Ronit Singh 2nd and Amberpreet Singh 3rd.Girls — Class VI: 50m race - Prabhpreet Kaur 1st, Harsimrat Kaur 2nd and Harjeet Kaur 3rd; 100m race - Raunaq Sidhu 1st, Upneet Kaur 2nd and Sehaj Deol 3rd; Class VII: 100m race - Rihaana 1st, Ekjot Kaur 2nd and Gursharan Kaur 3rd; 200m race - Sukhneet Kaur 1st, Jasmine Kaur 2nd and Arshleen Kaur 3rd; 400m race - Navneet Kaur 1st, Sehaj Grewal 2nd and Gurleen Kaur 3rd; Class IX: 400m race - Samarpreet Kaur 1st, Dhriti 2nd and Bisman Kaur 3rd; Long jump - Anterleen Kaur 1st, Arshdeep Kaur 2nd and Deep Kaur Lyall 3rd; Class X: 200m race - Nadar Kaur 1st, Bhagatvir Kaur 2nd and Khushpreet Mann 3rd; 400m race - Nadar Kaur 1st, Bhagatvir Kaur 2nd and Jasmine Kaur Bedi 3rd; Long jump - Jasmeet Kaur 1st, Jasmine Bedi 2nd and Divnoor Kaur 3rd; Class XI: Long jump - Maskeenjot Kaur 1st, Raj Nandini 2nd and Harpuneet Kaur 3rd; Shot put - Ekam Sidhu 1st, Tanya Sharma 2nd and Hargun Kaur 3rd.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-vie-for-honours-in-gnps-athletics-meet-336568
11-11-2021||Ludhiana||Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu lays stone of instructional gaushala||Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Wednesday laid the foundation stone of an instructional gaushala within the precincts of the Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Science University (GADVASU).Ashu said the novel idea of the instructional gaushala would motivate other gaushalas to run their establishments in a scientific and low-cost manner.He said the state-of-the-art building would have covered cowshed area, kuchha area, straw area, calving area, sick unit area, feed store, processing unit, biogas plant, vermicomposting pit, organic vegetable area and other facilities and would act as a lighthouse for other gaushalas.Vice-Chancellor Dr Inderjeet Singh said the project would work as a model by guiding those engaged in cowshed management works and would help improve the breed in the state, besides would give a viable solution to the stray cattle menace.He said Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Cabinet Minister Rural Development and Panchayats, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, Dairy Development, Punjab, had sanctioned a project to the tune of Rs 1.07 crore to GADVASU to set up a model gaushala on the university campus to find a viable solution to the stray cattle menace.He said there were nearly 1.6 lakh stray cattle roaming on roads of the state and more than 50 lakh in the country.Dean, College of Veterinary Science, Dr SPS Ghuman, said the aim behind the gaushala was to manage the stray cattle in a self-reliant basis on scientific lines with available inexpensive techniques involving low-cost comfortable housing, feeding and health care facilities.Director, Research, Dr JPS Gill, said demonstrating low-cost management and feeding systems of stray animal management would help dairy farming industry of the state and society at large. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minister-bharat-bhushan-ashu-lays-stone-of-instructional-gaushala-336569
11-11-2021||Sports Correspondent||Basketball Championship: Hoopsters, hoopers clubs off to flying start||Ludhiana, November 10Hoopsters Club and Guru Nanak Hoopers Club began their campaign in style, recording wins in the boy’s and girls’ U-18 sections, respectively, in the inaugural edition of the Open Punjab 3x3 Basketball Championship being held at Guru Nanak Stadium here.In the boys’ category, Hoopsters Club players won all their matches. They drubbed Muktars Club 22-10, prevailed over Government Multipurpose School (II) 16-14, outplayed The Drakes 14-9, overpowered Multi Cagers Club 15-14 and outperformed The Kashi Club 16-12 to advance into the third round.In the girls’ section, Guru Nanak Hoopers Club outclassed Khalsa Lakers Club 17-8 and routed The Unirise School 13-1.In the boys’ section, as many as 42 teams are taking part and 10 teams are competing in the girls’ section.The six-day prize money championship is being organised by the 3BL with the assistance of the Punjab Basketball Association to popularise the fastest and shortest format of the game that is not only the International Basketball Federation (FIBA’s) second official discipline but will be played at the next Commonwealth Games and Olympics.Parminder Singh Jr, ADCP, Ludhiana, and former international basketball star, inaugurated the championship. He wished the participants good luck.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, honorary general secretary, PBA, and JP Singh, president of the District Basketball Association, Ludhiana, officials and coaches were among others present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/basketball-championship-hoopsters-hoopers-clubs-off-to-flying-start-336570
11-11-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Ludhiana: Owners elated as brick-kilns excluded from Mining Act||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 10Brick-kiln owners in the region are elated as the state government has excluded the kilns from the Mining Act. For the past over a decade, the kiln owners were struggling hard to keep these out of the Act.Talking to The Tribune, president of the Brick Kiln Association, Punjab, Ramesh Mohi said the state government had given a new lease of life to approximately 2,700 brick-kilns in the state.“About 10-15 per cent of the kilns got closed due to unnecessary hassles in the past few years,” Mohi said.“Now when the government has made it clear that there will be no need for environmental clearance, it has come as a huge respite. Though we were paying all royalties, funds and dues to the government on time, still we were not able to do the business smoothly”, he said.Parveen Jindal, another brick-kiln owner, said they were thankful to the state government for keeping kilns out of the Mining Act.“Mining Act is for those, who do deep digging. For our kilns, we want sand up to three feet only. But for it, we had to go through many tedious procedures. Getting environment clearance was also a difficult task for us as we had to go through many departments. But thankfully, we are now excluded from the Act,” he said.There are 2,700 brick-kilns owners of which will be relieved with the decision. The owners said they were hopeful that the kilns closed due to such conditions would now be revived.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-owners-elated-as-brick-kilns-excluded-from-mining-act-336571
11-11-2021||---||Identify vulnerable polling stations: Ludhiana DC to officials||Ludhiana, November 10For ensuring free and fair polling during the ensuing Assembly elections, Deputy Commissioner-cum- District Election Officer Varinder Kumar Sharma has asked officials to pull up their socks and complete the process of vulnerability mapping well in advance before the imposition of the model code of conduct.Presiding over a meeting with Assistant Returning Officers (AROs) and police officials, Sharma told the officials to give top priority to the preparation of vulnerability mapping and directed them to send the report after field visits and identifying vulnerable polling booths.He asked the Police Department to prepare lists of bad characters after holding meetings with local Assistant Commissioners of Police/Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) and Station House Officers (SHOs). Besides, reports about parole jumpers, history-sheeters, bail jumpers, trouble mongers and others must also be prepared so that close vigil can bekept on their activities. Further, details about arms/weapons, which would be deposited before elections, and expenditure sensitive constituencies must be prepared.Sharma also told the Police Department to update the lists of the weapon holders in advance so that they could be ordered to submit the weapons once the code comes into force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/identify-vulnerable-polling-stations-ludhiana-dc-to-officials-336572
11-11-2021||---||Protest against Ludhiana civic body for ‘ignoring’ Punjabi language||Ludhiana, November 10Members of the Punjabi Bhasha Pasaar Bhaichara staged a peaceful protest at the MC’s Zone D office against the civic body for allegedly ignoring Punjabi language.Members Mitter Sain Meet, Harbax Singh Grewal, Mahinder Singh Sekhon and others gave a letter (addressed to the MC Commissioner) to the Zonal Commissioner at Zone D and they requested the MC to take steps for the prevention of violation of the provisions of the Punjab Official Languages Act, 1967. They demanded from the MC to ensure that all official works should be conducted in Punjabi language.Sekhon said: “In the memorandum, the Commissioner was apprised of legal provisions of the Act, and the orders issued by the state government under which all offices in public sector agencies, boards, local bodies, etc, are required to conduct their official work in Punjabi. The action to be taken under the Punjab Civil Services (Penalties and Appeals) Rules, 1970, against employees violating the provisions of this Act or the information provided under them, was also mentioned.”“We have also submitted some photographs to the civic body about gross violations of these provisions of law and government orders by his department. The Commissioner was requested to pay attention to the following negligence, so that the mother tongue Punjabi, the official language of Punjab, could be given due respect by the government”, they said.They demanded that the MC’s official website and the Facebook account should also be created in Punjabi.“All office works should be done in Punjabi. Receipts, forms, plans, etc. should also be provided in Punjabi. Roads and street names should be in Punjabi. Contractors constructing roads and bridges should also put up cautionary boards in Punjabi. Immediate action should be taken against the neglect, discrimination and stepmotherly attitude of the Smart City Ludhiana authorities, towards Punjabi language (Sarabha Nagar Market is an example of the same),” the members said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protest-against-ludhiana-civic-body-for-ignoring-punjabi-language-336573
11-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Four-day zonal youth festival takes off to a colourful start at Mata Ganga Khalsa College, Manji Sahib, Kottan||Doraha, November 10After a gap of two years, the four-day PU A zone Zonal Youth and Heritage Festival got off to a vibrant start here today on the campus of Mata Ganga Khalsa College, Manji Sahib, Kottan.The four-day festival will have approximately 1,400 participants from 16 PU-affiliated colleges of Ludhiana Zone A to compete in over 67 items. Events organised during the festival will not only entertain spectators but also delight the competitors. A large number of enthusiastic students were present as they felt a refreshing call after a gap of two years, as there were no activities due to the Covid pandemic.The participating colleges in the festival are Arya College, Ludhiana, AS College, Khanna, BSSG Government College, Sidhsar, Gobindgarh Public College, Alour, Government College, Karamsar, Government College, Ludhiana (East), Government College (Evening), Ludhiana, Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Ludhiana, Guru Nanak National College, Doraha, Kamla Lohtia SD College, Ludhiana, Malwa College Bondli, Samrala, Mata Ganga Khalsa College, Kottan, PURC, Ludhiana, SCD Government College, Ludhiana, Shree Attam Vallabh Jain College, Hussainpura (Ludhiana), Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, Jhande, (Ludhiana).The theme of the festival is ‘Love and Respect the Nature’. The festival aims to showcase the talent of the youth through a plethora of events. Chief guest Bibi Jagir Kaur, president, SGPC, inaugurated the festival with a lamp-lighting ceremony along with Dr Nirmal Jaura, director, Youth Welfare, Panjab University, Chandigarh, and principals of various colleges. While addressing the participants, Bibi Jagir Kaur said the main aim of education was to study and polish one’s self. The youth should inculcate moral values so that they could become good citizens of society. Ex-president, SGPC, Kirpal Singh Badungar, was the chief guest for the evening session. Principal Dr Kuldip Kaur Dhaliwal welcomed all guests.Group Shabad followed by bhajan, group singing (Indian), folk song, classical music vocal, ghazal, geet, poem recitation and muhavredar vartalaap were performed during the first half. Duirng the second half of the day, guddian patole, paranda making, chhiku making, naala making, tokri making, poem writing, story writing, essay writing, khiddo making, peerhi making, ennu making, rassa vatna, mitti de khidone and hand writing were organised.ResultsClassical Music Vocal: Guru Nanak National College, Doraha 1st, Arya College, Ludhiana 2nd and Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Ludhiana 3rd; Ghazal: SCD Govt College, Ludhiana 1st, Gobindgarh Public College, Alour 2nd and Arya College, Ludhiana 3rd; Geet: Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Ludhiana 1st, Guru Nanak National College, Doraha 2nd and Mata Ganga Khalsa College, Kottan 3rd; Group Shabad: AS College, Khanna 1st, Arya College, Ludhiana 2nd and SCD Govt College, Ludhiana 3rd.1,400 expected to participate in festThe the four-day PU A zone Zonal Youth and Heritage Festival will have approximately 1,400 participants from 16 PU-affiliated colleges of Ludhiana Zone A to compete in over 67 events.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-day-zonal-youth-festival-takes-off-to-a-colourful-start-at-mata-ganga-khalsa-college-manji-sahib-kottan-336574
11-11-2021||Ludhiana||Four smugglers held with 65 cases of illicit liquor||The Ludhiana rural police nabbed four liquor smugglers and recovered 65 cases of illicit liquor from their possession. A case under the Excise Act was registered against them yesterday. The accused are Sukhraj Singh Raju of Chuharchak village, Moga, Sukhdev Singh Pappa of Dharamkot, Gurdeep Singh Deepa of Sherpur Kalan, Ludhiana, and Ranjit Singh of Galib Kalan. Four accused who managed to escape from the spot have been identified as Kewal Singh Babra of Jassowal, Kuldeep Singh of Galib Kalan, Pargat Singh and Navjot Singh. In a statement, SSP, Ludhiana rural, Raj Bachan Sandhu stated that secret information was received that the accused had stored a huge quantity of illicit liquor at some specific place. Accordingly a police party conducted a raid and nabbed four accused. The SSP said the accused had brought liquor from some big liquor smugglers and they had to supply the same to their clients in Jagraon and Ludhiana areas. The accused had been into the trade for a long time and earlier also they had brought illicit liquor from Haryana. The police said questioning of the nabbed accused is on and soon they will bust the entire supply line of liquor smuggling so that smugglers from Haryana could also be nabbed. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-smugglers-held-with-65-cases-of-illicit-liquor-336575
11-11-2021||---||Former neighbour booked for raping minor girl||Ludhiana, November 10The city police booked a man on the charges of raping a 16-year-old girl at Moji Colony, Daba road. The incident came to fore when the girl’s parents found her pregnant.The Shimlapuri police registered a case of rape and criminal intimidation against the man, Lal Bahadur, yesterday. His whereabouts arestill unknown.The complainant, mother of the victim girl, told the police that on November 8, her daughter complained of severe stomach pain and she was immediately taken to a medical store for taking medicine. Despite taking medicine, her pain didn’t stop. They then took her to a doctor, who after performing certain tests found her pregnant.“Initially our daughter was not revealing about the person who sexually harassed her and made her pregnant. When we strictly asked her, she then revealed that Lal Bahadur, who used to be our neighbour once, had been raping her for a long time,” the complainant added.Lal Bahadur had also asked her daughter not to reveal about rape to anyone else he would kill her. Investigation officer Inspector Jaspreet Kaur said raids are being conducted at the suspected whereabouts of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/former-neighbour-booked-for-raping-minor-girl-336576
11-11-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Two women get jail for forcing minor into prostitution||Additional Sessions Judge Ashish Abrol has convicted two women Rekha Rani and Charanjit Kaur, residents of Mallah village, on the charges of forcing a minor girl into prostitution.They were sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years each. A fine of Rs 30,000 each was also imposed upon the convicts. The court made it clear that out of the recovered fine amount Rs 25,000 would be paid as compensation to the victim.Pronouncing the verdict, the court held that the prosecution has successfully proved the guilt of the accused.A case against the two women and one Mangal Singh, resident of Mallah village, was registered on January 30, 2016, at the Hathur police station following the statement of the victim girl. Accused Mangal Singh had already expired.The victim girl had made a statement to the police at the Civil Hospital, Jagraon. She had stated to the police that in anger she left her home. She came in contact of a girl, who took her to the house of Rekha. After a week, the girl went back to her house but she continued staying there.The accused started exploiting her by administering intoxicating tablets. She was sent to some persons as a  prostitute.Thereafter, she was sold to a man in Haryana, who took her along with him. He sexually exploited her. A few days later, she was sent back. But again she was sent with another man after taking money. After a few days, her condition deteriorated and she came to a hospital. She called her grandmother and narrated the entire story and then informed the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-two-women-get-jail-for-forcing-minor-into-prostitution-336577
11-11-2021||---||Girl killed, two youths injured in accidents in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, November 10A girl was killed and two youths suffered serious injuries in road accidents in the district.The first incident was reported at Chehlan village in Samrala where a girl riding a scooter was hit by “rashly driven” PRTC bus yesterday. The girl suffered serious head injuries and rushed to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.The deceased has been identified as Navdeep Kaur of Madpur village in Samrala district. Investigation officer ASI Navdeep Singh said the driver along with the bus fled from the spot and probe is on to identify him. A case was registered against the bus driver.Another accident was reported on the Rahon road on Monday evening in which two youths riding a motorcycle suffered serious injuries as their vehicle was hit by a Mahindra Bolero. Injured Ranjit and Prince told the police that they were heading home on their motorcycle when one white Mahindra Bolero rammed into them. The Bolero driver, instead of taking them to hospital, fled from the spot. They could not note the registration number of Bolero.The Meharban police have registered a case against the unknown driver yesterday and launched a probe identify him. CCTV cameras of the area were also being checked by the police to get clue about the driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/girl-killed-two-youths-injured-in-accidents-in-ludhiana-336578
11-11-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana Municipal Corporation fails to remove garbage dump along Buddha Nullah||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 10Even after the installation of a static waste compactor near a big garbage dump along the Buddha Nullah near a students’ hostel at Haibowal Chowk here, the Municipal Corporation has failed to it. An NGT panel had earlier given directions to the civic body that no garbage should be dumped on the banks of the Buddha Nullah.Due to politics over garbage dumping sites, this garbage dump was set up on the back of a girls’ hostel in July 2019. A massive protest was then staged by students of Lord Mahavira Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital, Haibowal, against the civic body for setting up the garbage dump just near the wall of their hostel.Following the protest, the MC authorities had then given assurance that the dump was being set up on a temporary basis for just two months and it will be shifted once a static waste compactor is made functional.Now, a nearby static waste compactor on Hambran Road has already been made functional but the garbage dump from the back of the students’ hostel has not been shifted till date even after more than two years. When Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal had laid the foundation stone of the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project in January, the garbage collectors were stopped from unloading waste here for just a few days and the dump was later restored with full strength. The students and passersby are forced to suffer due to foul smell emanating from the garbage dump.A city resident, Col (retd) CM Lakhanpal said, “The waste often falls into the Buddha Nullah from this garbage dump. The civic body should ensure implementation of the rules and no garbage dump should be set up along the Buddha Nullah. We had earlier also staged a protest demanding the removal of all garbage dumps along the Buddha Nullah. The civic body should take immediate steps for the removal of the garbage dump along the Buddha Nullah.”In January, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had also stated that the dump would be eliminated after a nearby static waste compactor is made functional. He said on Wednesday that he would take required steps to resolve the matter related to the garbage dump.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-municipal-corporation-fails-to-remove-garbage-dump-along-buddha-nullah-336579
11-11-2021||---||Two test positive for Covid in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, November 10The Health Department on Wednesday confirmed two fresh cases of Covid in the district. There are 19 active cases in the district at present. Besides, three fresh cases belonging to other districts or states were also confirmed here today.According to the department, a total of 87,628 cases of Ludhiana and 11,714 cases of other districts or states have been confirmed here till date. The department has confirmed that 2,107 patients of Ludhiana and 1,054 of other districts or states have died of the virus till date here.As many as 7,815 samples for Covid test were collected today.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols, like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently, of the Punjab Government to not only save themselves but keep everyone around safe.25 new cases of dengue||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-district-336580
11-11-2021||Lovleen Bains||Nuts and bolts factory gutted in fire at Doraha||Doraha, November 10Mitter Fasteners, a nuts and bolts manufacturing factory, was gutted in a major fire late this evening here. The fire could not be completely controlled till the filing of the report.The loss could not be ascertained at this stage. It is doubted that the material caught fire at the time of loading and unloading of oil. No loss if life has, however, been reported.As per information, the fire spread and engulfed the entire factory within no time and it could not be extinguished even though fire tenders from Khanna, Doraha and Samrala were used. They were still busy extinguishing the flames at the time of the filling of the report.The SHO, Doraha, Nachattar Singh, said, “Fire brigade teams from Doraha, Samrala and Khanna are busy extinguishing the fire. The reason for the breaking out of the fire seems to be loading and unloading of oil for machines. The fire brigade teams are having hard time extinguishing the fire as it has spread to the whole factory.”When questioned about the loss, he said, “It is too difficult to assess the total loss at this stage since the major concern is to douse the flames completely. We can come to know about the actual loss after the fire is extinguished. The labour, however, is safe and sound.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nuts-and-bolts-factory-gutted-in-fire-at-doraha-336581
