15-11-2021||Ludhiana||Free check-up camp organised on Diabetes Day||The department of endocrinology of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) today observed World Diabetes Day by organising a free sugar check-up camp for general public. The theme for the diabetes day this year is “Access to Diabetes Care: If Not Now, when?” and this year marks the 100th anniversary of the discovery of insulin.Dr Parminder Singh, head, endocrinology department, said, “Diabetes is a major concern worldwide and it is the major cause of blindness, kidney failure, stroke, lower limb amputation and it increases the risk of heart attack 2 to 4 time more. Although diabetes has no cure, patient can take steps to manage diabetes and stay healthy.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/free-check-up-camp-organised-on-diabetes-day-338328
15-11-2021||Nitin Jain||Children’s Day just another day for them||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 14For 12-year-old Pappu, there were no cakes, balloons or new clothes. As usual, his day began with drudgery – several hours of work looking for saleable material from garbage littered in various parts of the city and the rest of the day cleaning utensils at a roadside tea stall near the railway station.On Sunday, The Tribune cornered him at one of the garbage dumping spots, where he, along with his associate ragpicker, Dabbu, was on work, looking for saleable material early in the morning. On being asked what ‘Bal Diwas’ meant, he gave a blank look and replied innocently: “Bal Diwas kis bala ka naam hai mujhe nahin maloom” (What Children’s Day means, I don’t know).When quizzed about ‘Chacha Nehru’, Pappu giggled and said: “Mera koi chacha taaya nahin hai, sirf ek baap tha, jo dus baras pehle mar chukka hai” (I don’t have any paternal uncle, my father had expired five years ago).Wearing a torn and dirty trouser and a shirt, which barely protect him from the cold, the story of a minor ragpicker, who is totally illiterate, is heartrending. He was seven-year-old when his father, a drug addict, left him an orphan as his mother had died immediately after giving him birth. Since then, he had been working hard to earn his bread.As usual 10-year-old Deepak’s hands were breaking bricks for feeding his two younger sisters, who are dependent on him after their parents left them abandoned.Even the amended Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, which was enforced across the country from October 10, 2006, has also failed to serve the purpose.Majority of the underprivileged children to whom The Tribune spoke on the birthday of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru had no idea of Children’s Day and were least concerned about it. For those who are only acquainted with strong hunger pangs, which cannot be pacified for want of food, cakes and balloons are alien terms.These, who are robbed of their innocence at a tender age, are life’s misfortunes whose very base is in need and deprivation.Probably Pandit Nehru did not envisage it this way when he talked of his vision of Indian future. Just to procure two meals a day — burdened with full day’s drudgery — these unfortunate children looking for saleable material from littered garbage, cleaning utensils at dhabas and tea-sellers, begging at public places, breaking bricks and doing anything, their tiny hands and feet cannot even manage, has become a common sight in this part of region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/childrens-day-just-another-day-for-them-338286
15-11-2021||Nitin Jain||Govt wants ex-CMs’ ‘blue-eyed boy’ Amarpal Singh as Ludhiana DC, stirs row||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 14The state government’s proposal to post Amarpal Singh, considered a ‘blue-eyed boy’ of former Chief Ministers Parkash Singh Badal and Capt Amarinder Singh, as the new Ludhiana DC has stirred a controversy here.The main Opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), while smelling foul behind the move, which it says belies the Congress’ promise to provide a ‘corruption-free’ regime and will hamper the process to ensure free and fair Assembly elections due early 2022, has moved the Election Commission of India (ECI) against the government’s proposal. The party has also threatened a mass agitation in case the present Ludhiana DC, Varinder Kumar Sharma, was transferred.The AAP alleged that the incumbent DC was being ‘targeted’ for working against the interests of the land mafia and wrongdoings involving senior leaders of the ruling Congress.The row erupted after the government sent a proposal seeking prior nod of the ECI to replace Sharma with Singh, who was at present posted as the State Transport Commissioner (STC).As per the ECI guidelines, the prior approval of the Commission was mandatory in case of any need for the transfer of any officer engaged in the revision of electoral rolls during an election year due to any extraordinary reasons.In a representation to the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC), the AAP Punjab unit submitted that the present DC was being transferred at the behest of the state government as he had angered the ruling party leaders for stalling the sale of a prime government land at throwaway prices and ordering an inquiry into wrongdoings of a local Congress MLA.“His actions have been exemplary, which have angered certain ministers and ruling MLAs, who now want to transfer him out without ascertaining any extraordinary reason as mandated by the ECI,” the AAP Ludhiana Lok Sabha in-charge Amandeep Singh Mohi said while addressing a press conference here on Sunday.Apprehending that the government’s move smacks of ulterior motive, the main Opposition party alleged that the ‘controversial’ officer recommended to be posted as the new Ludhiana DC was close to former CMs, one of whom had pardoned him in the multi-crore iron ore scam in 2017 and the other had promoted him to the IAS.The AAP urged the CEC to reject the proposal sent by the state government and order continuation of the incumbent officer as the Ludhiana DC to ensure free and fair Assembly elections due early next year.Pertinently, the then CM Parkash Singh Badal, a day before the imposition of the election code of conduct on January 2, 2017, had ‘let off’ PCS officer Amarpal Singh with a warning “to be careful in future”, following which former CM Capt Amarinder Singh had recommended his promotion to the IAS and later posted him as STC. Badal’s pardon was not only contrary to his previous order to impose major penalty against the senior IAS and PCS officers found guilty of causing loss of more than Rs 23 crore to the state exchequer.Earlier, then Chief Secretary Rakesh Singh had endorsed major penalty on both officers – IAS Kirpa Shankar Saroj and PCS Amarpal Singh — as recommended by the departmental inquiry conducted against them.The case dates back to 2004-05 when during the Congress regime, New Delhi-based Reliance Polycrete Limited (RPL) duped Punjab Agro Foodgrains Corporation (PAFC) of more than Rs 23 crore in the export of iron ore.Swerving from its basic and mandated agro foodgrain business, the PAFC had entered into an agreement with the RPF on April 30, 2004, for export of iron ore. Worse still, the PAFC had also ignored the legal advice of getting the mortgage deed submitted by the RPL, registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/govt-wants-ex-cms-blue-eyed-boy-amarpal-singh-as-ludhiana-dc-stirs-row-338287
15-11-2021||---||No fresh Covid case in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, November 14No person tested positive for Covid and no death was reported in the district due to the virus today.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.57 per cent and at present, there are 20 active cases in the district. Sixteen persons were sent for home isolation today.A total of seven patients are undergoing treatment for Covid at various city hospitals and of these, four belong to Ludhiana district and three are from other districts.A total of 28,09,629 samples have been taken, of which 27,10,275 were found negative. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,637 while 11,717 belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,108 persons from Ludhiana and 1,055 from other districts.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid-19 person, their samples are sent for testing. As many as 7,466 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently of the state government to not only save themselves but keeping everyone around them safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-fresh-covid-case-in-ludhiana-district-338289
15-11-2021||---||1,795 rolls of banned Chinese string seized||Ludhiana, November 14As the season of kite flying is set to return, wholesalers and retailers have started hoarding the banned Chinese string in the city. The Police Division 3 seized a mini-tempo loaded with Chinese string and recovered 1,795 rolls of the same last evening.Investigating officer ASI Surjit Singh said a tip-off was received that a huge quantity of the banned string was to be delivered in Ludhiana. Accordingly, a police party laid a naka near the Trunka Wala chowk where after intercepting the tempo (bearing registration no. PB10FF4443), it was signalled to stop for checking.“When the police signalled the vehicle to stop for checking, its driver instead of stopping it near the naka, stopped the tempo in the middle of the road and fled the spot. When police officials went to check the vehicle, 1,795 rolls of Chinese string were recovered,” the ASI said.A case under Sections 188, 336, IPC, 39, 51 of the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972, 15, Environment Protection Act, 1986, was registered against the unidentified driver.The police said only after the arrest of the driver, those behind the supply of the banned string could be identified.In the previous year, during the kite flying season, the police had made a huge recovery of the banned string. Sources said many wholesalers had already stored large quantity of banned string in their stores and they had been selling it to shopkeepers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-795-rolls-of-banned-chinese-string-seized-338291
15-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Doraha: Two held with pistol, cartridges||Doraha, November 14The Doraha police have succeeded in arresting two residents of Ludhiana with a .32 bore country-made pistol and four live cartridges.Doraha SHO Nachattar Singh said Movis Bains and Gaurav Moong of Ludhiana were arrested by the Doraha police with a country-made pistol and four live cartridges near the Doraha bus stand.The police party, led by Hawaldar Harnek Singh, which had imposed a naka at Rajwant Hospital, near the bus stand, stopped them on the basis of suspicion and conducted a search operation. A .32-bore pistol and four live cartridges were recovered from them. A case under the Arms Act was registered at the Doraha police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doraha-two-held-with-pistol-cartridges-338292
15-11-2021||Gill (Ludhiana)||‘SAD-BSP govt will probe embezzlement’||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said today that the next SAD-BSP government would hold a high-level probe into embezzlement of MGNREGA funds by Congress leaders and spend the money recovered from them on public works.Sukhbir, who addressed gatherings in the constituency, said Congress leaders had misappropriated MGNREGA funds to the tune of thousands of crores by indulging in bogus billing as well as over charging for tiles, pavers and other construction works.Congress leaders had opened their tile and paver factories and were supplying substandard material for use in government works. “All such misdeeds will be probed and corruption cases will be registered against the guilty,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sad-bsp-govt-will-probe-embezzlement-338293
15-11-2021||---||Women outnumber men in NDA exam in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, November 14This is for the first time that women candidates are allowed to appear in NDA exam. Of 20 centres made for NDA examination, 13 centres were exclusively for women candidates. A total of 6,312 candidates had applied for the exam, being conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Of 3,752 who appeared for the exam, 922 were men and 2,830 were women, while 2,560 remained absent.One of the principals of a college said she was shocked to see the presence of women candidates in today’s exam. “It was so good to see the enthusiasm among the women candidates. They are so eager to serve the nation as their male counterparts. This shows how thinking of the generations has changed, even the families are allowing their daughters to go for this challenging job to serve the nation”, the Principal said.The exam was held in two shifts. Shift 1 from 10 am to 12:30 pm and shift 2 from 2 pm to 4:30 pm. The mobile phones, IT gadgets, bluetooth and any other communication devices were banned inside the premises where exams were conducted. The examination functionaries were also not allowed to carry such devices. Jammers were deployed for the safety reasons and lot of security was seen outside the examination centres. Strict discipline was maintained all over the centres for the smooth conduct of the examination.Anjali, the sister of a woman candidate, waiting for the latter outside a centre, said that her sister was fascinated by the decision that women could join military colleges. “ My sister will score well in today’s exam,” Anjali said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/women-outnumber-men-in-nda-exam-in-ludhiana-338294
15-11-2021||---||Tributes paid to Jawaharlal Nehru in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, November 14The 132nd birth anniversary of the country’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru was celebrated by offering flowers of reverence in the Sarabha Nagar area of Ludhiana. Congress workers distributed ladoos on the occasion.Pawan Dewan, Chairman, Punjab Large Industrial Development Board, said Jawaharlal Nehru had laid the foundation of this country. He laid the foundation of Bhakra Dam and the PAU.He took a jibe at the Narendra Modi government and said that Jawaharlal Nehru had worked for the strength of the country, while Modi government was weakening the country. Big institutions of the country, including railway stations and airports are being handed over to corporate houses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tributes-paid-to-jawaharlal-nehru-in-ludhiana-338295
15-11-2021||---||2 killed in road mishaps in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, November 14A woman was among two persons who died in road mishaps in the city. The errant drivers in both incidents fled from the accident spots.The first incident reported near Vishwakarma Dharamshala on Saturday. Complainant Ambika Gambhir of Tilak Nagar told the police that her mother Sangita Rani was going towards the Basti Jodhewal chowk on her Honda Activa scooter.When she reached near Dharamsala, a speeding truck rammed into her scooter from the rear. Her mother suffered serious head injuries and she was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared her brought dead, said Ambika, the deceased’s daughter.Investigating officer ASI Joginder Pal said after the accident, the truck driver fled the spot but he was identified as Avtar Singh and a case was registered against him yesterday, adding that a probe was on to trace his whereabouts.The other accident was reported on the Bahadarke road on November 12. A speeding and rashly driven truck (bearing registration no. HP12C6141) crushed a man, who was standing on the roadside, to death. Complainant in the case Dilbara Singh said he was standing there when a speeding truck came from the Jalandhar bypass side and crushed a pedestrian. After the accident, he informed the police and the deceased was taken to the local Civil Hospital. The deceased was yet to be identified.A case of negligent driving was registered against the unknown truck driver who escaped from the spot after the accident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-killed-in-road-mishaps-in-ludhiana-338297
15-11-2021||Switch to green crackers||Open house: What should be done to check increase in air pollution in Ludhiana||Farm fires and indiscriminate bursting of crackers not only leave heaps of garbage but sulfur dioxide, nitrous oxide and innumerable particulate matter that are released in the atmosphere through these activities, make the environment around us harmful for health. In order to ensure an eco-friendly environment it is imperative that people switch from conventional crackers to green crackers manufactured without harmful chemicals. Concomitantly, those under the guise of Diwali indulge in farm fires should be penalised heavily.Novin ChristopherPlant trees to stop air pollutionNowadays, the Diwali air pollution is at its peak. The quality of air is very poor. Here are some suggestions to prevent our world from air pollution. Using public transport is a sure short way of contributing to less air pollution as it provides with less gas and energy, even carpools contribute to it. The energy lights take always contribute to air pollution, thus turn off the lights when not in use. There should be reduction in forest fires and smoking. People should use fans instead of air conditioners. Avoid usage of crackers and products with chemicals. People should plant as many trees as possible.Devna MunjalFollow guidelines to stop pollutionIt is a bitter fact that there is a rise in pollution level due to the burning of stubble and firecrackers. We may admit or not but onus for all this lies upon the people. The government can only issue guidelines and it is our duty to follow these rules in letter and spirit. As responsible citizens we all must find out ways to get out of the problem of stubble burning and the government too should come to the rescue of those farmers who adopt innovative methods. On the other hand as far as the bursting of crackers is concerned, this is fully in our hands. Any celebration can be a perfect celebration even without crackers. The point is symbolic use of the crackers is fine, but the problem arises when this goes up to the madness of bursting these till midnight.Bir Devinder Singh BediMotivate farmers to stop farm firesPeasants should be motivated. Instead of burning stubble they should decompose it and use as manure. District functionaries should be deployed to prevent farm fires and take action against the offenders. Awareness should be spread among the peasants by using different methods such as social media, newspapers and posters/banners.Anwita DixitSprinkle water to settle dustAir pollution in Ludhiana town is a serious problem. It has a potential to aggravate respiratory and heart diseases as well as Covid menace. It poses danger to all living things. Appropriate methods should be adopted to get relief from air pollution. The government should encourage people to use CNG-based public transport and avoid burning of plastic. Use filters for chimneys and the government should make solutions for stubble management, ban on crackers on all festivals and sprinkle water to settle dust.Dr Sukhdev SharmaImpose blanket ban on stubble burningVehicular emissions, construction activities, stubble burning and burning of crackers deteriorate the AQI considerably making people gasp rather than breathe. They decrease our lifespan too. Particulate matters are very dangerous for cardiovascular and respiratory system. Considering health to be of utmost importance, the Centre should impose a blanket ban on stubble burning and manufacturing of fireworks in the country.Dr Sunil ChopraHealth impacts of air pollutionAir pollution is a very serious matter of concern as it leads to many diseases like Covid resurgence, bronchitis and it can be fatal for heart patients. It is in the hands of general public to improve the air quality of the city. We should minimise the use of vehicles. We should not drive vehicles at least two-days in a week. Industrialists must make arrangements for safe emissions of hazardous gas, dust and fumes. The government must make effective arrangements for the stubble. There is a need to conduct research on these issues.Ritu PriyaAir pollution can add to Covid painThe deteriorating air quality can give a helping hand to the third wave of Covid. Human activity is a major cause of air pollution. The administration should immediately stop the sources of air pollution.Adish Sood, AmlohSwitch over to renewable energyAir pollution refers to the release of pollutants into the air—pollutants which are detrimental to human health and the planet as a whole. There are many types of air pollutants such as gases, particulates and biological molecules. The most effective way to control air pollution is by switching over to renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar power. The less gasoline we burn, the better we are doing to reduce the air pollution. When pollution levels are high limit your time for a jog and prefer to stay inside with windows closed. If you live in an area prone to wildfires stay away from smoke as much as you can. Keep a small stock of masks to wear when conditions are poor.RS SEMBHIUse energy star appliancesReplace energy hungry incandescent lights with compact fluorescent light bulbs. When ready to replace look for energy star appliances. Dress for weather and adjust layers before adjusting thermostat. Organise and condense errands into one trip. Use fan instead of air conditioners. Recycle paper, plastic, metals and organic material. Print and photocopy on both sides of paper. Add insulation at home.Shruti Saggar GambhirUse air purifying indoor plantsWidespread air pollution caused by Diwali firecrackers and farm fires can certainly lead to health hazards. General public is well aware of these facts even then it is happening. We can make efforts to arrest this pollution demon by keeping air purifying indoor plants, using natural products, essential oils, keeping indoor humidity low and using air purifiers. Besides, lessening automobile pollution, using public transportation, planting more trees and above all raising awareness.RV SinghRice straw burning big problemBurning of rice straw in fields by farmers is the main cause of pollution. Another cause of the air pollution is the use of firecrackers during Diwali festival. Farmers are not stopping the burning of crop residue in the fields. Many action plans have been suggested earlier to stop the farmers from burning rice straw in the fields. The burying of crop residues in the field itself to enrich the soil fertility level whereby the crop yields will also improve, preparing straw bundles byusing agricultural implements supplied by the Department of Agriculture. The farmers burn the crop in fields for ease and for early vacating the fields for sowing the next crop.Gautam Devuse of Crackers adds to pollution woesThe celebration of Diwali this year has created many problems for us. Unlimited use of firecrackers and stubble burning has added to our woes, including air pollution. The limit of timing and the place of crackers were ignored. The situation became so alarming that the health workers found them in a quandary. All this has been created by people themselves. It should be remembered that we generally suffer due to our wrong attitude.JBS NandaDeploy officers to stop field firesWhile pollution caused by bursting of crackers was yet to subside, the spurt in stubble burning cases is compounding the problem of air pollution in the city. Farmers should be encouraged to undertake in-situ management for crop residue and to make the use of happy seeder and paddy straw chopper available at subsidised rates as well as easily accessible through I-Khet app. Key district functionaries be deployed to prevent field fires and take action against the offenders.Medha BatraBan diesel vehicles, firecrackersSince the beginning of 2020, the world has been suffering from Covid. Hence, it is essential to check air pollution. Diesel vehicles and firecrackers in festive season are another reason behind increase in pollution. Use of crackers should be banned as they not only cause pollution but also injuries.Anu JoshiQUESTIONLackadaisical attitude and slack enforcement on the part of the officials concerned have given a free hand to unscrupulous developers to come up with illegal colonies in Ludhiana. Such land sharks hoodwink unsuspecting people to invest their hard-earned money in owning their dream homes in illegal colonies. What should be done to check this growing practice?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-should-be-done-to-check-increase-in-air-pollution-in-ludhiana-338298
