20-11-2021||Prime Minister’s announcement of repealing new farm laws||Repeal of farm laws: Wave of happiness sweeps Ludhiana city||Harshraj SinghTribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 19A wave of happiness swept the city as residents supporting the farmers’ agitation rejoiced at the announcement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of repealing the three farm laws on Friday.In the evening, residents lit ‘diyas’ to mark the celebrations at the Sarabha Nagar market. Residents saw the government’s decision to repeal farm laws as a big and historic win for the farmers who have been protesting on Delhi borders for nearly one year. Residents also remembered the farmers and supporters who have lost lives during the ‘kisan andolan’ against the three farm laws.A city resident, Gursahib Singh, said, “It is a historic win of the farmers. We are marking the celebration by doing ‘deepmala’ at the Sarabha Nagar market. Around 700 farmers have lost lives during the ongoing movement against the agricultural laws till date. We are paying tributes to the martyred farmers. If the government had accepted the demands of the farmers earlier, the farmers would not have been forced to spend days and nights on roads under tough conditions.”“If the government wants to bring any resolution in future, it must hold a detailed discussion and take feedback from the people before taking a decision on it,” he added.Members of the Majlis Ahrar Islam distributed sweets among people outside Jama Masjid and raised slogans of ‘kisan-mazdoor ekta zindabad’. On the success of the farmers’ movement, Shahi Imam, Punjab, Maulana Muhammad Usman Ludhianvi, said, today they thank God as the Central Government has accepted the farmers demand of repealing the farm laws. All the people of the country deserve to be congratulated on the occasion, he added.Taranjit Singh Nimana of the Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Mission Sewa Society said, “The decision has been taken late by the Central Government but we welcome the PM’s announcement to repeal the farm laws. We thank him for this announcement. But, we cannot forget that our 700 farmers lost their lives during the andolan. We are angry as PM Modi never spoke a single word to express grief on the death of the farmers during the andolan and he never paid tribute to shaheed farmers.”Expressing their joy, a group of youngsters were seen bursting crackers at the Sarabha Nagar market. “It is a big win of the farmers as the Central Government announced to repeal the farm laws,” a resident said.On the beats of ‘dhol’, residents performed bhangra at the Sarabha Nagar market on Friday evening. Sweets were distributed among people. They paid tributes to ‘martyred’ farmers, who lost during the agitation. They gave a message to everyone to stay united.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/repeal-of-farm-laws-wave-of-happiness-sweeps-ludhiana-city-340541
20-11-2021||Manav Mander||Ludhiana farmers elated with victory||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 19Farmers rejoiced at their victory and celebrated the government’s decision to repeal the three farm laws. They could be seen dancing on the beats of drum and distributing sweets to celebrate the occasion.An elderly woman was seen distributing sweetened rice among farmers outside MBD Mall, where farmers were protesting against the farm laws.“I have prepared rice with my own hands to celebrate the win. It is the victory of the common man and it has been once again proven that nothing is impossible if one stands firm on his resolve to fight for a cause. Majority and brotherhood have played an important role in the protest,” she said.HS Lakhowal, general secretary of the Bhartiya Kissan Union, said they are elated over the decision and will wait for repealing of the laws during the Parliament session.“The decision to take back the laws should have been taken earlier so that the damage should have been controlled. Lives lost can never be compensated but still we are satisfied that finally the government has decided to roll back its decision,” said Lakhowal.Chamkaur Singh, secretary of the All India Kissan Sabha said they will be happy only when the entire procedure to repeal laws is completed in Parliament. “Till then agitation in some form or another will be continued,” said he.Meanwhile, the Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association (FOPSIA) congratulated the farmers, state and Central Government for resolving the crucial issue related to the economy of state.“With the end of agitation, the Central-state relation will improve and will be helpful for the state’s economy. The domestic demand will increase with the end of agitation as the non-essential purchases were curtailed by the farmers due to agitation. The peace in the state will bring investment and expansions. The domestic and international buyers can easily reach the state due to end of barricades and blockages. The transportation of goods will be more convenient after the end of jams due to blockade,” said Badish Jindal, president, FOPSIA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-farmers-elated-with-victory-340542
20-11-2021||---||74-yr-old woman dies, two test positive for Covid in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, November 19Two persons tested positive for Covid and one woman lost her life to the disease in the district today. The deceased woman was 74 years’ old resident of Bhairomunna.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.57 per cent and there are 21 active cases in the district at present. Nineteen patients were asked to undergo home isolation today.A total of nine patients — two from Ludhiana and seven from other districts — are undergoing treatment for Covid at various city hospitals.A total of seven patients — two from Ludhiana and five from other states/districts — have tested positive in the last 24 hours.Till date, a total of 28,39,566 samples for Covid test have been taken, of which 27,40,192 were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,647, while 11,727 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of patients who lost their lives to Covid is 2,109 from Ludhiana and 1,058 from other districts.Samples of 5,300 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols, like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently, of the Punjab Government to not only save themselves, but keep everyone around safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/74-yr-old-woman-dies-two-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-district-340543
20-11-2021||Lovleen Bains||Doraha farmers rejoice but stir to continue||Doraha, November 19The protesting farmers heaved a sigh of relief after Narendra Modi-led government decided to withdraw the contentious agricultural laws on Gurpurb today.The farmers, however, said they would continue with their struggle till the farm laws were repealed. They also demanded legal recognition for the minimum support price.The farmers termed it as a victory of common man, who would have been adversely affected by these laws.“At last, the Modi government realised that it is useless to fight with the community which can break but not relent. It is good that the government woke up, though very late. We have already lost our near and dear ones forever,” said Rajinder Singh Kot Panaich, general secretary, BKU (Rajewal).District president of BKU (Kadian) Hardeep Singh Giaspura said: “We are happy and satisfied that the sacrifice of thousands of our daring warriors, who gave their lives at the altar of farm laws, has not gone in vain. Their families, their relatives, their village and in fact the whole of Punjab shall always remain indebted to them.”Saudagar Singh Ghudani, general secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) opined: “We recognise the ultimate realisation on the part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who felt that the farmers have a genuine reason for complaint.”“But our morcha will continue uninterrupted. Till the time we get the repeal order in writing and the MSP is given legal acceptance, our fight shall continue. The farmers shall pack their bags on November 25, reach Delhi borders the next day and march towards the Capital to get a legal acceptance of the withdrawal of the three farm laws,” he said.“We as a farming community just stood for what was right, just and rational. It is very unfortunate that it took a year for the government to ponder and arrive at a conclusion that the farm laws are in no way farmer friendly. We are satisfied with the announcement of Modi, but shall in no way let the strength be diluted by mere words. It is the written consent which we shall wait for as well as definite legal regularisation on the MSP,” said BKU (Kadian) block president Rajveer Singh and general secretary Mandeep Singh Deepi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doraha-farmers-rejoice-but-stir-to-continue-340544
20-11-2021||Nitin Jain||Snatching cases in Ludhiana city on the wane||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 19In a sigh of relief for the residents, the snatchings are no more on the rise in Ludhiana. Not only have the cases registered a major dip, the number of arrests and recoveries in such cases has also touched a new high.The development assumes significance as the street crime, especially snatchings, had risen considerably, leaving the residents scared and raising questions over public security.The criminals were put under scanner and the easy strikes on the unsuspecting residents, especially women and senior citizens who were considered soft targets, were intercepted after the Commissionerate Police launched a special drive against the street crime in the last week of September.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar told The Tribune that the number of snatching cases dipped by over 28 per cent while the rate of tracing such cases went up from 36 per cent to 85 per cent in the past two months.Similarly, the number of arrests nearly tripled while the recovery of snatched articles almost doubled in the areas under the Ludhiana Commissionerate Police since September 22, when Bhullar had assumed the office.The official figures compiled by the Commissionerate Police, a copy of which is available with The Tribune, showed that 81 snatchings were reported in Ludhiana in the period of 52 days from August 1 to September 21. Of these, 29 cases were traced at a rate of 35.8 per cent.The snatchers had taken away the valuables and articles worth Rs39.22 lakh from the victims during this period of which stolen articles worth Rs30.32 lakh were recovered from 47 snatchers, who were arrested between August 1 and September 21 at the rate of 77 per cent.The special drive against the criminals, especially those taking to street crime, started showing results as 66 snatching cases were registered in the 59 days from September 22 to November 19. Of this, 56 snatchings were traced at a rate of 84.84 per cent.During this period, the snatchers had done away with the valuables and articles worth Rs47.55 lakh while the Commissionerate Police recovered stolen property worth Rs71.58 lakh from 122 arrested snatchers, which accounted for 150 per cent of the total property snatched between September 22 and November 19. CommissionerSpeaksOur special drive against the criminals, especially those involved in street crime, has started showing results and this will continue to ensure minimum strikes and maximum public safety. The police patrolling has been stepped up and the presence of cops has been ensured in and around the busy areas, which are prone to easy strikes. The sustained interrogation of those arrested and bad elements has helped tracing maximum cases and making record recoveries. Public safety, especially of women, senior citizens and children, is our foremost priority. We request the residents to remain vigilant and inform us about the activities of suspected elements without any fear, says Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Commissioner of Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/snatching-cases-in-ludhiana-city-on-the-wane-340545
20-11-2021||---||Smuggler held with 15-kg ganja||Ludhiana, November 19The Crime Investigation Wing of the police nabbed a smuggler and recovered 15 kg of ganja from his possession on Friday.The accused has been identified as Mumtaz Alam, alias Mansu, native of Bihar, presently residing at Mohalla New Madhopuri here.Inspector Parveen Kumar, in-charge, Crime Branch-II, in a statement said secret information was received that Mumtaz Alam was on the way to deliver a huge quantity of ganja. Accordingly a police party laid a naka and stopped Mumtaz Alam, who was riding a scooter for checking. During the checking of the boot of the scooter 15 kg of ganja was recovered.Inspector Parveen said Mumtaz Alam was on the way to deliver narcotics to his clients in the city. Now police remand of the accused would be sought to bust the supply line of drugs and key suppliers of drugs would also be nabbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/smuggler-held-with-15-kg-ganja-340546
20-11-2021||---||ASI held for creating ruckus at Civil Hospital in Samrala||Ludhiana, November 19The police arrested a cop who created ruckus at Civil Hospital in Samrala.A case was registered against the policeman, Parminder Singh, who is an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) in the Ludhiana Commissionerate. The case was registered on the complaint of Dr Oshu Balagan.Complainant Dr Oshu said on November 17 night, ASI Parminder Singh came to the hospital and claimed that he was not well and he needed some medicine.“When I started checking the ASI, he started threatening me and even threatened to shoot me. He said he would call Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to complain against me. We didn’t argue with him and immediately called the police,” revealed the complainant.Staff of the hospital had also made a video of the ASI in which he can be seen behaving in an inebriate state. Investigation officer ASI Joginder Singh said the accused ASI was arrested yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/asi-held-for-creating-ruckus-at-civil-hospital-in-samrala-340547
20-11-2021||Manav Mander||Covid: Patients suffering hair loss post recovery||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 19Recovering from Covid-19 can put a lot of strain on the body. Weak lungs, memory loss and hair fall are some of the post-Covid complications that patients may suffer. Post-Covid hair fall, in particular, has become a genuine concern for the individuals who have recovered from the infection.Dermatologists from the city believe that there has been a surge in patients visiting them for the treatment of hair fall.There has been a sharp rise in the number of temporary reversible hair loss cases in post-Covid patients due to physical and emotional stress, say the doctors.Hair loss post-Covid, usually begins two or three months after the patient has recovered from the disease.Noticeable hair loss usually starts after 55 days post-recovery. “Hair fall as a possible side effect of Covid has also started coming to our notice. Covid has had a major impact on health. The problem of hair fall has increased manifold. A holistic approach is taken to treat the problem and multivitamin supplements give good results. Mesotherapy with growth factors and peptide rich solutions provide quick and good results,” said Dr Jastinder Gill, senior dermatologist.Another city-based dermatologist said post-recovery low level of vitamin D and Vitamin B12 leads to hair fall.In addition to this, stress, poor diet, weak immunity add to hair-fall, he said. The symptoms takes four-five months to settle down, but if the problem persists, then one should see a doctor. Hair therapyThe plant-based hair restoration therapy aids in Covid-related hair loss. It is a hair regrowth therapy, curbs hair fall and increases the thickness and density of existing hair follicles and offers greater hair coverage to the ones with alopecia. Dr Debraj Shome, Clinical Scientist and Leader, R&D Team, QR678, says QR678 is a process where growth factors are injected in the hair follicles, which not only arrests hair fall but also stimulates hair growth. QR678 is a non-surgical, pain-free and non-invasive procedure. Food for hairHave vitamin rich food, say doctors. Spinach, beans, eggs, nuts and seeds helpful in preventing hair fall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-patients-suffering-hair-loss-post-recovery-340551
20-11-2021||---||CMC performs 200 stem cell transplants||Ludhiana, November 19The Department of Clinical Haematology at Christian Medical College and Hospital here has completed 200 stem cell transplants in patients. The department has started its journey in 2008.To celebrate the milestone, a thanksgiving meeting was organised in which Dr M Joseph John, HoD and Professor, Department of Clinical Haematology, took the participants through the journey of stem cell transplantation.Dr William Bhatti, Director, CMCH, also addressed the gathering. Dr SP Singh, Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, was the chief guest for the event. Dr Singh emphasised the contribution made by the CMC in the overall development of Punjab citizens. Patients, who have undergone stem cell transplant, were the guests of honour. Cultural programmes and fun games were also conducted on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cmc-performs-200-stem-cell-transplants-340557
20-11-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Students learn about functioning of courts||To update students about the functioning of judicial system and instill confidence among them about the implementation of laws, the management committee of SRM Convent School, Pohir, today organised an excursion trip of students to the court complex at Shri Mukatsar Sahib.Students also visited other historical and religious places, including Gurdwara Tutti Gandhi Sahib and Mukte Minar.Judicial officers led by District and Sessions Judge Arunvir Vashista illustrated various concepts and court proceeding to the students.Jawahar Lal Mittal, chairman, SRM Convent School, said teachers led by Principal Sheenam Samuel convened educative sessions of students with the personnel involved in the functioning of courts. “They were taken to the Session House and District and Sessions Court at Mukatsar and briefed about the role of court in dispensing justice,” he said. They were also informed about court proceedings, role of the public prosecutor in criminal trials and availability of free legal aid being provided by the courts. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-learn-about-functioning-of-courts-340559
20-11-2021||Ludhiana||Arsh designs labs for govt schools||Arsh Gupta, a Class XII student at Sat Paul Mittal School, has designed two low-cost science labs for government schools - one at Dashmesh Khalsa Senior Secondary School, Heran village, and the other at Government School Cemetery Road, Ludhiana.Gupta understood the requirements of these schools and designed the labs using various low-cost methods.“At Government School, Ludhiana, I incorporated Building as a Learning Aid concept to raise scientific curiosity among children,” he said.He collaborated with ‘There For U Foundation’ to raise funds for the new and upgraded lab equipment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/arsh-designs-labs-for-govt-schools-340560
20-11-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana chemist booked for raping married woman||Four kidnapped girls rescuedLudhiana: The city police rescued four minor girls who were kidnapped by some persons on the pretext of marrying them. Rupinder Kaur Sra, Additional DCP-IV, said the girls were kidnapped by some persons either for marriage or for some unknown motives. Sra said three minor girls were kidnapped in October, while one in September. Cases were registered at the Focal Point police station. When the girls were rescued and kidnappers arrested, girls were handed over to their families. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-chemist-booked-for-raping-married-woman-340562
20-11-2021||---||Of 35 lakh jabbed in Ludhiana, just 11 lakh women||Ludhiana, November 19In Ludhiana, less number of women has been vaccinated against Covid as compared to men.There is a 50 per cent gap in the gender ratio of those who have got themselves inoculated to date. According to the data shared by the Health Department, 35 lakh people have been vaccinated of which 24 lakh are males and only 11 lakh are females.Besides, there are 5.5 lakh people in Ludhiana who have skipped their due date for the second dose and there are still 3.5 lakh people left who have not received even a single dose till now.Despite repeated reminders being sent through SMS by the Health Department, they have not turned up for their second dose. The district administration and the Health Department now plan to cover this population under ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign. Around 80 per cent of this population has crossed 100 days since their first dose.Dr Puneet Juneja, nodal officer for Covid vaccination drive in Ludhiana district, said that dependency was the major factor responsible for a smaller number of females coming forward for vaccination. In addition, rumoured side-effects, lack of support and lack of knowledge about the vaccine were other factors responsible for the gap, the nodal officer said.“They generally wait for someone else to take them to the vaccination centre for inoculation. Women who run the house should not wait but go out and get jabbed,” he said.Under the campaign, field teams will be visiting people’s doorstep. They will also be calling up people and motivating them to get vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/of-35-lakh-jabbed-in-ludhiana-just-11-lakh-women-340458
