21-11-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana’s ranking slips to 39||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 20As the MC has failed to improve its performance, Ludhiana slipped to rank 39, out of the 48 cities (above 10 lakh population category) in Swachh Survekshan-2021. The city ranked 7th out of 13 cities in the state.Notably, Ludhiana had ranked 34 out of 47 cities in the Swachh Survekshan-2021 while it had also won an award of the best big city in ‘Innovation and best practices’ last year.Though the civic body authorities and politicians often made claims to improve solid waste management, no concrete steps have been taken at the ground level to resolve various issues related to the processing of fresh and legacy waste.In Swachh Survekshan 2021 for which the survey was conducted earlier this year, 518 small or big cities have scored more marks than Ludhiana’s score of 3229.81 (out of 6000 marks).Ludhiana had ODF+ certification but it failed to improve its certification. A source in the MC said: “A few other cities of the state had ODF++ status but Ludhiana had only ODF+ as the sewerage treatment plants were not functioning properly. For the upcoming survey of 2022, there is a need to ensure the proper functioning of STPs, processing of solid waste and legacy waste. The MC needs to ensure management of construction and demolition waste too.”Waste processing still being ignoredNotably, a private company, A2Z group, which used to handle solid waste management, had issued a termination notice to the MC in December 2020 and left the services in February 2021 but a new firm has not been hired for waste processing to date.MC teams have studied the solid waste management system in Indore, Chennai, Delhi, Rajasthan and Prayagraj (Allahabad) but the waste management system has not been improved here. Waste compactors are yet to be installed at a number of sites while an open space near Old Session Courts is being turned into a big garbage dump these days.A former councillor, Inder Aggarwal, said: “The city is ranked 39 due to negligence and poor performance of the civic body officials concerned. Without floating tenders, the garbage lifting work was allotted to benefit a private contractor. The garbage is not being lifted timely from various garbage collection points. The government should stop releasing funds under Smart City Mission when the cleanliness is being ignored here by the civic body.”26th rank in Safaimitra Suraksha ChallengeMC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said Ludhiana ranked 26th in Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge in the country and first rank in the state. Regarding 39th rank in Swachh Survekshan 2021, the Commissioner said the sewerage treatment plants under the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project were being upgraded when the survey was conducted. He said the A2Z firm had also left its services. These two were the main reasons behind rank 39, he said.The Commissioner said they were going to set up waste to energy plant soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhianas-ranking-slips-to-39-340970
21-11-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||High drama as woman stabs self at police station||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 20High drama was witnessed at the Police Division 6 when a woman, who came to enquire about her complaint against a travel agent, turned hyper and stabbed herself last evening. She even threatened to stab her son in front of the policewoman if no action was taken against the agent.Acting on the complaint of woman constable Harpreet Kaur, a case under Sections 309 (attempt to commit suicide), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (whosoever voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 189 (threat of injury to public servant) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC has been registered against the woman, Babita of Kand village, late last night.The constable said the woman had visited the police station yesterday and asked about the status of a complaint against a travel agent. She was told that the investigating officer of the complaint, ASI Sethi Kumar, was away for some police duty and he could only clear its status.“Without listening to me, the woman took a knife from her purse and put at the neck of her son. She threatened to kill her son at the police station and also warned to commit suicide if no FIR is registered against the agent. When the woman was stopped, she stabbed herself on her stomach repeatedly. When I tried to save her, she torn off my uniform. Afterwards, other police officials intervened and rushed her to a hospital for treatment,” Harpreet Kaur said.However, ASI Sethi Kumar said the woman had filed a complaint against a travel agent who had duped her husband Omkar Singh. Her husband had gone abroad but the agent failed to arrange any job for him due to which he was deported to India. He said a probe into the complaint was on.The ASI said after arresting the woman, she was sent to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/high-drama-as-woman-stabs-self-at-police-station-340971
21-11-2021||---||One tests positive for Covid in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, November 20One person tested positive for Covid and no person lost his life in the district due to the virus today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.57 per cent. At present, there are 20 active cases in the district.Eighteen persons were sent for home isolation today.A total of nine patients are undergoing treatment for Covid at various city hospitals and of these, two belong to Ludhiana district and seven are from other districts.Till date, a total of 28,43,734 samples have been taken,of which 27,44,359 were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,648 while 11,727 belong to other districts or states.The total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,109 persons from Ludhiana and 1,060 from other districts.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid patients, their samples are sent for testing. As many as, 4,168 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-tests-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-340972
21-11-2021||---||Missing city student’s body found in canal||Ludhiana, November 20 The body of a missing Class XI student,  Baljit Singh (17), of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Senior Secondary School today found in the Sidhwan canal on the South City road. He had gone missing under mysterious circumstances on Thursday. The body was recovered after some passers-by noticed it and informed the police. Officials at the PAU police station reached the spot and took out the body from the canal. Manmeet Singh, kin of the deceased, said the boy had gone to school on Thursday but did not return home. Later, on the same night, the motorcycle and mobile phone of the victim was recovered from near the canal. “We cannot accept the fact that Baljit would commit suicide. The boy was a lively person and had big dreams in life. Even the day he went missing, he was not under any depression. He had left for the school as usual,” said Manmeet. ADCP 3 Sameer Verma it was too early to comment. Once the autopsy was done, only then the cause of death could be known. Preliminary probe suggests that the body had no injury marks, so it could be a suicide case. Sources said after the recovery of the body, the boy’s parents were in shock and they were yet to give any official statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/missing-city-students-body-found-in-canal-340973
21-11-2021||---||3 of cell phone thieves’ gang held; 7 mobiles recovered||Ludhiana, November 20The Kotwali police have busted a gang of mobile phone thieves and arrested three of its members.The police have registered a case against the thieves identified as Gudu Rangila and Hari Ram, alias Sonu Chauhan, residents of Shelter House, and Bunty Kumar of Islamganj. The police have recovered seven mobile phones from the accused.In a statement issued, the police said a tip-off was received that the accused were running a gang of thieves and they had stolen several mobile phones on the Guru Nanak’s Jayanti and now, they were on the way to sell the same.Accordingly, the police party laid a naka near a shelter house where after intercepting the accused, they were arrested. During their frisking, seven mobile phones were recovered.The accused admitted that they used to roam in crowded places from where they steal mobile phones from pockets of people.The police said now, the police remand of the accused would be sought to nab other members of the gang and to recover more stolen mobile phones. The police suspected that some shopkeepers had also bought stolen mobile phones and they would also be nominated in the case after identification.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-of-cell-phone-thieves-gang-held-7-mobiles-recovered-340974
21-11-2021||---||Man arrested with 500 gm of opium||Ludhiana, November 20The body of a missing Class XI student, Baljit Singh (17), of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Senior Secondary School today found in the Sidhwan canal on the South City road.He had gone missing under mysterious circumstances on Thursday.The body was recovered after some passers-by noticed it and informed the police. Officials at the PAU police station reached the spot and took out the body from the canal.Manmeet Singh, kin of the deceased, said the boy had gone to school on Thursday but did not return home. Later, on the same night, the motorcycle and mobile phone of the victim was recovered from near the canal.“We cannot accept the fact that Baljit would commit suicide. The boy was alively person and had big dreams in life. Even the day he went missing, he was not under any depression. He had left for the school as usual,” said Manmeet.ADCP 3 Sameer Verma it was too early to comment. Once the autopsy was done, only then the cause of death could be known. Preliminary probe suggests that the body had no injury marks, so it could be a suicide case.Sources said after the recovery of the body, the boy’s parents were in shock and they were yet to give any official statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-arrested-with-500-gm-of-opium-340975
21-11-2021||---||City Provident Fund office ranked 137th in country||Ludhiana, November 20As there is poor response by businessmen of the industrial hub in filing e-nominations of their employees, eligible for provident fund (PF), the Regional Provident Fund Office of the city has slipped to 137th rank in the country.As per the record accessed by Tribune pertaining to e-nomination, this number means the department has achieved only 1.49 per cent of e-nomination. The Ludhiana PF office has 5,846 working establishments on its record, which have 2,86,279 contributory members. Of these establishments only 752, which have 4,277 members, have filed e-nominations.There are 5,193 establishments, which have filed zero nominations while 421 have filed only one nomination.e-nominations helps in getting provident fund (PF), pension (EPS) and insurance (EDLI) benefits easily on member’s death. It also facilitates nominee to file online claims without any hassle or search for employer to sign the death claim benefits. Considering it as a serious lapse on the part of business establishments, the PF office has served notices and is considering legal action against units for non-compliance if the situation does not improve by November 30.As per the data pertaining to PF offices across the country, the Nizambad PF office has scored first rank with 46.28 per cent e-nominations followed by the Mangalore office with 35.35 per cent, the Udupi office with 29.65 and the Kollam office with 24.17 e-nominations.Talking to The Tribune on Friday, Sumeet Singh, Regional PF Commissioner-II, said, “The PF office has been running special awareness campaign since three months regarding e-nomination. All business establishments are being continuously requested through seminars, emails and social media platforms to hand-hold employees for e-nominations so that their family members do not face any issue in getting claims at the time of untimely demise.”“Now, we have served time bound notices to top 500 establishments. It is due to poor response and indifferent attitude of the establishments that our office, which is otherwise one of the best on other parameters, has scored 137th rank when it comes to e-nominations,” he added. “e-nomination of EPFO subscribers is considered as an activity under the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav (AKAM) commemorating 75 years of India’s Independence,” he said.He further said, “Failure to file e-nomination sometimes leads to denial of social security umbrella to kin of EPF subscribers especially in case of migrant workers, whose families stay back in other states and are not aware about their legal rights.”Dheeraj Gupta, Regional PF Commissioner, Ludhiana, said, “We have sought active cooperation from employers in the city for achieving 100 per cent e-nomination of all contributory employees/members by December 31. We have been given target by the head office to complete 50 per cent e-nomination at the earliest,”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/city-provident-fund-office-ranked-137th-in-country-340976
21-11-2021||Ludhiana||Bhaini Sahib sports model to be replicated in Punjab: CM Channi||In order to promote sports in the state, especially in the rural parts, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday announced to construct sports grounds on Sri Bhaini Sahib sports model in block and district levels.On his first visit to Sri Bhaini Sahib in the district today, Channi accompanied by Namdhari sect chief Satguru Uday Singh, former PPCC chief HS Hanspal, Samrala MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon, Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, Gill MLA and Punjab State Warehouse Corporation chairman Kuldeep Singh Vaid, inspected the AstroTurf at Sri Bhaini Sahib. Channi said the Punjab Government would replicate this cost-effective and feasible model of the AstroTurf and grounds in the entire state.Reiterating his government’s commitment to provide the state-of-the-art sports infrastructure to players, the Chief Minister said, “Such model sports grounds will enable players to further excel in world-class tournaments like Olympics.”He added that officials would soon chalk out a blueprint for developing such AstroTurfs and football grounds in consultation with the Sri Bhaini Sahib management. Channi also assured that there would be no dearth of funds for this purpose.“The Punjab Government is working to promote sports amongst the Punjabi youth,” said Channi. Meanwhile, Satguru Uday Singh, who is also head of the task force of Rs650-crore Buddha Nullah Rejuvenation Project, discussed the project with Channi.Prominent among present on the occasion, include senior Congress leaders Satwinder Kaur Bitti, Vikram Singh Bajwa, Gurdeep Singh Sarpanch and Karanveer Singh Dhillon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bhaini-sahib-sports-model-to-be-replicated-in-punjab-cm-channi-340977
21-11-2021||Manav Mander/Harshraj Singh||Happy with PM’s announcement, kin say farmers’ sacrifices paid off||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 20Families of farmers, who lost their lives during the protest on Delhi borders, are finally at peace as Prime Minister Narendra Modi yesterday announced to repeal the three controversial farm laws.Although kin of farmers, who lost their lives during protest on Delhi borders, welcomed the government’s decision, the pain of losing their loved ones would remain with them forever. Some families lost their breadwinners while others were forced to cut umbilical cord with their agriculture land as nobody else in the family was into farming after the death of the protagonist.A 75-year-old Jai Singh, a farmer from Dhindsa village, lost his life while fighting against the three farm laws on September 19 this year at the Singhu border. His family has now given their three acres on contract. Nobody from his family is into farming.“My grandfather was fighting for the ownership of his land as he was worried that it will go into the hands of the corporate if the three farm laws are implemented. Sadly, he could not see the day when the PM announced to repeal these farm laws, but we are happy that his sacrifice has not gone in vain,” said Hussan, grandson of Jai Singh.“My grandfather was at the border since day one. One day he got up as usual, offered his prayers, had tea and then went to rest for some time. He never woke up again. He probably died due to a heart attack,” he added.Hussan looks after a cold store and his father runs an eatery. It was only Jai Singh, who was into farming. He used to sow wheat and rice on his farm. He lost his life while safeguarding his land.A 45-year-old Kaunke Kalan resident Sukhwinder Singh Sidhu, who owned two acres, lost his life at the Tikri border on 26th day after joining the protest. He is survived by a son and wife.“Presently, I am pursuing graduation. We grow fodder for animals on the small piece of our land. We are happy that the government has accepted demands of farmers. My father’s soul will be in peace now,” said his son.A 76-year-old Bhag Singh from Baddowal village, who laid down his life during the agitation at the Singhu border on December 10, owned seven acres. He died due to cardiac arrest. His son Raghubir Singh said, “For farmers land is like an offspring. How can they let someone else become owner of their land. I am happy that my father and several others struggle has not gone in vain.”Labh Singh (49), a resident of Sirthala village, committed suicide on January 11 at the Singhu Border. He was an employee of the Department of Agriculture. After PM Narendra Modi announced to repeal the farm laws, Labh Singh’s son Kuldeep Singh said, “My father committed suicide while protesting against the farm laws. Now, it is a historic victory of the farmers as PM has announced to repeal the farm laws. If the government had repealed the laws earlier, big losses could have been averted.”While protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws, 65-year-old Manmohan Singh of Ghaloti village in Ludhiana district had died of a heart attack at the Tikri border on February 7. His son, Prabhjot Singh said, “My father got martyred during the Kisan Andolan. If PM Narendra Modi had taken the step to repeal the farm laws earlier, many lives could have been saved. Now, Modi has announced to repeal the farm laws as elections are on his mind. It is a big win of the farmers. We want that these laws should be repealed by following the required process.”Jagjit Singh (34) of Dhatt village, near Mullanpur-Dakha, died of heart attack at the Singhu border on January 20. For his family, the pain of losing him would remain with them forever. Jagjit’s father Gurmail Singh said, “Though it’s a late decision, it is a welcome move as the Central Government will repeal the three farm laws. What should I say more as we have lost everything?”Sohan Singh (43) from Kaunke Kalan village, who used to work in fields, joined the movement after seeing farmers protesting for their rights. He did not own any land, but was on the Singhu border since day one supporting his landlords. He got electrocuted while doing some electrical work at the protest site on July 11. He is survived by his mother, wife and three kids. “He was at the border supporting the entire village and now his family is left alone. We have collected Rs6 lakh for helping his family and are trying to take care of them,” said sarpanch of Kaunke Kalan village.Earlier, the Punjab Government had announced to give job to one family member of farmers, who died during the agitation on the Delhi borders. Kin of farmers, who lost their lives during the protest, said they had got Rs5 lakh compensation from the state government, but no one had been provided jobs till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/happy-with-pms-announcement-kin-say-farmers-sacrifices-paid-off-340978
21-11-2021||Ahmedgarh||Club to hold night vaccination camp tomorrow||Local unit of Rotary Club has announced to organise a special camp for vaccination against Covid for those residents, who find it difficult to spare time for getting inoculated during the daytime.A team of doctors and healthcare workers from the Primary Health Centre (PHC) will undertake registration and vaccination against coronavirus at MGMN Senior Secondary School, Ahmedgarh, from 6 pm onwards on Monday evening.Assistant governor and convener of the camp Dr Ravinder Sharma said the Deputy Commissioner, Malerkotla, Madhvi Kataria, had allowed a special Covid vaccination fair to be organised under the supervision of healthcare workers led by Dr Amandeep Singh on Monday evening. Free to and fro transportation facility would be available for ferrying beneficiaries, claimed organisers.Meanwhile, Madhvi Kataria called upon office-bearers and activists of various social and constitutional bodies to spread awareness among masses about the necessity of 100 per cent vaccination to fight against probable third wave of the Covid and its after effects observed in survivors of virus infection. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/club-to-hold-night-vaccination-camp-tomorrow-340979
21-11-2021||Ahmedgarh||Employees’ stir affects Covid vaccination drive||Continuing their protest for acceptance and implementation of their long-pending demands office-bearers and activists of the National Health Mission Employees Union threatened to intensify their stir if they were not considered under the Punjab Protection and Regularisation of Contractual Employees Bill 2021 of the state government.Acknowledging that their protest had derailed the progress of the Covid vaccination programme and sampling for identification of latest coronavirus cases, the protesters argued that the government should also comprehend the gravity of the situation and accept their demands to enable frontline warriors fight against the dreaded disease.Activists of the union led by Dr Mamta Goyal and Dr Geetanjali Joshi alleged that senior functionaries in the Union Government and the Punjab Government had failed to comprehend the position of officials working under the National Health Mission, who had sacrificed their career while working on meagre salaries and allowances for over two decades.The protesters claimed that challenges like tuberculosis management, leprosy eradication and reproduction child health were handled by frontline warriors and professionals, exploited by the Union Government under the banner of the Rural Health Mission.“Now, when we are totally dependent on the mission, the government has adopted an arbitrary and adamant attitude regarding our future prospects,” said Dr Mamta Goyal and Dr Geetanjali Goyal.Meanwhile, organisers of special vaccination camps alleged that the government’s failure to persuade NHM employees to withdraw their agitation had adversely affected the special campaign launched to achieve hundred per cent target of vaccinating beneficiaries against Covid. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/employees-stir-affects-covid-vaccination-drive-340980
21-11-2021||Ludhiana||Ex-manager among five booked for ~3.20-crore fraud||Woman raped by landlordLudhiana: A landlord who went to take house rent from his tenant at Giaspura here raped the latter yesterday. The Daba police have registered a case against accused Kuldeep Singh, a resident of SAS Nagar. Investigating officer Naveen Kumar said the accused owns a meat shop and on the first floor of his shop, he had given a room on rent. Yesterday, he was drunk. He barged into the room of the victim and finding her alone, raped her. The woman told the police that the accused had also told her not to reveal about the incident to anyone else she would have to bear the consequences. The accused is yet to be arrested. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ex-manager-among-five-booked-for-3-20-crore-fraud-340983
