22-11-2021||Nitin Jain||Farm fires at five-year high in Ludhiana district, air quality also worsens||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 21There is no let up in incidents of farm fires in Ludhiana district. With the crop residue burning cases touching a five-year high, the air quality in the state’s biggest and largest district in terms of area and population has also worsened, the official figures have revealed.Also read: Reorient govt policies to end stubble burningFrom only 389 till October 25 and 3,252 till November 8, the stubble burning cases beat the four-year record of 4,330 in 2019 to touch 5,794 on November 20, the data compiled by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC) in Ludhiana has revealed.What experts sayWith this, the air quality has worsened and the widespread pollution has engulfed the industrial capital of the state under dense blanket of smog, especially during evening and morning hours.Recording 170 air quality index (AQI) on Saturday, Ludhiana’s air quality was “unhealthy” with PM 2.5 remaining main pollutant. However, this was better than 223 AQI (very unhealthy) recorded here on November 17, 204 AQI (very unhealthy) on November 18 and 196 AQI (unhealthy) on November 19.On Saturday, Ludhiana remained state’s fourth most polluted city after Jalandhar, Amritsar and Bathinda.On the stubble burning front as well, Ludhiana remained the fourth worst-hit district with 5,794 farm fires till Saturday. While Sangrur topped the state with the maximum of 7,991 crop residue burning cases, Moga stood second with 6,491 and Ferozepur ranked third with 6,254 stubble burning incidents this season so far.On Saturday, only 10 farm fires were spotted in Ludhiana district, which were, however, relatively less than the trend witnessed during the past few days. Muktsar topped the state with the maximum of 53 crop residue burning cases followed by Fazilka 50, Patiala 33, Bathinda 21, Ferozepur and Sangrur 18 each, Fatehgarh Sahib 16, Faridkot 10, Amritsar and Jalandhar five each, Malerkotla four, Tarn Taran three, Barnala and Kapurthala two each, while Gurdaspur, Moga and Pathankot recorded the lowest of one stubble burning incident each on Saturday.The farm fires spotted this Kharif season have broken the record of previous four years when 4,330 such cases were reported during the entire season till November 30 in 2020, 2,532 in 2019, 2,481 in 2018 and 3,239 in 2017. However, the district had recorded maximum 7,697 farm fires in 2016. Whether this record will also break this year was yet to be seen as 10 more days were yet to go for this kharif season to conclude.“We are forced to burn the crop residue as it was the most cost-effective and time saving mode,” reasoned Sulakhan Singh, a farmer of Baloke village.Another progressive farmer Amar Singh of Dhandra village alleged that the government claims of providing machinery and incentives were only on the paper.A leading pediatrician, Dr AP Singh, said: “PM2.5 concentration in Ludhiana air is currently 18.3 times above the WHO annual air quality guideline value.”OfficialspeakWe have been motivating farmers against stubble burning, besides enforcing laid-down norms to keep the air pollution under control. Though all 968 village panchayats in the district resolve not to let anyone burn crop residue in their respective limits, key district functionaries have been deployed to prevent field fires and take action against offenders. These included eight SDMs, seven tehsildars, 160 patwaris, nine DSPs, 142 cluster officers, 390 nodal officers and nine AEEs of PPCB. —Varinder Kumar Sharma, DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farm-fires-at-five-year-high-in-ludhiana-district-air-quality-also-worsens-341369
22-11-2021||Harshraj Singh||Start ‘jan andolan’ to save Sutlej, Mattewara forest, Buddha Nullah: Medha Patkar appeals to people||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 21Noted social activist and environmentalist Medha Patkar on Sunday gave a message to people to start ‘Jan andolan’ to save the Sutlej, Mattewara forest and Buddha Nullah.Patkar (66), who has led the ‘Narmada Bachao Andolan’ to save the Narmada for 32 years, along with members of a public action committee (PAC) visited the Mattewara forest area and the Sutlej banks on Sunday. She raised questions over the state government’s plan to set up a modern industrial park at an eco-sensitive site near the forest and river bank.Patkar raised the slogan ‘Jungle Bachao, Desh Bachao’ at Mattewara. She also launched the ‘Sutlej Bachao, Punjab Bachao’ campaign in the presence of PAC members who have been protesting against the proposed modern industrial park site.She interacted with residents of Sekhowal who have been protesting against the proposed industrial park to be set up near the forest and the Sutlej. They were dependent on the village land that has been acquired for the industrial park.She was also surprised to see big heaps of sand along the Sutlej. Patkar demanded a probe to find whether the mining was done illegally or legally there.She said they were working to protect the Narmada as they consider it their mother and the Sutlej in Punjab deserves the same level of respect and protection. It was also a source of drinking water for millions. She asked people to raise their voice to save their river.The social activist also visited Dhanansu village today and raised questions as a large pipe for discharging waste from a hi-tech industrial valley has been linked with the Buddha Dariya. The PAC members said no effluent treatment plant had been set up in the valley so far.Patkar was also shocked to see the black polluted water being released into the drain from the STP at Jamalpur here.Sharing the success of jan andolans, she advised people to sit on andolan till the nullah is made pollution-free. She advised them to question their elected representatives regarding these issues.She assured to raise the issue of environment protection of the state in the meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha as well.She said the state government should conduct a discussion on the issues and clear its stand.Meanwhile, Patkar launched a ‘Green manifesto’ and website www.greenmanifesto.info which outlines major environmental concerns of citizens and aims to persuade all political parties of Punjab to give prominence to such environmental issues in the upcoming 2022 state Assembly elections.Giani Kewal Singh, ex-Jathedar of Sri Damdama Sahib, welcomed Medha Patkar to Punjab. Members of the public action committee Col CM Lakhanpal (retd), Kapil Dev, Jaskirat Singh, Kuldeep Singh Khaira, Mahinder Singh Sekhon and others shared their concerns and demanded from the government to cancel its plan to set up the industrial park near Mattewara and Sutlej. They also demanded complete transparency in the Rs 650-crore Buddha Nullah Rejuvenation Project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/start-jan-andolan-to-save-sutlej-mattewara-forest-buddha-nullah-medha-patkar-appeals-to-people-341370
22-11-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Hambran road jewellery shop loot case cracked; 4 land in police net||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 21With the arrest of four persons, including a food delivery boy, the Commissionerate Police have cracked the robbery committed at Satguru Jewellers, Hambran road, on October 19 this year.The accused were identified as Manjinder Singh (19) of Manewal village, Gurpreet Singh (19), Jagdish Singh (23) of Burj Pawat village in Ludhiana and Ashish Aggarwal (25) of Galla Kothar Mohalla, Gwalior, in Madhya Pradesh.Manjinder was working as a food delivery executive. One of the accomplice, Makhan Singh, of Burj Pawat village was absconding in the case.Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said Manjinder was a key conspirator in the robbery as he used to keep an eye on Satguru Jewellers while delivering food orders in the locality.The CP said Manjinder had come to know that only an elderly man used to sit in night hours at the shop and hatched the conspiracy with the other accused.He said on October 19, Manjinder, along with Gurpreet and Makhan, reached the shop on a motorcycle (bearing registration no. PB10 DC 5612) around 9 pm and looted gold and silver ornaments and cash from the shop at gunpoint.The CP added that on getting information about the crime, teams of the PAU police station and CIA Staff 1 were formed to nab the robbers. Earlier, the police rounded up three accused involved in the crime following the investigation carried out in Hiran village, Chandigarh road, when they were moving to Ludhiana in a car (bearing fake registration number PB10 CE 6789).The police also recovered a .32 bore pistol, six cartridges, a toy pistol, a sharp weapon, a car, a bike used in the crime, looted ornaments and other items, Bhullar said, adding that Ashish had supplied a weapon to them and was nabbed on November 20.The CP said the accused would be produced in court and the police would seek their further custody to nab the absconding accused, Makhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hambran-road-jewellery-shop-loot-case-cracked-4-land-in-police-net-341371
22-11-2021||Ludhiana||One tests +ve, no death in Ludhiana district||One person tested positive for Covid and no person lost his life in the district due to the virus today.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.58 per cent. At present, there are 15 active cases in the district. Thirteen persons were sent for home isolation today.A total of eight patients are undergoing treatment for Covid at various city hospitals and of these, two belong to Ludhiana district and six are from other districts.Till date, a total of 28,48,579 samples have been taken, of which 27,49,202 were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,649 while 11,728 belong to other districts or states.The total number of persons who lost their lives includes 2,109 persons from Ludhiana and 1,060 fromother districts. As many as 4,845 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/one-tests-ve-no-death-in-ludhiana-district-341372
22-11-2021||---||Another boy sodomised at observation home at Ludhiana's Shimlapuri||Ludhiana, November 21The observation home, Shimlapuri, is again in news for all the wrong reasons. Within 15 days, second case of sodomy has come to light.A 17-year-old boy had been sodomised by some inmates for almost five months. After the boy reported the matter, the Shimlapuri police have registered a case against unknown persons and launched a probe to identify the accused boys.As per information, the victim is lodged at the observation home for months in a murder case registered at the Government Railway Police Station.In a complaint to superintendent of the home Tarun Aggarwal, the victim alleged that he had been sodomised by some unknown inmates from May 1 to October 30.The boy had alleged that the accused boys had also threatened him of dire consequences if he reveal about the sexual exploitation to the authorities.Even a few days ago, National Child Rights Commission officials had visited the home for reviewing arrangements there. Even directions were also issued to the authorities concerned to ensure that no such incident should come to the fore in future.Around two weeks ago, a minor boy had also levelled sodomy charges against 10 inmates of the observation home and a case of sodomy was also registered by the police in the matter. The accused were also identified by the police.Investigating officer sub-inspector Ranjit Singh said the police launched a probe in the case to identify the accused who committed the crime.It is pertinent to mention here that earlier also such incidents were reported in the observation home but the authorities failed to ensure safety and security of minors lodged in the home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/another-boy-sodomised-at-observation-home-at-ludhianas-shimlapuri-341373
22-11-2021||Harshraj Singh||Civic body yet to open night shelters for homeless in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 21Though winters have arrived, the Municipal Corporation (MC) is yet to make arrangements for destitute persons at night shelters (raen basera) in the city. Such people are commonly seen sleeping on roadsides, footpaths or under flyovers in the city at night.There are four night shelters under the MC. These are located near Clock Tower in Zone A, Ghoda Colony in Zone B, Old Fire Brigade building near Vishwakarma Chowk in Zone C and in the Dairy Complex area of Haibowal in Zone D. Even this year, no dedicated night shelter has been set up for destitute women in the city.Homeless people can be seen sleeping under the open sky near Jagraon Bridge, under Elevated Road near the railway station, Transport Nagar, bus stand and other parts of the city. Last year, the civic body had arranged city buses to drop the homeless persons at nearby night shelters. However, such service is yet to be started for the ongoing winter season.There is a need to ensure cleanliness and other required arrangements for visitors at the night shelters.A teacher Jagjeet Singh Mann said: “As the temperature has gone down, the civic body should make arrangements for homeless people at all the night shelters. Many such persons can be seen sleeping under the sky at night. The MC should ensure the arrangement of clean beddings, blankets, drinking water, hot water facility and other required facilities. There should be facility of adequate number of toilets. Hygienic conditions should also be ensured for prevention of diseases.”The night shelter near Clock Tower generally remained full during the previous winter season. It is located at a walking distance from the railway station. The civic body has not taken any step to setup any new night shelter near Clock Tower area.Moreover, MC has not properly installed direction boards on ways leading to various night shelters from the main intersections of the city. A board installed outside a shelter in Haibowal has faded. It seems the drain outside the night shelter has not been cleaned for a long time.MC Commissioner, Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said officials had been asked to make required arrangements at the night shelters. He said the night shelter services would be resumed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-yet-to-open-night-shelters-for-homeless-in-ludhiana-341374
22-11-2021||Our Correspondent||MLA Surjit Singh Dhiman directs municipal council to expedite development works||Mandi Ahmedgarh, Nov 21The Municipal Council (MC) authorities have been asked to expedite construction and repair work of all projects, which remained suspended during past few months due to various reasons, including inclement weather.Local legislator Surjit Singh Dhiman, who is also associate member of the MC, advised his political assistant Teji Kamalpur and civic body president Vikas Tandon to ensure that officials got development works executed under their supervision so that quality and quantity of material used confirmed to specified standards.“Having come to know about inconvenience caused to residents due to delay in execution of development works I have asked civic body president Vikas Tandon and Executive Officer Chander Parkash Wadhwa to ensure that all pending works are undertaken expeditiously,” said Dhiman.“All councillors, irrespective of their political allegiance, have been asked to update authorities or the president about needs of their respective wards so that a plan can be drafted for optimum provision of civic amenities for the people,” Dhiman added.He claimed that adequate grants had been received for undertaking development works in all localities falling under the MC jurisdiction.Meanwhile, councillors led by Tandon and Kamalpuri went on spree to inaugurate commencement of development works on Thana Road, Dehliz Road, Khurad Mohalla and Cinema Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mla-surjit-singh-dhiman-directs-municipal-council-to-expedite-development-works-341375
22-11-2021||Ludhiana||Contests mark antimicrobial awareness week at GADVASU||World Antimicrobial Awareness Week is observed from November 18 to 24 every year. The theme for 2021 is “Spread awareness, stop resistance”. The main aim of the event is to increase global awareness of antibiotics and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) as well as to encourage best practices to prevent the emergence and spread of drug-resistant infections.The department of microbiology at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital is organising various activities like quiz and poster making competition for MBBS and paramedical students, training sessions pertaining to interpretation of culture reports, antibiotic policy and antibiotic audit for postgraduate students.Dr Veenu Gupta, professor and head, department of microbiology, said a CME-based on the theme “Combating Antimicrobial Resistance” was also conducted. Dr Veenu said the purpose of this week was to raise awareness for antimicrobial resistance and to encourage best practices among the general public, health care workers to avoid further infections.The Centre for One Health, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), is organising World Antimicrobial Awareness Week from November 18 to 24. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/contests-mark-antimicrobial-awareness-week-at-gadvasu-341376
22-11-2021||---||PSPCL staff strike hits Mandi Gobindgarh industry||Ludhiana, November 21Industrialists in Mandi Gobindgarh are not getting regular power supply for the past few days. Those who want to extend their power load or new connections are making rounds at the PSPCL office. The entire staff of the PSPCL is on strike for the past many days.Mandi Gobindgarh industrialist Shubham said that he was making rounds at the PSPCL office to get a new connection for his industrial unit, but since the staff is on strike, the file has not been moved and his work is struck.Another industrialist Bhupinder Goel said he was facing regular power tripping in his unit. There is no staff at the PSPCL office to look into the complaints, he said.One of the SDE at the PSPCL office said that they too were facing problems and were on round-the-clock duties for over 40-50 hours.“A tussle is going on between the staff and the PSPCL management over the implementation of pay scales. The board should listen to our demands and provide solution accordingly so that common man does not suffer. The power consumers all over the state are suffering badly due to non-availability of field staff, clerical staff, linemen, etc. In addition, there is revenue loss to the state exchequer as no files are being moved. The Engineers’ Association has threatened the PSPCL management of intensifying the stir if their demands are not accepted. Many of the engineers have switched off their official mobile phones in protest and no complaints are being entertained”, the SDE said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-staff-strike-hits-mandi-gobindgarh-industry-341377
22-11-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana Basketball Academy players record wins in women, men sections||Players of the Ludhiana Basketball Academy (LBA) recorded victories in the women’s and men’s sections in the ongoing 72nd Senior Punjab State Basketball Championship, being held at Gureh village in the district, on Saturday.LBA trainees proved too good for their opponents as in the women’s section, they stitched up 67-52 win over Ludhiana district while in the men’s category they registered an easy 62-36 victory against Gurdaspur.In other matches in the men’s section, the LBA beat Amritsar 63-31 and Gurdaspur overpowered Jalandhar 67-60 whereas in the women’s category, Amritsar outperformed Sangrur 70-66.In the matches played on Friday evening, Amritsar, Sangrur, the LBA and Ludhiana district came out triumphant in the women’s section. Amritsar defeated Patiala 49-13; Sangrur outplayed Kapurthala 65-48; the LBA routed Khanna 45-6 and Ludhiana district outclassed Jalandhar 46-19.Ludhiana district lost to Gurdaspur 76-79 and Gurdaspur pipped Sangrur 60-65 in the men’s section.This year’s championship is being dedicated to the memory of Arjuna awardee, Gurdial Singh Malhi of Gureh village. Kartar Singh Toor, (Inspector retd), Punjab Police, and Maghar Singh, an industrialist and sports promoter, were guests of honour today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-basketball-academy-players-record-wins-in-women-men-sections-341378
22-11-2021||Ludhiana||Gulzar Group of Institutes, Khanna, students attend NCC camp||Gulzar Group of Institutes (GGI), Khanna, organised the annual NCC camp at its campus under the guideline of 19 PB BN for NCC B & C Certificate. More than 200 NCC cadets, both boys and girls, joined the NCC annual training camp.“The GGI is happy to host the cadets and facilitate the training under the mentorship of Col DK Singh, CO and Col KS Kondal, Duputy CO,19 PB BN. The aim of this camp was to develop character, comradeship, discipline, leadership, secular outlook, spirit of adventure and ideals of selfless service among youth of the country”, said college executive director Gurkirat Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gulzar-group-of-institutes-khanna-students-attend-ncc-camp-341379
22-11-2021||Constitute special task force||Open house: What needs to be done to check mushrooming of illegal colonies||Various scams have been unearthed in the construction of illegal colonies but the authorities concerned seem to lack courage in taking firm action against the defaulters. In fact, law on such pursuits is well in place, but its implementation is missing. Therefore in order to curb this menace, the authorities must constitute a special task force to keep a check on construction of illegal colonies and ensure that guilty don’t go scot-free.Novin ChristopherCheck credentials of realtorsIt is bitter truth that unscrupulous developers dupe innocent buyers of their hard earned money by making them invest in owning their dream homes in the illegal colonies. This all goes on with impunity under the nose of the local administration, proving that some of the corrupt officers of the administration are hand in glove with these developers. Stringent action must be initiated against these developers as well as officers who are befooling the buyers. The buyers too need to be vigilant while investing their money in property. They must check the credentials of the companies and the legality of the colonies.Bir Devinder Singh BediKeep an eye on illegal colonisersConstruction of illegal colonies under the nose of local administration is a very sorry state not only for the government but for residents as well. To stop the menace of illegal construction of colonies, there is a dire need to take stern action and punish them severely. Colonisers must abide by the law of land and the local government. There should not be any political patronage to colonisers who are constructing illegally. A special team to have a surveillance on the construction of these colonies must be formed having a retired judge on its panel. A phone number must be given or displayed at different prime places to report the construction of illegal colonies.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiMC should inspect construction sitesIt is a serious cause of concern that illegal structures are coming up in unauthorised colonies. Municipal corporations must form a committee under the chairmanship of the municipal commissioner to have a check on illegal mushrooming of colonies. The corporation has four zones, in each zone a team must inspect the site in and around that zone and bring the matter in the notice of commissioner Ludhiana. Deputy Commissioner must issue an advisory to all colonisers not to construct colonies without prior permission of the local administration and getting a nod from the corporation. Those who will violate the norms and order of the government must be punished. Buyers must verify from the MC about the ingenuity of these colonies where they are purchasing homes.Farzana KhanGLADA, MC lack willIllegal colonies continue to proliferate unabated in and around Ludhiana. Provisions made under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA) have apparently been tossed out of the window and rules governing the development of colonies are being violated with impunity as more and more colonies are coming up all around the city. It’s obvious that GLADA and MC are not taking action against the developers of illegal colonies. The enforcement mechanism of these bodies be ramped up and the field staff be made accountable for proliferation of illegal colonies all around the city. Strict action should be taken against the erring officials. A chance should be given to these unscrupulous developers to get their colonies regularised within a stipulated period. Politicians should stop supporting such unscrupulous developers. The SDM and executive magistrate of the area should also keep a tab on illegal colonies in their areas.RS SEMBHIDevelopers befooling plot buyersIt is very disheartening that illegal colonies are mushrooming in Ludhiana. Plots and houses are coming up in unauthorised areas and lack basic facilities. Dealers are selling plots at low rates in these colonies. Moreover, buyers cannot raise loan on this property. Some developers indulge in unethical practices and by befooling illiterate as well as ignorant (especially migrants) sell land in these unauthorised colonies. The authorities should tighten noose around them and impose toughest penalties on such elements.Dr Sunil ChopraSet up fast-track courtsThere is a need to set up fast track courts to settle disputes between home buyers and builders related to delay in possession, unauthorized colonies, demanding over-charge of expenses, not providing all the amenities as agreed etc. Further, the government should monitor unauthorized colony construction in its jurisdiction and publish the same in public domain so that innocent buyers do not fall into the trap of such builders. Law should be modified to notify high penalties on such builders and decent compensation to home buyers. Hope you would find the same useful and publish the same.CA Sagar GambhirCheck property papers before purchaseDevelopers need to follow sound and ethical business practices. They should work in good faith and in the best interest of the clients. The government should focus on the enactment of best legislation which contains the provisions related to legal practices in this field. Money minded developers or persons who dupe innocent buyers must be penalised. People should also be vigilant before investing in such properties. Papers and property documents must be checked carefully.Ritu PriyaBreak nexus between colonisers, officialsMushrooming of illegal colonies in the periphery of Ludhiana is the result of lacklustre approach of official concerned which is one of the reason for this evil. The hefty charges for approval is deterrent in getting the colonies regularised. These charges should be reasonable so that common man can go for approved ones instead of unlicensed where even basic amenities are not provided. Effective regulatory measures should be implemented. Regular monitoring on illegal, unlicensed colonies and unauthorised construction should be there. Nexus between colonisers and officials of local regulatory authorities should be broken.RV SinghAct against illegal developersThe growth of unauthorised colonies has been the bane of urban planning and has resulted in giving rise to a grave situation. To tackle the problem of illegal colonies, GLADA can take strict legal punitive action against the developers of illegal colonies.Adish SoodUpdate list of approved coloniesTo protect naive people from consuming their hard earned money on the purchase of plots in illegal colonies in Ludhiana, it is the duty of the authorities to update a list of government authorised colonies every year so that general public can become informed citizens and can oppose this malicious activity.Kamaldeep KaurDon’t penalise peoplePersons who invest money for getting a house in any unauthorised colony are the ones to be blamed first for investing their hard earned money therein. They are doing so with the false hope of building a permanent shelter for the family where they can spend the rest of their lives. This part must be appreciated by the government and such people must not be panelised for having such a wish but get some other alternate place to build the house. Starting of such a scheme will encourage people to have their own homes and simultaneously stop the growth of unauthorised colonies. It is mainly the responsibility of the Municipal Corporation not to allow the construction of such unauthorised colonies. If the corporation follows this principle strictly, these innocent people will not go in for buying houses in these colonies.Gautam DevMC silent on regularisationAfter great hue and cry in the general house meeting of the illegal colonies residents, the municipal corporation officials conducted demolition drive, but are silent about those settlements that applied for regularisation in the past five years. The officials claimed that many developers not submitted their documents and some deposit only one instalment of the development fee. However, the government has not taken any action against such illegal colonisers.Anu JoshiMake master plan of cityColonisers are usually greedy. They start illegal colonies with the help of ‘corrupt’ municipal corporation officials and politicians. They allure people to invest in their cheap projects. To stop this menace, the government should first make a master plan of the city like Chandigarh. It should be based on future population pressure. Any new colony should be first approved by the competent authority as per the city rules. Buyers also shun their selfishness to purchase plots at lower rates at unauthorised colony. They should verify colony plan from authorities concerned. Speedy trial is also necessary for those officials found in corrupt practices.Dr Sukhdev SharmaRegularise colonies following MC normsIn order to check the rising menace of illegal colonies, the government should take strict action against the illegal developers. The municipal authorities should be vigilant about such projects and take timely action. The public should be made aware about the falsifying advertisements of the illegal projects. In order to provide relief to innocent buyers, the government should regularise the existing illegal colonies which meet the basic requirements and other should be ordered to undergo compulsory redevelopment.Medha BatraQUESTIONLudhiana’s cleanliness ranking slipped from 34 out of 47 in 2020 to 39 out of 48 cities above 10-lakh population in the country this year under Swachh Survekshan-2021, the rankings of which were announced by the Centre on Saturday. However, the maximum city topped the state in Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge and ranked 26th in the country under this category. Where the industrial hub lacked that led to downfall in its performance and what needs to be done to further improve cleanliness in the state’s business capital?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent toludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-needs-to-be-done-to-check-mushrooming-of-illegal-colonies-341381
