29-11-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana: Woman buries neighbour's daughter alive, arrested||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 28A 35-year-old woman buried a two-and-a-half-year-old daughter of her neighbour alive in a field at Salem Tabri on Sunday.The woman, Neelam, was arrested. She is an immediate neighbour of the deceased child, Dilroz, in Shimlapuri.Dilroz was daughter of senior constable Harpreet Singh, posted in the India Reserve Battalion (IRB) of the Punjab Police. Harpreet is currently posted as a gunman of Gill village sarpanch.Neelam committed the crime as she was upset by the alleged rude attitude of Harpreet who used to stop her children from playing in the street. Recently Harpreet had also badly scolded Neelam’s children, due to which she decided to take revenge by killing his daughter.Today at 3.15 pm Neelam kidnapped Dilroz and took her to a field in Salem Tabri. She dug a small pit and buried the child alive there.When the child’s family came to know about kidnapping late this evening, they informed the police. Joint CP, City, J Elanchezhian immediately reached the spot for investigation. After checking the CCTV cameras in the area, Neelam was immediately rounded up. During questioning, she admitted to the crime.“We took the woman to the field and recovered the buried child. The child was immediately taken to DMC Hospital but doctors declared her brought dead. The woman confessed to having committed the murder,” said JCP Elanchezhian.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-buries-neighbours-daughter-alive-arrested-344072
29-11-2021||---||Police form SIT to crack cow slaughtering case||Ludhiana, November 28Owing to the rising pressure on the police to solve the cow slaughtering incident in which bovine parts were recovered from Jeevan Nagar, the Ludhiana police today formed a Special Investigation Team to crack the case in as soon as possible.The SIT was formed by Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and J Elanchezhian, Joint Commissioner of Police, City, has been made head of the SIT, while ADCP Rupinder Kaur Sra, SHO, Focal Point, has been made the members of the team.Elanchezhian said after the formation of the SIT, now the investigation will be done in a scientific and professional manner so that culprits behind the cow slaughtering incident are nabbed soon.“The SIT will deeply enquire the case to identify and trace the culprits. We have already scanned dozens of CCTV cameras and exercise is still on. We are hopeful that the case will be solved soon,” said Elanchezhian.After the incident came to fore on November 24, Hindu outfits had held a protest at the Police Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner offices. Even road was also blocked by the protesters outside the CP office. The protest was stopped only when CP Gurpreet Bhullar received memorandum by coming out of his office and assured that culprits would not be spared. A protest was also held on the Jagraon bridge to seek arrest of the culprits.Hindu bodies had already given an ultimatum to the police to nab the culprits soon, else they will start an indefinite protest outside the CP office this week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-form-sit-to-crack-cow-slaughtering-case-344073
29-11-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Ludhiana Improvement Trust  e-auction runs into trouble, city advocate serves legal notice||Ludhiana, November 28The e-auction of residential plots and commercial sites/properties conducted by Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) is again in the news and for all the wrong reasons. For e-auction of 56 commercial properties and 24 residential plots conducted by the LIT on November 26, a city-based advocate has served a legal notice on the Principal Secretary and Director of the Local Government Department, Punjab, Deputy Commissioner, Ludhiana, along with Chairman and Executive Officer of the Trust pointing out various irregularities and ambiguities in the public notice issued for the purpose.In the notice, Prakash Chopra, advocate, has alleged that in the public notice published in various newspapers for the e-auction, details like auction number, required to be mentioned in the e-portal, were missing with the result that he himself and many others like him, could not register themselves for participation in the e-bidding process.“In spite of the fact that I personally visited the LIT office several times to know the relevant details, the same were not provided, which amounts to unfair trade practice and was tantamount to cheating intending bidders through denial of relevant information,” said the notice.Chopra said vital information about the e-auction was deliberately concealed by the officials concerned due to their mala fide intention which defeated the very purpose of a healthy competition sought to be achieved through e-auction of public properties.The notice also pointed out some other grave errors in the public notice for the e-auction while charging the LIT with providing misinformation. “Four constructed booths mentioned in the public notice as being located in the 24 acre Kitchlu Nagar scheme, are in fact constructed in 100 acre Kitchlu Nagar scheme which is a prime location,” said the notice.Through the legal notice, the intervention of the Local Government Department has been sought by way of cancellation of the auction as per principles of natural justice and save the exchequer from massive financial loss. Chopra said he would seek appropriate legal redress if the government failed to respond and take suitable remedial action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lit-e-auction-runs-into-trouble-city-advocate-serves-legal-notice-344075
29-11-2021||---||Four test Covid-19 positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, November 28Four more persons tested positive for Covid and no life was lost due to the disease in the district today.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.58 per cent and there are 17 active cases in the district at present. Fourteen patients were asked to undergo home isolation today.A total of 10 patients — three from Ludhiana and seven from other districts — are undergoing treatment for Covid at various city hospitals.Till date, a total of 28,80,116 samples for Covid test have been taken, of which 27,80,715 were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,662, while 11,739 patients belong to other districts/states.Total number of patients who lost their lives to Covid is 2,110 from Ludhiana and 1,060 from other districts.Samples of 4,258 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols, like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently, of the Punjab Government to not only save themselves but also keep everyone around safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-344077
29-11-2021||Harshraj Singh||Open pits on footpath potential death traps near Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 28While ignoring the safety of pedestrians, the footpath along the busiest service lane on the NH-44 near Jalandhar Bypass here has been dug up at various locations. After digging, the pits have been left uncovered for the past around 10 days, giving an open invitation to accidents.Due to the negligence of the department concerned, the pedestrians are forced to suffer as no barricading or caution boards have been put to alert the people on footpath. Thus, chances of any mishap remain high there.A street vendor, who station his cart near Jalandhar Bypass, said a pedestrian was about to fall recently as the uncovered pits are not visible at night. Residents of the nearby area said they have no information about which department has got the pits dug and for what purpose. The students from nearby schools often pass through the footpath. The residents have demanded from the administration to take necessary steps to ensure the safety of the pedestrians.A resident, Amarjit Singh said, “These open pits are actually death traps. The chances of fatal mishaps can’t be ignored as these pits have not been barricaded. If any pedestrian falls in them, he/she may suffer serious injuries. The government must fix responsibility of the department concerned.”Another resident said, “It seems some poles are to be installed on the footpath area. But why the pits have been left uncovered? These open pits are too dangerous. If any poles are to be installed, the work should be done with proper planning so that the pedestrians don’t face any inconvenience. There should be no obstruction on the path meant for the pedestrians. The authorities concerned should pay attention.”The residents also expressed concern that stray animals can also fall in these open pits. Superintending Engineer, MC, Teerath Bansal said the service lanes and main NH-44 stretch fall under the National Highway Authority of India.Project Director, NHAI, Virender Singh said he will look into the matter.ResidentspeakThese open pits are actually death traps. The chances of fatal mishaps can’t be ignored as these pits have not been barricaded. If any pedestrian falls in them, he/she may suffer serious injuries. The government must fix responsibility of the department concerned. —Amarjit Singh, Resident||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-pits-on-footpath-potential-death-traps-344079
29-11-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Don't hike GST on cotton fabric: Industrialists to government||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 28Industrialists and traders, especially those dealing with textile industry, have expressed shock over the government’s decision to hike GST on cotton fabrics from 5 per cent to 12 per cent from January 1, 2022. Those in trade believe that if this happens cotton fabric industry will vanish.Talking to The Tribune, Bobby Jindal, dealing in the textile industry, said suppose a small factory of cotton cloth makes 1,000 kg of cloth, he will have to pay 7 per cent GST on 500 kg on daily basis, which makes about Rs 35,000 GST. How is it possible to pay this much GST? Instead of putting increased GST on fabric, 12 per cent GST should be levied on cotton yarn only, said Jindal.Meanwhile, cloth merchants, too, have requested the government to maintain status quo on the GST on textiles, including sarees, at 5 per cent. A delegation of Punjab textile merchants met Som Praksh, Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, in Amritsar recently on the issue. The sole agenda was of the repercussions on increase in the GST from 5 to 12 per cent on textiles, including sarees, from January 1, 2022.Sonu Nilibar from Nilibar Store here said this proposed increase in the GST to 12 per cent would not increase in tax collection but rather people would be indulging more in non-billing transaction.“There would no ease of doing business what the government promises but headache, rather nightmare, for the textile fraternity as a whole. We have proposed uniformity of 5 per cent tax structure for inputs on actual user condition,” said Nilibar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dont-hike-gst-on-cotton-fabric-industrialists-to-government-344080
29-11-2021||Optimise industrial operations||Open house: What needs to be done to improve cleanliness in the state?s business capital||Human activities such as stubble burning generate a significant amount of aerosols, but it’s the emission of poisonous gases from industries that poses a serious threat to the environment. For this reason, it’s necessary to optimise the industrial operations by becoming more energy efficient. Factory owners must employ abatement mechanisms that help destroy pollutants before they enter the environment. Therefore, scrubber system, which is considered to be effective and economical, can be put to use in controlling industrial pollution.Novin ChristopherPlace dustbins at appropriate placesCareless attitude of general public, authorities and industrialists is the main reason behind the fall in the cleanliness ranking. We should have a careful attitude towards the cleanliness. In order to restore its original place, we need to work hard and take care of several things. The MC authorities must be vigilant and dustbins must be placed at appropriate places across the city. Awareness camps regarding health benefits of cleanliness must be organised so that people can adopt a positive attitude. More attention should be laid on slum areas. Safai karamcharis must perform their duties with due diligence and care.Ritu PriyaOnus lies primarily on Municipal CorporationThere is a famous saying, “Cleanliness is next to Godliness.” But it is sad that the city has shown a downward trend as far as the cleanliness ranking of above 10 lakh population cities is concerned. The onus for all this lies primarily on the Municipal Corporation, but morally we (residents) as well as industrialists are also equally responsible for all this mess. MC staff was busy making arrangements during the Covid pandemic due to which they were not able to perform their cleanliness duty properly. Therefore, there is a dip in the city’s cleanliness ranking. There is a need for serious and concrete collective efforts to improve the situation. I am sure that with the collaborative efforts, we will hit the bull’s eye and achieve higher cleanliness rankings.Bir Devinder Singh BediProvide two garbage bins to each householdThe Municipal Corporation should provide two garbage bins (red and green) to each household. People should dump recyclable waste in green dustbins and non-recyclable in red dustbins. People littering outside their houses should be punished heavily. There should be a nodal agency in every area that will monitor all these exercises. With the help of people of the area, the agency should plant saplings and at least one plant should be nurtured by a person. There should be a provision for separate public toilets for men and women in each area and the contract for its maintenance should be given to a private company or the nodal agency. MC vehicles ferrying garbage should be covered properly. Huge dustbins must be placed on both sides of each road. The city can again achieve higher rank with the contribution and cooperation of people.Farzana KhanEnsure proper functioning of STPsAs the Municipal Corporation failed to improve its performance, Ludhiana slipped to 39th position, out of the 48 cities (above 10 lakh population category). There is a need to ensure proper functioning of sewerage treatment plants (STPs), processing of solid waste and legacy. The MC needs to ensure management of construction and demolition waste too. Waste-to-energy plants should be set up.Anwita DixitMotivate residents to keep premises cleanSwachh Survekshan is an annual survey of cleanliness, hygiene and sanitation in cities across India. It was launched as part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, which is a cleanliness campaign run by the Government of India. The survey intends to foster a spirit of healthy competition amongst the cities to improve their services delivery to citizens and move towards creating cleaner cities. In order to improve the ranking of Ludhiana, residents should be motivated to keep their premises and surroundings clean. Swachhta slogans, paintings and graffiti should also be displayed on walls at important places to spread awareness about the importance of cleanliness. Rallies and seminars should be frequently organised in this respect. The MC should ensure 100 per cent door-to-door garbage collection in the city. Rag-pickers should be given tips on efficient collection and segregation of waste. Portable compactors should be installed to segregate and manage the waste properly. Community toilets should be kept clean. Industries should set up effluent treatment plants (ETPs) of the required capacity. Cleanliness competitions should be conducted in hotels, hospitals, schools, etc.RS SembhiWage a war against dirt and dustAll of us will have to wage a war against dirt, dust and filth. Measures should be meticulously planned and all should stick to their guns. Cleanliness will go a long way in containing the spread of dengue too.Dr Sunil ChopraCouncillors should inspect their areasTo improve cleanliness in the state’s business capital, councillors should inspect cleanliness in their areas. Phrase “Cleanliness is next to godliness” must be followed by each and everyone. System for disposal of waste material should be upgraded with the help of advanced technologies. Awareness regarding cleanliness should be conducted through speeches in morning assembly at schools. Awareness should also be made through online webinar, YouTube, newspaper, radio, posters, etc.Adish Sood, AmlohEmbark on cleanliness campaignsAs Ludhiana is an industrial city, there is a large number of labour force here. These people are not quite educated, so they don’t bother about cleanliness and sanitation. The authorities, along with the general public, should team up and embark on cleanliness campaigns to improve the ranking of the city.Kamaldeep KaurPollution level major problem for cityLudhiana is rightly called as the industrial hub of the country. Lakhs of people visit the city for business deals. Pollution level of the industrial town has become a major problem for the city. The recently conducted survey by the government agency has pointed out that the pollution level in Jalandhar is more as compared to Ludhiana and fresh air level of Ludhiana has increased to some extent, but this is not sufficient.JBS NandaCity residents should contribute their bitIt is a fact that Ludhiana has slipped to 39th rank out of 48 cities as compared to 34 out of 47 cities last year with 10 lakh population in Indian cities. Sweepers should be motivated for working passionately. Mechanised sweeping of roads is the best bet. Liberal funds are required for hiring relevant work force. Residents should do their bit by cleaning their houses and segregating wet and dry waste. They should be part of the solution, not the problem. Garbage collection and disposal is essential. Dumping grounds should be away from human settlements. Strict and passionate supervision are also need of the hour.Dr Sukhdev Sharma, MachhiwaraMC officials must work hard to improve rankingMC officials must work hard to improve the city’s cleanliness ranking. Sweepers on duty must be pulled up to maintain cleanliness and culprits must be punished. Simultaneously, the general public should be made to learn to keep the city clean. Garbage should not be dumped on roadsides in and around the city. This practise not only adds to pollution but also presents a poor picture. People should be told about methods for self-disposal of kitchen waste by converting it into organic manure for use in kitchen gardens.Gautam DevQUESTIONEncroachments on roadsides, vendors occupying public space, shopkeepers displaying their goods outside shops and wrong parking, especially by auto-rickshaws, are causing bottlenecks and obstructing free flow of vehicular traffic on city roads, especially internal ones. The police, along with the civic body, on Saturday launched a drive to check such hindrances on roads. Similar campaigns had also been launched in the past, but we’re short-lived and failed to make any difference. What needs to be done to ensure smooth flow of vehicular traffic on roads in Ludhiana?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent toludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-needs-to-be-done-to-improve-cleanliness-in-the-states-business-capital-344084
29-11-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||LIP chief vows to end corruption in state||Ludhiana, November 28Lok Insaf Party (LIP) president and legislator from the Atam Nagar Assembly segment Simarjeet Singh Bains today vowed to end corruption in Punjab and make the state completely debt-free.Addressing the first of a series of rallies under the party programme “117 di kasam bhrashtachar khatam” (pledge of 117 to end corruption) at Jassian Road in the Ludhiana North Assembly segment, he said his party practised what it preached unlike other political parties that were making tall promises with the people of Punjab, but failed to deliver.In his scathing attack on the SAD-B and the BJP, Bains said people had distanced themselves from the SAD-B due to their acts of sacrilege during the previous SAD-BJP regime, while the BJP had lost its base in the state due to its anti-farmer stand.Coming down heavily on the Congress government, the LIP supremo charged former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh with protecting Badals from sacrilege, Bargari case and drugs during his tenure, adding that even incumbent Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi also seemed hesitant in acting against Badals and their stooges.Carrying out his tirade further, he ridiculed AAP Chief Arvind Kejriwal for announcing freebies for the people of Punjab without disclosing the source of funding these promises.“Punjab is already under a debt burden of Rs3 lakh crore, but no party dares to put this fact before the people,” said the LIP president.He claimed that, if voted to power, his party would recover the cost of river water from states such as Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi. Rajasthan alone owed Rs16 lakh crore on this account. If all states drawing water from Punjab paid the price, the state could become completely debt-free and rich once again.Bains also expressed confidence that since no political party seemed to be in a position to win a majority at its own, the LIP would be playing a crucial role in forming the next government in the state. He also sought support for party nominee Randhir Singh Sivia who would be contesting the Assembly elections from the Ludhiana North constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lip-chief-vows-to-end-corruption-in-state-344085
29-11-2021||---||Candidates protest, allege pick-&-choose approach||Ludhiana, November 28Alleging pick-and-choose approach in declaring the results of written examinations for the recruitment of Punjab Police constables, several candidates held a protest at the Samrala chowk here today.The protesters also blocked a road at the Samrala chowk for half an hour. As a result, traffic on the Samrala chowk to the Cheema road was also affected. The protesters demanded probe in the selection of candidates.“The Punjab Police had yesterday declared the results of the written examinations for the recruitment of constables. Most of the candidates, who have been selected for the post, have secured lesser marks. We suspect that only those candidates have been selected who are either known to some politicians or who have good links in bureaucracy,” the protesters alleged.The candidates said they would hold a protest at the PAP chowk on December 3 where the selected candidates would appear for physical test. The Punjab Police should allow them to appear for physical test as well else they would not allow them to conduct trials.ACP Rajesh Singh reached the spot to meet the protesters. “I listened to their demands. I will inform the higher authorities about their demands,” said the ACP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/candidates-protest-allege-pick-choose-approach-344088
29-11-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Five-day PU zonal heritage fest starts||Five-day Panjab University Zonal Youth and Heritage Festival of the Moga-Ferozepur Zone began at Gobind National College, Narangwal, near here today.Dr Nirmal Singh Jaura, Director, Youth Welfare, Panjab University, Chandigarh, inaugurated the festival. Former legislator Jasvir Singh Jassi Khangura was the chief guest.Around 1,600 students from 21 colleges affiliated to Panjab University, Chandigarh, will showcase their talent in around 70 cultural events. The festival is dedicated to the memory of Dr Hardiljit Singh Gosal.The organisers, led by secretary Manmohan Singh Narangwal and principal Dr Avinash Kaur, felicitated Paramjit Kaur Gausal in recognition of contribution of Dr Hardiljit Singh Gosal to the field of higher education and culture. Renowned singer Amar Noori enthralled the audience at the festival.ResultsShabad gayan: SRD College Ferozepur, 1; GHG Khalsa College, Sudhar, 2; and BKS College, Muhar, 3Bhajan recitation: PUCC College, Nihal Singh Wala, 1; and PUCC College, Karial, 2Braid tassel making (paranda): BKS College, Muhar, 1; RSD College, Ferozepur, 2; and PUCC College, Karial, 3Doll making: Sukhjit Kaur of BKS College, Muha, 1; Sharanpreet Kaur of Shri Ram College, Dalla, 2; and Komal Preet Kaur of RSD College, Ferozepur, 3 — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-day-pu-zonal-heritage-fest-starts-344089
29-11-2021||Sports Correspondent||Punjab Lions walk away with trophy||Ludhiana, November 28In a keenly contested final, Punjab Lions defeated Silent Heroes by eight runs to lift the winners’ trophy in the Divyang Cricket League played at the Punjab Agricultural University grounds here today.Opting to bat first, Punjab Lions scored 125 runs. Abhimanyu (31), Rakesh (18) and Parmod (17) were the main contributors with the bat, while for the Silent Heroes, Gurbax grabbed three wickets after conceding 29 runs and Sehaj took two wickets for 20 runs.Punjab Lions defended the total as they restricted Silent Heroes’ innings to 117 runs. Gurbax contributed 20 runs and Pankaj chipped in with 15 runs for the Silent Heroes.Abhimanyu was the main wicket taker for the winning side. He claimed four wickets, while Kunal and Darpan took two wickets each.Rajinder Gupta, prominent industrialist and president, Punjab Cricket Association, was the chief guest during the prize distribution function. He appreciated Padam Passi, chief organiser, Deaf Cricket Federation, Punjab, for holding the competition for ‘special cricketers’. He also assured all possible help to the federation.Jatinder Minhas from Canada and Dr Kashmir Singh from the Divyang Cricket Council of India were guests of honour on the occasion. Singh proposed to host national tournaments in various sports disciplines in Punjab in near future, while Minhas invited Divyang Cricket Team to Canada to play matches there and offered to bear the tour expenditure.Expressing gratitude, Padam Passi said these players needed a platform to showcase their skill and talent. He thanked Poonam Kaur Sidhu, Chief Commissioner, Income Tax, for extending support for this cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-lions-walk-away-with-trophy-344090
29-11-2021||Ludhiana||Man held for rape bid on tenant?s child||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-for-rape-bid-on-tenants-child-344093
