01-03-2021||Editorials||Boosting cyber capabilities||A suspected Chinese cyber campaign began targeting critical Indian infrastructure assets sometime in the middle of 2020, American cyber intelligence company Recorded Future said. First reported by The New York Times, the company’s analysis identified a sophisticated campaign by actors who used tools and digital infrastructure that has independently been attributed to China-linked cyber offensives. According to the company, the campaign was designed to intrude into the electricity infras-tructure, including the main load dispatch centres that hold up India’s power grid. One of these centres, in Maharashtra, suffered an outage in October 2020, which is being investigated. Government officials suggested a cyberattack , much less one by a nation-State, was not responsible for the outage that cut power to India’s financial capital for up to 12 hours. But they received inputs of a campaign targeting such utilities. This is often the nature of an attack of this kind — it is hard to investigate and harder still to conclusively attribute. And this opaqueness has been leveraged by nations to send adversaries a message. The United States (US), Russia, Israel and China have been behind such attacks in the past. In most, the targets have been critical public utilities and sensitive industries such as financial institutions and government assets. The first known cyberattack on a power grid was, in fact, attributed to Russian actors who took Ukrainian electricity infrastructure offline for one to six hours.Irrespective of whether there is conclusive evid-ence, the threat of Chinese cyber soldiers striking at India is grave. According to the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Centre, as of 2020, China ranks only second to the US in having the skills to pursue cyber objectives. But where it lacks skill, it makes up for intent — earning an overall cyber power index rank of two among 30 countries. India, with low intent as well as capability, ranks 21. Cyber experts have long pointed out this asymmetry in capabilities between India and its adversaries and how engagement in the cyber domain is not limited to rules of real-world conflict. Conventional military defences now may be inadequate in avoiding large disruptive attacks that can force cities offline, grounding industries, hospitals and transport. The report is a reminder for India to expedite defensive as well as offensive capabilities in the cyber domain, where the threat of retaliation is often a more potent deterrent than any other posturing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/boosting-cyber-capabilities-101614602302207.html
01-03-2021||Editorials||Housing must be climate-resilient||Delhi recorded its second warmest February since 1901, with a mean maximum temper-ature (MMT) of 27.9 degrees Celsius, eclipsed only by 2006 when MMT was 29.7 degrees, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. This happened because of clear skies, caused by fewer western disturbances. The high temperature also led to a slight spike in the power demand. Even though an isolated weather phenomenon led to the rise in February temperatures, there is no doubt that the climate crisis is leading to a warmer world. This is leading to an increase in the demand for cooling, pushing up consumption from coal-fired electricity plants. Air-conditioners (ACs), which use high global warming-potential refrigerants, are also turning cities into heat islands. To adapt to this reality, India needs to construct buildings that are thermally comfortable; have natural daylight; and proper ventilation. Three principles must be followed — ensuring window shading and ventilation; insulating walls and roofs; and sharing of walls between two buildings. This focus on natural thermal comfort will minimise the use of ACs, and using less/reusing building material will mean less use of natural resources. To kickstart this green housing revolution, states must adopt the Eco-Niwas Samhita Part I, an energy conservation building code for residential buildings, which was launched by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency in 2018. This sets standards to limit heat gains (for cooling-dominated climates), limit heat loss (for heating-dominated climates), and ensure natural ventilation and daylight potential. Unfortunately, the codes are voluntary, and many states have not dovetailed them into their by-laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/housing-must-be-climateresilient-101614601882460.html
01-03-2021||Editorials||Reading the numbers right | HT Editorial||India’s third quarter Gross Domestic Product (GDP) numbers, released on Friday, are interesting for a variety of reasons, not the least being the fact that while the GDP number was marginally lower than estimates, the gross value added (GVA) number was marginally higher. Some experts have explained this as being caused by the payment of past year dues on subsidies (which are among the things subtracted from GDP to arrive at the GVA), and this is a plausible theory. This would also seem to suggest that the recovery is perhaps proceeding along expected lines.But how does this correspond with the estimate that the Indian economy (GDP) will contract by 8% in 2020-21, higher than the previously estimated contraction of 7.7%? Does this mean the recovery is losing some steam? Or does the subsidy factor play out here too? After all, a 8% contraction for the entire year, some number-crunching shows, will mean the economy contracts in the fourth quarter too, which is at odds with just about every other piece of data available. What does one make of really bad news coming from the informal sector? Sure, much of this is anecdotal, but it has always been difficult to measure activity in the informal sector. And finally, while the numbers show a sharp recovery in private consumption in the three months ending December, was this one-off, caused by pent-up demand and festive spending, or can it be sustained? All are valid questions, pointing to the larger debate — the worst is over, but how strong and widespread will the bounce back be?Two data-points shed more light on this (although an outright answer will still take time). The first is the government’s capital expenditure, which has increased significantly (although its operating expenditure has, as expected, shrunk). The second, a more nuanced measure, is the GVA excluding agriculture and government — a measure of private sector activity. This entered positive territory after contracting in both the first and second quarters, although, again, it is a measure of the corporate and formal sector’s recovery, not a general one. On the basis of this, Friday’s data, anecdotal evidence, and high-frequency indicators, while it does seem likely that India’s recovery will be patchy, the overall number for 2020-21 may actually end up being a little better than -8%, or even -7.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/reading-the-numbers-right-hteditorial-101614520397216.html
01-03-2021||Editorials||Covid-19: Open up vaccination for all | HT Editorial||India’s vaccination drive will enter its second phase from Monday, March 1. In the 45 days since it started the drive, India has vaccinated a little over 12 million people. Ever since the drive began, a clear self-congratulatory tone has been evident in the government’s messaging. Sure, it is a matter of pride that both vaccines being used are locally made (albeit, one under licence), but 12 million is a poor number to show for a country that has an extant large, public, universal vaccination campaign. The expansion of the drive, and the involvement of the private sector is a welcome move, and will help, but it is time India started thinking about opening up vaccination for all takers.There is good reason for this. One, a straight mathematical calculation shows that around 40% of Indians are willing to be vaccinated (12 million done of a target of 30 million in the first phase). Even if one were to make this 50% so as to factor in other issues (logistics, availability, the vaccine app crashing, etc), it is still just half the expected number. Two, it could be months before those under the age of 18 are vaccinated (currently, nowhere in the world has a vaccine been approved for those in this age category). That leaves out (by a conservative estimate) at least a third of Indians. Add this to those who do not want to be vaccinated, and it is clear that there is no way India will get even close to the 40-50% needed for herd immunity (and scientifically, a vaccine is the only way to achieve true herd immunity) without opening up vaccination.As this newspaper has repeatedly said: Approve more vaccines; make them available in the open market; and open up vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19open-up-vaccination-for-all-hteditorial-101614520396150.html
