03-03-2021||Editorials||The challenge within the Congress||The rift in the Congress has deepened. First, a rally was held in Jammu, ostensibly to honour Ghulam Nabi Azad, which saw the presence of key members of G23, the dissenters who wrote a letter demanding organisational changes in the party. Mr Azad then praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi — which led to Congress workers demanding his removal. Another G23 leader, Anand Sharma, criticised the party’s decision to ally with a political outfit led by a Muslim cleric in Bengal — which prompted a fierce response from others close to the party high command.Four separate issues have come together in the Congress. One, there is a general sense of drift after two consecutive Lok Sabha poll defeats, and erosion of faith in Rahul Gandhi’s ability to deliver victories. Two, there is an organisational crisis where internal channels to express and resolve grievances have collapsed and the leadership structure is unclear. Three, there are unfulfilled personal ambitions, including of the dissenters, which have now led them to speak up. And four, there is jostling to position oneself for possible elections to the Congress Working Committee and other positions.If this rift in the Congress leads to a stronger opposition, it is good for democracy. But the challenge for the challengers is that they seem to lack the mass base outside the party and internal strength within the party to force a change in leadership. The party establishment has co-opted a set of G23 leaders. At the same time, the Congress leadership should recognise that its real challenge is not the dissenters, but the party’s failure to win the confidence of citizens in elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-challenge-within-the-congress-101614778592976.html
03-03-2021||Editorials||Women’s right to autonomy, justice | HT Editorial||A Supreme Court (SC) bench, headed by the Chief Justice of India, in a case involving the bail plea of a rape accused, held that it might consider his petition if he were willing to marry the survivor, a minor at the time of the incident. This is unacceptable. As International Women’s Day approaches, it is a reminder of how little autonomy women have over their bodies and life choices. Such judicial observations give sanction to the violence a rape survivor faces and strip her of her rights.In this case, the girl was stalked by the accused, threatened with violence, and her family harassed. While the Bench made it clear it was not forcing the issue, the attempt was aimed at arriving at a “solution”, which if agreeable to the accused, not the survivor, stood to exonerate him. The rights of the survivor are protected under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, and this is what must be upheld. The fact that the survivor challenged the pre-arrest bail to the accused in a lower court shows that she wants to pursue justice. One wonders what might have happened had the accused responded positively to the court’s question (he didn’t because he is already married).There must be a greater effort at gender sensitisation across all levels of the judiciary to prevent such attempts to grant amnesty for violent crimes against women. Women’s rights are non-negotiable and there can be no recourse to extra-judicial methods to address crimes such as rape by suggesting that the accused had a way out by marrying the survivor. The SC bench would do well to rethink its approach and ensure that all such future cases are dealt with strictly within the letter and spirit of the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/womens-right-to-autonomy-justice-hteditorial-101614691530790.html
