04-03-2021||Editorials||In polls, don’t disturb social harmony | HT Editorial||This year’s elections for legislative assemblies are important not just in terms of determining the political balance of power nationally and the power configuration in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. The polls are also important because they will shape social relations between Hindus and Muslims in key geographical regions, where both communities coexist but also have a history of volatile relations.In three states in particular, the religious dimension is important. Muslims constitute around a third of the population in Assam, and at least a fourth of the population in West Bengal and Kerala (which also has close to 20% Christians). In all three states, but particularly in the eastern states, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is hoping to consolidate the Hindu vote. Its campaign, in characteristic fashion, has elements of dog-whistle politics against minorities. At the same time, in all three states, there is a range of smaller Muslim formations, and bigger “secular” formations, which hope to consolidate the Muslim vote. Their campaign, too, in a characteristic manner, has elements which may deepen the already existing fears among the community about the rise of majoritarianism.It is tempting in an electoral democracy to leverage group identities, particularly on the contested axis of religion. But a polarised campaign which deepens the Hindu-Muslim divide goes against the spirit of the Constitution, leaves long-lasting political scars, creates conflicts, and makes the task of governance — irrespective of who wins — more challenging. The BJP, as well as parties which claim to be secular or represent minority interests, must exercise responsibility in their campaign, for Hindu-Muslim harmony is essential for national unity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-polls-don-t-disturb-social-harmony-hteditorial-101614866926700.html
04-03-2021||Editorials||Scrap the sedition law | HT Editorial||Rejecting a petition that sought action against former Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) chief minister and one of the country’s senior-most leaders, Farooq Abdullah, for his comments opposing the Centre’s changes in the erstwhile state, a two-judge Supreme Court (SC) bench on Wednesday said that dissent cannot be considered sedition. The bench said that “the expression of a view which is a dissent from a decision taken by the Central government itself cannot be said to be seditious”. This is an important judicial intervention and merits unequivocal support. And it comes soon after a Delhi court, while granting bail to activist Disha Ravi, who too was charged with sedition, had said that offence of sedition could not be invoked to minister to “the wounded vanity of governments”.Any State must carefully defend its sovereignty, territorial integrity, and security interests. But this cannot be the basis to undermine the equally cherished constitutional tenets of freedom and the political structure of democracy and deny citizens their fundamental rights. Unfortunately, the executive has shown an increasing tendency to use the framework of sedition in recent years. The ministry of home affairs informed the Rajya Sabha that out of the 96 people arrested for sedition in 2019, only two were convicted. There was a 25% increase in sedition cases in 2019, which resulted in a spike in arrests, but the abysmal conviction record suggests that the cases are often not grounded in adequate evidence.There is a larger principle involved here. India’s legal architecture has enough room to charge those whose statements or actions are meant to stir up violence against the State. Sedition, a colonial-era law, often used to implicate citizens who are exercising democratic rights of dissent, should have no space in the Constitution. In fact, the Constituent Assembly itself explicitly discussed, and rejected the idea of including sedition as a part of restrictions to free speech. But it stayed as a part of the Indian Penal Code (Section 124A), which a Constitution bench of the SC upheld in 1962, while also defining the scope of sedition. As India approaches the 75th year of its Independence, it is time to rethink the sedition law, which continues to be a reminder of colonialism and is, way too often, used to curtail the rights of free Indian citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/scrap-the-sedition-law-hteditorial-101614866925400.html
04-03-2021||Editorials||The dangers of populism||On Tuesday, the Haryana governor gave his assent to a bill that provides 75% reservation for locals in all private sector jobs that offer a salary of less than ₹50,000 a month. This was an election promise of Dushyant Chautala, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s key ally in the state. Under pressure from his largely Jat base, which is currently at the forefront of the farm protests, Mr Chautala is understood to have convinced his senior ally that this was the only way for him to stick to the alliance. The political calculation aside, the law is based on the logic that reservations would boost local employment for the young and discourage migration — which the government claimed was leading to pressure on infrastructure and “proliferation of slums”. Reservations have been introduced for 10 years — but as India’s experience with reservations shows, once introduced, it is impossible to roll them back.Haryana’s move is constitutionally suspect. A range of fundamental rights enables citizens to move freely, work anywhere in the country, and be entitled to be treated with equality and without discrimination. The trend of promising reservations for locals — this extends beyond Harayana to a range of other states which have made similar promises — is also politically and economically unwise. Taking a narrow view of electoral politics, leaders are tempted by this populist trap of offering reservations to locals, but this undermines the often neglected constitutional ideal of fraternity, which can only come from citizens from different regions engaging with each other, including in workplaces. The move will also deepen the insider versus outsider form of parochial politics. Economically, it sends a negative signal to investors, who place high premium on the ability to hire talent, at all positions, irrespective of their geographical origins.The core problem in India’s political economy remains the lack of jobs. A secondary problem is the long-term distress in agriculture, which has reduced the social and economic status of once-dominant land-owning communities such as the Jats (and the Patidars in Gujarat). This has resulted in two trends. The first is a demand for greater reservation in state jobs. The second is a demand for locals in private sector jobs. Haryana is clearly responding to this. But like the rest of India’s political class, Haryana’s leaders are evading the real crisis of jobs to offer prescriptions which may only make the problem worse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-dangers-of-populism-101614778773058.html
