11-03-2021||Editorials||Wooing the Hindu vote||In West Bengal, chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee declared she was born in a Hindu family, recited from Hindu scriptures, and warned the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) not to play the “Hindu card” with her. The card, one assumes, refers to the BJP’s effort to often portray itself as the defender of majority interests, and its rivals as somewhat insensitive to Hindus while being closer to Muslims. As a Hindustan Times data-based analysis showed, Ms Banerjee’s efforts at countering possible political polarisation on religious lines did not stop at the level of rhetoric. There has been a dip in the number of Muslim candidates the Trinamool Congress has put up in the elections — from 54 in the 2016 polls to 45 in 2021, with the biggest fall in south Bengal where the BJP is hoping to make substantial inroads. Not putting up a Muslim candidate, by this logic, prevents the BJP from turning the election into an “H-M”, Hindu-Muslim contest. In Delhi, CM Arvind Kejriwal, on Wednesday, said his government’s ideal was “Ram rajya” — and enunciated a set of governance principles under the framework of what Ram rajya would constitute. In addition, he declared that his government would facilitate the pilgrimage of the city’s elderly to the Ram temple in Ayodhya once it is constructed. Mr Kejriwal has, for at least three years now, been carefully portraying himself as a Hindu leader — advertising his devotion to Hanuman, staying away from potentially polarising issues such as the Shaheen Bagh agitation and organising pujas under state government auspices, among other steps. Ms Banerjee and Mr Kejriwal represent strong regional challengers to the BJP. And their position today is a reflection of how far the BJP has moved the needle of Indian politics. If secular politics, in the past, was electorally equated with being seen as sensitive to Muslim aspirations, secular politicians, today, are investing all their energy in both, not being seen as pro-Muslim, and being seen as adequately sensitive to Hindu sentiments. The Congress has attempted to do this too, most recently seen in the Rajasthan government’s decision to legalise mining to supply stones to the Ram temple construction. What this, however, indicates is that even if the Opposition is able to defeat the BJP electorally and politically, the BJP’s ideological dominance is only getting reinforced. This will have implications for representative democracy and inter-community ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/wooing-the-hindu-vote-101615464273961.html
11-03-2021||Editorials||An expansive fiscal programme in the US||In the United States (US), the Congress has passed a $1.9-trillion stimulus package, shepherded by the Joe Biden administration, to aid citizens, especially among low-income and poorer segments, in times of the economic distress caused by Covid-19. The pandemic has dealt a devastating blow to lives and livelihoods, and was among the key reasons why Donald Trump lost the presidential election. The package — which was a key electoral plank of Mr Biden — includes direct income assistance; extension of unemployment benefits; financial support for expedited vaccination; relief for schools; support for infrastructure; and tax credits for children, among other steps. The package is extraordinary for its scale, and is in line with a central Keynesian principle — enhanced public spending will spur demand and have a multiplier effect. And it is the kind of scheme that other countries — if they had the resources available to the US and a more inclusive economic imagination — should consider. It is also correct in identifying vaccination as the key vehicle, which can lead to economic recovery. At the same time, the package will possibly have inflationary consequences, not just for the US but globally in terms of commodity prices as the US economy bounces back. If there is domestic inflation, expect the Federal Reserve to hike interest rates, which, in turn, as a piece in this newspaper warned on March 1, can result in capital from advanced countries returning home. This is, to be sure, a medium-term, rather than an immediate, concern. But Indian policymakers would do well to keep a close eye on the impact of the package on the US economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/an-expansive-fiscal-programme-in-the-us-101615464213889.html
11-03-2021||Editorials||Why India must protect the Aravallis | HT Editorial||Last week, the Haryana government approached the Supreme Court (SC) to seek approval to begin mining in the Aravallis in Gurugram and Faridabad. In its petition, Haryana said the ban on mining was forcing the state to pay extra for sourcing minerals from adjoining states, and this higher cost was also affecting public projects. It also contended that opening up mining would help address unemployment. In 2009, the SC imposed a ban on mining in the Aravalli hills in Faridabad, Gurugram and Mewat till statutory provisions for restoration and reclamation were complied with.There has been civil society resistance against opening up the region for mining because the Aravalli is the National Capital Region’s critical water recharge zone, climate regulator, wildlife habitat and barrier against desertification. Haryana has the lowest forest cover in India (3.62%), and most of this is concentrated in the Aravalli hills in south Haryana. Allowing mining in the little forest cover remaining will lead to a deep environmental impact.All Aravalli range states — Gujarat, Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi — are responsible for its destruction. While economic growth is important for improving the lives and livelihoods of citizens, governments must understand that unsustainable development may lead to short-term gains, but will spell disaster for citizens, the economy and the country in the long-term. In fact, Covid-19, which Haryana uses as a rationale to lobby for reopening mining, has shown how deforestation, changes in forest habitats, poorly regulated agricultural surfaces, and mismanaged urban growth can create a fertile ground for pandemics. India’s states must choose their development path wisely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/why-india-must-protect-the-aravallis-hteditorial-101615382134010.html
11-03-2021||Editorials||The switch in Dehradun | HT Editorial||In 2000, the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government took a major political decision to create three new states — Uttarakhand was carved out from Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh from Madhya Pradesh, and Jharkhand from Bihar. Among the three, Uttarakhand and Jharkhand have been plagued by political instability for much of their political existence as separate units. Jharkhand has seen 11 chief ministers (with the same individual returning to office multiple times in the case of Shibu Soren, Arjun Munda and Hemant Soren), and the last Raghubar Das government was the first to complete its five-year term. Uttarakhand has had 11 chief ministers (with BC Khanduri and Harish Rawat returning to office), and only one of them (ND Tiwari) had a full five-year term. It is in this backdrop of larger instability, both due to intra-party and inter-party issues, in some of India’s younger, smaller states, that Uttarakhand will now have a new chief minister, Tirath Singh Rawat.But Mr Rawat’s ascension, a result of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) central leadership asking Trivendra Singh Rawat to put in his papers after internal discontent, cannot just be explained as yet another instance of the political churn in states which are still in the process of institutionalising their party systems and political culture. It is significant, for it says something about the BJP. Under Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, the party’s track record suggests that once the central leadership selects a leader as CM, the BJP stays the course. Be it Manohar Lal Khattar or Yogi Adityanath or Raghubar Das or Devendra Fadnavis, the BJP did not let external criticism dictate a shift in the leader. In the current case though, the BJP leadership gave in — primarily because the criticism against Trivendra Singh Rawat was emanating from within BJP’s own legislative ranks and from the larger ideological fraternity. The fact that elections are due next year added to the sense of urgency.The episode also throws up an interesting facet of political leadership in democracies — the criticism against the outgoing CM was that he relied excessively on bureaucrats and ignored political inputs. In some ways, this is good, for it insulates the administration from day-to-day political pressures brought on by legislators. But political voices can’t be ignored either in a democracy. This is the balance a successful politician-administrator has to strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-switch-in-dehradun-hteditorial-101615382131270.html
