15-03-2021||Editorials||Manage privatisation, with political finesse | HT Editorial||A key government initiative this year will be the proposed privatisation of public sector enterprises, while the State will confine itself to the bare minimum presence in strategic sectors. Coupled with the monetisation of assets, as proposed in the budget, this will herald a major change in India’s political economy, where, over time, the State will retreat from directly managing companies and assets and confine itself to a broader regulatory and oversight rule. This newspaper supports the privatisation drive and believes that it is not the State’s business to be in business. There was a historical context for the government to invest in public sector enterprises in the initial decades after Independence, but that era is long over. But it is important to recognise that privatisation is not merely an economic decision — it is squarely within the realm of politics. It is tied to questions about the nature and responsibility of the State, the future of employees in units which are meant to be privatised, and the future economic implications in sectors which move into private hands. And that is why it is crucial to manage this much-needed process of privatisation with political finesse. This includes reaching out to all political and economic stakeholders — from Opposition parties to trade unions. It includes building a strong intellectual case for privatisation — while reassuring those who fear that they will bear the brunt of the consequences of reforms. And it includes keeping a flexible outlook and be willing to engage in negotiations rather than adopt an absolutist attitude. As the controversy over farm laws shows, economic reforms are deeply contentious now and the role of the private sector continues to be viewed with suspicion. The government must be transparent and consultative, while the Opposition must be responsible and not engage in mindless obstructionism of sound policy initiatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/manage-privatisation-with-political-finesse-hteditorial-101615816732630.html
15-03-2021||Editorials||The rise of new political dynasts | HT Editorial||In Tamil Nadu, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) is witnessing its first election, without the leadership and guiding hand of its late supremo, M Karunanidhi. His son, MK Stalin, is finally leading the party — and could well become the state’s next chief minister. But the focus is not as much on Mr Stalin within the DMK as it is on his son, Udhaynidhi Stalin, who has been given a ticket to contest from the same assembly constituency which his grandfather once held. An actor who became active in the party’s youth wing, Udhaynidhi Stalin will have to rise through the party’s hierarchy just as his father did — but being a third-generation dynast gives him a natural edge. It is also further evidence that a party rooted in the idea of rationality and wider social justice has become a family enterprise — given the extensive control of the wider Karunanidhi family over the party apparatus.In West Bengal, while chief minister Mamata Banerjee remains the face of the Trinamool Congress and the party’s key campaigner, there is now little doubt that her nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, a parliamentarian, is possibly the second-most powerful person in the organisation. From poll strategy to finances, public relations to intra-party issues, Mr Banerjee is playing an important role — with speculation rife that he is being groomed as the party’s next leader. This has alienated other veteran leaders, but the control of the Banerjee family over the party is absolute.Dynastic politics is neither new in India, nor confined to these regional forces. It has complex sociological roots, from family elders in politics prodding their young to take on the same professional route to issues of trust since party finances are closely controlled within a circle of trust; from the political ambition of those who can see a short-cut to state power because of family links to mass support for a family brand. But none of this is adequate justification for the rise of dynasts, and as voting patterns show, a young and new India is increasingly (albeit not always) sceptical of those who have little to show but family lineage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-rise-of-new-political-dynasts-hteditorial-101615816731245.html
15-03-2021||Editorials||The political importance of Kerala | HT Editorial||The Left Front, particularly the Communist Party of India (Marxist), was often, only half in jest, referred to as a regional party which spanned across the regions of Tripura, West Bengal, Kerala and the campus of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) in Delhi. The Left lost power in Bengal in 2011 and has become so marginal in the state’s polity that it will be lucky to come a distant third this time around. It lost power to its arch ideological rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in Tripura in 2018. And so it is in only Kerala that this regional force has control over the power structure.The state is also critical for the Congress, for Kerala offers the best chance for the party to come to power. (In Assam, it is a key stakeholder but surveys suggest it will fail to oust the incumbent). Kerala has seen, for four decades, a pattern where voters alternate between the two key forces in the state led by the Left and the Congress. Going by this conventional parameter, the success of the Congress in the 2019 elections, and Rahul Gandhi’s personal stakes (he is a parliamentarian from Wayanad), this election should have been an easy win for the Congress. But the Left, under chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, has succeeded in projecting an image of effective governance and service delivery in a range of areas, including health and during natural disasters. It has also carved out a broad coalition.While the BJP may improve its vote share in the state, the outcome in Kerala is important because it will determining the balance of power within the broad national Opposition, especially between Congress and non-Congress forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-political-importance-of-kerala-hteditorial-101615732727751.html
