19-03-2021||Editorials||A message to Washington||India has bought, and will stick to its purchase of the S-400 missile defence systems from Russia . This is based on India’s military needs; it has been decided at the highest levels of India’s political leadership, taking into account all variables; it is a commitment to Moscow, which, notwithstanding recent differences, has been an old friend of India; and it is in keeping with New Delhi’s sovereign right to ensure its national security. Even as India and the United States (US), rightly, work towards deepening the strategic partnership, this message must be clearly conveyed to Washington — during the ongoing visit of secretary of defence, Lloyd Austin.The US has a problem with Russia (for some genuine reasons and some apprehensions which are a vestige of a Cold War mindset), and the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) is meant to, among other things, deter Russia’s defence industry clients with the threat of secondary sanctions. Washington has imposed sanctions on Turkey, a North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) ally, for its purchase of the S-400 systems. And the Joe Biden administration has not yet made clear whether it will waive off sanctions in the case of India or proceed with it. On the eve of Mr Austin’s visit, the Senate foreign relations committee chair, Robert Menendez, asserted that India’s purchase will be a “sanctionable” transaction.As Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted after meeting Mr Austin, the bilateral partnership is a “force for good”. Mr Austin’s visit itself is a sign of growing convergence. But Washington should know its decision on CAATSA will play a role in shaping the overall momentum of ties. There remains a substantial segment of opinion in India — in government, defence forces and the strategic community — which is wary of Washington, especially given the baggage of history. But three successive prime ministers — Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Manmohan Singh and Narendra Modi — have shown courage in boosting strategic ties with the US. Mr Modi’s government has also signed foundational defence pacts and moved forward with Quad. India too benefits from this, but so does the US. Does Washington want to dilute this growing strategic trust with New Delhi by implementing its sanctions framework or will it prioritise the big picture of deepening ties to address the “most pressing challenge facing the Indo Pacific region”, as Mr Austin put it, and waive off sanctions? The US must decide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-warning-for-washington-101616167345167.html
