23-03-2021||Editorials||One year of the lockdown||Exactly a year ago, on March 24 at 8 pm, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that to battle Covid-19, India would lock itself up. Flights in and out of the country had already been stopped earlier, and now, all movement — except for essential workers — was halted. Citizens were told to stay home, maintain social distancing, avoid all contact with the external world, follow Covid-19 protocols, and aid the nation in helping break — or slow down — the chain of transmission, even as India was to use the period to build up its health infrastructure to cope with the most devastating pandemic in a century. While there were different phases of slowly unlocking the country, for 68 days, there was a lockdown. A year later, there are lessons and cautionary notes which are still relevant.Based on the scientific evidence available at the time, global trends, an assessment of India’s health infrastructure deficits, and the possibility of rapid transmission given the population and its density, a lockdown was necessary. India did well in using the period to ramp up testing and medical management facilities. But, at the same time, the lockdown was brutal, especially for the poor. The sight of migrant workers walking home will remain the abiding image of the lockdown, as will the unprecedented economic contraction. Supply chains were disrupted, demand plummeted, incomes dipped, jobs were lost, and the social welfare initiatives of the government were not enough to tackle the distress. The disease, too, continued to spiral — though India was fortunate in having a low fatality rate. A year later, the second wave of Covid-19 is here. The good news is that so is the vaccine, and India has, although too gradually for this newspaper’s liking, begun vaccinating citizens — Tuesday’s decision to open it up to all citizens above 45 years is positive. But besides approving more vaccines and opening them up to all citizens, Covid-19 demands a greater degree of responsibility from both governments and citizens. The Mahakumbh in Uttarakhand is only one example of how faith (and the politics of faith) is being allowed to trump science, at great risk — the farm protests at Delhi’s borders or the crowds in election rallies in different states are no different in enhancing the risk for citizens. India has lived through one of its most difficult post-Independence years. The battle isn’t over yet, and just as it was important last March, it is as crucial to follow protocols today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/one-year-of-the-lockdown-101616511298682.html
23-03-2021||Editorials||A welcome change in Delhi’s excise policy||On Monday, the Delhi government proposed sweeping changes in its excise policy in an attempt to boost the city’s revenue, crackdown on the liquor mafia, and improve consumer experience. Its salient points include lowering the legal age of drinking in the Capital from 25 to 21; the government’s exit from the retail alcohol business; and an overhaul of the tax system. Delhi is one of India’s biggest liquor markets, and this serves as a major source of income for the government. The population-to-vend ratio in the Capital, however, is one of the lowest in the country. The city has 849 liquor shops, yet around 58% of Delhi is either unserved or under-served. The government expects the excise revenue to increase by ₹1,500-2000 crore annually because of the new policy. Currently, it earns ₹6,000 crore from the sector.The new policy changes are welcome. For one, drinking age in Delhi is not in step even with other Indian states, let alone other megacities of the world. For example, Uttar Pradesh allows people to drink at 21. In New York and London, the drinking age is 21 and 18, respectively. The age rule is often observed in the breach in Delhi and it is better for the law to catch up on social trends. The consumer experience at the city’s liquor shops is awful, especially for women. Buyers are made to feel like criminals, and women are often harassed. Moreover, the sale of good quality liquor can be found mostly upmarket areas. There is also brand suppression, malpractice in registration, and an opaque cabal of operators controlling the city’s business. The Delhi government’s attempt can help create a more reasonable and effective regulatory regime, and ensure that responsible drinking is seen as a legitimate social activity rather than treated as a crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-welcome-change-in-delhi-s-excise-policy-101616510636532.html
