24-03-2021||Editorials||In Bihar, a blot on democracy | HT Editorial||In theory, a legislature is the most sacred space in a democracy. It is the ultimate body of the expression of popular will. It is a space for deliberation, for debate, for careful scrutiny of laws, and for law-making. And despite being on different sides, it is a space for the government and the Opposition to fight each other — on issues, but within the norms of parliamentary conduct. It was this idea of the legislature, and by extension, the idea of democracy and democratic processes that received a severe jolt in the Bihar assembly on Tuesday. As the government tabled, and sought to pass, the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021 — based on the rationale that the state’s growing security needs, including protection of vital installations, required a special empowered force — the opposition demanded its withdrawal, based on what it saw as draconian provisions giving this force the power to search and arrest without warrant. Given the track record of the Bihar Police, especially during prohibition, this concern was legitimate.The opposition, however, then turned aggressive — gheraoing the Speaker’s chamber, obstructing house proceedings when other presiding officers took the chair, and crowding the well of the House. This was wrong. But what was even more wrong was the government’s failure to politically resolve the issue — either by engaging with the opposition or sending the bill to a legislative committee — and instead calling on security forces to clear the House; the police engaged in a scuffle with legislators, including women leaders. The opposition walked out, the government passed the bill, but Bihar, and Indian democracy, were left poorer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-bihar-a-blot-on-democracy-hteditorial-101616593042901.html
24-03-2021||Editorials||India’s Sri Lanka dilemma | HT Editorial||The Tamil question in Sri Lanka has posed an almost intractable dilemma for Indian foreign policy for decades. During the three-decade long civil war between Colombo and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), New Delhi moved from covert support to Tamil militants in the early 1980s to sending a peacekeeping force in the late 1980s to taking a strong position against LTTE in the 1990s after it assassinated former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. It finally, quietly, supported Mahinda Rajapaksa’s final offensive against LTTE in 2009 — quietly, because New Delhi did not want to alienate the Tamil street at home. But this support was based on the expectation that once it defeated terrorism, Sri Lanka would be more sensitive to both Tamil aspirations and India’s strategic interests.Over the past decade, both assumptions have been tested. Under Mr Rajapaksa’s earlier term, the military victory translated into institutionalised Sinhalese chauvinism, and the promise of devolution to Tamil minorities in the north and the east remained unmet. The fact that the Sri Lankan forces had allegedly committed mass human rights violations only led to further Tamil alienation. There were sporadic attempts during the Maithripala Sirisena-Ranil Wickremesinghe rule to address Tamil discontent — but since they were insecure about the Sinhala vote consolidating behind Mr Rajapaksa, they did not deliver justice. Mr Rajapaksa returned anyway, and has neither addressed war time atrocities nor given a sense of political belonging to Tamils. New Delhi’s second assumption — of a friendly Colombo — hasn’t translated to reality either. While the Rajapaksa regime makes the right noises, its revocation of a port contract to India (and Japan) in the island’s east, even as it continues to deepen ties with China, including giving it projects in the north, has shown that Colombo is not a strategically reliable partner.Sri Lanka’s continued ethnic exclusivism internally (which has repercussions in Tamil Nadu, a state about to go to polls), and shift towards China externally have led India to abstain from a vote at a top UN human rights body asking Sri Lanka to do more. But the move has neither pleased Colombo, which wanted India to vote against the resolution, nor Tamil Nadu’s parties, which wanted India to vote for the resolution. Between an insensitive Colombo and an angry Chennai, New Delhi’s classic dilemma on Sri Lanka is playing out again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/indias-sri-lanka-dilemma-hteditorial-101616593041558.html
