25-03-2021||Editorials||Covid-19 throws up a new challenge||New variants of the coronavirus have spread in India, particularly in Maharashtra and Punjab. The two states have recorded some of the sharpest increase in cases over the last month, with Maharashtra contributing more than half the new cases recorded across the country daily. Health authorities have held off on concluding that the variants are responsible for the surge, but experts believe a correlation is likely, given what the world knows about Sars-CoV-2 mutations. In several countries, most notably in the United Kingdom (UK), at the outset of winter last year, a variant set off a runaway outbreak — not unlike what appears to be building in India at the moment. A variant of the Sars-Cov-2 arises when the pathogen picks up multiple changes in its genome. It is natural for viruses to mutate when they replicate as they spread within a population. Molecular clock calculation estimated that the Sars-Cov-2 picked up two mutations on average every month. But the virus also picks up a combination of mutations that could change how it affects individuals — it can become less or more infective or lethal. In August, scientists in Singapore said they found a mutation that was milder — but in line with laws of evolution, it was overtaken by variants that were “fitter” in spreading. In mid-November, the first such significantly fitter variant arose in the UK, triggering a wave that the country took months to surmount. Scientists believe this sort of evolution will become a large part of the new normal. But science has also given us the tools that make adapting to this new normal possible. The process begins with identifying these mutations, their behaviour and prevalence. Thanks to global scientific collaboration, the first two are relatively easy to determine. It is the third aspect — determining how far a variant has spread and its containment — that is particularly difficult. This will require the government to step up genome surveillance; pharmaceutical companies to double down on vaccine production (and perhaps even come up with more resilient doses); and citizens to arm themselves with the two tools that can stop the virus, no matter what the variant — vaccines and appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19-throws-up-a-new-challenge-101616682023905.html
25-03-2021||Editorials||The ecological concerns around river-linking projects||This week, the Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh governments signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) to start work on the country’s first major project interlinking two rain-fed rivers, Ken and Betwa. The agreement was signed 18 years after the project was first conceived as a part of country’s programme to interlink rivers to provide water to areas facing scarcity. The project is expected to ensure drinking water to 6.2 million people and irrigate one million hectares of land in 13 districts across both states, the majority of which fall in the water-starved Bundelkhand region, which has seen back-to-back droughts in the last decade.Experts have flagged two concerns. First, project proponents fail to take into account the fact that the water crisis is not just a natural one; it’s partly man-made. The region’s granite topography does not allow rainwater to seep in and recharge the groundwater table, but this problem has been aggravated by policies that support faulty cropping patterns, encourage groundwater exploitation, degrade the soil and hack away at forest cover. Second, the project may submerge 6,107 hectares of the old and biodiverse forests of the Panna Tiger Reserve and Ken Ghariyal Sanctuary. This can impact water availability, rainfall patterns and destroy local ecosystems. Instead, the government could have pushed for low-cost, local interventions such as renovating and building water harvesting systems, desilting reservoirs and lakes and working towards a change in cropping patterns.The controversy over the river-linking project is not new; it’s a part of a larger development versus ecology debate that India faces with every big project. But in an era of climate crisis, which has a multi-sectoral impact, addressing ecological concerns is crucial and ensure long-term safety and benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-ecological-concerns-around-river-linking-projects-101616681844091.html
