29-03-2021||Editorials||Heat can affect the economy too||Two new studies on the impact of the climate crisis on India, released last week, offer serious warnings. First, a study by the United States-based Oak Ridge National Laboratory, published in the Geophysical Research Letters, said that deadly heat waves may become common in South Asian countries, including India, in the coming decades even if global warming is limited to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Such an increase in extreme heat events, the report added, can create unsafe labour conditions in India. Another report by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago warned that the climate crisis may hurt Indian manufacturing due to heat stress on workers. Interestingly, the study indicates that in the absence of climate control, worker productivity declines on hot days, and there is absenteeism even in factories with cooling facilities. This is because workers remain exposed to high temperatures at home and outside. It is possible, the research warns, that the industrial sector might respond to high temperatures by increasing automation and shifting away from labour-intensive sectors in hot parts of the world. Over the years, high temperatures, heat waves and deaths related to the phenomenon have been emerging as a serious challenge in India. Between 2010 and 2018, heat waves killed about 6,167 people. Unlike other extreme weather events, heat waves last much longer, are grossly under-reported and they are not even recognised under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, making the phenomenon-related impacts ineligible for money from national or state disaster response funds.The National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM) sends out advisories on heat waves and most states have introduced Heat Action Plans (HAPs), but these action plans and warning systems can only be effective with more resources. The additional funding is needed to ensure cooler worksites, climate-resilient housing, strengthening forecasting and early warning systems, building capacity of health care professionals, making cities more green, and increasing engagement with civil society organisations to spread awareness. Making HAPs more robust will also make strong economic sense, and ensure that India does not have to pay a “heat tax”, which can erode the competitiveness of the manufacturing sector and also hurt the wages of poor workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/heat-can-affect-the-economy-too-101617021349323.html
29-03-2021||Editorials||Fast-track database on migrant workers||On March 24 last year, the government announced a national lockdown to halt the spread of Covid-19, and thousands of migrant workers, stranded in their host cities without employment or adequate shelter, started walking towards their home towns and villages. This mass departure of workers exposed an uncomfortable truth: The Indian State does not have a reliable record of migrants, hindering distribution of relief material. This oversight has continued for decades despite the Interstate Migrant Workmen Act of 1979, which regulates the conditions of service of circular migrant workers; mandates the registration of contractors who employ migrants; and also requires employers to maintain a record of their workers. Responding to the crisis, the Centre announced a series of programmes. In March 2020, it announced that 800 million beneficiaries would be provided an additional five kg of wheat or rice and a kilo of pulses, free of cost every month till November; unveiled a plan to employ returning migrants in some states; launched a skill-mapping programme; and promised to fast-track nationwide portability of ration cards. Significantly, the government announced it will carry out an all-India survey of migrants and launch a national database of unorganised workers. This survey needs to be fast-tracked because this will give a clearer picture of work-related migration, its seasonality and the policy gaps. In addition, the government must focus on ensuring portability of social protection schemes and ensure that employers are held accountable for the work conditions of the workers. Only a comprehensive policy can ensure that the migrant crisis is not repeated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/fasttrack-database-on-migrant-workers-101617021228566.html
