30-03-2021||Editorials||Send a message to Myanmar | HT Editorial||Myanmar’s military dictators have crossed a line. Not only did they reject electoral results, oust a representative government, arrest political leaders and grab complete power in February, they have also been engaged in a brutal repression of the pro-democracy movement. Security forces are reported to have killed over 400 citizens, including possibly over a 100 on Friday itself; detained thousands; deployed high-tech surveillance equipment to keep a check on citizens; and stifled all outlets for the expression of democratic views.India is in a fix. It had, in the 1990s, supported pro-democracy elements in Myanmar. But the need to have a working relationship with the military — for security reasons in the Northeast, for strategic reasons with an eye on China, for geopolitical reasons to enhance connectivity with Southeast Asia, and for economic reasons to be able to leverage Myanmar’s resource-rich landscape — saw it tone down support for democracy. When the army and Aung San Suu Kyi shared power in the system, Delhi had equities in the system, primarily through the military, and shared an uneasy relationship with Ms Suu Kyi. When the military took power this year, India decided to take a cautious approach of relatively muted public criticism, as compared to the West, and private engagement with the military. The Indian Army chief, for instance, has not yet condemned the atrocities by a neighbouring military — even as many at the helm of defence forces in democracies have done so. This approach is unsustainable. One, India, as a democracy, which distinguishes itself from China on the count, cannot turn a blind eye to bloodshed in the neighbourhood. Two, even if one were to take a realpolitik rather than an ethical view, it is clear that the military regime, despite its hold over the State, is losing its legitimacy in society. Three, the crisis has resulted in refugee flows to India — the Manipur government’s inhuman notification denying any support to refugees has fortunately been withdrawn, but it shows that India will have to grapple with the cross-border impact of the political crisis. Rejecting them entry will diminish India’s standing, while accepting all of them will generate complications internally. And four, India’s western allies are looking to South Block to take a principled position. New Delhi may not have the leverage to change Tatmadaw’s behaviour. But it does have the standing to send a stern public and private message to the dictators in Nayapidaw — restore democracy now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/send-a-message-to-myanmar-hteditorial-101617111889429.html
30-03-2021||Editorials||Farm protests need a resolution, now | HT Editorial||Even as political and media attention has shifted away from the farm protests to the assembly elections, it is important to note that the protests have not ended. Indeed, organisations, activists and farmers who are opposed to the three new farm laws have continued their agitation both at Delhi’s borders and in Punjab, Haryana and parts of western Uttar Pradesh. This has remained largely peaceful, but at times, taken coercive forms, as seen during an attack on a Bharatiya Janata Party legislator. The protests have continued while India is going through the second wave of Covid-19, with Punjab being one of the most affected states.The blunt truth is that while the government made a mistake in not going through a deeper consultative process while bringing the laws and political managers on the ruling side alienated protesters by questioning their nationalism, the farm leaders have done great disservice to the cause by not displaying responsible leadership. The government has offered to suspend the laws for 18 months; this offer is on the table; farm groups can negotiate and perhaps try to extend this timeline even more. But instead of doing that, they have chosen to stick to their maximalist demand of repealing the laws. This will not just prolong the standoff, but also expose the protesters to continued risk in the face of the pandemic. Farm unions would do well to negotiate and withdraw the protests before the pandemic extracts a higher toll from the brave men and women who have fought valiantly for their cause. The government would do well in making a renewed offer of talks and, yet again, allaying the apprehensions of farm leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/farm-protests-need-a-resolution-now-hteditorial-101617111829351.html
30-03-2021||Editorials||The missing voice of the developing world | HT Editorial||In an article for Project Syndicate, economist Arvind Subramanian — who served as the chief economic adviser in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in its last term — and political scientist Devesh Kapur, who has written extensively on global economic institutions, exposed the deep imbalance that exists in the world of knowledge production of development economics.They pointed out how the field, which is focused on improving lives and incomes of the poor in developing countries, has barely any representation from the global south. None of editors or co-editors of The Journal of Development Economics, a leading academic journal, are based in developing countries, with Asia and Africa entirely unrepresented; the flagship conference of the World Bank on development economics saw no participation from an institution from a developing economy in 2019 and only 7% of the papers presented at the conference in the last three decades are from the global south. Mr Subramanian and Mr Kapur also flag the problems associated with the growing use of randomised controlled trials, and how it has had exclusionary consequences, both because of the costs associated with it and the fact that gatekeepers are located, once again, in the developed world.This may appear like an abstract academic debate. But by pointing to this imbalance, the scholars have pointed to a real crisis in global knowledge production. Peer-reviewed journals and academic and policy conferences are the first site of throwing up and testing new ideas, which then get picked up by the policy establishments and determine the agenda of global institutions. But in this process, the voices and experiences of billions of the world’s poor remains unheard. This must be corrected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-missing-voice-of-the-developing-world-hteditorial-101617102650268.html
