31-03-2021||Editorials||The scars of 2020-2021||Fiscal year 2020-21, which ended on March 31, has been a time of unprecedented economic disruption due to the pandemic. The Indian economy is expected to contract by 8% in 2020-21, its largest-ever contraction on record. To be sure, growth rates have recovered — from a 24.4% contraction in the June 2020 quarter to a 0.4% growth in the December 2020 quarter. But the economic pain caused by the pandemic is lingering. Poverty levels and inequality are likely to have gone up. Labour force participation rates have gone down. The gender gap among workers has worsened. The employment intensive sectors have shown less growth compared to others. And there remains lack of clarity about the pandemic’s adverse impact on the tax base.But even though the domestic economy suffered a big shock, the external environment remained benign in the past year. Oil prices crashed, which allowed the government to reap a tax windfall without stoking inflation. Since major economies increased their public borrowing and fiscal deficits, global finance did not penalise any country for what would have been seen as an unacceptable deviation in normal times. This favourable environment might start receding in 2021-22, as growth picks up in advanced countries and commodity prices start rising. External factors will be more of a constraint this year. India is also, now, staring at a delayed, but strong, second wave of Covid-19 infections. The last fiscal year began with a complete lockdown, but a second national lockdown is not feasible. At the same time, rising infections will not just take a toll on human lives but also impact productivity and economy. Bringing down infections, through enhanced and aggressive vaccination, has to be top priority from both a public health and economic perspective. But India will also have to do much more to both boost growth — by ensuring that there is indeed public investment as promised in the budget, and creating a more enabling climate for private capital — and ensure equity, given that there is real concern that the next phase of growth will sharpen inequality and there is a dip in planned welfare expenditure. How India gets back its growth, while taking care of the marginalised, will be the big test of 2021-22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-scars-of-20202021-101617191394535.html
31-03-2021||Editorials||The thaw on the India-Pakistan front||Responding to Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s letter greeting Pakistan on its national day, Pakistan’s PM, Imran Khan, has claimed that his country seeks “peaceful, cooperative relations with all neighbours, including India”. Mr Khan also said that durable peace and stability in the region was contingent on resolving all issues betwe-en India and Pakistan, “in particular, the Jammu and Kashmir [J&K] dispute”. He then added that the creation of “an enabling environment” was “impera-tive for a constructive and result-oriented dialogue”.There are two ways to interpret this letter. The first, sceptical, view can see it as an attempt by Pakistan to hold the ties hostage to the J&K issue yet again, without confronting the issue of terrorism. The logical conclusion of such a reading would be that there is little merit in engaging with Pakistan. A second way to read the letter is to focus on why Mr Khan has said what he has, and what he has not said. A reference to J&K is imperative for any Pakistani leader to survive domestically. The fact that despite relentless propaganda over the past year-and-a-half against India’s moves in J&K, Pakistan has not made any tangible demands other than mentioning an “enabling environment” leaves space for diplomacy. This reading would lead to a different conclusion — of the merits of engagement. While India must have minimal expectations from Pakistan’s establishment and be prepared on the security front, there is a definite churn in Pakistan. Mr Khan’s letter, which would have been approved by the army, is an attempt to signal Pakistan’s willingness to engage, as is Islamabad’s decision, on Wednesday, to resume limited trade with India. While sticking to its redlines, Delhi should be open to building on the ceasefire pact and resuming a comprehensive dialogue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-thaw-on-the-india-pakistan-front-101617191272290.html
