01-07-2021||---||Time for public scrutiny||THE second wave of the coronavirus pandemic appears to be waning. The number of new cases reported from all over India daily is around 37,000 compared to the May peak that was over 10 times higher. Many cities are reporting new cases in two digits. The vaccination drive, as per the amended policy, is underway in most parts of the country. The process of unlocking is in full swing in several states with the resumption of commercial and industrial activity. It is an opportune time to take a critical look at India’s pandemic response till now and the road ahead. The virus is still circulating and future spikes can’t be ruled out. It is no time to celebrate but to use the present window of opportunity for undertaking a dispassionate review of the journey till now. This will help in drawing valuable lessons and chalk out a blueprint of action from now onward.We have passed through two waves of the pandemic. In the first wave, which as we reckon now was comparatively milder, the response consisted of national lockdown and steps to prepare the health system for a likely surge. Efforts to develop and manufacture vaccines were also initiated. Vaccines became available in early 2021 but the rollout was sluggish. Meanwhile, the second wave hit the country, exposing gaping holes in the health system and its poor state of preparedness. Early and strategic vaccination, preventing political and religious gatherings, better genomic surveillance etc may have averted the tragedy of the second wave.The government response to the pandemic in months and weeks preceding the second wave needs public scrutiny. Claims and counter-claims have been made in mainstream media and social media about what went wrong, but we have not had any systematic public review of the pandemic response in India — both at the national and state levels. The parliamentary committee on science and technology headed by Jairam Ramesh recently initiated a discussion on vaccines and genome sequencing but members belonging to the ruling party reportedly opposed it.The pandemic-related policy response in India has so far been opaque, and key policies have appeared to be arbitrary and not driven by evidence despite claims to the contrary. For instance, the government’s position on vaccine procurement became clear only when the matter came before the Supreme Court. The court had to use a harsh term like ‘arbitrary’ to describe the vaccine policy. Following criticism in the court and outside, the government suddenly announced that all adult Indians would be vaccinated by December 31. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan announced that “between August and December 2021, India will have procured 216 crore vaccine doses.”However, the second government affidavit filed in the court this week brought the figure down from 216 crore doses to 186 crore doses, which it said will suffice for all Indians above 18. For this, 51 crore doses will become available by July 31 and the rest 135 crore by December 31. Of this, 50 crore will be Covishield, 40 crore Covaxin and 10 crore Sputnik V. For the rest 35 crore, the government is banking on under-development vaccines of Biological E and Zydus Cadila. On production capacity too, conflicting figures are being advanced. In May 2021, the same government had informed the same court that the monthly production capacity of Covishield would reach 6.5 crore doses a month in July. It means SII will produce 39 crore doses by December 2021. In the June affidavit, the government has jacked up SII’s production capacity to 50 crore. In the same way, the number for Covaxin doses has been hiked from 33 crore to 40 crore in between the two affidavits.The number of fully vaccinated Indians at the end of June is little over 4 per cent. It can’t reach 100 by the year-end even if all the vaccine doses materialise as claimed in the court. The vaccine doses will become available progressively over the next few months and there is a gap between the two doses. People who will be vaccinated with Covishield in the last quarter of 2021 can get the second dose only in the first quarter of 2022. This apart, there are so many concerns relating to vaccine production, testing, procurement, pricing, equitable access and so on. The proceedings in the apex court can’t be expected to go into all such questions.The task of a full review of the vaccine policy as well as other aspects of the pandemic response, therefore, should be entrusted to the parliamentary committee on health or science and technology, or a specially constituted panel consisting of members of both the committees or even a joint parliamentary committee. The ambit of such a panel should cover the entire pandemic response and it should be allowed to hold its proceedings in public, not in camera, given the unique challenge posed by the pandemic.Parliaments across the world are doing so, with house committees holding health officials, scientific advisers and vaccine companies accountable. In the UK, the Lord’s Covid-19 Committee is looking at the long-term implications of the pandemic on the economy. The Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis in the US is investigating failures of the Operation Warp Speed launched by President Trump and is seeking public inputs on abuse and fraud of relief funds. Members of the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety Committee of the European Parliament is seized of the vaccine problem in Europe. The Brazilian Congress has launched a full investigation into President Bolsonaro’s pandemic policies including allegations of irregularities in the Covaxin deal.If the parliamentary panels in India can question officials of social media companies over fake news and other issues, they can certainly do so for a raging health emergency that directly concerns the lives of citizens. Such an exercise will hold the government and policymakers accountable for their actions, and enhance public confidence in vaccination and pandemic-related policies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-for-public-scrutiny-276400
01-07-2021||---||Oppn unity should transcend poll alliance||Opposition unity is among the most fantoosh but faltu preoccupations. At this juncture of Indian politics, it is at once a critical ask and a futile pursuit. This was the flavour of the month gone by and understandably so.The BJP’s defeat in West Bengal has opened the oppositional spaces and encouraged routine confabulations. It does not take much to see that any project to take on the BJP at the national level must gather in some way the 63 per cent voters who did not vote for the BJP or its allies in 2019. Hence, the temptation to return to some of the most over-rated moves of Opposition unity. All the tested and tired political faces coming together to oppose Prime Minister Narendra Modi is one of the laziest and disastrous political recipes of our time.It is pointless to discuss Opposition unity unless we are clear about three things: Who counts as Opposition? What kind of unity are we talking about? And, is Opposition unity all that we need to take on Modi’s BJP?The idea of a hold-all Opposition, coming together of anyone and everyone who happens to be opposed to Modi, or to the BJP or to its current ideology, is both impossible and counter-productive. It is humanly impossible to achieve a harmonious merger of egos, ambitions and designs of all those who fall under the broad rubric of the Opposition. Even if this miracle were to happen, the cost of stitching together such an alliance would clearly outweigh its possible gains. It would have to be a sub-optimal coalition in terms of its efficacy in defeating the BJP. Besides, it might help Modi play the lone warrior who is taking on an entire ‘gang’. This could also help the BJP’s booth workers go for successful counter-mobilisation of the Hindus.To abandon the idea of a hold-all Opposition unity is to give up on the current quest for a coalition of the willing. The Opposition here must be a selectively crafted coalition of the deserving. Those who enter such a coalition would have to show what they bring to the table. Those who bring heft in terms of votes would be the most obvious candidates. It is impossible to think of any meaningful Opposition unity without the Congress and many of the key regional players who have taken on, and many times defeated, the BJP. The only filter here would be the willingness to subordinate individual or party ambitions to the collective project.The definition of Opposition must not be limited to political parties, that too electorally successful ones. We must not forget that the real opposition to the BJP hegemony has come from non-party peoples’ movements. Popular mobilisation is as important as electoral success.The idea of ‘unity’ must be expanded beyond a one-time electoral alliance to a more enduring political union. The most common understanding of Opposition unity is that of the non-BJP parties forming a pre-election alliance for seat-sharing and vote-pooling.But we tend to forget that such a unity is not relevant for most states of the country. There are states such as Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, where the BJP is still not an electoral force that calls for a unity of the non-BJP forces. Then there are states such as West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, where the dominant non-BJP party does not need an alliance partner. Then there are BJP-Congress contest states such as MP, HP, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and, arguably Rajasthan, where the problem is not the lack of Opposition unity but the lack of an Opposition itself. The Congress is unable to take on the BJP and does not have anyone else to align with.So, the formula of a pre-electoral alliance holds force in only a few states: Karnataka, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand and UP. With more than 200 Lok Sabha seats, these states carry a lot of weight, but they cannot set the template for Opposition unity in the rest of the country where the need is coordination rather than alliance.At this stage, we need political unity more than electoral unity of the Opposition. We could do without the premature and necessarily fractious negotiations of a nationwide electoral alliance. What the Opposition needs to demonstrate at this stage is political cohesion. The voters, especially those who may have recently got wary of the BJP, do not doubt that anti-Modi leaders will come together to unseat him. They doubt if these leaders would do so in a meaningful way. They doubt if the Opposition parties can deliver a better and stable government. They doubt if these leaders can hang together even for some time.So, the Opposition needs to demonstrate a unity of purpose, a shared agenda (not just a hastily drawn up minimum programme) that inspires hope, an alternative approach to governance, a capacity to work together by subordinating their differences.Above all, we must realise that while Opposition unity of some sorts is necessary, it is certainly not sufficient. At this stage, the country is not ready to anyhow throw the BJP out. There is disenchantment with this government and PM Modi, but it has not reached a point where the people would vote for a lamp post to throw the incumbent out. They are anxiously looking for an alternative that is at least as attractive as Modi was in 2014.As it stands today, the Opposition does not fit the description. It lacks credibility. It does not have a message of hope, a vision for the nation. It does not have messengers who inspire confidence, leaders who can be entrusted with the country’s future. This deficit cannot be made up by Opposition unity. Any Opposition unity that glosses over this lacunae is bound to magnify its own deficit and likely to fail in attracting new voters.The country needs not just a vipaksha, but a pratipaksha. Vipaksha is limited to offering opposition and criticism; pratipaksha offers constructive criticism and feasible alternatives. Vipaksha is aimed at power-capture, pratipaksha is guided by a national purpose. Vipaksha is episodic, mostly active for elections; pratipaksha is omnipresent. Vipaksha has to be united; pratipaksha is unified to begin with.The Opposition needs a glue to hold itself together and a glow to connect it to the people. That cannot happen through a mechanical stitching together of an alliance of the existing Opposition parties. The oppositional space needs a magnet to pull all the forces that seek to reclaim the republic. That magnet cannot be any one party or a leader. It has to be a coming together of citizens who enjoy credibility, movements that have demonstrated resilience and ideas that hold out hope.Once this is achieved, the coming together of the existing Opposition parties and leaders can and will follow.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/oppn-unity-should-transcend-poll-alliance-276402
01-07-2021||---||What other states can learn from Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu’s newly elected DMK Chief Minister MK Stalin has put together a formidable team in his first Economic Advisory Council which requires a close look to see if it can hold some lessons for the rest of India. This is because it would be difficult to think of a better collection of global talent with focus on the Indian economy that can help the government steer the economic ship along the right channels.Two of its members — former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan and former Chief Economic Adviser Arvind Subramanian — know more about how to run the country’s economy than most, combining both high academic credentials and day-to-day hands-on experience. Two others — Nobel laureate Esther Duflo and Jean Dreze — are top-flight academic economists with Left and grassroots focus. The fifth member of the team — S Narayan — former Union finance secretary who moved on to the PMO to oversee economic policy under Vajpayee, can hardly be bettered in terms of experience in helping shape and put in place the country’s economic agenda.The most obvious thought that comes to mind is that a chief minister has given himself a team which a prime minister should be proud to call his own. Through this, Stalin is also being credited with having very subtly scored a debating point with the present Prime Minister by saying in so many words — ‘look, I have been able to put together advice which was there for you to use, but you chose not to.’ This way, he has joined the current Centre-versus-states battle of wits without being raucous like the West Bengal Chief Minister.The advisory team in place, the most critical issue that emerges is: will Stalin be able to put to good use the formidable array of talent that he has had the resounding good sense to line up by his side?Stalin has had years and years of experience as a lieutenant to his father, former longstanding Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Karunanidhi. He has had all the grooming he could possibly need to prepare for the top job he now holds.He has also had direct hands-on administrative experience by having served as Chennai’s mayor. During his term, he was credited with equipping the city with flyovers which eased traffic temporarily. Flyovers are currently out of favour among urban planners, but till not so long ago, city dwellers considered them a status symbol and thought they were a magic solution to the urban traffic snarls.Stalin is considered to be a doer, who is sensible. He is politically mature, in fact full of political savvy, and is far from being an intellectual himself. All this appears to have enabled him to play down the anti-Brahminism of the Dravidian movement which would have unnecessarily antagonised the present ruling dispensation at the Centre.With all this going for him, what is the task ahead and how is he likely to use the advice he will get? The foremost challenge before the DMK government is to fight and get the better of the pandemic, with Tamil Nadu having one of the highest levels of infection and fatalities. But the DMK government is not alone in this battle and can be expected to use the agenda for action that emerges as a kind of a consensus across the country.In sum, as the country gets the better of the virus, Tamil Nadu can be expected to do the same. For its part, Tamil Nadu, under Stalin, is considered to have been quite proactive in the Covid-19 fight by actively organising Covid beds, bringing Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals under the government’s insurance scheme and issuing a global tender for vaccines.The longer term and, perhaps, the most important challenge that the DMK government faces is having to live with a highly strained financial situation. Its own revenue mobilisation efforts will have to go beyond relying excessively on taxes from liquor and fuel. Again, in this, it will be in the company of other Opposition-ruled states in fighting with the Centre for a legitimate share of the GST revenue. But it has made its financial task more difficult by making abundant election promises of freebies which will have to be kept.In a truly long-term sense, the big challenge before the government will be defining its development strategy. Here, it can be argued that the state already has the right strategy, being one of the foremost in per capita income and also scoring very high in terms of human development indicators.So, it can be argued that Duflo and Dreze cannot tell Tamil Nadu to do this and not that as it has already in place some of the basic elements of taking care of those at the bottom of the pyramid. For example, in Tamil Nadu, women who can choose sometimes, prefer to go to a government hospital instead of a private one for child birth, thus giving a certificate to the quality of public healthcare. Kerala is known to lead in this, but Tamil Nadu is not far behind.Useful advice from the council will be two-fold. Rajan and Subramanian can give a lot of good advice on how to manage the state’s finances so as to keep its head above water and also how to fight with the Central government for more GST revenue and other resources. Duflo and Dreze can give highly useful advice on how to take the human development agenda further forward from an already high base.What can the country or the other Opposition-ruled states learn from all this? Get a leader who is a practical doer, get the best advice possible, and use it to get things done. Luck plays a role in every human situation. In this, Tamil Nadu is blessed with one of the best bureaucracies in the country. So, other states should try and turn luck their way by seeking to improve the quality of their own bureaucracy. This cannot be done in a day, but a beginning can be made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/what-other-states-can-learn-from-tamil-nadu-276403
