02-07-2021||---||Voice of Hong Kong throttled to silence||The crushing of the Apple Daily has different symbolism for different people. For the dictatorial regime, may be it means a great political victory — an extra cherry on the CPC’s 100th birthday cake. But for Hong Kong, it represents the transition from relative autonomy to a repressive authoritarianism — an extra chain on Beijing’s fetters. If the People’s Daily of the CPC represents the poverty of one truth and one voice, the Apple Daily represents the possibility and celebration of more than one truth and one voice.The last day of the Apple Daily looked surreal, with hundreds of people queuing up outside its office as if they are attending a funeral ceremony in order to get a copy of the last issue of the pro-democratic newspaper. This simple act of buying a copy of the newspaper symbolises an expression of grief over the death of the newspaper and also solidarity with the cause it represents.However, the harsh reality is that the political assassination of the newspaper by the Beijing regime is seen as one of the last nails in the coffin of the freedom of speech and press in Hong Kong.The series of events unfolding in Hong Kong in the recent past do not herald the approaching dawn of human freedom and dignity. Instead, some of the repressive tactics employed in China’s colonies like Tibet and East Turkistan (Xinjiang) have been exported to the city that was once deemed as the last beacon of hope for a democratic transition and basic human rights in China.However, that hope seems shattered — at least for the moment. The dark cloud of totalitarianism looms large after the ‘One Country, Two Systems’ was dismantled, a draconian National Security Law (NSL) imposed and dissidents and journalists were jailed.The crushing of the Apple Daily under the politically motivated NSL barely a week away from the centenary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) has different symbolism for different people. For the dictatorial regime, may be it means a great political victory — an extra cherry on its 100th birthday cake. But for Hong Kong, it represents the transition from relative autonomy to a repressive authoritarianism — an extra chain on Beijing’s fetters.As the party is celebrating its 100th anniversary, it goes on with a heavy dose of selective amnesia by emphasising its revolutionary, reformative and now rejuvenating roles in the development and transformation of China into a global power. Indeed, the one-party state is powerful and pervasive — transforming itself into a more intrusive avatar of the Orwellian Big Brother.However, the people in whose name it has been ruling are yet to get what they deserve — their basic civil and political liberties and human rights. They have been reduced to cogs in the totalitarian machine and denied the agency and choice as a human being as the party decides almost everything for them, including their truth and enemy.However, more than self-praise, the party needs serious introspection and honest confession. As part of its centenary celebrations, the CPC launched a massive propaganda campaign to study the party’s history, highlighting its achievements. What is more interesting is not what the party prefers to remember but what it fears to be remembered by its own people. The Great Leap Forward famine, the destruction and mayhem of the Cultural Revolution, and the most important — the Tiananmen massacre of 1989 — are only conspicuous by their omission, as if these political disasters did not happen under the party’s supervision.Likewise, Beijing has been relentless not only in erasing public memory of its occupation and repression in Tibet and Xinjiang but also the systematic suppression of the Tibetan and Uighur cultural identities and basic human rights. They are made to celebrate the occupation as liberation, the cultural genocide as civilisation, and the prevailing structural violence as modernisation and development.Under the reign of terror and intimidation, the Tibetan and Uyghur people are forced to accept these humiliations. For the Chinese people, the party has been feeding them the happy pill of a coming superpower. But what does it hold for them if it means more repression at home and more tension and conflicts abroad?The current party boss has peddled the idea of the China Dream of national rejuvenation, but what he has been doing is the consolidation of the party’s power and privileges in a way that solidifies his position and that of his Gang. Like Mao’s Cultural Revolution, his anti-corruption campaign turned out to be a political strategy to purge the members of his rival factions.With his factional politics and ideological orthodoxy, instead of rejuvenating China, Xi has regressed it into the Maoist era of ideological intolerance and repression rooted in a pathological paranoia, induced by regime insecurity as well as his own. The more he consolidates power, the more he behaves as if he is possessed by the ghost of Mao whose misrule killed more than 45 million Chinese people and caused unimaginable suffering and catastrophe to the people.If anything, instead of emulating Mao, Xi needs to inoculate himself against Maoist tendencies and temperaments. This is not a question of allegiance but urgency, not conviction but courage.Speaking of courage, the party has never shown it once; it neither has the moral courage to admit to its wrongdoings nor the political one to correct its totalitarian system. However, as an irony of a different kind, Xi has asked the Chinese people to have at least four confidences, but at the same time, his regime has gone on a banning spree — banning books, ideas and even cartoon characters and rounding up human rights lawyers and intellectuals and incarcerating more than a million Uyghurs in re-education concentration camps.Beijing declared that it has put Hong Kong in the hands of patriots, but in reality, the city has ended up in a cage with some parrots that are eager to wet their beaks in Beijing’s Mao-tai.However, like a mouse has a hole to hide, the regime has always found a pretext to hide its dirty politics. And the issues of national security and social stability have been its political safe havens. Time and again, it finds an imaginary external enemy and alerts vigilance against it, ensued by a political witch-hunt. It declares that the sword of the party has aimed at the external enemy. But it has always been smashing the same head — the heads of Chinese people in general and those of the Tibetans, Uyghurs and Mongolians in particular, and now, of the Hong Kongers.Similarly, with Hong Kong and its Apple Daily, in the name of national security, the Beijing regime has reduced a global city that was a source of dreams and inspirations for many people to being a source of political refugees. Again, with the Apple Daily, China declared that it is going to chop the hands of some foreign devils, but in reality, it is the voice of the Hong Kong people that has been throttled to silence.However, what remains true is that if the People’s Daily of the CPC represents the poverty of one truth and one voice, the Apple Daily represents the possibility and celebration of more than one truth and one voice. Xi and his acolytes may raise a toast on the death of the Apple Daily, but the spirit of the pro-democratic newspaper will live on with the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/voice-of-hong-kong-throttled-to-silence-276974
02-07-2021||---||UAPA’s constitutionality open to debate||Criminalising protests in a constitutional democracy is a matter of grave concern. The Delhi High Court order granting bail to Asif Tanha, Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal is a scathing critique of the manner in which the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) is misapplied to curb protests and suppress dissent. Persuaded by alarmist arguments, the Supreme Court (SC) seems to have blunted the value of the Delhi High Court order as judicial precedents while refraining from staying the order itself. The SC’s observations, terming the order as ‘troubling’, are unsurprising insofar as they merely resonate from a dominant judicial consideration of the national security objective as paramount.The arguments made in appeal against the High Court order reveal an inherent tension between the national security rationale invoked by governments to justify laws such as UAPA versus human rights and constitutional guarantees. In such cases, it is incumbent upon the prosecution to show that the dilution of procedural safeguards in UAPA cases including the denial of bail, are necessitated because the acts of the accused were such that the ordinary criminal laws are incapable of bringing them to justice. The court must not shirk its duty to critically examine this logic and must satisfy itself that the prosecution’s case is backed by factual evidence rather than conjectures.In this context, the Delhi High Court order is centred around section 43D(5) of the UAPA which requires the court to examine if there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations are prima facie true. Unfortunately, as the State’s arguments before the Supreme Court go on to show, the conduct of this exercise by the High Court is being perceived by the State as a virtual acquittal of the accused. It has been held in a plethora of cases that the bail hearings must not be considered or conducted as mini trials. It is clear from a plain reading of the reasoned order that the High Court was well aware of this requirement and adhered to it. A prima facie exclusion of guilt required by the court to allow bail can hardly be taken to mean an acquittal of the accused.It was further insisted by the State before the SC that the High Court order overturned UAPA jurisprudence on its head in as much as they disallow a person from being charged under the Act if the conduct is also punishable under ordinary laws. This is a misreading of the High Court’s order. The order merely reinforces the rough demarcation between offences pertaining to national security and offences affecting public order as created and recognised by the Supreme Court in earlier cases. This enquiry is valid in as much as it purports not to determine the constitutionality of UAPA, but is concerned with the applicability of section 45D(5).It is this enquiry that also necessitates the analysis of the definition of a terrorist act under the UAPA as well. Strong objection has been taken by the State to this enquiry in as much as it is perceived to challenge the constitutionality of the definition. These concerns are misplaced. The Delhi High Court order merely examined the vagueness of the definition to reiterate that established jurisprudence requires such vague definitions to be interpreted as narrowly as possible. On the basis of such enquiry, the HC concluded that section 45D(5) is inapplicable given that the offence of ‘terrorist act’ is not made out. It is trite to say that the applicability of a provision pertaining to bail is indeed the subject matter of a bail hearing.It was also argued on behalf of the State that the Delhi High Court order reasons that UAPA couldn’t be attracted because the riots were controlled. Perhaps the State adduced to the paragraphs where the High Court observes that the riots were geographically limited. The High Court order merely examined the nature of the riots and concluded that the chargesheet showed that the same were limited to a particular region of the city and could hardly be termed as either a nationwide disturbance or that the same affected the community at large in order for it to qualify as an act of terrorism.It was also proffered by the State that the Delhi High Court order in substance allowed for persons to be killed in the exercise of the right to protest. It is a surprising insinuation that a constitutional court would allow for extra judicial murders. The High Court order clearly addresses the argument of the State that the protest was not a ‘typical protest’ but an ‘aggravated protest’ and found that such arguments are not substantiated factually by the chargesheet and instead rely on “alarming and hyperbolic verbiage” alone.It is also astonishing that the Supreme Court was perturbed by the length of the 100-page bail order. It should not be forgotten that the chargesheet itself was voluminous — running into 11 volumes with over 17,000 pages and examines 740 witnesses. The length of the bail order should be anything but surprising given that the jurisprudence relating to the grant of bail required the court to examine the case diary and the final report/chargesheet.By requiring a reinforcement of the boundaries between acts subverting national security and acts affecting law and order, the Delhi High Court order has challenged the sense of paramountcy that the national security jurisprudence has enjoyed. In a larger sense, the order has brought the constitutionality of UAPA and the reasonableness of the restrictions imposed by it, back at the centre of a public debate. I am of the view that the apex court cannot afford to go against its own decisions in similar matters and this forum would finally endorse that in the garb of terror laws, compromising of due process entitlements and fair criminal justice process will be a setback to the rule of law.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/uapas-constitutionality-open-to-debate-276883
02-07-2021||Pradeep Sharma was arrested in Mumbai by the NIA last week. The arrest made front-page news in local newspapers because he was a swashbuckling||Fate of encounter specialists||In 2014, Sharma decided to challenge his dismissal before the Maharashtra administrative tribunal, which set aside the dismissal order leading to the reinstatement of the Inspector in 2017. Surprisingly, he was posted not to Mumbai City but to the Commissionerate of Thane, neighbouring Mumbai. The Police Commissioner of Thane in 2017 was Param Bir Singh who was later made Police Commissioner of Mumbai and removed from that coveted appointment when his closest confidante, Assistant Inspector Sachin Vaze was arrested for planting 20 gelatin sticks outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. Vaze was known to be an acolyte of Sharma, with over a hundred kills under his belt, like Sharma, who boasted of 112!Like he relied on Vaze in Mumbai and put him in charge of the crucial Crime Intelligence Unit, Param Bir relied on Sharma in Thane. He had put him in charge of the anti-extortion cell of the Thane Crime Branch, knowing well that encounter specialists were being suspected of patronising extortion demands of rival gangsters. Sharma was arrested in a widely publicised fake encounter case of one Lakhan Bhayya in 2010 but was acquitted in 2013. At that time, he was in the wilderness after dismissal from service. In 2017, when he was reinstated, the BJP-Shiv Sena government of Devendra Fadnavis was ruling the state. The government overlooked Sharma’s chequered history and assigned him to work under a chosen Commissioner.Vaze was reinstated by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of Uddhav Thackeray after a 17-year suspension facing a murder charge. The reinstatement in the service was a hush-hush affair. The police chief chose the former encounter specialist for a critical job in the Crime Branch, with instructions that Vaze would report to him directly, skipping all intermediate superiors to whom he would normally have answered! Those intermediate supervisors felt humiliated, and naturally so.Reverting to Sharma, he resigned in 2019, after two years in the Thane police. He joined the Shiv Sena and contested the Assembly elections. He lost, and set up an NGO, PS Foundation, promising to give free ration to the poor. He was not short of funds! At the time he contested elections to the Vidhan Sabha, he had declared personal assets valued at Rs 56 crore, a figure well beyond his or even very senior officers’ known sources of income.It appears that the bonhomie between Sharma and Vaze continued apace as Sharma’s name began cropping up in the investigations by the Maharashtra ATS into the gelatin-laden SUV outside the Ambani house and the subsequent murder of Mansukh Hiren, the owner of the SUV and an old acquaintance of Vaze.The NIA, which took over the investigation of the Hiren murder from the ATS, arrested Sharma on suspicion that he conspired with Vaze and several other police officers, some of them in service and others dismissed from service, to plant the car and later murder the star witness, Hiren, whose car had been requisitioned by the conspirators.Most police officers, both serving and retired, feel that the planting of the car with the gelatin could not have been planned by some junior police operatives, even those with ‘encounter specialist’ credentials. No Sharma or Vaze would even dream of threatening or scaring an internationally recognised business magnate like Ambani. They are daredevils, undoubtedly, but not lunatics! And till the present moment of writing, no one can tell with certitude what the motive for this insane project was all about.While police circles, both senior and junior, serving and retired, agree on a superior’s hand in the botched-up plot, they are confused about the motive. Some say the plan was known to the Ambani scion as it was preliminary to an attempt to change the aviation authority’s decision to deny his request to allow helicopters to land on the roof of Antilla. The junior ranks feel that it is an attempt by a greedy police chief and his inner circle to become future active partners in a projected internationally accredited security agency that they said was on Ambani’s drawing board.Personally, I think the second theory can be summarily discarded. The first one is remotely possible, though stupid. In any event, if that was the motive, then the wrong person was chosen to execute it. Vaze was an ‘encounter’ specialist and not a specialist of the ‘cloak and dagger’ variety required for undercover operations. Wrong choices can land plotters and planners in trouble. A Police Commissioner has lost a coveted assignment. His political boss has lost his job and standing in his party. And two ‘super cops’ are in NIA custody, awaiting an uncertain future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/fate-of-encounter-specialists-276882
