03-07-2021||As the snow melts in the Himalayas||Next step — Jammu and Kashmir statehood||We fail to understand that politically, J&K is simply the most important Indian province. Everything that happens or does not happen there has an exaggerated resonance in the kind of politics that successful politicians have been playing in the rest of the country for a long time. The symbolism of the abrogation of Article 370 soon after the second Modi government took oath was proof of the centrality of J&K in the Sangh Parivar politics. In Bihar, UP, Maharashtra, Kanyakumari and wherever else the Sangh Parivar campaigners could gain listeners, they had been talking about the differential treatment of a Muslim-majority territory to drum up electoral support for Hindutva. The visitors from Pakistan wielding automatic weapons and running all over Mumbai’s iconic buildings on live TV only proved the Parivar at least partially right. But this politics of hatred is more suited for campaigning than governance. It seems this realisation, more than anything else, prompted the Centre to invite J&K’s mainstream politicians to sit across the table and talk.For over eighty years India has been a battleground of two divergent streams of opinion: the Gandhian idea of Indian nationhood in which all communities coexist peacefully to achieve national greatness, and the British plan to balkanise it along communal and caste lines, which was endorsed and promoted by their allies like Mohammad Ali Jinnah. Jinnah succeeded in dividing India, but J&K remained the unfinished agenda of the two-nation theory, which is still being propagated by Islamist separatists, Maoists and their drumbeaters. The abrogation of Article 370, the bifurcation of the state and the creation of two UTs were Savarkarite responses to the two-nation theory — to underscore the idea that J&K was now under Hindutva rule. But Hindus and Muslims as two different nations can only create riots and at worst a nuclear holocaust — they cannot govern. Effective administration calls for Gandhian nationalism of assimilation and reconciliation.The PM’s all-party meeting ought to be seen as a shifting of gears from the campaign mode to the administrative mode. Strategically and emotionally, J&K cannot be reduced to a UT, it has to remain one of the most important states of the Indian Union; a state for which India goes to war and continues to bleed. Hence, it was a welcome sight to see all the real mass leaders of J&K sitting across the table with the PM and the Home Minister, making just demands on behalf of the people they represent. Thankfully, the Centre has shed its doubts about the real representatives of the people of J&K and has also abandoned its harebrained plan to create a new leadership there. The failure of the Parivar to create its own platform in J&K, Tamil Nadu or Kerala should be accepted as the vibrancy of our inherent diversity and the Centre should not hold it against Indian citizens living in these provinces.The people of J&K too ought to understand and appreciate their leadership, which suffered incarceration for the sake of their democratic ideals. The local mainstream political leadership — unlike the separatists, who keep looking at Pakistan for investments and instructions — proved true to the people. These politicians have been representing Muslims and Hindus of J&K alike and are Indian nationalists who need to be nourished, not jailed. Sure, there could be corrupt, vile, compromised elements among them — but isn’t that the norm in an electoral democracy? Demonising them is to create a vacuum in which only separatism thrives.With the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor turning into a subcontinental military arc, India needs effective governance in J&K, not a garrison state. Democracy in J&K upheld by its people who elect their representatives under the Indian Constitution is the best antithesis to Chinese concentration camps in Xinjiang and the Sino-Pak military authoritarianism. If it was the fear of the free India turning against British interests that pushed the colonial administration to create Pakistan (as Narendra Singh Sarila brilliantly argues in his book The Shadow of the Great Game) and prompted Major Brown to raise the Pakistan flag in Gilgit, similar concerns ought to force the US-UK-Japan-EU combine to rethink their strategy for the Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean.China is flexing its muscles to establish its hegemony on land and sea encircling India, and also threatening the Persian Gulf. With the US withdrawal from Afghanistan, the possibility of China emerging as a regional hegemon, aided by Putin’s Russia, is very stark. So, beyond the Quad, it is imperative for the Western intelligentsia to stop romanticising religious separatism and to strengthen democratic forces. Democracy won WW-II and it ought to win all future wars, and nothing ensures democracy more than Gandhian inclusiveness.With the June 24 meeting, the Centre has taken the first step, the next is to restore statehood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/next-step-%E2%80%94-jammu-and-kashmir-statehood-277426
03-07-2021||THE Congress is not imploding. It is just that the intense power struggle among various competing interests in the grand old party has entered a decisive phase. The Gandhi trio — Sonia||Congress struggling to set its house in order||Sonia Gandhi, Congress’ longest serving party chief, now seems to have begun discarding her focus on unity within the party at all costs, consensus-building and attempts to carry everyone along. The realisation has come after her rather uneventful stint as AICC’s ‘interim president’ from August 2019, that her son Rahul and daughter Priyanka have a different temperament to run the party organisation. Sonia has reportedly conveyed once again to senior party leaders that she would not like to continue as interim chief, even for a day beyond August 10. As per the Congress constitution, the interim chief, in any case, is not supposed to have a tenure beyond a year.The ongoing political crisis in party-ruled Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh is now witnessing a pattern of sorts. Rahul, who was the 87the president of the Congress and tipped to take over from Sonia, wants to ‘judge’ party leaders at all levels of hierarchy, instead of being guided by the past, experience, loyalty or ‘nuisance’ value. His quest for a ‘new Congress’ has become more complicated in the absence of electoral success, which has been a prerequisite for political authority.Assisting Rahul in the endeavour is Priyanka Gandhi, the in-house crisis manager. Priyanka has subtly elevated Rahul as a ‘supreme leader’ of sorts by meeting disgruntled leader Navjot Singh Sidhu first and then helping him have an audience with Rahul. The subtext for the party leaders was clear — they would get to meet Rahul only after placing their cards on the table and professing loyalty to the young Gandhi.It remains to be seen if the Punjab template would work in Rajasthan, where Sachin Pilot has been waiting patiently for Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to fulfil the promises he had made in terms of accommodating Pilot camp followers in Rajasthan’s council of ministers and the state party organisation. Both Capt Amarinder Singh and Ashok Gehlot are seasoned campaigners and respected leaders within the Congress, though their track record in the Assembly elections is patchy. Capt Amarinder led the party to victory in 2002 and 2017, but suffered back-to-back defeats in 2007 and 2012. Gehlot faced reversals in 2003 as well as 2013.There is more trouble brewing. The Hoodas versus Selja in Haryana; Siddaramaiah versus DK Shivkumar in Karnataka; Bhupesh Baghel versus TS Singhdeo in Chhattisgarh; Kamal Nath versus Ajay Singh in Madhya Pradesh; are part of a rather long list of disputes that require Rahul-Priyanka’s intervention. In addition, the poll preparations for Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Goa need a clearance from the Congress high command. The Congress’ handling of social media and mainstream media, television news etc. has been coming under a lot of criticism from within and outside. Rahul is under pressure to take some drastic and urgent steps.That all is not well in the Congress was evident in the manner a recent virtual meeting took place in the presence of Sonia Gandhi. A discussion on Congress’ social media strategy took an ugly turn even as Sonia watched stoically, if not hopelessly. It happened when a section of the Congress began praising Rahul’s ‘White Paper’ on Covid-19 management against the Narendra Modi government on June 22. Someone intervened to say that on YouTube, it was watched merely by a few thousand people (current viewership is over 55,000) even though the Congress’ own membership would be a few millions or lakhs. An attack on social media head Rohan Gupta followed. Except for KC Venugopal, nobody came to the rescue of Gupta who had owed his allegiance to Ahmed Patel. Towards the end of the discussions, Priyanka Gandhi too reportedly agreed that the social media campaign required a fresh impetus.It is worth recalling that in the 13 years that the mother-son duo worked together between 2004 and 2017, there were many occasions when Rahul’s vision and course of action were overturned and withdrawn by Sonia. The most glaring cases were Rahul’s initial thrust on the restoration of inner party democracy. Senior Congress leaders, also known as the old guard, worked overtime to advise Sonia to confine Rahul to the Youth Congress, NSUI and Sewa Dal. Rahul remained busy as the party general secretary in charge of these frontal organisations, while the main party organisation remained unaffected.The question now is whether Rahul would get a chance to work as per his political instincts. Would it lead to a revival of the Congress is something that only the future can tell. Rahul seems to believe in Om Swami’s quote that “Success by design is infinitely better than a win by chance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/congress-struggling-to-set-its-house-in-order-277457
03-07-2021||CLIMATE risk poses a great challenge to a country’s financial system||Climate risks call for green financial system||Are climate risks in the financial system the domain of a central bank or the federal government? Are political institutions best placed to handle climate-related financial stability issues? Despite divergent views, there is a consensus that the financial system is exposed to systemic risks from extreme climate events requiring central banks to be prepared. Adverse climate events could potentially shift a major part of the economy on a central bank’s balance sheet. There is urgency for a long-term action plan to address transition stretching beyond the political mandate of an elected government. The need is to identify potential climate risks that can hamper a country’s financial system, infrastructure and housing investments.Climate risks are uncertain and irreversible. With increasing frequency and severity, climate disasters have the potential to rupture economic activity, financial system, monetary policy, price stability, inflation and interest rates. Any corresponding reduction in asset values will impact banks, investors, lenders and capital markets. Payments and the clearing system could be affected. The challenge is unique. Recognising this, financial regulators worldwide have voluntarily established a network for greening the financial system (NGFS). This consensus-driven forum has a mandate to share best practices to foster a greener financial system.Despite the recognition of climate risks and rising temperature, stakeholder response in past decades has been dominated by paying lip service, shortchanging environment and ‘greenwashing’, generating public distrust. The word ‘greenwash’ entered the dictionary in the 20th century. It means disinformation dissemination to present an environmentally responsible public image. Governance agenda worldwide needs to urgently tackle environmental insincerity. Investors need to be equipped with tools, instruments and products for making climate-smart investments. Rating agencies have now launched an ESG (environmental, social and corporate governance) evaluation initiative due to the rapidly rising demand to apply ESG lens to investing. Underwriting standards need revision to account for climate risks.Supervisors need to promote investor awareness, research into climate-safe investments, listing of green bonds and facilitate retail green deposits. Despite a rapid growth in green bond issuance volume, market remains in its infancy lacking certification, use of proceeds and disclosure parameters. Standards developed until now lack any regulatory backing. Switzerland-based Bank for International Settlements (BIS) has advocated a case for developing a rating system linked to carbon intensity at the firm level. Regulators are working on common guidelines for issuance and certification of green bonds. EU has proposed a draft of green bond standard for voluntary compliance. The UN has mandated a CFO (chief financial officers) taskforce to provide recommendations for mainstreaming sustainable investments. International rating agencies are gearing up to embed climate risk in assigning sovereign risk ratings. A business-as-usual approach, relying on implicit or explicit guarantees to depositors, will not suffice. Globally, a few regulators have commenced work on linking bank deposit insurance to greening parameters. Central banks are examining options to tweak risk weightage on securities and reserves in favour of green investing.A recent IMF study highlighted that climate change physical risk does not appear to be reflected in global equity valuations. Current asset values may be missing on climate risks. Seeing benefits, the private sector is playing a pivotal role in developing climate resilience. India’s large conglomerate Reliance recently gave a timeline to go net carbon-neutral by 2035, much earlier than BP Shell’s timeline of 2050. HDFC bank declared its intent to go carbon-neutral by 2032. Benefits come in the form of brand value creation, skill enhancement and retention, boosting employee morale, access to capital markets and increased market capitalisation. Company boards could become climate-savvy by sensitising themselves on climate governance to fulfil their oversight and directional role. Recently, New York’s insurance regulator mandated insurers to beef up governance by making a board committee or a senior functionary responsible to address potential climate risks in solvency and risk assessments.Mere AAA rating of central bank reserves is not enough. Financial safety of reserves is incomplete unless blended with safety from climate risks. Central banks now need to invest in climate-resilient AAA reserves that provide the highest degree of safety and are liquid. Charity begins at home and Ireland’s central bank took the first step by disclosing its investment in green bonds. This initiative will help reflect true asset valuations by capturing financial risks related to climate risks. Insurers, private equity, pension and hedge funds are now demanding climate-related financial disclosures.Earlier, 100 institutional investors holding $1.8 trillion in assets asked top 60 banks for robust climate-risk disclosures. Quality disclosures could convincingly move investors’ free will towards green investing. Central banks are examining equating or giving climate-related data the same status as accounting disclosure. There is also a move to consider pricing carbon risk in the context of syndicated bank loans. Carbon intensity data can help capture the severity of financial impact of tightening carbon emission policies.It’s essential to better assess and address climate risk concentrations as financial systems may be underprepared. Monetary policy affects stakeholder behaviour and economic activity. It now needs to reflect a green footprint away from fossil fuels. Is the RBI ready for a green monetary policy? India’s financial regulators will soon need to start making public their position on climate-related financial stability risks. Postponement of a green monetary policy is not an option any more. The IMF has started engaging countries to assess stability risk arising from climate risks. NITI Aayog could help coordinate the initiative. Left unchecked, a transition risk can cause ripples in the financial system and market failures. India needs to be at the forefront of greening the financial sector agenda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/climate-risks-call-for-green-financial-system-277485
