04-07-2021||‘But have you ever heard a story in which the evil person trumps at the end?’ The boy thought for a while before replying. ‘No||Displacements, past and present||— From Nadeem Aslam’s ‘The Blind Man’s Garden’My father breathed his last on May 28. Unable to cope with Covid’s onslaught on his lungs, he slipped away unconscious on a ventilator. He would have turned 77. Born in 1944 in Kamoke, a town north of Lahore, he was nicknamed ‘Baagi’ after the rebellious spirit of freedom fighters. Foreboding the events of 1947, the Sikh family moved to Amritsar just before Partition to avoid forced displacement. But fate would have it otherwise. On a day when my grandfather was away in Kamoke on a work trip, a mob set their mixed faith neighbourhood’s Muslim homes on fire. And it is anybody’s guess, people of which faith(s) would have set fire to the Muslim homes in Amritsar. And they would have known that fire does not discriminate between walls belonging to people of different faiths, the way a virus does not differentiate between the religion of one’s lungs.Her house on fire, my grandmother picked up my three-year-old father and his five-year-old sister, collected her valuable jewellery and escaped to the terrace. Jumping across parapet walls, she fled to safety and reached the Golden Temple where crowds fleeing the sectarian violence had taken shelter. She feared for her husband as news of violence around Lahore was coming in. But fortunately, my grandfather managed to reach Amritsar safely, only to find his home and neighbourhood torched.With a sinking feeling, he started a search for his wife and two children through the city’s lanes. Like everyone, he also reached the Golden Temple to look for them. What a relief it must have been for all of them to reunite in its precincts. The move to Amritsar to pre-empt communal violence did not work out.The family lived an unsettled life for the next few years. First Shimla, then Gwalior and Ganganagar, where grandfather did odd trading jobs, before finally settling in Delhi, where he struggled for many years to set up his own business.Flash forward to the first few days of November of 1984. Mobs wielding sticks and torches roamed the streets of Delhi, targeting Sikh homes to avenge the killing of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh security guards. Sikh men, irrespective of their age, were dragged out from their homes and burnt alive. Houses were torched. Living in fear, my parents along with me as a 10-year-old and my younger brother saw menacing mobs from behind closed curtains on the otherwise deserted street. Smoke arose from the locality’s gurdwara, its marking pole with the religious flag ferociously shaking and brought down. Our apartment was locked from the outside by our Hindu neighbours to protect us, even as young men from the neighbourhood stood vigil to prevent anyone from entering our apartment complex. A few had climbed the terraces with stones to thwart any approaching mob. With telephone lines snapped, there was no way of knowing what had befallen our extended family living in other parts of Delhi. My parents could only pray that everyone was safe. A few days later when there was a semblance of sanity, another reunion with the family. Another sigh of relief. Another narrow escape from communal menace.We are now a mixed family of Sikhs and Hindus and I would not call anyone of us remotely conservative or orthodox. None of us wear our religion on our sleeves. None of us are into any regular religious practice, though not averse to an occasional ceremony if tradition calls for. Yet, I have seen a crucial and significant difference in our attitudes towards the politics of religious majoritarianism that has swept our country since 2014. Many Hindu members of my extended family and their friends, except a few rare individuals, look the other way when it comes to the right wing’s programme of hatred, othering and alienation that minorities face in India today. They are silent over militant Hindutva’s quest for branding India a ‘Hindu Rashtra’, as opposed to the secular republic deemed in our Constitution. Not just deemed, but thriving in our land of diverse beliefs since centuries, even in the face of extreme provocations, like Partition itself. In the absence of any first-hand experience of Muslim society, they have gathered a not-so-favourable impression of Muslims from the binary of Hindu-Muslim narratives that the mainstream electronic media feeds them daily. Not just the sustained attack on minorities, they are mute even over the not-so-hidden design to convert India into an autocracy, destruction of democratic institutions and free speech, promotion of unscientific beliefs, the failing economy and the ever widening gap between the rich and the poor.The litany is long. As the second wave of the virus swept across the country, Modi and his cohorts were busy in an aggressive electoral battle to wrest states where their party has never ruled. Add to that the advancement of the Kumbh Mela at Hardwar by a year on the advice of priests and astrologers. A gathering of a few hundred Muslims at a religious centre in Delhi last year at the beginning of the first wave of Covid was labelled a ‘super spreader’ and ‘corona jihad’ by the same corporate controlled electronic media which has remained silent over the gathering of lakhs of pilgrims at the Kumbh, when there was full awareness of the dangers of Covid and a second wave had been predicted.Is it needless to say that the extreme distress and lakhs of deaths due to Covid have happened due to the ruling dispensation’s goals that have nothing to do with people’s welfare? Goals that are only about stamping an abstract identity on its people in the name of religious nationalism and a glorification of the past?As my father fought the virus in the ICU, a mix of Hindu and Muslim doctors and caregivers looked after him in his last days. They started fondly calling him ‘Baba’ because of his wavy white hair and beard. ‘Baba’ as an expression belongs to no particular community. In some parts of the country, it’s the word for father. It’s also a phrase for addressing a holy or a wise old man. ‘Baba’ survived the communal viruses of 1947 and 1984, but succumbed to a virus that the skewed priorities of the ‘rulers’ have let run havoc through its people. Should I be thankful that he at least died a dignified death in a hospital with the best possible infrastructure, when scores of others died waiting for basic healthcare? That we managed to electrically cremate his body without a painful wait, when scores of others who could not even afford a basic cremation for their dead drowned them in a river, to be carried away by its waters?I can only pray and hope that people who continue to turn a blind eye to all that Modi’s regime stands for, pause and consider. For the vast section of our population which continues to be in thrall of their leader’s histrionics, there is enough melodrama in Indian movies to experience that. We need leaders who have empathy for the weakest and value every human life. And for such leaders to emerge, we all need to rise above meaningless identities. And let the sacrifice of my father, like that of milllions of others of all faiths, not go waste.— The writer is a National Award-winning filmmaker||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/displacements-past-and-present-277883
04-07-2021||When Imran Khan became the prime minister of Pakistan three years back||Imran, a sad parody of his younger self||Bedi sahab then related a memory from a match they played in Pakistan in 1978: Imran had bowled with tigerish hostility through the day; when evening fell, the great Khan was seen jogging around the field of play, not resting with his feet up. “He’s a determined man and fair-minded sportsman,” said Bedi.That’s true, for almost every cricketer he played with acknowledges these qualities of Imran. But alas, since he became the prime minister, what Salman Rushdie said, in 2012, about the great cricketer rings truer with each passing day — “When Imran was a playboy in London, he was called Im the dim.”Dim as in dim-witted, a bit slow in the mental department. That does sound harsh and very impolite, but Imran seems determined to prove the assessment to be accurate. His comments in recent weeks and months betray a regressive, pre-modern thought process — in April, he blamed sexual violence against women on “vulgarity” in dressing: “Not every man has willpower. If you keep on increasing vulgarity, it will have consequences.” Two weeks ago, in an interview with an Australian journalist, he said: “If a woman is wearing very few clothes, it will have an impact on the men unless they are robots. It’s common sense.” Since no man is a robot, women better protect themselves from them — that’s the message the prime minister of Pakistan peddles.Imran rails against the broken family system of the ‘immoral’ West but has gone through two divorces himself. In his playboy days, Imran Khan is said to have dated actresses and socialites, some of whom he’d now probably describe as ‘vulgarly’ dressed. He fathered a daughter in Britain but has never acknowledged her publicly; his ex-wife, Jemima Goldsmith — who has Christian and Jewish ancestry — possesses a better moral compass than him, as is evident from her taking Imran’s daughter under her care.The journalists who knew him in the Britain of the 1970s and 1980s relate stories about his philandering. What has changed now? Is the explanation in biology — hormonal depletion — or psychology, i.e. age effect due to increasing fear of mortality? Maybe both. It’s perhaps this that brought him to the dargah of Baba Fariduddin Ganjshakar in Pakpattan, where he met his future wife, Bushra Bibi, a Sufi pirni known as Ms Pinki in the region. It is maybe religiosity that makes him admire Turkic invaders and call Osama bin Laden a martyr.Or maybe, it’s his political compulsions that make him play to the gallery in a deeply religious country.Whatever the reason, the Old Khan has become a sad parody of the Young Khan, who had the self-control to hang out with women in ‘vulgar’ clothing without jumping at them.When a western journalist recently asked him about his being vocal about ‘Islamophobia’ in the West and silence on the atrocities on the Uighur Muslims in China’s Xinjiang province, he said: “Whatever issues we have with the Chinese, we speak to them behind closed doors.”Soon after that, Imran spoke publicly — perhaps under pressure from Beijing — to Chinese journalists, whom he told: “Because of our extreme proximity and relationship with China, we actually accept the Chinese version.” The implication is that if China had not been investing heavily in Pakistan, he may have paid heed to the overwhelming evidence about the ‘re-education’ of the Uighur Muslims by China. No more “behind closed doors” speaking to China, then?Ageing gracefullyTalking of ageing gracelessly, let’s discuss Roger Federer, who isn’t losing much grace a month before his 40th birthday. Returning to Wimbledon two years after losing the final to Novak Djokovic, Federer is still finding his feet following two knee surgeries last year. In his first two matches at Wimbledon, which he won, at times he looked vulnerable as never before. But also evident were beauty and grace, which distinguish him from his two great peers, Djokovic and Rafael Nadal. Their numbers may vary when they’re done, but as greats, they stand together: Djokovic has the best mental strength, Nadal the best physical strength — and Federer has beauty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/imran-a-sad-parody-of-his-younger-self-277884
04-07-2021||A regimental Police Havildar Major (RPHM) in a Rajputana Rifles battalion epitomises the most sterling qualities of a senior non-commissioned officer. He is of very sound integrity||My homage to all the fauji mothers||The RPHM while I was deployed in Kashmir as a young infantry officer in the 1990s was precisely that. A mature soldier with quite an impressive personality, he also nurtured the trademark Rajputana Rifles moustache, which makes our soldiers appear quite imposing.The RPHM also appeared to have had genuine concern for me. Once when I was on leave, I got home just in time to see him get up sheepishly after a cup of tea with my mother. He told me about some walnuts he had brought for us and then quickly left, leaving me surprised. I understood his discomfort only when my mother confronted me. Apparently, in typical ‘Sholay’ style, he first told my mother about how sincere an officer I was. He built an image of me being intelligent and was very complimentary about my performance in training courses. He told her that these qualities would certainly take me to senior ranks. But then, he added that all that would not work for me if I continued to drink and smoke, something which good officers do not do. In good measure, he told her I was a good leader when it came to operations against terrorists, and though young, I led from the front. But then he also said that I was putting my life at risk.For someone like my mother, who had no idea about the Army or operations, because I did not communicate too well and certainly did not want her to worry, this would have been quite a shock. But, true to her stoic character, she took it all very calmly. She only said that the RPHM appeared a very sensible person and that I should heed his advice.Her strength became a realisation much later. She too went through the emotional roller coaster of my numerous field postings. As a young school-going boy, when I was leaving for the NDA, the only thing she said was, “Why don’t you consider options other than joining the Army?”There were no telephones, she could not read, but she certainly understood how far I was going and what it would mean for the future, much better than I did. For the next over three decades, I only travelled home on vacations to be greeted with much happiness and my favourite food on arrival, but also with uncomplaining tears on departure. She had no idea about what I did and I could never build upon what the RPHM had told her about our operations. But she watched every news report she could about Kashmir, Pakistan and China, always worried about my safety. The only thing she asked of me was to be careful and to look after myself. It is only when I took early retirement that I realised what she might have been going through. Other than my wife, she was the happiest. For the first time, she told me how worried she had always been and expressed relief that I would not go to those dangerous areas again.The only other thing that she asked of me was to live my life with integrity. As I grew in rank, she would often repeat herself, asking me to not do anything wrong even if it meant having less money to spend. I think I learnt more about officer-like qualities from her than during my training.I have no doubts about her great strength of character. She withstood long separations without any complaint, managed her life herself till as long as she could, and never asked anything for herself. In remembering her, I pay homage not just to her but to all the strong and silent fauji mothers who quietly pray for the wellbeing of their children, accept their absence as a matter of fact, and ask for nothing in return.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/my-homage-to-all-the-fauji-mothers-277886
04-07-2021||I was a teenager when I looked at the newspaper one morning and saw a photo of three sisters who had died by suicide by hanging themselves from the ceiling fan in their home in Kanpur||Our daughters want to choose their destiny, will they be able to?||The accompanying text narrated a story of the family’s economic struggle and their anxiety over their inability to arrange dowry for their daughters’ marriage according to community norms. The young women had executed a suicide pact to relieve their parents of the socio-cultural burden of raising daughters in a society where they are perceived as an encumbrance and a potential risk to the honour of the family.It was a wake-up call I was not prepared for. It was one I would have to learn to reckon with.If I was growing up in modern India that was determined to shake off the multiple oppressions of gender, caste, and economic oppressions, then how could young women like me find themselves so desperate that they were unable to imagine a life where they would be able to transcend the shackles of familial expectations? Why did they not feel the agency to fight to live? Why was there no social support system that could hand-hold them out of their distress and show them possibilities that existed?It was the 1980s and the news had shaken me at a deeply personal level. I cut out the photo and news report from the paper and stuck it in my diary. That diary is still lying in a cupboard in my home, reminding me that I owe it to young persons to support them when they are at the end of their tether.Decades have passed, and I am now a parent of teenage daughters. They browsed the news last week and saw the stories of two Kashmiri women, Manmeet and Danmeet, who recorded videos of themselves in which each one speaks with articulate confidence that she has married a Muslim man against the wishes of her Sikh family, and she stands by her right to make an independent choice for herself. A third video surfaced of a woman called Khadija, formerly known as Viran Pal Kaur, who also asserted that she had married and converted to Islam out of her own free will.“People who are trying to spin our stories as cases of ‘love jihad’ are trying to break the brotherhood between Sikhs and Muslims in Kashmir,” says Khadija, who has asked for police protection for her husband and herself.Sikh organisations claimed they were approached by the distressed families and as protests mounted, the SGPC chief, while coming out strongly against the alleged forcible conversion, said though they tried to convince the girl to convert back, she “did not relent and as such we will not force anything on her”.Going by the videos, the young women have trudged a long way in asserting their right to choose their destiny and taking responsibility for their actions.Yet these stories are in the national news because socio-political barriers that seek to use gender and religious identity against young Indians have not backed down, even in 2021. Two of the three women have returned to their families, apparently with the backing of the state police and community leaders.Images of Manmeet, remarried to a Sikh man within a day and brought to Delhi, are circulating on the same social media platforms that host her own video asserting that her family is harassing her. Her husband, Shahid Bhat, is in jail, even though the couple has shared court documents to prove the legality of their marriage.How do we explain this act of controlling the life choices of young people — their decisions of who to love and marry — to our own sons and daughters? How do we allow the state to indulge in such acts where the police enable the separation of a legally wedded couple?Our development indices may show that India has progressed in the 75 years of being an Independent country, but we continue to perpetuate toxic ideas of community honour and manipulative, dysfunctional family systems that prey on our own children, even those who have turned adult.“A casteless society can be built only by inter-caste and inter-faith marriages,” writes Kawalpreet Kaur, a young lawyer, in a Facebook post, reminding us of the progressive values enshrined in the Constitution of our country. India’s daughters are speaking up for themselves and everyone else. If the rest of us cannot stand by them, the least we can do is get out of their way.— The writer is a filmmaker & author. natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/our-daughters-want-to-choose-their-destiny-will-they-be-able-to-277910
