05-07-2021||---||Biden’s India policy takes shape||The appointment of Atul Keshap as the US Chargé d’affaires ad interim in New Delhi last week is the clearest signal yet of where the Joe Biden administration’s India policy is headed. For four years under Trump, the US had no India policy, only knee-jerk reactions. Keshap, who air-dashed to New Delhi within three days of his appointment and took charge of the US mission in the national capital’s diplomatic enclave of Chanakyapuri on Friday, will be a stable hand at the large outpost and work on a road map for the future.Most US embassies in the world are now without ambassadors and are run by Chargé d’affaires. Abbreviated in colloquial diplomatic parlance as Chargé, they will hold fort for many more months since Biden is yet to nominate most of his ambassadors of choice. The US Senate may then take its own sweet time to confirm these nominees before they can proceed to their respective embassies.Assumption of office by a Chargé is usually a routine change of chairs, an internal affair at an embassy in most cases because a Chargé is usually no more than a stand-in for the permanent head of mission. Most often it is the Deputy Chief of Mission (DCM), the serving number two in an embassy, who fulfils the role of a Chargé in the absence of an ambassador. Therefore, such an elevation is rarely a matter of any public interest.The well-publicised announcement in Washington that Keshap will go to New Delhi as Chargé, therefore, stands out. Since Antony Blinken became US Secretary of State five months ago, the State Department has publicly announced the appointment of Chargés only on four occasions. One was the stand in posting of a career diplomat to next door Canada, arguably the most important bilateral relationship for Washington because the US and Canada are conjoined twins. Blinken has sent back as Chargé to El Salvador a diplomat who was ambassador there for three years until 2019. Since this is a decision with few precedents, he made a public statement.It is not a coincidence that the other two announcements had to do with India. Exactly two months before Keshap’s appointment, the State Department made public the choice of his predecessor, Daniel Smith. During his short stint in New Delhi, every door that Smith knocked on, opened for him because he was acting US Secretary of State while Blinken was awaiting his Senate hearings and confirmation in the job. As soon as Biden was sworn in as President, he appointed Smith as acting Secretary of State.Never before has the US sent someone as senior as Smith in the State Department’s professional hierarchy as a diplomat to India. In sending an acting Secretary of State as Chargé to New Delhi, the Biden administration signalled the importance it wants to accord India in its scheme of things. Hence a public acknowledgement that ‘Smith’s appointment underscores the strong US commitment to our partnership with the Government of India and the Indian people. He will spearhead close cooperation with India to ensure that our countries continue to advance our shared priorities, including overcoming the global pandemic,’ the State Department said at that time.Smith was on the verge of retirement when he was appointed in New Delhi. It was Biden’s calculation that in less than two months that were left of Smith’s foreign service, the White House would be in a position to have a permanent head of mission in New Delhi cleared by the Senate and sworn in. But that did not happen. Biden and Blinken did not want their outpost in Chanakyapuri to be undermanned even for a few weeks because they have a vision for India in the making: knee-jerk reactions have put the relationship on a plateau for far too long. Therefore, Keshap was picked to replace Smith.Like many of his predecessors who were Chargés or DCMs, Keshap will be the bedrock of the Biden administration’s India policy even after Roosevelt House, the ambassador’s residence in New Delhi, gets a new occupant: in all probability, Keshap will stay on as DCM. Because of Keshap’s wide-ranging experience in India and South Asia, which has been widely written about since his latest posting to New Delhi, he will be in the same class as the longest-serving Chargé to India in history, Kenneth C Brill.When Brill became Chargé in March 1993, he expected to hold fort only for a few months. But it took a year and a half for President Clinton to find a new ambassador to India, have him confirmed by the Senate and sworn in. Brill was Consul General in Calcutta before he became Chargé in New Delhi. His experience was that on a posting in India, there are more things that count in order to be effective than foreign policy expertise. One of the things that helped Brill in Indo-US engagement in that difficult period was his close association with Mother Teresa from his three years in Calcutta in the 1980s.Mother Teresa once went to Washington and on the spur of the moment called the White House switchboard one morning from a public telephone, asking if she could meet the US President. That very afternoon, the President met her. Brill recalled once that when he was head of Egyptian affairs at the State Department, it took him two months to convince the White House that the President should meet Hosni Mubarak during the Egyptian President’s travel to Washington. Brill’s association with Mother Teresa meant a higher profile for him back home too.Keshap will easily find doors in India opening for him, not because he is Indian American, but because of his professional record. One disservice that Indians could do to him is in over-emphasising Keshap’s Indian heritage. He is a quintessential American, who considers Virginia as his home and the Indianness in him is only an accident of his birth. As much as being American, Keshap is an internationalist born in Nigeria. He and his three siblings grew up in Lesotho, Zambia, Afghanistan and Austria. The appointment to New Delhi came as a birthday gift because it was announced onJune 29, the day he turned 50.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bidens-india-policy-takes-shape-278229
05-07-2021||---||‘Tyranny of the elected’ in a democracy||Shakespeare, writes Stephen Greenblatt in the opening paragraph of Tyrant: Shakespeare on Power, grappled with a deeply unsettling question: How can a whole country fall into the hands of a tyrant? Under what circumstances do cherished, deep-rooted and impregnable institutions suddenly prove fragile?The Bard, suggests Greenblatt, knew tyranny could not happen without the readiness of a nation to abandon its ideals. People can be attracted to mendacity, crudeness and cruelty. ‘Why do otherwise a proud and self-respecting people submit to the sheer effrontery of the tyrant, his sense that he can get away with saying and doing anything he likes, his spectacular indecency?’We hesitate to use the term tyrant in the times of democracy because tyrants are wholly illegitimate. They grab power by force, they rule for their own good, and they show no mercy to dissidents.Hilary Mantel’s three wonderful novels describe in meticulous detail the inhuman punishment meted out to courtiers who fall out of favour of King Henry VIII. Take the execution of Anne Boleyn, a woman who at one point could twirl the king around her bejewelled fingers. For the assembled crowds, the slowly executed beheading was pure spectacle; an unadulterated blood sport.Thomas More, the great intellectual and the author of Utopia, was killed in a similar manner because he refused to accept Henry VIII as the Head of the Church of England. Just like the Duchess said to Alice in Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, a tyrannical monarch is likely to say: ‘Talking of axes, off with her head.’Our worlds are, and should be, different. In a democracy, citizens have the right to hold their representatives responsible for acts of omission and commission. The institutional structure of a democracy is designed to control exercise of unmitigated power. Illegitimate assertions of political power are supposed to be monitored and regulated by citizens. This is democracy.But when the Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana, while delivering the 17th Justice PD Desai Memorial Trust lecture, suggested that the mere right of people to change rulers through elections was no guarantee against ‘the tyranny of the elected’, we are forced to sit up and think. Perhaps, electoral authoritarianism is not an oxymoron after all!We have seen political leaders, bloated with power, misbehave with the very people who voted them to power in the first place. We have seen elected leaders downgrading citizens into subjects.The situation is rich in irony. Democracy transforms subjects into citizens, but elected leaders have reversed the process. Still, a politically aware electorate continues to vote for a party whose agenda is not circumscribed by the Constitution, no matter how ignoble the agenda might be.Indians continue to vote for discredited politicians, accept their lies, disregard their past, overlook their misdemeanours, specifically their failure to govern the country, and pay little attention to intolerance of the slightest criticism.Witness the paradox. Leaders come to power through elections and swear allegiance to the Constitution. And then, some of them ruthlessly proceed to demolish or subvert every provision of the political contract that creates a bond between the people and their rulers.Citizens are rendered vulnerable. They can, of course, invoke the rule of law, appeal to the judiciary, write letters to the government, hope that the media takes up their cause, or hope for support from citizens’ groups in civil society. But mediatory institutions have been rendered toothless. Citizens in the modern state are as vulnerable to the diktats of the authoritarian ruler as the subjects were in the times of the tyrant. They are, probably, more vulnerable because the modern state possesses the kind of power that Louis XIV, who is reported to have said, ‘I am the state’, would have envied.Innovative ways of exercising power have been invented with the help of new technologies. Rulers throughout history have played to the gallery. Today, they intrude into the minds of people through social media and television appearances, through thunderous oratory and the clever mining of aphorisms. Why should we hesitate to call them tyrants just because they formally abide by hollowed-out institutional and constitutional conventions?I doubt whether tyrants or aspiring tyrants read at all, but if they do, they should read Macbeth to understand the futility of power gained at any cost. Once he ascends the throne of Scotland after killing Duncan, Macbeth is edgy and fearful, wracked by ‘restless ecstasy’. “We eat our meals in fear, and sleep to terrible dreams,” he tells his wife. “Better be with the dead/Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace… Duncan is in his grave; after life’s fitful fever he sleeps well… nor steel nor poison/ Malice domestic, foreign levy nothing.” He envies the dead! We almost feel sorry for Macbeth, till we recollect that his path to power is strewn with corpses.Perhaps, democracy, when pushed to its limits, extracts revenge. At some point, the wheel of fortune, in the words of the philosopher Boethius, will turn. A student will stand up, a poet will write, a movement will coalesce, or someone will retell the political message of Shakespeare that “Life’s but a walking shadow; a poor player/ That struts and frets his hour upon the stage/And then is heard no more: it is a tale/ Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury/ Signifying nothing.’An elected tyrant might learn some lessons. Perhaps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tyranny-of-the-elected-in-a-democracy-278242
05-07-2021||---||China-Pak footprint may increase in Afghanistan||Twenty years of the unfinished Afghan war have seen frequent phases of despair, occasional optimism and development of a civil society which started to ascertain its political and civil rights, the inspiring voices of the liberated Afghan women, and on the other hand, expanding Taliban influence, its growing legitimacy with the major regional powers and the group’s deepening confidence in its ability to dominate Afghanistan and run it on its ideological terms and conditions. Ironically, all the major regional powers and the United States have had channels of communication open with the Taliban, except the Afghan government. As the timeline for the complete US withdrawal from Afghanistan is approaching, there are serious concerns and apprehensions regarding the future of Afghanistan as the developments on ground are indicative of nothing less than the probability of a civil war, unless there is rethinking and initiatives from the US and the international community to exercise control on Taliban’s relentless moves.Looking at the current realities, the post withdrawal scenario indicates Taliban dominance and the growing engagement of two major regional powers in Afghanistan — Pakistan and China. Pakistan, that shares a strategic partnership with the Taliban, is trying to shift the blame for the violence in Afghanistan on ISIS. In a recent interview to TOLO News, Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said, “If you try and create this impression that the violence is high because of Taliban again, that would be an exaggeration. Why do I say that? Aren’t other elements over there who are playing the role of a spoiler?” Although Pakistan did project itself as the facilitator of the US-Taliban deal, its commitment to peace and stability in Kabul remains questionable. Islamabad cherished its much applauded role (for some time) in the US-Taliban negotiations but failed to garner the desired brownie points for itself from the West. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) was not convinced of Pakistan’s actions/moves to fulfil the FATF conditionalities and decided to retain Pakistan on the grey list in the recent meeting. Even though Pakistan’s projected posture has been that it wants a stable, democratic and sovereign Afghanistan, its actions present discernible contradictions and indicate little change in its true objectives in Afghanistan. Pakistan has been overly obsessed with the desire to gain strategic depth in Afghanistan. The military and the intelligence agency, the ISI, authored and executed the policy of strategic depth since the late 1980s through the 1990s, when it strongly backed the Taliban. Although Pakistan denies the concept of strategic depth, its actions and apparent objectives in Afghanistan belie the denial. Islamabad would want to have a dominant position in Afghanistan with a pro-Pakistan regime. In Pakistan’s view, a Pakistan-friendly Taliban rule would assist Islamabad in catering to the challenges of the lingering Afghanistan-Pakistan border issue based on the Durand Line. Extending its position on the issue, the fencing of the 2,640-km border with Afghanistan, which began in March 2017, has progressed rapidly despite a backlash from both sides of the border. For Pakistan, having a favourable position in Afghanistan would help it control the mutinous Pashtun voices within. And, most importantly, Pakistan’s strategic interests have little tolerance for New Delhi’s commended (by the Afghans) developmental engagement and soft power in Afghanistan. Pakistan remains deeply insecure of New Delhi’s presence in Afghanistan and feels India’s role in Afghanistan is ‘larger than it ought to be’, as Qureshi told TOLO News.China, on the other hand, would want to expand its engagement in Afghanistan to pursue its security, economic and strategic interests. Unrest in Xinjiang and the support the Uyghur Muslims draw from the extremist forces in Afghanistan has persistently bothered the Chinese. Beijing established contacts with the Taliban in the 1990s to try and seek assurances from the group about not supporting the Uyghur militants to create unrest in the Chinese territory. China is facing international reactions and punitive actions on account of its repressive policies in Xinjiang and at this point of time, Beijing possibly cannot afford additional spillover impact of the Afghan instability in Xinjiang.There has been expression of China’s policies against Muslims in the global jihadi discourse and this is something China would want to guard against in order to secure its presence not only in Afghanistan, but in the neighbouring region — Central Asia, Iran and Pakistan. Also, from an economic point of view, Afghanistan’s inclusion into the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) would facilitate China’s regional economic portfolio. Options, including connecting CPEC via railway to Kandahar and the Kabul-Peshawar motorway, have been discussed. The untapped mineral wealth in fund-starved Afghanistan has attracted Chinese companies since 2007. A strong foothold in Afghanistan places China in a stronger position to contain the influence of the adversarial powers/competition — the US, Russia and India.Despite apprehensions regarding the future of Afghanistan, China has the ambition and political will to expand its role in Afghanistan. Given the deep China-Pakistan alliance, it is realistic to assume that the two major facilitators for Chinese ambitions in Afghanistan are likely to be China’s astounding potential to continue investments despite frequent reports of its economic challenges and its consistently growing alliance with Pakistan. China also initiated a tri-lateral dialogue with Afghanistan and Pakistan in 2017. China will expect Pakistan to facilitate its efforts to convince the Taliban of non-violent positioning and assist its strategic presence, which will be built around infrastructure investments, extended military assistance and soft power expansion in Afghanistan.Pakistan will be a cooperative partner for Beijing and will leverage Chinese presence in Kabul to expand its connections and influence not only with Afghanistan, but with Iran and Central Asia. Turkey, which is evolving as an ideological and military ally of Pakistan and also has Chinese support, has already expressed its willingness to extend its cooperation in Afghanistan. While both China and Pakistan have hitherto been keen for the US and NATO forces to leave Afghanistan, they are now uncomfortable regarding the possibly severe security fallouts of the emerging situation in Afghanistan. The China-Pakistan nexus is likely to cautiously expand in Afghanistan, raising challenges for India’s engagement built over the past few decades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-pak-footprint-may-increase-in-afghanistan-278243
