06-07-2021||---||Go for cost-effective steps to tackle drones||The June 27 terror attack on the Jammu airfield, using two small quadcopter drones, could well signify an escalation of the terrorist threat from Pakistan, which employs multiple dimensions — land, air, water and cyber — to reach the targets in India.In the past, terrorist modules have mostly used the land route to infiltrate and reach their targets. Occasionally, maritime routes have been used — the Mumbai terror attack of November 2008 being the most prominent example.This drone attack is the first known case of the use of the aerial route, possibly employing ‘off-the-shelf’ autonomous drones equipped with GPS sensors to bypass the checkpoints on the land route as well as the perimeter fencing and protective measures.Alternatively, if these drones were ground-controlled, it implies that the controllers could be within a few kilometres of the target area. Such use of the aerial route by Pakistani terrorists to deliver explosive payloads to the target area poses special challenges due to the enhanced potential of wreaking damage to sensitive targets and assets — as experienced at the Russian bases of Hmeimim and Tartus in Syria and Caracas (Venezuela) in 2018 and in the Saudi oilfields in 2019. To that extent, the attempted drone strike can be described as a sudden escalation in terrorist capacity and efforts.Defence installations, especially those close to the border, have been the preferred targets of Pakistan-based terrorist organisations because of the publicity and support it fetches them. Moreover, if these attacks are successful, as has happened on some occasions, it could lead to the lowering of the morale of the targeted units and the general public.Significantly, the protective measures implemented by the forces after the January 2016 attack on the Pathankot airfield, based on the recommendations of the committee convened to review the security of the defence installations, have largely succeeded in preventing infiltration along the land and maritime routes from reaching the military targets.To that extent, in keeping with the global trends, the use of armed drones was predictable, more so as there were recent reports of elements from Pakistan using drones for smuggling or carrying weapons across the border.The Indian Air Force was fortunate that the drone attack against the Jammu airfield caused negligible damage. Nonetheless, the message was clear. Possibly, in view of the recent lack of success of their human terror modules in executing attacks, Pakistan has introduced another low-cost means of carrying out such attacks against Indian targets. The use of drones also enables deniability by Pakistan state agencies, which, predictably, will deny totally or ascribe responsibility to non-state actors.This latest incident, therefore, can be described as another in the long list of hostile and provocative actions against India by Pakistan, which, as usual, has feigned ignorance about the attack. It appears that the aim of this attack was not only to cause damage/casualties and instil insecurity in military units close to the border but also to try and compel India and its armed forces to divert disproportionate attention and resources to deal with this threat.On a higher plane, it would not be far-fetched to infer that the strike could be aimed at diverting capital funds from those aimed at modernising the Indian military to further beefing up protective measures opposite the Pakistan borders. Thus, the Indian security establishment and the armed forces must learn the right lessons. What are the lessons learnt from the latest drone-based terror strike?First, it has been validated once again that Pakistan and its proxies will continue to carry out cross-border terror attacks against sensitive targets in India, especially against security establishments in the vicinity of the border. Henceforth, drones may be the preferred means for executing such attacks due to the inherent advantages of deniability and economy of effort.Therefore, there can be no let-up on our side in ensuring foolproof protective and counter measures. More importantly, whatever its intent, a strategic message must go to Pakistan that lack of a strong Indian response cannot be taken for granted and Pakistan would invite appropriate retaliation across multiple dimensions if it continues with such misdeeds.Secondly, it is time that a review of the security of defence and other sensitive establishments close to the border is conducted, this time with focus on the aerial threat from drones. Low-technology drones, due to their small size and ‘dumb’ nature, pose special challenges for detection and engagement by conventional systems. While technology should play a leading role in dealing with the threat, the thrust should also be on low-cost, easily deployable physical measures which would be easier to implement. The responsibility for coordinating measures to deal with the aerial threat should be with the Indian Air Force. Air defence assets and counter-drone measures of the other services should be coordinated by the Air Force.Thirdly, it is high time that technology-based counter-drone systems are deployed across vulnerable areas to detect and destroy hostile drones. Counter-drone technology involving radars, acoustic mechanisms, radio frequency devices and electro-optical methodology, or a combination of such sensors, should be deployed at the earliest. Priority for such induction should be given to sensitive installations with high-value assets close to the border.Over the last few years, especially after armed drones achieved a devastating effect in sub-conventional conflicts in West Asia and in conventional war conditions in the Azerbaijan-Armenia conflict, it is a given that both state and non-state actors would choose to acquire and employ armed drones in conflict situations.Hence, the efforts to induct armed drones into the armed forces’ inventory should be given an impetus. To that extent, available conventional systems must be reconfigured to deal with this sub-conventional threat.Finally, this attack should serve as a wake-up call to our security establishment. We have to be prepared for the eventuality that the next attack(s) may be more sophisticated and lethal, using better technology and more dangerous payloads. Nonetheless, our response should focus on simple, easily implementable and cost-effective strategies.Care should be taken to ensure that our response is measured and nuanced, in keeping with the actual threat that has unfolded or may evolve. A disproportionate response or extensive diversion of the existing resources would only support the interests of our adversaries.To start with, reactive measures appropriate to the threat as well as some active measures using simple, cost-effective technology should be implemented immediately within the ambit of the protective measures that are already in vogue. Simultaneously, options for possible retaliation should be planned for and honed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/go-for-cost-effective-steps-to-tackle-drones-278795
06-07-2021||---||Sense of identity should shape India’s vision||A nation that can’t imagine a future for itself is doomed to stumble about in history till it falls over. The only role left for it in this globalised world is to try to please those who have been able to imagine a future for themselves and are busy working towards that end. Unfortunately, India today seems to be stuck in trying to live up to the vision of other people, rather than having one of its own.The best that Indians have been able to do in the past 100 years regarding imagining a future is to come up with the idea of ‘Ram Rajya’, an amorphous idea that means nothing when one starts seeking out its details. The best that the socialist India did in this direction was to create a Five-Year Plan, whose focus for the first 15 years was to ensure that Indians saved at least a quarter of their earnings. After that, the Plans became merely a device for the Centre to control the states rather than a device for achieving any goals. Even in the rather limited goal of making money, pretty little was achieved as was evident in the continued poverty and the almost total absence of industries that could service the needs of the nation and its people.Very little was done to ensure that people became capable. And the costs of this have been extremely high. In terms of capability-building, about all that was done was to create five IITs, one AIIMS and one JNU. Between them, these temples of higher learning enrolled just about 1,500 students each year. This meant that very few would get a chance for this privileged education. The rest simply lapsed into torpor. No wonder, the moneyed people took the first opportunity to send their children to the West for higher education as soon as the government removed constraints on such out-migration.Today, of course, India pays heavily for such lapses. According to data collated by the RBI and the MEA, Indian students spent about $7 billion in 2018-19 to study abroad. Most of them did so because they did not get a chance to enter a good college within India.In contrast, at least the US and China have often stated what they wanted to achieve in the future. Those visions, often rooted within the system of higher education, have frequently guided their actions in real life. In the US, such grand imaginings started as early as the 1800s, when the USA was but a strip of land, 50 miles broad, extending from up north to the south, where it was stopped by the territories of the Spanish empire. Alexander Hamilton wrote of how America should oppose European intervention in the Americas. A few years later, this idea emerged as the Monroe Doctrine, in which the US promised to ensure that all debts owed by Latin American countries were paid back to their European principals and, in return, asked the Europeans to never intervene militarily in the Americas. ‘A very big bark from a very small dog,’ remarked the foreign ministers of Europe as they dismissed American bravado.What is important is that the vision did impact the minds of the US residents and urged them to form themselves into a nation which was good and independent. In the decades that followed, the conflict over what was good created rifts and a punishing civil war. But the vision of achieving greatness remained alive.This found expression in the Mahan Doctrine, advocated by Captain Mahan, a professor at the Naval War College, who was promoted to Rear Admiral after retirement. Writing in the early 1890s, he recommended that America focus on dominating the oceans as a first step towards emerging as a great power. This was a time when America had a handful of warships and a few thousand sailors, mostly foreigners. America’s military might have remained what it was, yet by the end of the decade the Americans had defeated the mighty Spanish empire and taken over many of its territories.The point, of course, is about having a vision. Visionless people are destined to flounder about and seek approval from anyone who seems powerful at the moment. Much like the Indians of today.What does the future hold for India? This is a question that thinkers have ignored for too long. Of course, we have had Five-Year Plans in plenty, a few 15-year Perspective Plans and some Grand Plans. But they are all focused only on making money and ensuring sundry ‘millennium development goals’, which the United Nations has foisted upon us. We have done no thinking about creating goals that are suited to our own conditions and requirements.Thus, one of the associated goals was something called the Gross Enrolment Ratio, which focused on enrolling school passouts into college. No one bothered to ask what they would do in college. We ended up creating for ourselves a babysitting programme for adults rather than a system of higher education which would train these adults to stand on their own feet, earn their own livelihood, and if possible, add some value to society. It was almost as if we were waiting for further guidance from the UN, which in those days was under the control of the US.Now that the UN’s control seems to be moving into the hands of China, there is a likelihood that if we remain as unthinking today as in the past, our goals too would change; this time to suit the hopes and aspirations of China. Surely, the present involves the steps that we take to achieve a vision of the future. To that extent, the present is based on how we see the future.A vision for the future is more than dreams of prosperity, of a universal basic income and an end to poverty. No doubt, greater prosperity is an excellent goal. But surely, great nations are defined by something more. For what that ‘more’ may be, for such a vision to emerge, a nation should have a sense of its own identity and of the ideas that move the people. Such an identity and vision cannot be borrowed from other countries.For a country like India, achieving that sense of self has been a long and difficult journey. Even today, Indians remain dogged by low self-esteem and a perpetual tendency to articulate what ‘Indianness’ might be in terms of the supposed beliefs borrowed from the western world. Any such effort is doomed to failure. Nations must define themselves in terms of their own lived experience and not the lived experience of someone in a foreign land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sense-of-identity-should-shape-indias-vision-278777
06-07-2021||---||A Force to reckon with||There is considerable alarm in India’s strategic community as to whether the moves towards restructuring the armed forces to create theatre commands have been sufficiently thought through. A great deal of it arises from concerns that the man chosen to lead the task in 2017, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, has never really had the intellectual heft to handle it. He proved this spectacularly last week in declaring at a seminar that the Indian Air Force was merely ‘a supporting arm to the armed forces, just as artillery support or the engineer support the combatant arms in the Army.’In one sentence, he negated the advances in warfighting that have taken place since World War II, and raised huge question marks about the intellectual underpinnings of the process he and his team are planning to put the Indian military through.It doesn’t take a genius to know that the next conventional war will, in all likelihood, be initiated by cyber attacks, followed by air strikes on the land and sea. To be successful, the Army, Navy and the Air Force will have to use the Indian variants of the American AirLand and AirSea battle doctrines. There will be no room for single service ego trips here; ignore the compulsions of fighting on an integrated war plan, and you lose the war.The purpose of creating a theatre command is the need for a structure that can fight an integrated battle. This is not about ordering a platoon on parade to make a right or a left turn. It is about taking a million-and-a-half-strong, somewhat archaic, war machine and putting it through new paces. The danger is that bits and pieces of that machine may fall off, be forgotten, or be incapable of meeting the new demands.The IAF has categorically made it clear that it has very different views from those expressed by General Rawat. These were put forward at the same seminar by Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. In such circumstances, it would be foolhardy for the military to undertake the leaps being envisaged.Decisions taken without careful study could unbalance the armed forces which, in India’s case, are half-mobilised all the time. For this reason, the Naresh Chandra Task Force of 2011-2012, recommended that a CDS-like figure be appointed immediately, but the process of creating theatre commands be carefully fleshed out through experimentation based on paper studies and joint exercises to debug issues relating to command and control and joint logistics.There are other reasons for caution as well. In 2001, India created the Andaman & Nicobar joint services command, hoping that its experience will show the path towards more geographic joint commands. Few will deny that the experiment has been a failure.India has a long history of dysfunctional jointness of its military. Even though combined arms operations were a legacy of World War II, the Indian military never quite took to them. One of the biggest fiascoes of the 1965 war was when the IAF was not even informed that the Army was launching an attack towards Lahore. The Army’s designation of the 1999 Kargil operation as ‘Op Vijay’ and the IAF’s nomenclature as ‘Op Safed Sagar’ in 1999 tells their own story.It is easy enough, and General Rawat intends to show us, to issue the orders and create the theatre commands. But it will be quite another level of challenge to get these to work as intended. The process of taking forces that have been used to fighting their individual battle and getting them to work with others is not easy. It requires not just paper orders, but large-scale war gaming and simulation, training and exercises on the ground at various levels of complexity. Only when a certain structure becomes viable should it be incorporated into the war plans. The issue is not theatre commands but their shape and the sequential timeline of their creation.The structure of a theatre command also requires a foundation of jointness in a range of other areas. For example, the need for seamless communications between fast moving combat aircraft, slower armoured and ground force units. It may be a better idea to first put in place a series of functional commands — a joint logistics command, aerospace command, a cyber warfare command — to lay the groundwork for the geographic theatre commands.Even greater is the need to establish their intellectual underpinning through joint operations doctrines. One such document was issued in 2017, it was widely criticised for its shortcomings. Just as you need a map to figure out the best and easiest way to reach your destination, so, too, you need a doctrine to first set a goal, then provide a guide that will enable the many parts of the system to work along the commonly agreed path. For practical reasons, doctrines are the intellectual product of collaboration of the different component services. To work effectively, they must be consensual documents, rather than a diktat.The making of all these military moves without first articulating a national security strategy (NSS) is truly to put the cart before the horse. A changed military posture must be based on a larger politico-military guidance from the political leadership as to what is expected of the military. The task of crafting an NSS was assigned in 2018 to the National Security Adviser, as the chairman of the powerful Defence Planning Committee. Since then, there has been radio silence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-force-to-reckon-with-278746
