07-07-2021||---||Strategic vaccine diplomacy the way forward||The world is witnessing new international dynamics this year. Realignments, reconsiderations and re-engagements are occurring. India has moved closer to the US, the European Union (EU) and the G7 and is expanding its role as a responsible G20 member.The India-EU leaders’ meeting in May, followed by the G7 meeting in June, sought India’s role through a preferred strategic convergence. This envisages collaboration in managing the pandemic, its economic fallout, creating resilient value chains, and enhancing vaccine production and accessibility.Such enhanced partnerships cannot wish away extant contradictions. Western partners like to set higher standards for India as for instance, on climate change, WTO issues, and investment rules. India would for its own interests like to be on the side of developing countries.Vaccine production, distribution and wider availability challenge the summits’ consensus as in practical terms, national interests come to the fore. The India-EU leaders’ meeting noted the “importance of effective and inclusive rules-based multilateralism for tackling current and future global challenges.” This has to navigate the shoals of varied national interests since India alone cannot adjust itself to deepening partnerships.In October 2020, at the WTO’s TRIPS Council meeting, India and South Africa sought a waiver amid the pandemic for broader access to vaccine technologies. Scaling up local production can ensure affordable and effective access to vaccines. India can use its manufacturing capabilities, expand production with western partners and increase accessibility, including through COVAX.Six vaccines approved by WHO received COVAX focus and mainly Pfizer and AstraZeneca doses have been delivered so far. Most COVAX orders went to the Serum Institute of India (SII). European or US manufacturers did not contribute much to COVAX as they built their own reserves, catering to national requirements. As of May 2021, India contributed 107 million doses in bilateral grants, 357 million commercially and 198 million under COVAX. This halted when the second wave hit India. The realisation dawned that manufacturing capacities needed expansion as Europe, the UK and the US faced inadequacy of their own manufacturers in fulfilling commitments. The concept of sharing started falling prey to vaccine nationalism, while multilaterally, countries committed themselves to vaccine globalisation. The same EU leaders who in May 2020 spoke about the vaccine as a ‘global public property’ are now resisting the TRIPS waiver.Over 100 countries now support the waiver, including the US. With the EU nations, there is little meeting ground because they believe that vaccine producers like India should invoke compulsory licensing instead of seeking waivers.The EU sees the US as playing to the gallery by supporting the waiver without contributing to actual resolution in WTO negotiations. The WTO has been the place where the EU and developing countries, particularly India, have had several showdowns. These continue despite the strategic consensus at the India-EU and G7 summits.Another issue is of vaccine passports. The EU, as always, wants to protect itself from everybody else. Its Green Pass is a noble thought for its own citizens. Increasing trade and investment ties mean a larger number of business people travelling between India and the EU. Germany, France and other European countries have attracted a larger number of Indian students who now face problems related to access, despite obtaining admissions. These need empathetic resolution while upholding the safety of citizens. But, is the European Medical Agency (EMA) the right authority for the purpose? For EU people to travel freely within Europe, the EMA can set standards, like the Green Pass, for themselves. Extending that as a vaccine passport to non-European countries is a challenge.At the G7 Health Ministers’ meeting in June, India opposed this concept as discriminatory. The WHO is not in favour of such a vaccine passport, which would benefit only limited countries and restrict travel to people with access to vaccines. The Green Pass is limited to vaccines in operation in the EU and is meant to facilitate movement within Europe. It ought not be linked to restricting wider access.The Green Pass covers four EMA-approved vaccines, not all the six approved by the WHO. For a global travel pass, something like a WHO-approved yellow fever certificate is preferable, once vaccine access is credible, not earlier. If the EMA wanted to deal with non-EU travellers, it should have moved quickly to work with WHO-approved vaccines, including Covishield, which EU countries have funded under COVAX for many countries. Providing a vaccine and then prohibiting access to its users is problematic.Undoubtedly, the SII had not applied to EMA. It is unclear whether applications were being called for, or a determination was being done by the EMA itself. A market authorisation application would invoke EMA consideration. India need not go the EMA route; it should persist with a WHO-led format.Since India is carrying out a major vaccination exercise and Indians are important partners to countries like Germany, Estonia and Spain, nine Schengen countries decided to accept the Covishield CoWin certificates. Thus, individual EU countries moved to not let the EMA become an irritant with India.If the spirit of a new strategic consensus to combat the pandemic prevails, vaccine-producing EU countries like Germany could consider a vaccine initiative with India. This could be like the Quad vaccine proposal and work alongside to establish the norms with mutual acceptability. A surge in production requires a supply chain of over 300 ingredients. This will not emerge from a TRIPS waiver but from a thought-out collaborative effort. The Quad idea is moving slowly but in the right direction. EU countries could parallel it.India could choose its battlefields more selectively, as it did on the Green Pass. Consensus-building outside the framework of contentious institutions is a better choice that will contribute to making vaccines a truly ‘global public property’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/strategic-vaccine-diplomacy-the-way-forward-279148
07-07-2021||---||BJP does balancing act to check dissidence||The BJP has reasons to applaud and raise a toast to the success that came its way over the past seven years. The party’s website commemorates every milestone there is to celebrate. The BJP is the world’s largest party with 11 crore members, it rules at the Centre and over 18 states and union territories autonomously or in conjunction with allies, and has an unassailable grip over Parliament with 301 MPs in the 543-member Lok Sabha and 95 in the 245-member Rajya Sabha. With its rapid spread in the east and the north-east, the BJP has shed the tag of a party confined to the north and west of India. The south stands like a parapet against the unbridled expansion and the core beliefs enshrined in the BJP’s versions of nationalism and Hinduism.Power carries a price tag despite generously rewarding the BJP. The cost entailed in maintaining and retaining defectors from the other parties — variously labelled as imports, turncoats, opportunists and weathervanes — is enormous. These are men and women who did not enter the BJP to embrace its ideology and imbibe the RSS’s bible. Their entry was a derivative of the party’s rise to a pole position where it held out the promise of a supreme patron handing out the loaves and fishes of power in much the way the Congress did in the decades gone by. There are two significant differences: the BJP was birthed by an ideologically motivated RSS, albeit out of expediency, when the Sangh needed political and parliamentary presence to lobby in crises and was part of a large family with equally ambitious progenies desirous of sharing power. On the other hand, the Congress spawned off-springs such as the Sewa Dal and the National Students’ Union of India that were always subservient to the parent. Second, the BJP or the Bharatiya Jana Sangh in its previous incarnation was on the political periphery until 1989 but the party organisation was put together by dedicated founders who never swerved from the original political objectives and built a corps of workers, initially drawn from urban India, with the RSS’s help. Barring stray individuals, the core team remained unquestioningly loyal to the BJP through thick and thin. But the BJP’s recent enlargement and the large-scale induction of defectors from the Congress and regional parties etched their own fault lines. Added to this trend is the over-centralisation of authority in identifiable power centres ensconced in Delhi which ride roughshod over the regions and the provincial satraps who were law unto themselves in the years when the nucleus was less strong.A recent manifestation of the post-2014 features was in the leadership changeover in Uttarakhand, seven months before the assembly elections. The BJP anointed its third chief minister in four years. The first, Trivendra Singh Rawat, went out on account of his ‘unpopular’ decisions, one of which upset the powerful Hindu clergy. His successor, Tirath Singh Rawat, a Lok Sabha MP, had to quit ostensibly because he could not meet the deadline set for his election to the legislature. The view from inside the BJP was that the leadership was afraid for Rawat to contest a bypoll in case he lost. If this reasoning is even partially true, it shows that despite the Congress’s failure to step up to the plate, the BJP is unsure about its prospects of returning to power. The choice for the third incumbent fell on a relatively younger Pushkar Singh Dhami, who like his peers in Himachal Pradesh and Goa, Jai Ram Thakur and Pramod Sawant, enters through the by now established route of the ABVP and the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. If demography were a determinant, nothing explains why the leaders could not have chosen the 45-year-old Dhami over the senior Rawats in the first place. Except that Uttarakhand has a line-up of CM aspirants, consisting of the BJP’s originals as well as the migrants who are reportedly miffed at being passed over thrice and could work against the official candidates in their districts in the elections.Over to another state, Tripura, that was trumpeted and showcased as a bang-up win in 2018 after the Left Front government was ousted, because the event marked the victory of ‘nationalism’ over ‘communism’. Two years hence, the BJP government, led by Biplab Kumar Deb of RSS provenance, was up against intra-party dissensions led by seven legislators, all from the Congress and the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Before the elections, the BJP lacked a viable functioning organisation and candidates. However, realising the groundswell of anger against the Left Front government, the BJP pressed its traditional attributes, like campaigning and propaganda dissemination, to advantage and channelised popular disenchantment into an offensive against the former CM, Manik Sarkar. The Congress and the TMC were ineffective counters. Seeing the wind blow in the BJP’s favour, their leaders and rank-and-file switched allegiance and filled in the human resources vacuum. However, under Deb, the trust deficit between the originals and the outlanders never closed. They were mutually suspicious to the extent that Sudip Roy Burman, a former Congressman who became a minister, was dropped for allegedly “conspiring” against the CM.In Madhya Pradesh, when the BJP candidate was convincingly defeated by the Congress nominee in the Damoh Assembly bypoll in May, the axe fell on Jayant Malaiya, a former BJP minister and a heavyweight at that, on the suspicion of sabotage. Rahul Lodhi, the candidate, came to the BJP from the Congress in the en masse defections that precipitated the downfall of the Kamal Nath government. In this instance, a BJP old-timer paid the price for allegedly getting back at a Congress defector.Goa, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh are the other states that exemplify a system stressed out by the pulls and pressures of power and possibly, of overreaching its ambitions. The tension between adhering to the RSS’s ideology and executing its divisive agenda and maintaining the power balance among a motley group of new inductees is one aspect of the New BJP. Undergirding the unwieldy growth is a powerful and cohesive centre in the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah who so far have demonstrated an uncanny ability to hold together the contradictions. It’s not just about enforcing ‘discipline’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjp-does-balancing-act-to-check-dissidence-279149
07-07-2021||---||Taliban holds peace key||As America left the Bagram air base in Afghanistan last week to signal that it had effectively withdrawn its forces much before the September 11 deadline set by President Biden, attention has turned to the immediate and mid-term future of a country ravaged by conflict and instability for over four decades. This is not unnatural, for the departure of the Americans is not proceeding, at least as yet, in circumstances they themselves, a large section of the region or the Kabul elite, had desired.Effectively now, the choice of either war or peace, the latter however tenuous, is with the Taliban. That this crucial initiative has passed into Taliban hands shows many American and Afghan failures: global attention has focused on the military successes of the Taliban; what has escaped adequate attention is the failure of the Kabul elite to meet inter alia the social and cultural challenge posed by the group. It is necessary to examine it, especially in the context of the emphasis being given by sections of the international community, including India, of ‘preserving the gains of the past 20 years’. The very fact that it is found necessary to make such calls is indicative of the Kabul leadership’s failure in rooting these gains in firm countrywide social and cultural foundations. That can be attributed to the Kabul elite’s inability over the past two decades to deny cultural, social, ideological and even theological space to the Taliban in Afghanistan, especially in the Pashtun heartland.At least since the middle of the 18th century, Afghanistan has been dominated by the Pashtun ethnic group. It is the largest group but its claim to constitute a clear majority of the population is contested by the other important groups which are Tajik, Hazara and Uzbek. Ethnicity is a very important fact of Afghan social and political life and the Pashtun traditionally, and today also, consider themselves as the natural leaders of Afghanistan. Whereas historically, they did not think it necessary to share power with others, now they do, but only on their terms.At its core, the Taliban is Pashtun, though over the past two decades, it has co-opted other ethnicities. It draws its strength from the Pashtun areas in the south and the east. Significantly, it does not entirely conform to the traditional ‘mazhab’ of Sunni Afghans, though many of its leaders have been schooled in Deobandi madrasas. (Once a renowned Afghan jihadi leader, a pious Muslim himself, told me in the 1990s that he did not understand Taliban doctrines!). Its cultural practices have exhibited extreme forms of Pashtun conservatism and regressive Islamism.American intervention in 2001 did not finish the Taliban, for its leaders, along with a considerable number of supporters, managed to cross the Durand Line into Pakistan and the rest went back to their homes in the Pashtun areas. This provided an opportunity for the Kabul-based Pashtun leaders who came into power to actively combat the Taliban ideologically and theologically in the Pashtun heartland and in Pashtun communities elsewhere in the country. These initiatives had to be led by President Hamid Karzai and his Pashtun colleagues through personal contacts with the people, not so much in Kabul as through repeated tours in the Pashtun areas. This they seldom did. Most preferred the safety of Kabul and thus left the field open to the Taliban to continue to spread and consolidate its influence. Local notables were called to Kabul to meet Karzai, and later, Ashraf Ghani too, but it is one thing for leaders to have met them in the safety of their dwellings and offices in the capital and quite another for them to spend time in the provincial capitals and even more in the villages. The Kabul Pashtun leaders should also not have allowed traditional tribal Pashtun divisions to stand in their way.Security considerations and the weakening of Pashtunwali—the code of the Pashtuns—perhaps contributed to many of them, especially the Presidents, seldom undertaking tours of the country. These were essential to demonstrate that they had the courage to move among their own people even amidst the violence. Many Kabul-based post 2001 Pashtun leaders belonged to the Afghan diaspora. They had weak roots in the countryside and lacked the credibility which would have enabled them to counter Taliban ideology. In this respect, the non-Pashtun Kabul-based leaders maintained a better connect with their ethnicities through travel and tours of their areas, though they, too, faced charges that they did not do so sufficiently. Over the years, the capital rootedness of the Kabul elite helped the Taliban narrative that they were foreign puppets and birds of passage.A new generation has come of age in Afghanistan over the past two decades. It is connected with the world through social media and is aware of the systems and values of the present times. Afghan women in the capital and in the non-Pashtun areas are asserting that they would not accept the rigid and violent codes which the Taliban had adopted on gender issues. The ethnic minorities would also not willingly submit to the Taliban; the fact that militias under local commanders are forming are a manifestation of this unease. The problem, though, is that it is not fully known the extent to which the Taliban has succeeded in developing a constituency among non-Pashtuns. In this respect, the Taliban’s recent swift moves in north-eastern Afghanistan are worrying. Amidst all this, the key lies in the prevailing social and cultural attitudes of the Pashtuns in their heartland, for it is from there that the Taliban draws strength. And there is no evidence that Talibanism is being actively shunned there—where it matters.The international community should never accept the gender policies pursued by the Taliban regime in Afghanistan in the 1990s. It should also find unacceptable its reprehensible approaches towards religious minorities, including Shia Muslims. Will it show the required unity to shun the Taliban if it captures power in the country and policy-wise gives up the gains of the past 20 years? It does not seem so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/taliban-holds-peace-key-279150
