08-07-2021||---||Theatre commands need careful planning||While democracies are considered to be the most evolved means of governance, nations not only take pride in their evolution as mature and evolved democracies, but also exhort others to follow suit. What ensues, however, is changing public perceptions based on a popular mandate which might sway the course of nations to paths unknown and may not deliver the promised results. Something similar seems to be underway in the national military discourse on the formation of integrated theatre commands. The examples being quoted to buttress the logic emanate from the integrated theatre commands of the US and China. A brief exposure to the structure and organisation in these countries is essential before we make an attempt to replicate them, if at all, in the Indian context.The first country in the world to contemplate the creation of theatre/functional commands was the US. This was done through the Unified Command Plan (UCP) which is a strategic document that establishes the missions, responsibilities and geographical areas for the commanders of the combatant commands. The UCP is a classified executive branch document prepared by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and is reviewed every two years. The recommendations are made directly to the President through the Defence Secretary on any necessary changes. The country presently has seven geographical and four functional commands. Functional combatant commands operate across geographic boundaries and provide unique capabilities while the geographic combatant commands operate in clearly delineated areas of responsibility having a regional military focus. Each of these has the requisite force levels and an integral command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR) network. Geographical commands are under a single commander and can seek assistance from a functional command when required.The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China was initially organised according to military regions that fluctuated from 13 to seven to five. In 2014, the military regions were reduced to five and a need was felt to have joint command with ground, naval, air and the Second Artillery Corps forces. This was planned to change their concept from primarily ground-oriented defence to a coordinated move of all services and enhance air and naval capabilities into the East China Sea. In February 2016, the military regions were changed to replicate the US model by creating five geographical peace-time commands, the major difference being that they are all within mainland China, having divided the country into five regions or theatres. The reason for China adopting this policy was to develop an integrated joint operations capability, promoting joint training between services which hitherto was found wanting prior to the restructuring. The Western Theatre Command of China encompasses a geographical area larger than the landmass of India.The US has been a superpower ever since the world wars. Having fought against the Nazi forces and its requirements of maintaining the balance of power during the Cold War era, the need to have a global military presence was inescapable. Technologically advanced with an annual defence budget of $778 billion in 2020, the country remains the undisputed global power. With a change in administration this year, the commitment of Joe Biden towards NATO and other global challenges has only increased. The country will continue to receive bipartisan support for its military spending and defence budget in the coming years.China aspires to challenge the hegemony of the US and it views its military modernisation as a necessity to achieve the same. With the Chinese Communist Party having supreme control and authority to not only spend money, but also bring about reforms and structural changes in the military dispensation without any opposition, its path to becoming a superpower only becomes easier. The forces that China can bring to bear on India, only through its Western Theatre Command, pose a credible military challenge.India is probably the only nation in the world which faces two hostile nuclear powers with whom boundary issues remain unresolved even after more than seven decades of its independence. We are the world’s largest democracy with 18 per cent of the world’s population and just four per cent of the world’s GDP. The growing demands of a developing nation make competing demands of ‘guns’ and ‘butter’ difficult to fulfill. India’s defence budget has not crossed 2.5 per cent of its GDP in the last decade. Increased spending on defence, with the after-effects of the Covid pandemic, is a remote possibility. While we as a nation are unable to commit to increased spending on defence because of our developmental and economic imperatives to alleviate poverty, we cannot afford to be lulled into thinking that ‘doing something’ will alleviate our security concerns. Moreover, we as a nation, governed by political imperatives, would find it difficult to expect the kind of commitment that the CPC accords to military spending. Neither can we expect the kind of budgetary support that the US gives to its military modernisation. “If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it,” a famous proverb says it all when we talk of reorganisation of theatre commands in the Indian context.Every country expects its armed forces to protect its citizens and the nation from external aggression and to assist in humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HADR) apart from being called upon to help in nation- building through military diplomacy and other means. Structural changes, unfortunately, do not lead to changes in mindset and means of waging war. In order to ensure that the proposed changes bring about reform and ensure optimisation of resources, it is necessary to have both a worm’s and a bird’s eye-view. A bird’s eye-view is required to look at the strategic level to where we would like to see ourselves as a nation 15-20 years from now and what resources/alliances that we need to commit to, to ensure it. A worm’s eye-view will tell us what is required to achieve synergy. Joint planning is the elephant in the room as far as military operations are concerned. To achieve optimisation of results, joint planning and training is the sine qua non. When we talk of national threats, we need a ‘whole of government’ approach and it is not very different from the military. There is no denying the fact that the armed forces have to fight together, and for that to happen, the first step is planning together.Given the available resources and organisational structures, with respect to the threats that we face, it is unlikely that one theatre commander would be able to effectively deal with the same. There is no gainsaying the fact that in any operation, speed is of essence and air assets would be critical to achieving the same. Do we have the luxury of spreading our meagre resources thin into various theatre commands? Have we planned together to achieve this? Have we done enough war-gaming to see how this would pan out in case of a crisis? Let us not fall prey to being seen to be doing something in trying to fix something that doesn’t need fixing, while leaving things that need fixing. History would not judge us kindly in the future if we make haste to take decisions without thinking them through logically.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/theatre-commands-need-careful-planning-279723
08-07-2021||---||Rules should cover both online, offline retail||Online delivery of goods and services has become an essential part of our daily life. The desire to avoid getting infected by Covid through personally visiting shopping areas has vastly added to the lure of the online marketplace. Since we are now relying on e-commerce for the entire gamut of essential supplies, the government’s proposed new guidelines to regulate online marketing platforms should be of concern for all of us.The new draft e-commerce rules must be viewed in light of the fact that India is not the only country taking a close look at the activities of the global e-commerce giants. Both the US and the European Union have launched anti-trust probes against Amazon and other Big Tech companies. One of the key fears is that the tech giants are playing a dual role as a marketplace operator and a seller, thus laying them open to the charge of being anti-competitive.Similar issues had been raised in this country nearly three years ago when Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart were asked to ensure that they operated only as a marketplace rather than a seller as well. Precisely the same issues have been raised by the US and European regulators who have pointed out that data from third party sellers is used to inform Amazon’s first party business decisions. They have highlighted the fact that the company has access to privileged data of third party sellers that is unavailable to others and this is used to adjust sale strategies of its own products.The latest set of rules proposed in this country for e-commerce players is linked to these very concerns. But the new regulations will not just be applicable to foreign online marketplaces but also to domestic players. The stipulation that companies associated with the online marketplace cannot be available on the site is expected to hit domestic players like the Tatas and Reliance. This is fair enough as there should be a level playing field for all sellers in the online marketplace. The advantage of getting access to privileged data of third party sellers should not be available even if the online platform is owned by an Indian company.At the same time, consumer protection, both in the online and offline arenas, needs to be kept in mind while formulating regulations for the e-commerce sector. The need to prioritise consumers’ interests is gradually being given primacy on the online platforms, judging by the new provisions in the draft guidelines. For instance, the new rules suggest that online marketplaces should be held liable for faulty or defective products, rather than merely leaving it as the responsibility of the selling party. This is all to the good as these platforms should carry out some basic scrutiny before allowing unscrupulous operators to transact business on their sites.On the other hand, the question is, whether there are rules laid down for consumer protection in the case of brick and mortar retailers. The answer has to be no. In fact, consumers face great difficulty in trying to return or get refunds for defective products through the physical shopping channels. The tradition of ‘caveat emptor’ or ‘purchaser beware’ has ruled the markets in this country for decades despite the spate of consumer protection laws.Buyers can only find relief by going to consumer courts, which is a time-consuming and uphill task, especially if the issue pertains just to one product or one of low value. In most cases, consumers are left to the mercy of retail outlets which are generally dismissive of complaints. In sharp contrast, the online marketplace has brought relief to the Indian consumers by introducing global norms for returns and refunds. One of the lures of buying online is not just the steep discounts, but equally the prospect of easily returning a product and getting a quick refund, or alternately, exchanging it for another item. In fact, it would be wise for traders’ associations to examine these issues and bring about the much-needed changes before complaining only about the unfair discounts on products given by online marketing platforms.It is here that the government needs to step in and play a more proactive role in favour of the common man. It is certainly true that small brick and mortar kirana stores are the backbone of the retail economy, and as such, need support if they are not to be wiped out by large retailers as well as e-commerce. Even so, it is high time for such retail outlets to become more consumer-friendly.Some changes have already been wrought in this sector. The introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) brought about a sea-change in the small retail segment by bringing in the computerisation of accounts. This radical change also brought it under the tax net. It now needs to adopt a more consumer-oriented approach — “caveat venditor” or “seller beware” — taking responsibility for products sold, in line with global ethical business practices.Clearly, policies for the retail economy need to be evolved in a manner that takes into account both the brick and mortar segment and e-commerce. The fact is that many e-commerce players are in the former segment as well, with physical stores in many locations. Even Big Tech has been visualising the growth of smart supermarkets where consumers can make purchases without making any physical payment at all.So, the futuristic melding of online and offline is actually on the horizon and policymakers need to keep this fusion in mind rather than formulating policies in silos either for one or the other. It has to be recognised that the growth potential is enormous as projections made by Forrester Research expect the size of the retail economy in this country to grow to $1.3 trillion by 2024 from $883 billion currently. Protection for small kirana outlets is surely necessary as the consumer banks on them much more than either large retailers or online platforms. But modernisation cannot be stalled and this is a process that the government should promote aggressively to meet consumers’ needs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rules-should-cover-both-online-offline-retail-279720
08-07-2021||---||The new drone challenge||Public attention in India is now on the drone attack on the Jammu air base. The attack was obviously masterminded by the ISI. Pakistan has used drones for some years now, to provide weapons and ammunition for terrorists infiltrated across the international border and the LoC in Punjab and J&K. New Delhi has woken up rather late in devising countermeasures to deal with the menace of drone attacks. It is time India developed measures not only to deal with challenges posed by incoming drones, but also by developing and utilising its own capabilities to undertake such cross-border operations. An Israeli partnership in developing our capacities, both defensive and offensive, in the production and use of drones could be very useful.It would also be imperative to keep a close eye on developments on the use of drones, in which Pakistan and China would be working together. We should assess the mess that Pakistan has landed itself in the recent past. Its woes started with the fiasco it landed in, thanks to its foreign minister, who proclaimed that Pakistan had done all that was necessary to end international financial sanctions at the June meeting of the FATF. The FATF, in turn, proclaimed that there could be no question of Pakistan being removed from its ‘grey list’. It added that Pakistan was yet to ‘address concerns regarding investigation and prosecution of senior leaders and commanders of designated terror groups’.The FATF also noted that there are still ‘deficiencies’ in the measures Pakistan has taken to check money laundering and terror financing. These deficiencies pertained to Pakistan’s investigation and prosecution of senior leaders and commanders of UN-designated terrorist groups. This FATF statement amounted to direct criticism of Pakistan for allowing the likes of Hafiz Mohammed Saeed and Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi of the LeT and Maulana Masood Azhar of the JeM to move around freely. India had, rather thoughtlessly, released Azhar during the hijacking of IC 814 to Kandahar. Azhar responded promptly to our ‘generosity’ in releasing him by masterminding the attack on our Parliament in 2001.The ISI will blame India, while speaking without any proof, of an ‘India hand’ in all that is happening in Pakistan. It remains to be seen how the present situation plays out. There is one reality the Pakistan establishment cannot ignore. That is the growing Pashtun alienation in Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, bordering Afghanistan. The Pashtun alienation arose from brutal cruelties perpetrated by the Pakistan army. The army’s massive military operation, titled ‘Zarb-e-Azb’, which also involved the use of air power, resulted in an estimated 5 lakh Pashtuns fleeing from their homes.Pashtuns have a tradition of not forgetting, or forgiving, those guilty of perpetrating atrocities, like those the Pakistan army resorted to. The armed Pashtun Tehriq-e-Taliban, Pakistan (TTP) is challenging the Pakistan army in Balochistan and tribal areas of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Pashtuns elsewhere in Pakistan are uniting politically under the Pashtun Tahafuz Mahaz (PTM) to vigorously criticise Pakistan’s military establishment for terrorising the Pashtun people. The PTM has demanded that landmines that were laid by the Pakistan army must be removed from the Pashtun tribal areas.There is growing international concern about a possible Taliban takeover in Afghanistan. There have been Taliban successes in a handful of Pashtun-majority districts. The Taliban has established its control in an estimated 80 districts that are predominantly Pashtun-majority (out of the 417 districts in Afghanistan). The Iranians have made it clear that they will not just close their eyes if their Shia Hazara brethren face a Taliban onslaught. Moreover, the Tajiks, who constitute 35% of Afghanistan’s population, will not just lay down their arms, and mildly capitulate. Finally, the large Pashtun population that has tasted what freedom means, after the Taliban was ousted, will resist a return of Taliban tyranny. The Russian ambassador in Afghanistan recently noted that Russia does not believe that the Taliban can capture Kabul.The Taliban is neither respected nor liked in Afghanistan’s neighbourhood, in Iran, and across Central Asia. Its mistreatment of Afghanistan’s Shia Hazara population is legendary. It earned them the wrath of Iran. Moreover, even when the Taliban was ruling Afghanistan, before US intervention, it faced resistance from the Northern Alliance, an alliance of non-Pashtuns, led by the legendary Tajik hero, Ahmed Shah Masood, who fiercely resisted both the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, and the subsequent Taliban government, led by Mullah Omar. The Northern Alliance included members of the Tajik, Uzbek, Turkmen and Hazara populations of Afghanistan. It received active support from Iran, India, Russia, France and Afghanistan’s Central Asian neighbours. India obtained over-flight facilities from Iran and an air base in Tajikistan for transporting supplies to the alliance. The then Taliban government had virtually no international recognition, except for continuing support by Pakistan. It colluded with the hijackers of IC 814. The Taliban fled from Afghanistan to Pakistan after Afghanistan was taken over by the US. The present Taliban leadership is largely made up of Mullah Omar’s protégés.Pakistan now wants to seal its borders with Afghanistan. It has been involved in a serious effort to construct barriers across the Durand Line. Virtually no Pashtun has ever recognised this border. The Taliban has, in fact, indicated that its borders extend to the Pakistani town of Attock. Fears of a Taliban takeover could lead to hundreds of people of Indian origin seeking to flee to India. New Delhi would, hopefully, observe its traditions of welcoming refugees, fleeing from Taliban oppression.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-new-drone-challenge-279716
