09-07-2021||---||India will have to fend for itself along the LAC||India cannot deter China from its coercion, intimidation and offensive military action along the LAC due to the military and economic power asymmetry. China’s comprehensive national power is seven times more than India’s. Its GDP is $15.5 trillion compared to India’s $2.9 trillion. China has the second largest economy. It is the world’s largest investor, spends three times more than India on defence and has the world’s second most powerful armed force, including the biggest navy.By not defining the LAC, China can indulge in salami-slicing. Its latest foray in east Ladakh has yielded around 800 sq km of territory and altered the LAC more or less, according to its 1959 alignment of LAC.The power differential includes the huge infrastructure disparity in Tibet and Xinjiang compared with India. During the first military standoff at Sumdorong Chu in 1988, India and China were roughly on a par with each other in different power indices and India was emerging as a regional military power.China has broken the 1988 consensus and strategic equilibrium by violating protocols put in place to ensure that peace and tranquility prevails on the disputed border, which is a necessary and essential condition for normal bilateral relations.As part of its Wolf Warrior diplomacy, it has now falsified the narrative, portraying India as the aggressor and contending its deployment on the border was to prevent India from encroachment on China’s territory.Beijing has paraded the Pangong Lake flag among its army units to commemorate the bravery of its troops in Galwan, in particular, and in east Ladakh, in general. Chen Hongjun was one of the four martyrs of Galwan. He was posthumously valourised during the recent centenary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) for defending and guarding the country’s borders.In editorial columns one year after Galwan, our diplomats and generals have suggested ‘external balancing’ as a means of bridging the power gap —building balancing or countervailing coalitions with other nations that will support India in international fora as well as sell modern weapons, platforms and technology.In the Indian experience, no country has parted with high-grade technology and raising the FDI limit in defence to 74 per cent has made little difference. Quad is cited as an example of a balancing coalition and power centre in the Indo-Pacific. But it is not a military coalition, it’s just a strategic grouping of like-minded democracies, which, at best, will have token maritime influence from the collective naval exercises by the US, Japan, Australia and India as part of the expanded Malabar series.Routine exercises in the Indian Ocean Region will have little or no bearing on events in Ladakh. What Quad may do in the future when and if it adopts the military avatar is to invoke the Chinese Malacca dilemma, with New Delhi acting as the pivot. Any military action on the high seas against Chinese maritime assets will be construed provocative, even an act of war.Quad is certainly one method of containing China to partially offset India’s continental handicap along the LAC. With Quad transforming into a military grouping or alliance, India risks losing its highly coveted strategic autonomy. Speaking last month at the Qatar Economic Forum, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar, when asked what role Quad could play as a counterweight to the LAC situation, answered: “I think when it comes to Quad and India-China border issue, we are talking apples and oranges. I would urge you look at them independent of each other.”NATO is the biggest military alliance of 30-member states. Its Article 5 states that an attack against one ally is considered an attack against all allies. Balancing is achieving equilibrium (or parity). Coalition is alliance, short of union, e.g. the Coalition of the Willing. Partnership is a contract between two states. Alignment is taking of sides.For decades, India was non-aligned, whereas today it can be multi-aligned or issue-based aligned. It has chosen to enter into strategic partnerships which are comprehensive, special, enduring etc, with several like-minded countries. It shuns joining any alliance which can erode its strategic independence. India will not be part of any military alliance, except under aegis of the UNPKO.The closest India got to a quasi-alliance was the Indo-Soviet Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation of August 9, 1971, which had a clause on Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s insistence about India’s non-aligned status. The treaty was signed only when war with Pakistan became a distinct option and Sino-US relations had changed dramatically three weeks earlier.During the one-year-plus standoff and clash at Galwan, where firearms were not used, India was cheered by the US and Japan. Other countries made friendly noises. Bhutan was mum. As in 1962, only the US provided intelligence, high-altitude equipment and logistic support, but no weapons.India has kept the resolution of the multiple standoffs purely bilateral, diplomacy being the primary tool of dispute-solving. The Chinese intrusions may never be vacated for the same reasons that they were perpetrated.The lesson from Ladakh is that India will have to fend for itself along the LAC for a long time to come. No foreign soldier will join the standoff; nor will India ask for combatants. External balancing with a grouping like Quad is not a sufficient substitute for a military alliance to deter China from coercion and aggression.While Modi greeted Biden on the US Independence Day (July 4), he did not congratulate Xi Jinping on the centenary of the CPC (July 1). A Sino-India reset is possible if BRICS, of which India is the chair, is held physically and Modi and Xi meet on the sidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-will-have-to-fend-for-itself-along-the-lac-280308
09-07-2021||Fr. Stan Swamy is an apt candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize. I appeal to my readers to support my call to the Swedish Academy that chooses the winners to consider his case posthumously. If the prize is awarded to this martyred Jesuit priest from India||Blood on their hands||The charges against him by an insensitive State were that he had been dancing with the banned Maoist organisation operating in the forests of Jharkhand. The accusers obviously were unlettered! Jesuit priests and Marxists both work for the poor and the dispossessed but in diametrically opposite ways. To understand that basic fact, one has to grasp the real essence of the teachings of Christ, and by extension of Christianity.Iranian-American writer and an accomplished professor of comparative religions in the US, Reza Aslan, called Jesus a ‘zealot’. He concluded that Jesus was primarily a rebel against injustice. His targets were two — the Roman conquerors who ruled over the land of Israel through a governor, and the Jewish clergy, the Rabbinate that had turned religion into a commercial enterprise.All the parables that Jesus used to educate his Jewish co-religionists laid stress on love, compassion and justice, especially to the poor and those in need. No resort to arms or to violence was ever advocated. In fact, the much-debated principle of offering the other cheek if one is smacked was first propagated by Jesus.Marxism, and by extension Maoist, doctrine depend solely on guns to combat economic injustice. Christians also have to seek justice for the poor but the methods recommended to achieve the objective of amelioration of living standards are intrinsically different. Fr. Swamy had sworn obedience to the Pope and to his own Jesuit superiors. Catholic doctrine opposes Marxist precepts. There is no way he would join the Maoists in any venture where arms were to be used against State forces or State-owned properties. If he had contravened hierarchical orders, he would have been disciplined long ago. The severest punishment would be de-frocking, the mildest expulsion from the Jesuit order. These facts must be digested by the NIA investigators and the prosecutors if they are interested in establishing the truth.But, are they interested in the truth? Or, as I suspect, they had a goal and that goal was to put away this pestiferous priest who was coming in the way of ‘development’. If the imperative was to allow exploitation of tribal forests that required the tribals to concur via a prescribed procedure and Fr. Swamy was the one who came in the way, then it became necessary to remove him from the path. The tribals without a teacher could be won over but not the priest who understood the tricks the authorities played. He would educate the tribals about their rights and also on what was in their interests.The evidence built up against him to prove his guilt of being a Maoist and a terrorist was purely digital. Even his physical remand was not demanded for questioning by the NIA after his arrest. It had collected all the material they needed to put him away for years together without trial under the UAPA, the most undemocratic law that exists only in our country. The amendment to the Act, introduced in 2019, needs immediate judicial scrutiny. The Supreme Court should take suo motu notice of the State-sponsored death of this gentle priest to ensure justiciable laws, as existed in our land from ancient times.There is a strong suspicion that the evidence quoted by the NIA is concocted. The US-based cyber crime consultants, Arsenal Consulting, and its president, Mark Spencer, who came off most convincingly on national television, opined that the correspondence which Fr. Swamy had entered into with the Maoists was probably planted like it was planted on the computer of co-accused Rona Wilson and Surendra Gadling. This is a serious allegation, which if proved, should result in the disbandment of the NIA and the fall from grace of its political bosses.But in the interest of justice and fair play, the evidence of the US experts needs to be put to the test of judicial scrutiny. India cannot afford to be internationally condemned as a country that concocts false evidence to put its critics and activists for the rights of the indigenous people out of action. The ingenuity with which the hacker planted the false evidence can only be explained by Spencer. He says his findings have been recorded in detail and are open to scrutiny and questions by other cognoscenti.When he was first confronted with this evidence recovered from his computer, Fr. Swamy had denied authorship. He was genuinely puzzled. He knew that he was being framed.The other co-accused, especially Wilson, Gadling and Usha Bharadwaj, have also maintained that they were being framed. In the interest of justice and fair play, it is incumbent on our judicial system to prove otherwise. At present, they rely on the new jurisprudence being injected in our polity that the accused is guilty till he proves his innocence.Only 2 per cent of the cases prosecuted under the UAPA have ended in convictions till date. The State obviously is not concerned about convictions. It is more interested in the process that keeps the accused in jail for years, thus neutralising their abilities to organise a viable opposition to unjust projects that rob the poor of their rights and even their livelihood.In Fr. Swamy’s case it also deprived a gentle soul of his life!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/blood-on-their-hands-280307
09-07-2021||---||Cabinet rejig more about electoral politics||The new inclusions are mainly about distribution of spoils to improve election prospects. The massive induction, perhaps the biggest ever one-time inclusion in the Union Cabinet reshuffle, is mainly to reward coalition partners, new entrants to the BJP’s social alliance and political regions that are the key to the party’s future. It is ridiculous to talk about clean, anti-corruption image of the government after including Narayan Rane. The reward to Jyotiraditya Scindia would surely raise questions about the BJP’s anti-dynasty stance. The best one-liner on the latest Union Cabinet reshuffle was in a tweet by Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani: “Kharabi engine mein hai, aur badle dibbe ja rahe hain” (coaches are being replaced, when the fault lies with the engine).There is a deep truth here. Any shuffling of the Union Council of Ministers is bound to make news. More so, if the changeover is as large as this one. Such a move is bound to invite interpretations, criticism and hope. But all these readings hang on the assumption that the composition of the Council of Ministers matters, that it makes a difference to the quality of governance, that ministers actually administer. There is little to support this assumption in the case of the Narendra Modi government.This is arguably the most PMO-driven government, perhaps more PM-centred than Indira Gandhi’s Cabinet during the Emergency, that the country has seen. The overall direction is decided by the PM, domain-specific policies are framed by the PMO and every key decision is initiated from or vetted by the PM. The ministries have to carry out commands in a timely fashion. Frankly, the Secretary to the Ministry, a senior IAS officer, is more suited for this task than the minister. The job of a minister in these ministries is to ensure compliance and manage perceptions by sustaining the illusion of presiding over things, arranging timely photo-ops and sustaining vigorous propaganda. If you are looking for political direction, you should listen to the PM. If you are searching for policy shifts, watch out for a reshuffle in the PMO. If there is anyone to be held responsible for the shoddy governance that India has witnessed of late, it should be the PM himself.Performance. Governance. Policy. Skill sets. Efficiency. All this is verbiage, thrown around by this government’s spin doctors. The carefully planted CVs of a few ministers are pure distractions. The latest Cabinet rejig has nothing to do with real governance, it is all about perception management. It is futile to look for policy here, it is all about politics.Instead of focusing on the many new inclusions — we know little about their track record as ministers — it is best to focus on the exclusions and non-exclusions as these are hard decisions that tell us a lot about PM Modi’s intent behind the latest reshuffle.A dispassionate listing of the biggest governance failures of Modi’s second government would bring up this list: mismanagement of the economy before, during and after the nationwide Covid lockdown, the national security botch-up at the India-China border in Ladakh, the burning down of the remaining bridges of communication with the Kashmir valley, the creation of mass panic among minorities on the issue of National Register of Citizens, ramming through the three farm laws and refusal to settle the resultant protest of the farmers and of course the unbelievable abdication of responsibility during the second pandemic wave. If governance was the principal consideration behind the rejig, Nirmala Sitharaman should have been shown the door, Rajnath Singh and Narendra Tomar should have seen a change in their portfolios and Amit Shah’s wings should have been clipped. None of this happened. All of them have retained their positions and portfolios.Harsh Vardhan is the only one to lose his job for reasons that can be ascribed to governance failure. But a close and fair examination of his case would show that he was a fall guy. All the key decisions or the lack of these — delay in testing of international passengers during the early days, non-tracing of infected patients, premature complacency after the first wave, non-preparation for the second wave and the shabby vaccination policy and its tardy implementation — are directly attributable to the PMO. Harsh Vardhan cannot be accused of overseeing the pandemic management. He was punished to save the PM’s image, punished more for his failure in covering up the debacle than for causing the calamity.All other exits show a similar pattern. Prakash Javadekar faced the axe not for diluting the long-standing environmental safeguards, nor for the controversial Environmental Impact Assessment Rules, but perhaps for his failure to manage the media completely using his clout as the Information and Broadcasting Minister. Ravi Shankar Prasad may have been pushed out not for his arrogant and ham-handed ways of dealing with the judiciary and the IT giants, but perhaps for not bending these independent players enough.Santosh Gangwar was divested of his ministry not because he failed to protect the interests of lakhs of migrant workers who walked back home during the lockdown, but perhaps because he dared to question the Yogi Adityanath government in UP. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ was shunted out not because he lacked the capacity to handle the Ministry of Education or failed to understand the New Education Policy, but perhaps because he ran afoul of the PMO over some key appointments and could not manage the public perception on CBSE exams. It is all about political loyalty and perception management.The new inclusions are mainly about distribution of spoils to improve electoral prospects. Forget the few additions that the spin doctors would like to showcase. The massive induction, perhaps the biggest ever one-time inclusion in the Union Cabinet reshuffle, is mainly to reward coalition partners, new entrants to the BJP’s social alliance and political regions that are the key to the party’s future. It is ridiculous to talk about clean, anti-corruption image of the government after including Narayan Rane. The reward to Jyotiraditya Scindia would surely raise questions about the BJP’s anti-dynasty stance. And the inclusion of several leaders like Sarbananda Sonowal would raise doubts about claims of efficiency. But much of this does not really matter. The ministers are there for lal batti.Only the most credulous would expect any governance change from this Cabinet reshuffle. Only the blind followers would buy excuses of talent deficit that the PM faces; the fact is that he has created this deficit by cleaning the party of all the experienced leaders. Modi government 2.0 is incompetence writ large. With this jumbo expansion, it is writ larger than before.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/cabinet-rejig-more-about-electoral-politics-280306
