10-07-2021||---||J&K delimitation and the ethnic, regional gulf||One of the main reasons for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent meeting with J&K political parties was to enlist their support for the delimitation exercise. As a consequence, the Delimitation Commission visited J&K this week and met 290 groups in Srinagar, Pahalgam, Kishtwar and Jammu to gather first-hand inputs on the exercise.The main argument in support of delimitation is that reservation for the Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) in the Assembly, the inclusion of 1947 refugees — commonly referred to as West Pakistan refugees in the J&K Assembly electorate — and an increase in the number of Assembly constituencies warranted the constitution of a delimitation commission.The present distribution of the Assembly seats is based on the 1981 Census. The impact of the exercise on these aspects or even the larger legislative dynamics needs to be tempered by the ground realities within the former state.The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, passed in August that year, increased the Assembly segments of J&K by seven seats. In effect, they went up from 83 to 90 post delimitation.First, political reservation for the SCs already existed in the previous J&K Assembly. Several key ministers from J&K came from reserved seats for SCs. They include former Deputy Chief Minister Tara Chand, who was one of the invitees to the PM’s meeting. Members of the SC community — mostly in Jammu, where they are nearly 18 per cent of the province’s population — were the beneficiaries of the 1950s’ progressive land reforms in J&K.Second, it is true that delimitation would facilitate reservation of seats for the STs. The main beneficiaries will be the Gujjars, who are Muslims. In the last Assembly election, Gujjar candidates were elected in the Lolab and Kangan Assembly segments in the Kashmir Valley. In Jammu, the Assembly segments of Surankote, Mendhar, Rajouri, Gulabgarh, Darhal, Kalakote and Gool Arnas were represented by Gujjar candidates.As per the 2011 Census, the population of Gujjars is around nine per cent of the total population of the former state. This number is less than 10.8 per cent of the community’s representation in the previous J&K Assembly, if one excludes the four seats of Ladakh, which is now a separate UT.The political parties will have little incentive to give a higher mandate to ST candidates than what they are required to do as per the legislative change. So, the de facto reality will be that the Gujjar representation in the future legislative Assembly of J&K would be the same as it was in the last Assembly that was elected in 2014.Third, often missed in the entire debate on delimitation are the broad population trends in J&K. The total fertility rate (TFR) in J&K, as per the National Family Health Survey report for 2019-20, is 1.4. It is even less than many southern states in contrast to the Hindi-speaking states, where it hovers between three and four. If this trend holds, the population levels in J&K are set to decline.Four, with the revocation of Article 370, the population eligible to vote in the J&K Assembly elections has changed little. As per the 2011 Census, the actual number of the people who came from outside the former state is a mere 1.6 lakh. It is too insignificant a number to make an immediate dent in J&K’s demography even if many of them are able to satisfy the conditions of the new domicile order.Even the number of refugees who came from Pakistani Punjab in 1947 — who actually applied for the domicile — is too marginal to make an impact. The community is mostly concentrated in one Assembly segment: the RS Pura Assembly segment, bordering Sialkot district of Pakistan.The official figures underscore this point. In March 2021, the Central Government announced that around 31 lakh certificates were issued to the dependents/holders of the erstwhile Permanent Residents of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. In total, only 32 lakh were accepted. That means that since August 2019, only 1 lakh residents who were not eligible as per the previous rules to receive the Permanent Resident Certificates (PRCs) got the domicile.Actually, for over several years, the delimitation exercise became a demand for some stakeholders within J&K to address inter-provincial parity between the Jammu and Kashmir provinces. In the last Assembly, the Kashmir valley had 46 seats whereas Jammu had 37.J&K, created in the 19th century by merging diverse cultural and geographical units, saw a major change in 1947. The population of Jammu, as per the 1941 Census, was 19 lakh whereas that of Kashmir was 17 lakh.The bifurcation of J&K in 1947 kept the Kashmir valley more or less intact while dividing the more populous and religiously diverse Jammu. According to the 2011 Census, Kashmir’s population is nearly 16 lakh more than that of Jammu, although the area of Jammu is nearly double the size of the Valley. The fact is that the Valley is relatively more homogenous than Jammu geographically, and by religion and ethnicity. It is unlikely that any delimitation exercise could address the complex ethnic and geographical gulf that exists within J&K.The delimitation is important in the context of a possible redrawing of some Assembly segments.Some of the J&K Assembly segments have indeed become bloated, particularly in the urban parts of the capital cities of Jammu and Srinagar. The two largest Assembly segments in J&K are in Jammu city with 1.6 lakh voters in Gandhi Nagar and 1.5 lakh voters in Jammu West whereas the third largest Assembly segment is in Kashmir which is the Batamaloo Assembly segment with 1.2 lakh voters.The redrawing of the Assembly constituencies in religiously mixed Assembly segments in Jammu’s Chenab valley will be closely watched as some constituencies like Bhaderwah are nearly equally divided between Muslims and Hindus.On the ground, the delimitation would make little change in ensuring greater seats for the SC as well as the ST communities than that in the last Assembly. Its impact on the larger complicated set of reasons that are responsible for the ethnic and regional gulf that exists in the diverse J&K region will also be limited.A more concerted effort needs to be made to exploit this knowledge to ensure institutionalised political and economic devolution of power from the state to regions and lower tiers by taking into consideration similar experiments of devolution of power elsewhere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/jk-delimitation-and-the-ethnic-regional-gulf-280738
10-07-2021||---||Challenges galore for Modi’s new team||IN 2014, when PM Narendra Modi formed his first Cabinet, it carried a touch of Arun Jaitley. It included many Jaitley ‘boys and girls’ like Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan and Prakash Javadekar. Jaitley himself got Finance and was given the additional charge of Defence.In 2021, the Cabinet reshuffle bears the stamp of Amit Shah, be it the elevation of Anurag Thakur, G Kishan Reddy, Parshottam Rupala or the induction of Bhupendra Yadav or Meenakshi Lekhi and several others. This is not surprising, for the Prime Minister relies on Shah’s counsel on most matters.Modi seemed to be addressing a few needs through the reshuffle. The first was to fill vacancies which had existed for some time due to deaths and the exit of allies like the Akali Dal. It was supposed to lighten the load of some ministers who had been saddled with additional departments. However, several ministers continue to have more than one department under them.Two, it was done for reasons that were political. Given the recent dip in its popularity, the party has reached out to its allies once again. It will need their support in 2022 and in 2024. It inducted RCP Singh from the Janata Dal(U), and made Pashupati Paras of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) a minister at the instance of Nitish Kumar who managed to split the LJP.But the more important consideration for the BJP is to win UP again, where elections are due next year, and it will be a do-or-die battle. The second wave of Covid, with the deaths and loss of livelihoods it left in its trail, has dented the BJP’s popularity in the state.The PM appointed seven new ministers from UP, inducted more OBC ministers taking their tally up to 27 and upped the figure of Dalit ministers to 12. The Dalits and non-Yadav OBCs, the Kurmis and the Most Backward Castes (MBCs) are an important catchment area for the BJP in UP. Of the ministers from UP who have been inducted are Anupriya Patel and Pankaj Chaudhary, both Kurmis. Then there is BL Verma, a Lodh, a community to which former CM Kalyan Singh belongs, and Bhanu Pratap Verma, a Koeri. And others who can influence the Dalit voters. But for this to happen, they will have to be empowered to work on the ground to lessen people’s pain and suffering.Modi’s third concern was to beef up governance. He promoted seven ministers from MoS to Cabinet rank, and they are obviously going to be the new face of the government, along with a few who have been inducted like Ashwini Vaishnaw, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sarbananda Sonowal and Bhupendra Yadav.They have understood what Modi wants — loyalty, efficiency and a grasp of the subject — and have to deliver accordingly.Modi wants to run the government like the CEO of a company. The ideas will come from the top (PM, PMO, HM) but the ministers — most are not political heavyweights — will be called to implement them effectively.Modi has been increasingly gravitating towards former bureaucrats, professionals and technocrats (there are as many as seven former bureaucrats in his team today).In this model of governance, Modi is not looking for professional politicians of the yesteryear variety who gave a political lead to their departments and called upon the bureaucrats and experts to provide the subject expertise. In fact, there are now only two ‘relics’ from the past left in the Cabinet — Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari.Those promoted have obviously been rewarded — RK Singh (Power) was low profile and non-confrontationist; Kiren Rijiju (Law and Justice), who has outreach to the North-East, understood the new work culture; Hardeep Puri (Petroleum and Urban Affairs) defended the Central Vista project of the Prime Minister.A high-profile promotee is Mansukh Mandaviya, who has been given charge both of Health and Chemicals and Fertilisers. He has been close to Modi since 2002 when he became an MLA in Gujarat. He could see Modi, it was said, without prior appointment. He is called a younger Gadkari and enjoys the image of being a ‘doer’. Even as MoS, he was in touch with pharma companies, many of them based in Gujarat. As Health Minister, he is expected to coordinate with them for the production of drugs as and when needed in the future with the continuing Covid challenges.The challenge for him is also going to be to attend to ‘nutrition’, as Covid has made a large number of poor children severely malnourished, on the verge of death.The new team — the Cabinet is now the youngest ever — understands the rules of the game. The model of governance under Modi has undergone a change. He rules like the CEO of a company. It is hardly a secret that the ministries are driven by the PMO.The fourth consideration and an important one, was to safeguard Brand Modi. The PM’s image took a dip after the second wave of Covid. In an uncharacteristic move, for the PM is not given to admitting failure or shortcomings lest it should weaken him, Modi sacked as many as 12 ministers. They included Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, IT and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar and Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar.Had Modi not dumped them, the blame would have been — and is being — laid at his door. But most people in the hinterland don’t even know the name of the Health Minister. They blame the Modi Sarkar.The Health and Labour ministries had come in for huge criticism for their Covid-linked inaction, for ordering vaccines too late, for not having anticipated the oxygen shortage, and for the hardships that migrant labour went through last year. There is speculation about why Prasad and Javadekar were given the marching orders. But it had something to do with their inability to prevent and manage the criticism about the Modi government in domestic and foreign and social media.It is Prasad’s successor, Ashwini Vaishnaw, the new IT Minister, whose induction has created the biggest buzz. He now has to resolve the impasse with the American microblogging site that had bedevilled Prasad’s last days.Everything will depend on how Modi’s new horses run the race. And whether they can make a difference to the prices of atta-dal and sabzi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/challenges-galore-for-modis-new-team-280698
10-07-2021||---||The theatre command debate||There comes a time when discussions must end, and actions must be taken, based on what can be done at best. No other organisation knows this better, at least in India, than the armed forces. Therefore, it must have come as a surprise to most Indians — especially our political elite — when the CDS, General Bipin Rawat, and the Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, publicly aired their different opinions about the role of the IAF. The essential point of departure in the views of the two senior military men was about the role of the IAF in future conflicts and in the evolving concept of theatre commands.One reason for this disagreement is historical. As India’s major external threats are land border-centric, the Army looks at its role from defending India’s borders to making territorial gains, if possible, beyond the borders. And in all this, the importance of the IAF in support of ground operations has historically proved to be crucial, whether in the 1965 and 1971 wars, or in the Siachen glacier since 1987 and the 1999 Kargil conflict. The IAF also perhaps nurses a grievance about it being blamed for standing idle in 1962, when the Chinese invasion was in full swing. Historians however say that the then IAF chief, Air Marshal Apsy Engineer, is said to have prepared a detailed plan for the IAF to attack both the Chinese PLAAF bases in Tibet as well as the Chinese army’s garrisons there, to stall the Chinese attacks, but his plans were dismissed by General Thapar, who outranked him since the prevailing wisdom among the leadership in Delhi’s South Block was that the use of the IAF would only escalate the conflict. But now, the IAF sees its importance as a game-changer in any future conflict — the Balakot strikes are an example — and is averse to the term ‘supporting arm’, even though it’s a role it would still have to play.To limit the Army’s overbearing influence, after Independence, a number of structural changes were adopted and an initial step was the re-designation of the Indian Army Chief, from that of Commander-in-Chief to Chief of Army Staff. This brought him on a par with the other two service Chiefs, and all were thereafter, as Chiefs of their respective service staff, advisers to the Defence Minister. Each service headquarters has thereafter zealously guarded its independence and equal status. Somehow, India still managed to pull off military successes despite this, in the 1965 and 1971 wars. But when the idea of a CDS was apparently first brought up after the 1971 War — and it was suggested that Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw should be made the first CDS — his candidature was apparently vetoed by then Air Chief Marshal PC Lal (with whom Manekshaw was not quite on talking terms, at least during the 1971 War, as per Lt Gen JFR Jacob in his biography), and the then Defence Secretary, KB Lall, since Manekshaw was known to bulldoze his way past the bureaucracy. The matter thereafter lay in limbo for another four decades, as the bureaucracy was quite happy to see that the three service Chiefs were not on the same page, at least on this issue. Even during the Kargil conflict, it was said the then Army Chief, Gen VP Malik, and then Air Chief Marshal Anil Tipnis had major differences on the use of airpower and helicopter gunships against Pakistani bunkers. Such differences and delays do cost lives of soldiers on the ground. However, it was eventually resolved, and the IAF became a force multiplier.Thus, following the Kargil conflict, the Kargil Review Committee (KRC) report recommended that having a CDS was essential for the demands of modern warfare — which require inter-services cooperation — to achieve our military goals. It was supported by a Group of Ministers, the Naresh Chandra committee on defence reforms, a team headed by Lt General Shekatkar in 2016. But the opposition to the idea of the CDS comes from the concern within each of the three Chiefs and their headquarters that the appointment of a supreme military commander, like the CDS, will lead to the depletion of their respective clout within each of their service flock. But the role mandated to the CDS is to get India’s armed forces move beyond operating in silos, despite each service having its own doctrine, its own equipment purchase requirements, and its own professional traditions and culture. Hence, the need for theatre commands, and consequently its opposition, particularly by the IAF, that has limited resources today, and doesn’t wish to further allow them to be frittered away into various theatres that are now proposed: two land theatre commands — one facing Pakistan and another China — an air defence command and a maritime command, with each having resources from all three services.Currently, India has 17 military commands in all, and each of them with operational roles that overlap those of the other service command. India has at least seven commands facing the Chinese on the Himalayan front (and if you count the maritime threat, it’ll be eight if not nine commands) in the event of a conflict. China has one on the Himalayan front. If the IAF’s assertions are to be heeded by allowing it to keep all its aircraft under its headquarters in Delhi’s control, how could a (maritime) theatre commander plan of confronting the Chinese threat in the Indian Ocean Region without knowing for certain what air power he could put to use? Should our maritime theatre commander have to waste time lobbying with the IAF Chief in Delhi for essential resources to plan his operations on, more so, if the IAF brass feels that they’d rather use their limited resources better in the Himalayas? However, as the decision to create a CDS, and consequently theatre commands, has come from the political leadership, the latter has to end the debate and close the matter. In the US, which offers a fine democratic model of civil-military and inter-service cooperation, the turf rivalries and disagreements were brought to an end by the civilian leadership, to enforce the Goldwater-Nichols Act of 1986. It’s about time India does the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-theatre-command-debate-280695
