11-07-2021||Virbhadra Singh was a leader of the masses||Virbhadra stood tall, always||He always remained above petty political considerations and parochial mindset. The fact that once he agreed to be the chief guest at an RSS function was proof enough of him being anything but intolerant. Neither was his thinking narrow, nor his politics. Despite his royal lineage, he did not have even a trace of arrogance, a trait which made him a leader of the masses. He was a sensitive and compassionate politician who remained active till his last breath.It was on the strength of his mass popularity that he did politics on his own terms, never succumbing to pressure from his party high command, which could not afford to ignore him. He did not hesitate to speak his mind, even if it amounted to annoying the high command. It was amidst this rift-like situation that he overcame many challenges successfully.Often accused both by the Opposition and a section of his own party of holding a strong regional bias against lower areas of Himachal, he countered the allegation by bestowing second capital status on Dharamsala. In a private conversation with me, he admitted that the move would no doubt be a drain on the exchequer, yet it was essential to bridge the emotional chasm between upper and lower parts of the state. I, too, was opposed to the move, yet he went ahead with the decision, showing his strong resolve.His unflinching commitment towards environment protection ensured that polluting industries were kept out in our pursuit for industrial growth. He also laid thrust on medical education and several new medical colleges were set up in the state during his regime. He has many records to his credit, including father-son being members of the Vidhan Sabha. He exhibited excellent administrative skills, which ensured that his vision and development plans got translated into reality rather than remaining a dream on paper.At one point of time when the Congress high command was hell-bent on making Pt Sukh Ram the Chief Minister, against the wishes of majority of legislators, Virbhadra stood his ground. Despite the high command summoning the newly elected MLAs to Delhi, he along with his loyalist legislators stayed put in Parwanoo, ultimately compelling the high command to bow to the popular choice, the ‘Raja’. On his part, he too never failed to back his diehard loyalists, no matter what the circumstances.Examples of his being very obliging and accommodating towards his political opponents often come to my mind. On one occasion, I requested him to accommodate the daughter-in-law of a close relative in a particular institution, knowing very well that it was difficult as the wife of a very close friend of Virbhadra would have to be shifted out. A few days later, much to my surprise, I learnt that he had acceded to my request and accommodated both in the same institution. Such was the man, very considerate and sympathetic.He had a tremendous trait of being a very decisive leader and an able administrator. An incident about my dream project, Vivekanand Medical Research Trust at Palampur, which I dreamt of setting up when I became the Chief Minister in 1990, comes to mind. I had plans to develop it into a super-speciality facility. The foundation stone was laid with much fanfare on November 15, 1992, after land was given on lease by the government. A huge amount, running into crores, was collected and it was decided that Apollo Health and the government would jointly set up the facility. It was resolved that Apollo Hospitals would set up a hospital within 24 months.Work started on a war footing from the day the stone was laid. Least did I know that the dream would remain unfulfilled as exactly 21 days later, on December 6, my government along with four others fell in the aftermath of the Babri Masjid demolition. I was certainly pained at the fall of my government but even more for the fact that my dream of setting up a super-speciality hospital had been shattered. I on my part endeavoured that the Trust remained intact so that in better times the project could be completed.I met Virbhadra Singh, who was CM then, and told him that Apollo, a big name in the medical field, had agreed to come to Himachal and already several crores had been spent on the proposed hospital. I suggested that the CM and Leader of Opposition could jointly create this facility which would be a boon for the people. He almost agreed and said he would like to discuss the issue with his colleagues. The moment the proposal was out, some Congress leaders from Kangra started vehemently opposing it, sealing its fate. I again met Virbhadra and requested him not to hand over this land, in the name of the Vivekanand Medical Research Trust, to any other organisation.In a lighter vein, he said, ‘How are you so sure that you will come back to power?’ I replied that nobody knows what lies in the future. He assured me that the land with the Trust would not be given to anyone else. Circumstances changed and I got the opportunity to realise my dream.Virbhadra was a born fighter. Perhaps, there has been no other Chief Minister in the country who has ruled the state for such a long stint and that too on his own terms. Such was his tenacity that he managed this feat while opposing his own high command, which was left with no other choice but to install Virbhadra. On almost every occasion, he became Chief Minister on the sheer strength of majority support of not just the MLAs, but more importantly the people of the state.He was an extremely sensitive politician who remained Chief Minister six times, MP on four occasions and a legislator on nine occasions. He created history by being such a tall leader, a record which will not just be difficult but impossible for anyone to break. A rare feat, which very few Chief Ministers like Jyoti Basu have to their credit.— The writer is former Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh and former MP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/virbhadra-stood-tall-always-281142
11-07-2021||These days many people are on nostalgia trips||SDM at Samrala||My husband, like so many who had studied in the Sixties at St Stephen’s College and Delhi University, was a closet anarchist and sported a Che Guevara moustache as a badge of loyalty to The Cause. That he was now in the civil service was an irony that hit him every morning as he prepared to go to the ‘kutcherry’ and hear civil cases against the simple peasants of the region.That is another story but what both of us tried very hard to do was identify with the people around us. Our Punjabi was halting but our hearts beat for the poor and downtrodden. We began to see the ‘pseud’ city slicker for what he/she was and pursued a brand of anti-pseud pseudry that had us all twisted in knots, because we were pseuds too, you see. Privately, we made fun of the small-town Punjabi life that we had been pitchforked into: but publicly, we maintained a strict political correctness. So, whenever my husband went on tour, we stayed in the Harijan dharamshala to the deep disgust of the old driver Babu Singh, who was denied the chicken-shicken the tehsildar would have brought for our dinner if we had stayed in the dak bangla.Samrala then had one English-medium school, called rather grandly Holy Child Public School. Its principal, challenged in the department of spelling, called himself Solomon but spelt his name as Soloman. But even more shocking than a principal who could not spell his own name correctly was the fact that the board outside his school read ‘Holy Child Pubic School’. When I gently asked him whether he saw something amiss there, he replied soloman-ly, “Yes, madam, there is an ‘l’ missing.” And that was that.Periodically, Mr Soloman invited us over to distribute prizes and on August 15, at the Independence Day celebrations, his school composed a special song for us. Even after all these years, I can still sing it: “Mehnat se jo padhega/ Vo Es Dee Yum banega/ CM bhi vo banega/ PM bhi vo banega…”(He who works hard, will one day become the SDM. He will one day be the CM and the PM as well).When we reached home, we collapsed with giggles: those poor children knew only the SDM, the CM and the PM. All the intervening hierarchies of the state were irrelevant to their lives. When I recall that incident today, I laugh not at those children but at ourselves. How vain we were to think we knew it all. Actually, the only Mr Know-All was the redoubtable Mr Soloman. He was prescient enough to have taught those children a lesson that 50 years later, my husband ruefully acknowledges to be the truth about the government.That small town, with its small dreams and small joys, will always be preserved in our memories. All this came back when someone sent us a photo from those times. In the photo, the SDM is seated in the centre with the principal and the senior staff of the local government school on either side and in the front row in one corner is a solemn looking young man. This young man went on to join the state civil service and was promoted to the IAS in a few years. He recently retired and sent us this photo to remind us of the time we spent there, adding that he was inspired by my husband to work hard and join the civil service. How lightly we take the influence that we may have on those around us!It makes me so happy to know that our civil services are now shedding their elitist public school mentality and recruiting those young men and women who will take our country forward. Many probationers now come from our small towns, villages and kasbas and they join the service because they want to do something for their own village, town or kasba one day. To be able to build a road, a hospital or a school: these are the dreams they have joined the civil service for. Perhaps one of them once studied at a school called ‘Holy Child Pubic School’ and sang a song that haunts me still.The time has come for us to seriously reconsider our priorities and stop making fun of those who cannot speak glibly in English, or those who come from modest backgrounds and wear clothes that may not be to our taste. Is this any way of judging the worth of a person? How can we forget what happened to this country when we handed it to those who were to the manor born? I hope the coming generations will learn how to respect hard work and integrity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sdm-at-samrala-281143
11-07-2021||Our battalion 19 Rajputana Rifles moved to Nagaland in late 1970. Insurgency was active. We occupied a string of posts. As Adjutant||Unconventional raid, exemplary valour||On July 5, 1971, Capt Umaid Singh Mahra called me on radio from his Kizare post in the Sema area. While attending Sunday church service the previous evening, Capt Mahra had noticed an unfamiliar face and had brought him to the post. During overnight interrogation, the man had confessed that he was an active underground (UG) soldier posted to a self-styled brigade HQ. He was then ‘persuaded’ into leading us to the camp.The indicated camp location fell in the area of our neighbouring battalion. It was rare to get such a vital lead. Any sharing of this information outside the strict need-to-know loop could jeopardise success. I, therefore, did not inform our brigade headquarters or the battalion concerned (my elder brother was their 2IC). Any risk of a friendly patrol clash was worth taking.I asked Mahra to move immediately. The indicated location was nearly 14 hours of walking distance from Kizare. It also culminated into climbing a steep hill. The plan was to raid at dawn so that any escapees could be easily apprehended in daylight; this was the standard Army tactic.A rivulet had to be crossed before starting the climb. Because of monsoon, it was in spate. The party kept moving upstream to find a shallow crossable site. This caused delay.Having reached the top, the party of Company less a platoon, moved along the thickly wooded crest, taking all precautions against a possible ambush. The guide had his hands tied at the back and was secured with a rope. It was nearly 6:30 am and the party was still moving. Luckily, because of rain and thick fog, visibility was limited to a few metres, creating near-darkness conditions. Since it was well past the planned raiding time, there was palpable disenchantment among the men, who were out practically every third night searching for the elusive UGs.At one point, the guide became visibly restive and sat down. It was clear the camp was close by. On being prodded, he vaguely waived a hand towards one of the slopes. Capt Mahra, with a small party of four, started descending in the indicated direction for confirmatory reconnaissance. It was very steep and they had to literally sit on their rumps and glide down. The undergrowth was waist high.Suddenly, they came upon the well camouflaged camp barely 15 feet away, hidden in a depression. The sentry spotted the raiding party, raised an alarm and opened fire. Capt Mahra was hit in the abdomen. Undaunted, and despite being wounded, he charged into the camp firing from his hip and exhorting his party. He shot the sentry through the head, killing him instantly. Some UGs were injured and fled down into the thick jungle, leaving a blood trail. They were rounded up subsequently.The actual shootout lasted barely a few seconds, with the UGs running away confusedly. A total of 13 weapons, including a light machine gun, a large quantity of ammunition and important documents were captured.The brigade headquarters was now informed and I asked for air evacuation of Capt Mahra. Poor visibility precluded helicopter flying. He had to be brought down on an improvised stretcher slowly along a trackless precipitous slope. Unfortunately, before he could reach the waiting ambulance on the road, Capt Mahra succumbed to his injury at 2:30 pm; his liver had been ruptured.The GOC flew in the next morning to congratulate the battalion. He termed the success of the raid and the haul unprecedented.The timing of the raid, the actual number involved at the point of contact, non-deployment of the usual support and cut-off groups, etc, made the raid totally unconventional. The UGs, who were well aware of our modus operandi, were taken totally by surprise.For his daring act of bravery in leading the charge despite being gravely wounded, Capt Umaid Singh Mahra was deservedly awarded the Ashok Chakra. His young widow received it from the President on the Republic Day, 1972.This was the first Ashok Chakra in our regiment, the Rajputana Rifles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/unconventional-raid-exemplary-valour-281144
11-07-2021||This month marks the 100th anniversary of one of the most momentous events of our times||100 years of Chinese Communist Party, the pros & cons||Their first major move was to forcibly take over Tibet, “the roof of the world”, a vast autonomous region that Britain had wisely kept as a buffer between India and China, with a token British force in the capital, Lhasa. Independent India, perhaps unwisely, withdrew that force, which Beijing must have taken as a signal that it could march into Tibet, without any Indian objection. After all, those were the days of ‘Hindi-Chini bhai bhai’. Jawaharlal Nehru has been blamed, mainly by the present dispensation, for being too naïve about Beijing’s intentions, and that Vallabhbhai Patel, Nehru’s number two, would have been more realistic. Be that as it may, a big chunk of territory in Ladakh had been surreptitiously taken over by China. When India found that out, Nehru dismissed it by saying that the area was worthless, as “not even a blade of grass grew there”.Big mistake. Worse was to follow in 1962 when the border dispute escalated into a short war in the Himalayas. The battle-hardened and well-equipped Chinese troops humiliated the poorly-equipped Indian forces facing them who had little experience of mountain warfare. Bad leadership compounded the impossible situation. I had an uncle, a young Brigadier, whose soldiers were well entrenched at one of the passes. Inexplicably, he was ordered to leave his defensive position and attack the Chinese forces facing him. The Chinese were waiting for such an opportunity and simply outflanked the Indian brigade and annihilated it. The 1962 defeat was the low point in the career of India’s first Prime Minister, who had otherwise made Indians proud and given them a set of abiding values, rooted in democracy and secularism. Nevertheless, the 1962 humiliation has hung over the two nations like a dark cloud, preventing closer ties and a resolution of the border dispute.I have been to China three times. The first trip in 1985 was the most instructive. It was a two-week study tour, and the main purpose was to learn about the family planning programme. The Chinese realised quite early on that the unsustainable and exploding population growth was a serious deterrent to economic and social progress. The government also concluded that to lower the population growth rate, two things were essential: higher literacy and better health care. But it added another controversial and coercive element — a one-child family. Since there was in Chinese society, as in India, a preference for a male child, there were many families in China with only a son, no daughter, which we witnessed on that tour. Clearly, sonographs (which determine the sex of the unborn child) and abortions were widespread, probably even female infanticide. But controversial or not, China’s population growth plummeted, and it is now at what is called “replacement level”, which means it is neither going up, nor down. India, on the other hand, even though it has had a degree of success in recent years, still adds 1.4 crore a year to its population. In a few years, we will overtake China as the most populous nation in the world, a dubious ranking.In other words, China owes its spectacular economic success in the past four decades at least partly to its family planning programme. In 1980, China and India were roughly at par economically. Today, the Chinese economy is five times larger. And the gap is growing, not shrinking. China’s GDP has grown an astonishing 80 times since 1980 and 80 crore Chinese lifted out of poverty, probably the most remarkable achievement in history. To me, it is admirable as well. Yes, the Chinese do not enjoy the freedoms we do, like democratic elections and freedom of expression. Everything is rigidly controlled by the one-party state. However, if hypothetically, you were to ask anybody what he or she would prefer, a better standard of living or those freedoms, there is no doubt in my mind that the reply would be to have a better life, with roti, kapda and makaan. Deng Xiaoping, China’s great pragmatic reformer, put it well when he confessed that “to get rich was glorious”. And also when he said it did not matter if a cat was black or white, “as long as it caught mice”. Results, not ideology, mattered most.There are those who say that what has held India back is too much freedom, verging on anarchy, and democracy. And that an authoritative regime, like China’s, would have served us better. Wrong! Look at North Korea and South Korea or, earlier, East and West Germany. The same people, but different systems, one dictatorial, the other democratic. Which did better for its people? Or take Portugal, under Salazar, and Spain, under General Franco. And compare the record, under dictatorship and then democracy. A well-run democratic system delivers better results economically and socially than any other system. The key is that it should be “well run”. As Winston Churchill put it, “Democracy is the worst form of government, except for all those other forms that have been tried from time to time.”— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/100-years-of-chinese-communist-party-the-pros-cons-281145
