12-07-2021||---||Fr. Stan’s death brings justice system under scrutiny||HUMAN rights defender Fr. Stan Swamy (84) breathed his last on July 5 as an undertrial prisoner. He died awaiting the Bombay High Court’s decision on his bail plea filed more than a month ago.Fr. Stan had sought medical bail after his arrest in October 2020 stating that he was suffering from a neuro-degenerative disease and other health complications. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) opposed Stan’s medical bail plea stating that there was no “conclusive proof” of his ill-health. Nothing more remains to be said about this baseless opposition as he died on ventilator support in a hospital fighting pulmonary infection, Parkinson’s disease and Covid-19 complications.But what should really unsettle India’s judiciary is that an undertrial died while in court’s custody: an octogenarian rights activist suffering from Parkinson’s and Covid. Whether an 84-year-old internationally recognised human rights defender, unable to eat or walk without help, should have remained incarcerated in his last days is a question that will haunt the Indian judiciary. Whether anyone who is presumed innocent should die of illness in custody is a question that can perhaps redeem the judiciary, if it fixes accountability of those responsible for the tragedy on a case-to-case basis.The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report says that in 2019, 1,466 prisoners died of various ‘illness’ and 78 died due to ‘ageing’ in judicial custody; both are categorised as natural deaths. It is not just unfortunate but horrific to call a death ‘natural’ if the ailing person dies in custody — away from his/her close ones. The words of Fr. Stan, “Whatever happens to me, I would like to be with my own,” resonate.Indeed, in Sri Rama Murthy vs State of Karnataka, the apex court had observed that prisoners do not have equal access to medical facilities as free citizens and their living conditions in prisons make them more prone to health hazards.What incriminates the State and judiciary in custodial deaths is the crumbling medical infrastructure. According to the NCRB’s 2019 data, there is one medical professional for 243 prisoners in India. The overall medical staff vacancy in Indian prisons stands at a staggering 41%. A meagre Rs 5 per prisoner per day is spent on their medical needs. Despite several recommendations of jail reform committees and a plethora of court directions, these figures lay bare the murderous neglect of the State towards prisoners — a wide majority of whom are innocent in the eyes of the law.Advocate Mihir Desai alleged medical negligence against the Taloja jail authorities for not providing adequate treatment to Fr. Stan on time. The death of this rights defender reflects Taloja Central Jail’s neglect of prisoners, especially during the pandemic, despite extensive media coverage of the issue. Family members and lawyers of other prisoners have alleged mistreatment and violation of rights at Taloja jail; these too have been widely reported. Pleading for interim bail, Fr. Stan had told the High Court on May 21, 2021: “Taloja jail brought me to a situation where I can neither write nor go for a walk by myself.”In May this year, in the middle of the second wave of the pandemic, only three ayurvedic doctors were available for Taloja jail with an inmate population of more than 3,000 prisoners. This was in clear non-compliance of Justice (retd) Dr S Radhakrishnan Committee’s recommendations which required “a team of five medical experts…to visit jails once for two hours, every week.”Currently, Taloja jail is holding 30% more prisoners than its designed capacity. Three of the 13 Covid-19 deaths across prisons of Maharashtra have taken place here. Indeed, the list of allegations against Taloja jail for serious violations of fundamental rights may be even longer than the charges against Fr. Stan and others in the Bhima Koregaon case.The Supreme Court in ‘Re-Inhuman Conditions in 1,382 prisons case’ gave extensive directions to ensure humane living conditions in prisons. It ordered the setting up of Boards of Visitors (BOV) to ensure adequate standards in prisons and address prisoners’ grievances. Undertrial Review Committees (UTRC) were to prevent overcrowding in prisons. Studies by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) underline the dismal functioning of both oversight bodies.This to a large extent explains the deplorable condition of prisons in India and rampant overcrowding — a threat to the rights of prisoners as seen in Taloja.The National Human Rights Commission’s (NHRC) direction to the Government of Maharashtra ensuring “every possible efforts are made in providing him (Fr. Stan) proper medical care and treatment” issued a day before his death, came too late to have an outcome. Despite being petitioned not less than six times since his October 2020 arrest, on several issues, including irregularities at the Taloja jail and denial of medical facilities, the NHRC’s only action in the case came on a day when he was put on life support.The NHRC did not visit Taloja jail to inspect the living conditions of the incarcerated human rights defenders. This omission stands far from its commitment to “provide an effective and substantive relief to the HRDs while dealing with complaints pertaining to them.”The tragic and perhaps preventable death of Fr. Stan reignites the question — should the nature of an unproven offence form the basis of release from overcrowded prisons during a pandemic? Political prisoners in India were specifically excluded from the category of prisoners that could be temporarily released, irrespective of their old age or co-morbidities. Fr. Stan’s plea to be released temporarily was rejected because the high-powered committee (HPC) of Maharashtra, like all other states, excluded prisoners charged under acts like Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act from being considered for temporary release. This arbitrary categorisation by HPCs was against the recommendations of the United Nations Commissioner for Human Rights that “political prisoners should be among those first released in pandemic response.”At the cost of repetition, it needs to be said that there was nothing ‘natural’ about Fr. Stan’s death. He was a rights defender who fought a lifelong battle to secure justice for the downtrodden. Yet, he died awaiting justice for himself before the courts.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/fr-stans-death-brings-justice-system-under-scrutiny-281753
12-07-2021||---||Recalling a craftsman of time & attention||My teacher, the master explorer of cinematic form, Mani Kaul, left us 10 years ago on July 6, 2011. He was 66. In his body of work, from Uski Roti (1969) to Naukar ki Kameez (1999), he created an idea of temporality, profoundly marked and informed by his understanding of Indian music, aesthetics and philosophy. In doing so, he not only created a highly personalised idiom of expression, but challenged the existing notions of meaning and cinematic forms that proved challenging for many an audience, used as they are to a certain acceptable system of the socio-industrial form of filmmaking, which treats facts and meaning as pivots around which a film’s narrative is received and understood.It was a day in 2009 when I called him up, dejected and confused as I was with my relationship with filmmaking. I wanted to pursue films but not practise making them. That was the conundrum. How to resolve such a confused state was my question to the master. He heard me calmly and attentively. Even though I could not see him over the phone, I could sense his face resting on his fist over the elbow placed on the table, a posture he would hold in the classroom listening to students. I paused and waited for him to say something. “Practice and theory are like two wings of a bird,” he said. It had to be practised. There was no other way. Perhaps the very next day, I bought a small diary and started jotting down notes for Anhey Ghorhey Da Daan, a novel by the Punjabi writer Gurdial Singh, that I was keen to adapt into a film. The year was 2009 and the film became a reality in 2011, thanks to Mani’s contribution as the film’s creative producer and the involvement of National Film Development Corporation (NFDC).As we prepared to leave for the film’s shoot in a biting cold January the same year, Mani, who was bedridden, having been discovered with cancer, met with the team’s principal crew. His advice: look for a certain feeling in every shot. Invest in creating that sense where you can tangibly feel an emotion. And where does that feeling lie? Definitely not in a solitary thing! Once I asked Mani how he decided the composition of a shot. Pat came his reply, “For the light.”While most cinemas look upon the actor as the prime voice of the medium, Mani (and a few others before him like the French auteur Robert Bresson), did not consider cinema to be an actor’s medium. Though he did employ both professional and non-professional actors in his films, unlike theatre where the actor is the principal carrier of narrative through the person's voice and body, the prime expression in his films was a combination of cinematic parlance like lighting, camera movement, gestures, objects and people connected through looks and silences, but above all, temporality and attention. “Time as attention. Attention as rhythm. The invisible shape of film.”We know for a fact that space and time are the two fulcrums of our existence. By its depiction of this outward reality, cinema creates its own universe. While most filmmakers have a strong notion of space via the visual composition, action and movement, time as the other fulcrum is by and large considered a byproduct of this spatial exploration. Not time as a conscious choice of expression and carrier of sensation. For the common viewer also, films are by and large a visual medium. That’s the notion Mani always seemed to defy. Therein his films became a challenge for an audience used to binging on cinema as an optical spectacle and over-emphasised dramatic interpretations of events and being. Even for the parallel cinema of the Indian New Wave, the social message and the actor’s craft were prime motivations.Mani stood outside this collective and carried on with his experiments with notions of time and attention, in films like Aashadh Ka Ek Din (1971), Duvidha (1973), Satah Se Uthta Aadmi (1980), Dhrupad (1982), Siddheshwari (1989), Nazar (1991) and Idiot (1992). Even while continuing with individualised means of expressing these notions, his films retained searing indictment of society, the most formidable being his continuous depiction of strong female characters seeking to break from the traditional role defined in our culture.Watching a film is like building upon facts and figures. They pile upon each other through a film’s unspooling, creating demands on our memory to configure and reconfigure continuously. A sudden new fact or information can change our perspective of how we have been perceiving certain things. This intellectual grasping and un-puzzling of motives and fabrications of the ‘plot’ is the stack of cards on which this building of information stands. Do away with this stack and what are we left with? How do we hold the viewer? Mani sought the viewer to respond through a series of attentive spells floating and tied in time, the way a musician holds a listener through the sensation of progression of notes. Mani would always say, “A musician plucks a few chords of an instrument, say a sitar. And we are held captive. What does it mean? What is the meaning of this plucking of sitar?” Why does it resonate with us? He sought a similar resonation in his films.When I had finished shooting Anhey Ghorhey Da Daan and planned to start editing the film, Mani said I should spend a few days editing at his home. He offered me a room next to his where I started editing along with my editor. Worried that the sound may bother him, we kept the volume low. He called from his room, “Keep the volume high. I want to listen to what you are editing.” After three days of editing, he wanted to see what we had edited. We had finished editing the opening sequence of the film. I placed the laptop on the bed so he could see without getting up. As I was about to play the sequence, he said, “Shut off the image. I just want to hear the sound.” We were puzzled. But we complied. After listening, he said, “It sounds beautiful. Only one dialogue bothered me and disrupted the rhythm. Just remove that along with its image.”We did a blind cut without looking at the image and played the sequence again. This time he asked for both the image and sound to be played. He said, “See, now it’s perfect.” It forever changed the way I would edit films.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/recalling-a-craftsman-of-time-attention-281752
12-07-2021||---||India’s last frontier||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s brief stopover in Tehran on July 7 has taken place at a time of great volatility in regional politics. Unfortunately, India has to adjust to a rapidly changing situation in regional politics as a mere observer with hardly any role as participant to mould the flow of events to meet our needs optimally. Nonetheless, the geopolitical currents around Iran do not, and will not, leave India untouched; nor can New Delhi hope to remain impervious to the downstream realignments that are to be expected, from a long-term perspective.Broadly speaking, Jaishankar has kept himself busy on the diplomatic circuit in the West, delivering lectures on the emerging world order, whenever opportunities arose. Foreign interlocutors politely listen to India’s erudite minister. But wouldn’t they know India’s influence or capacity to navigate regional politics has waned lately?The pandemic, for sure, seriously damaged the country’s international standing. The ‘world pharmacy’ gaffe apart, the apocalyptic images from the Ganga banks and the makeshift cremation grounds on sidewalks, and the tragic breakdown of the public health system have framed a dismal picture of India. Meanwhile, until the economy recovers, India has little to offer to the world community and it holds hardly any attraction to others as a worthwhile destination for trade and investment. As a driver of growth for the world economy, India’s role is zero today.Considering these myriad disadvantages, Delhi’s primary motivation must have been to be in Tehran ahead of the Chinese. (Interestingly, Japanese foreign minister Toshimitsu Motegi is also heading for Tehran.) Nonetheless, there is symbolism in Jaishankar’s call on Iran’s president-elect Ebrahim Raisi to hand over a letter from PM Modi. Raisi somehow had escaped India’s attention. But then, India’s diplomacy toward Iran had been in a state of suspended animation through the Trump presidency.President Joe Biden is inclined to return the US to the matrix of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, and a lifting of sanctions against Iran is to be expected shortly, possibly before Raisi is sworn in as president on August 15. Suffice to say, early birds catch worms, as they say, and Indian diplomacy is shifting gear before the road to Tehran gets crowded. But India should still have clarity of mind as to what it is looking for. Random diplomatic peck at one-upmanship without a grand design doesn’t make sense.Three factors must be kept in view. One, Raisi’s priority is economy, not geopolitics (which is Jaishankar’s forte.) Two, Raisi welcomes India’s partnership in Iran’s development. Three, Raisi is a nationalist and very focused about his priorities. India must think up big ideas.Iran is a major oil and gas-producing country and a mutually beneficial relationship based on energy cooperation can provide the foundation for collaboration in diverse fields. India’s attraction as a top importer of oil and gas globally needs no elaboration.The biggest stumbling block during the recent years has been Trump’s insistence that India should prioritise the US shale industry as its principal energy source. India buckled under Trump’s pressure to replace Iranian oil with his shale oil. But there has been a paradigm shift. The shale heartlands of America are not exactly Biden’s heartthrob.Biden wants to make the climate crisis his top priority and there is little doubt that we can expect a decline for America’s fossil fuel industry that had flourished under the light touch of the Trump administration. Candidate Biden is on record that he would ‘transition away from the oil industry’ because it ‘pollutes significantly’ and has to be replaced by renewable energy over time. Biden is likely to resort to a careful dismantling of the shale industry by initially curtailing drilling on federal land, while he gently tips the market economics against fossil fuels by whittling away at the amount of oil and gas that can be produced and raising costs.We must anticipate that fracking will become far more expensive under Biden as he rolls back many tax incentives and imposes tougher regulations on methane emissions and other environmental protections. Looking ahead, therefore, Iran becomes an indispensable energy partner.Of course, while India will step up oil imports from Iran, which has been open to long-term contracts previously, what we should look at now is that single big idea devolving upon Iran’s massive gas reserves — second largest in the world after Russia — that holds the potential to galvanise the entire relationship and lift it out of the trough.The time has come to resuscitate the Iran gas pipeline project. With the lifting of the US sanctions against Iran, there is no spoiler blocking India’s pursuit of this project. Russia’s Gazprom had evinced interest in the Iran pipeline project. Russia has vast experience in building undersea pipeline. The Nord Stream 2 is nearing completion shortly; it is a 1,230-km pipeline connecting Russia with Germany across the exclusive economic zones of Finland, Sweden and Denmark. An undersea pipeline from Iran to India, avoiding Pakistani waters, would be of the same length but much less problematic.Germany’s grit to press ahead with Nord Stream 2 underscores that pipeline gas is cheaper than LNG from the US, that it’s a type of clean energy offering environmental benefits over other fossil fuels like coal and, above all, is the most dependable source of supply for an economy that is critically dependent on energy imports. Iran has the capacity to meet India’s needs for decades to come. Most importantly, a mega project of such nature will inevitably spur large-scale industrial collaboration between Iran and India. Iran can be the last frontier for launching India’s post-pandemic economic recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/indias-last-frontier-281750
