13-07-2021||---||How we failed Fr. Swamy||QUITE often, I feel that Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi’s assassination was inevitable because a communally charged/violent Indian society was not ready to live with the Mahatma’s conscience — his lifelong quest for spiritualised politics, and Swaraj as decentralisation of power; or his longing for a simple and ecologically sustainable mode of living. In a way, Nathuram Godse symbolised what seemed to be more ‘practical’ to many — the centrality of brute force, the militaristic dream of modern nationalism, and the aggression of ‘development’. In a way, it was necessary to annihilate Gandhi’s utopias. Gandhi was an embarrassment for the power-hungry political class, and the gang of contractors, traders and the emergent elite.Likewise, these days yet another disturbing question is haunting me: As a society, do we deserve a man like Father Stan Swamy? His death — or the tragic end of his immensely altruistic and socially committed life-trajectory — reveals many things simultaneously: the absurdity of the mystified and complex legal system (imagine, as Hind Swaraj would indicate, Gandhi understood it so well) or the horror of Kafkaesque bureaucracy (was Stan Swamy like Joseph K in Franz Kafka’s The Trial?), the tyranny of power manifesting itself in the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, the insensitivity or the process of dehumanisation that has corrupted the petty officials, and above all, the rising authoritarianism even amid all sorts of ‘democratic rituals’. Yes, believe it, Swamy had to die. Like Gandhi, he too was an embarrassment.I am not sure whether political commentators would regard him as a Gandhian or an Ambedkarite. Moreover, in the eyes of the state, he was almost like a ‘terrorist’ with links with the banned Communist Party (Maoist). Yet, to me, he was beyond these labels or categories. Like Gandhi, he too was a noble soul. His commitment to the rights of adivasis and other marginalised groups, the critical voice he raised relating to land, forest and labour rights, or his deeply humanistic/spiritual urge to fight for the release of undertrials (our over-crowded prisons are full of them), or the spiritual strength in his simplicity and honesty—the hyper-masculine modern nation with its aggressive development agenda is incapable of appreciating the worth of this politico-spiritual treasure he carried with him. Hence, this 84-year-old Jesuit priest with severe Parkinson’s disease was seen as a conspirator, a threat to the mighty Indian state. He had to die. Was it simply a Covid-related death at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai — yet another addition in the official statistics? Or was it that multiple actors — NIA officials, the jail authorities, and even the judiciary—made it easier for him to die? There seems to be no escape from this question. Think of it. Swamy simply wanted a straw to drink water; the NIA took twenty days to file a reply. He filed for bail; the trial court took four months to hear the arguments and reject the bail application. Not solely that. The NIA refused to accept the severity of the Parkinson’s disease that inflicted his frail body.However, there is yet another question we need to ask. Is it that as a society, our degeneration is almost complete, our values and aspirations have changed drastically, and our moral universe has crumbled? See the way the discourse of militant nationalism has made everything upside down: a stimulant/violent man — a man of the non-reflexive crowd intoxicated with the cacophony of Jai Shri Ram is seen to be a true deshbhakt, while the likes of father Swamy are castigated as ‘anti-national’ conspirators. See the way we have begun to value everything that is loud, noisy and gross—loud religion, loud nationalism, loud oratorical skill, loud politicians, and loud television anchors. Amid this loudness, how is it possible to listen to Swamy, or understand the angst of Sudha Bharadwaj and Prof Hany Babu? And see the way we have allowed the Adanis and the Ambanis to shape our ‘development’ discourse. How is it then possible to have a dialogue with Stan Swamy: his plea for the subaltern?And see the way we — the middle class — have changed: the way we have allowed ourselves to be corrupted by psychic poisoning, the virus that the propaganda machinery of the ruling regime spreads, or the way we have allowed the cult of narcissism to diminish our creative and critical thinking. See the way we have begun to prioritise money over honesty, crude utility over ethics, instrumental reasoning over a lifelong commitment to a noble cause. Accept it, we do not want our children to be like Stan Swamy or Medha Patkar; nor do we want them to take Gandhi’s Experiments with Truth, or Bhagat Singh’s prison diary seriously. Instead, we want them to be street smart and ‘successful’—yes, well-fed/well-clothed slaves of the gigantic corporate empires. No wonder, we find what we deserve: goons wearing the garments of a saint, greedy capitalists projecting themselves as noble philanthropists, and mainstream politicians as the deputies of the techno-corporate empire.Possibly, in the coming years we will continue to ‘elect’ our masters; we will continue to be impressed by the ‘success narratives’ of billionaires, Bollywood stars, cricketers, narcissistic political leaders and all sorts of deshbhakts. And some ‘foolish’ idealists will continue to experience what Stan Swamy passed through; we will become increasingly incapable of distinguishing political resistance from terrorism. Yet, our children will be taught by official educationists, celebrity babas and ‘star’ television anchors that everything is perfect with Indian democracy — its bureaucracy, it police, its legal system. Long live nationalism!Sorry, Father Stan Swamy. We did not deserve you. You were an embarrassment for us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-we-failed-fr-swamy-282177
13-07-2021||---||Cabinet rejig offers no reset of governance||THE massive Union Cabinet reshuffle has taken place at a moment when the nation faces major crises in the spheres of economy, health, education and external security, and in consequence, a decline in the support for the ruling dispensation. Losing West Bengal after the Prime Minister and Home Minister had campaigned intensively, putting aside questions of governance and the Covid pandemic, was a big blow for the ruling party. The growing international criticism of its dismal record on free speech and human rights and the embarrassing global attention received by the handling of the second wave of the pandemic have been disconcerting for the government. This defines the political context of the Cabinet expansion.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its supporters and commentators want us to believe that the major overhaul of the council of ministers was an attempt to improve governance by the induction of professionally and educationally qualified persons. The colossal failure of governance has been obvious in crucial areas of health, education, labour and employment. The removal of 12 ministers, including from these three ministries, is an admission of governmental floundering, although none of them have owned responsibility. The departure of Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and his deputy, Ashwini Choubey, is a tacit admission that the government bungled most tragically in the second wave which resulted in untold misery and deaths across the country. However, it is no secret that this is a highly centralised government driven by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), most ministers don’t act without clearance from the top, and hence, the blame cannot be pinned on the Health Minister alone. Still, the exit of important ministers insulates the top leadership from the failures and controversies surrounding the government and distances it from the discontent over the health crisis and medical shortages during the pandemic and the rising levels of unemployment and poverty.If there is one message that emerges from the ministerial reshuffle and expansion, it is this: The reset was a political exercise with focus on states going to the polls next year. Elections to the Assemblies of Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and a few others are due in 2022 and to Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Telangana in 2023. The more interesting dimension of this political exercise is the elaborate attention given to the caste configuration of the Cabinet and the manner in which it was publicised by the BJP. For the first time, the press briefing had drawn the media’s attention to the caste composition of the Cabinet — 12 ministers belonging to Scheduled Castes, eight to Scheduled Tribes and 27 OBCs. No previous government has briefed the media on the caste composition of the Cabinet. This was odd for a party defined by the ideology of Hindutva which seeks to unite the Hindu majority as opposed to the politics of identity, practised by its opponents, that the BJP claims exacerbates divisions in Hindu society. But for the BJP, Hindu unity is based on an external enemy outside the majority community against whom all Hindus can unite. The idea is to bring together Hindus under the banner of Hindutva, while painting Muslims as the ‘other’. There’s no contradiction here between caste accommodation and communal majorities, actually the two seem to go hand in hand. Hindutva politics has been advanced lately by mobilising layers of the OBC and Dalit votes that have emerged as the biggest supporters of the ruling party.The new Cabinet is in step with this strategy of giving greater representation to OBCs and Dalits to keep them under the Hindutva umbrella. In fact, the reshuffle reinforces this strategy which has been the key to the party’s political success in north India, especially in Uttar Pradesh. With 14 ministers, the state now accounts for the largest chunk of ministers. Every sixth Indian is from Uttar Pradesh but every fifth minister in the Cabinet is from this politically crucial state. More significantly, the majority of the new ministers are from the non-upper castes. It’s clear the accommodation of OBCs in view of the Assembly elections in 2022 appeared to weigh heavily in the reshuffle. Similar considerations of social engineering have influenced inductions from other states.Careful social engineering and the widely discussed details of the caste composition of the Cabinet revamp have effectively positioned the BJP as a champion of the OBCs, which is crucial to the maintenance of its dominance of Uttar Pradesh and other Hindi-speaking states, where the combination of caste and communal politics helps to unite these microscopic groupings. Equally significant in this regard is the exclusion of Muslims. The 77-member Cabinet has one Muslim, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, the old warhorse from the Vajpayee era. None among the newly inducted 43 ministers is a Muslim. The exclusion of Muslims is not surprising but that it has gone unnoticed is somewhat surprising. But whether all this will offset the resentment that has been brewing with the loss of lives and livelihoods and the disastrous management of the second wave in various states, particularly Uttar Pradesh, is not known yet. If the party fails to retain UP, its political dominance will be shaken.For the record, the exit and expansion is intended to beef up the governance deficit and rev up the economy. However, after re-election in 2019, the BJP government has prioritised the Hindutva project and issues such as Kashmir, the Ram temple, the Citizenship Act amendments, rather than developmental ones. There’s no indication that these priorities will be shelved. Neither is there any indication that the highly centralised PMO-centric governance system will change to a more decentralised one. The political model driven by caste-driven inclusion and communally-driven exclusion is well entrenched. If administrative principles and political priorities do not change, significant alterations to the council of ministers can change the balance of power within the BJP, but cannot bring about the required changes necessary to fix the challenges facing India’s economy and polity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/cabinet-rejig-offers-no-reset-of-governance-282179
13-07-2021||---||Regrouping of Tehreek-e-Taliban worries China, Pak||SPEAKING on July 7 at a virtual ceremony marking 70 years of establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Pakistan, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said the two countries needed to augment cooperation to “contain security risks in Afghanistan through the expansion of both international and regional terrorism” to defend regional stability. He asked Pakistan to push for trilateral cooperation by increasing Afghanistan’s involvement in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), an important part of China’s Belt and Road initiative.China and Pakistan’s immediate worries stem from the regrouping of Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) in Afghanistan’s Paktika province. The TTP has declared Pakistan as its sole theatre of operation and claimed that it poses no threat to other nations. The TTP aims to establish a Sharia state in the old Hind (Hindustan) region beginning with Pakistan.The Pakistan army had dealt a serious blow to the TTP in June 2014 through its operation Zarb-e-Azb (sharp and cutting strike) in the North Waziristan region which resulted in the killing of about 3,500 militants and the loss of its 490 soldiers, with the displacement of more than a million people and the destruction of their properties and businesses.According to the 27th report of the UN Analytical and Monitoring Team published recently, five splinter groups — Shehryar Mehsud, Jamaatul Ahrar, Hizbul Ahrar, Amjad Farooqi and Usman Saifullah (formerly known as Lashkar-e-Jhangvi) — pledged allegiance to the TTP in July-August 2020 under an initiative pushed by the TTP’s new chief Mufti Noor Wali Mehsud. Mufti has reportedly been successful in winning over the support of groups associated with al-Qaeda and the Punjabi Taliban.The TTP has reaffirmed its commitment to a protracted struggle against the Pakistani state and is trying to broaden its support base by including the disaffected Pashtun and Baluch ethnic groups, including the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (PTM). With the consolidation of numerous splinter groups such as Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and al-Qaeda affiliates, it is likely that the TTP will intensify its activities in Pakistan’s urban centres where these groups have had strong networks in the past.According to a recent US government report, the TTP’s fighting strength in 2020 ranged from 2,500 to 6,000 members and it was responsible for more than 100 cross-border attacks in various parts of Pakistan between July and October 2020. The main targets of the TTP’s attacks in 2020 were the Pakistan army (73% cases, 110 attacks with 179 killings), the police and other security agencies.Pakistan’s security agencies sought the mediation of the Afghan Taliban and Haqqani Network with the TTP to cease its attacks in Pakistan but the latter did not comply. Sometime back when the Afghan Taliban asked the TTP not to recruit foreign fighters and register its members, the TTP again refused.The majority of the TTP leadership and fighters originates from the Pashtun belt of Pakistan sharing close tribal and cultural ties with their Afghan counterparts. TTP militants are currently helping the Afghan Taliban in several provinces to obtain quick occupation of Afghanistan and will expect favours after its return to power.While Pakistan pursues a political agenda in Afghanistan through its support of the Afghan Taliban, the TTP, al-Qaeda, IS and others are pursuing a politico-religious agenda of establishing a Sharia-based Islamic state which will not be to the liking of many Pakistanis. Any future military operation to oust the TTP from Pakistan’s border areas will be much more difficult because of the ease with which TTP militants are able to seek refuge in Afghanistan and their mingling with the large number of Afghan refugees in Pakistan.The TTP’s reunification has increased China’s concerns too as the latter is executing several projects in hydropower generation and infrastructure development in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP, earlier NWFP) province. The TTP has kidnapped and killed several Chinese nationals in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Baluchistan provinces. In April, a bomb blast rocked a hotel in Quetta, leaving five dead, five minutes before Chinese Ambassador Nong Rong was returning to the hotel after dinner with Pakistani officials.The TTP has issued statements against China condemning the persecution faced by the Uighur Muslims in China. Several Uighur militants belonging to the ETIM (East Turkestan Islamic Movement) have relocated from Syria to Badakshan province of Afghanistan neighbouring Xinjiang, where China is carrying out a vast campaign to incarcerate them in prison camps for re-education. The Badakshan province connects with China through the narrow Wakhan corridor, a passage that the Uighur militants could use for entry into Xinjiang. The resurgence of Islamic extremism in Xinjiang province could threaten several silk road networks connecting China with Russia, Central, Southern and Western Asia, Eurasia and Mongolia.Last week, Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen said in an interview that it would not allow Uighur militants to enter the country and Chinese investors could return to Afghanistan. Shaheen added that China was a friendly country which would be welcomed for the reconstruction and development of Afghanistan.Many, however, do not take the Taliban’s words seriously as it had made similar promises not to allow the activities of al-Qaeda on Afghan soil in the Doha peace deal — a promise which it observed only in its breach. Despite an understanding between the Taliban and China dating back to December 2000, when Mullah Omar was the Taliban chief, the Uighurs have repeatedly made use of the Afghan territory for various activities. Though China is offering a carrot of increased investments if its interests are protected by the Taliban, it will watch the emerging situation carefully before making any new commitments in Afghanistan.Given its emphasis on more orthodox Islam, the TTP is likely to provide support to ETIM and target projects of importance to China in Pakistan. China is already concerned about the growth of TTP, ETIM, al-Qaeda and Islamic State in Afghanistan and will be hard put to devise strategies to prevent the infiltration of these elements into its restive Xinjiang province.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/regrouping-of-tehreek-e-taliban-worries-china-pak-282181
