14-07-2021||---||Time to unlock school gates, bring children back||It is nearly 16 months since 25 crore schoolgoing children in India last attended physical classes. By June 2021, schools were operating in some capacity in around 170 countries across the world. In fact, in most countries, schools continued to operate during the pandemic, except for some periods. It is time Indian policymakers urgently considered bringing children back to schools.The pandemic has forced school students to attend classes online. However, online teaching is not a replacement for in-school learning. It puts children from an underprivileged background at a disadvantage as online teaching works better when supplemented by parents. Moreover, interactions in school are important for the overall development of communication, proficiency in language, interpersonal and social skills as well as physical and emotional well-being, all of which have taken a backseat due to the closure of schools. Even before the pandemic, the quality of education and learning in Indian schools was considered suboptimal. With online teaching, the inequities have further widened.India’s Covid-19 unlock plan has put emphasis on restarting tourism and opening up economic activities. However, there seems to be insufficient attention to restarting educational activities and opening schools. It has been estimated that every month away from school results in two months of learning lost and children in India have already lost learning equal to 32 months. Children supposed to start school from the previous as well as this academic year are among those at the biggest disadvantage.Some of the apprehensions on opening the schools are based upon alarmist and evidence-bereft high decibel discourse such as that the third wave of Covid-19 will primarily affect children. This incorrect assertion created a lot of panic among the policymakers and parents and any possible discussion on the opening of schools was put on hold. The fact is that children are not at additional risk of contracting the disease in any subsequent wave. The evidence from various sero-surveys across states in India indicates that children have been infected at a similar rate as adults; however, their risk of developing the disease in its severe form is low. The reason is that the receptors which SARS-CoV2 needs to enter the lungs are under-developed in children. Evidence from the US indicates that vaccination of the adult population does not result in any change in the severity of disease in children. The new variants do not alter the risk of moderate to severe disease in children.There are three other key scientific pieces of evidence which should be given consideration. One, there is no need to wait for the vaccination of children before opening the schools. Global experts have concluded that vaccination of children is not a prerequisite for opening the schools. In fact, no country in the world has yet started the vaccination of children younger than 12 years. With low risk, this age-group is unlikely to be prioritised for vaccination for many months to come. Second, the vaccination of school staff would be a good idea but is not essential for opening the schools. Third, schools for younger children (up to Class VIII) should be started first as this age- group is at a very low risk. The opening of schools for older children (Class IX-XII) should be done more carefully and with additional precautions.It is imperative that states give urgent attention and priority to formulating detailed plans and operational strategies to reopen schools. The broad principles of the school reopening strategy should be drafted by the Union government with complete freedom to the states to make modifications and implement it. The strategy should use global evidence, guided by domain experts, informed by local epidemiology and flexible to be modified as the situation evolves.All schools — government or private, but specifically those government schools which cater to underprivileged children — should be prioritised for opening up, as many children in these schools do not have anyone to guide their learning at home. Special focus has to be given to bring those children who are about to enter the school education system.While planning to open up, schools should make the necessary structural modifications to ensure proper ventilation and spacing inside the classroom. Conducting classes in the open (but shaded) space should be considered. The re-opening can be supplemented by strengthening the school health service, facilitating regular health check-up of children and periodically educating them on Covid-appropriate behaviour as well as engaging the parents. School teachers and other staff need to be trained and sensitised in adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and ensure the observance of such protocol by students in classes.The classes could be fewer than routine — alternate days, once in three days, or even once a week — and there can be multiple shifts with reasonable breaks in between. The proportion of children attending school on a given day can be determined by the school authorities, in consultation with parents. A hybrid of classroom and online teaching has to be continued, where parents can choose the mode of learning they would prefer. Regular sensitisation of parents to alleviate their fears would be needed. Approaches such as school bio-bubble, in which the students of a specific class would not interact with anyone outside the class, need to be explored.In our overzealous attempt to protect children from Covid-19, we should not end up depriving them of education and learning. Opening of schools is essential for physical, mental, social and emotional well-being and development of children. With available scientific evidence, it is possible to develop a plan and get children safely back to schools, compensate for the time lost and bring them on the path of learning. It’s time schools in India are reopened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-to-unlock-school-gates-bring-children-back-282805
14-07-2021||---||Dichotomy of perception over theaterisation||A few days ago, there was a flurry of writings in newspapers criticising the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) for making a statement about the role of the Indian Air Force in relation to its close support function to the forward troops engaged in active battle with the enemy.It was disheartening to note some columnists casting aspersions on the intellect of the CDS. I do not think they have given credit to the ribbons on his chest which have been earned by being through operations beyond the comprehension of most people. Aren’t they also indirectly questioning the authorities who placed him in this position and have tasked him with an important mandate which will change the functioning of the Indian defence forces for the future?Turf wars are a universal phenomenon. They are not peculiar to our country or our defence forces. The Americans have been through this phase. One of the defence secretaries, who chaired the commission on roles and missions, had said, “I have decided that Machiavelli got it about right when he wrote, ‘there is nothing more difficult to carry out or more doubtful of success, nor dangerous to handle, than to initiate a new order of things. For, the reformer has enemies — and only lukewarm defenders.’”We have observed turf wars between various branches of the civil services, within the paramilitary forces and defence forces, as also going down further within the various branches of the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force.There is always the desire to take credit for the success of joint operations. This has been so evident when a large number of paramilitary forces as well as the police started conducting counter-insurgency operations in the Valley.The appointment of the CDS had to wait for a very long time as each of the services feared losing their supremacy. It is well known that many former chiefs had opposed it and let it be known to the then prime ministers.The proposal to increase the number of senior commanders with a ratio of 3:1:1 between the Army, Navy and the Air Force, based on their strength, came under serious objection. In the interest of the country and to retain harmonious relations between the defence forces, the then Army Chief decided to accept the ratio of 1:1:1, despite his own senior officers’ “strong displeasure.” It is on record that the then Defence Minister commended the graciousness and magnanimity of the Army Chief.As the structure of the Indian defence forces is being re-imagined as theatres, their composition will be influenced by the threat perception, type of terrain for operations and budgetary constraints.When it comes to the employment of air power and distribution of its resources, the recommendations of the Indian Air Force will matter the most. There is no doubt that they are the best judge for its employment.However, concentration versus distribution is going to be impacted by the shortage of resources. There are enough experienced commanders who will find the right balance and resolve the issue.In the past, counter air operations have always taken precedence over the availability of air effort for close support to the troops. The introduction of multi-role aircraft has further compounded the problem.Young officers who have been affected on the ground have always raised this issue with their senior commanders. This has had an adverse effect on their morale and needs to be addressed.As the Army Commander, before a pending operation, I had to invite my Air Force counterpart so that we could jointly convince the junior commanders about the primary role of the Air Force and assure them that whenever it became vital, close support to them would not be denied.With the induction of attack helicopters, this problem will get mitigated to a great extent if all the machines are merged into the Army Aviation Corps.The morale aspect of the close air support can be best gauged by an example of the Persian Gulf War. A marine captain by the name of Robert Alexander was blown off his jeep by an Iraqi shell. He asked for quick close air support to retrieve him. Marine Harrier Jets were immediately deployed. They destroyed the enemy mortar platoon and saved him. “It was the most beautiful sight I have ever seen when those four bombs were racing through the air,” he said.It is in this context probably that the CDS talked about the necessity to provide close air support, besides keeping the skies clear of the enemy aircraft.Some have also claimed that just like the air power of the developed nations, our Air Force too would be able to create a situation when ground troops will be able to achieve objectives without fighting. If this had been possible, not much blood would have been shed for the capture of Tololing and Tiger Hill.Soldiers are often misunderstood as they have not had lessons in diplomacy. We need to see the CDS’s statement in that light and move on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/dichotomy-of-perception-over-theaterisation-282763
14-07-2021||---||The Uttar Pradesh initiative||On July 11, which also marks World Population Day, the CM of Uttar Pradesh announced a Draft Population Policy 2021-30 for his state, the most populous in India. The objective was to align the state’s reproductive rate to its development goals and more specifically, to reduce the reproductive rate from the current 2.7% to 2.1% by 2026 and to 1.9% by 2030. The national average in 2020 was 2.2%.The trend across the country over the past decade has been a steady decline in the reproductive rate, with the southern states registering a more steep decline than the Hindi-speaking heartland in the north. Even if the objective is to reduce the rate in UP, what would be the best means of doing so? And what does this mean about the constant waving of India’s ‘demographic dividend’, that is its expanding population in the younger, economically productive age-group? Are we now at the threshold of a Malthusian dystopia where runaway population growth is eating up the fruits of economic progress?In the early years of the republic, population control was an accepted part of national policy. We all recall the slogan, ‘Hum do, hamare do’. Thanks to Sanjay Gandhi’s misplaced campaign on mass sterilisation during the Emergency, population control became politically toxic. The new narrative which took hold was that limitation of population growth was a function of increase in incomes and a general rise in prosperity; that it was more closely related to the spread of education, but in particular female education, later marriages and the expanded entry of females into the labour market. This conclusion was borne out not only by the experience of other developing economies but also in the example of Kerala and Tamil Nadu in India itself, which enjoyed high literacy rates and relative greater female empowerment.We then come to the post economic reform and liberalisation phase, dating from the 1990s, when the narrative of ‘demographic dividend’ took hold, where India’s growing population, with a high proportion of young people, began to be projected as an asset, a valuable resource for ensuring accelerated rates of growth. It was argued that the mature economies of North America, Europe and Japan were ageing rapidly. Their continued economic growth would require reaching out to the young populations in countries like China and India. A large and growing population at the early phase of India’s growth was deemed to be an asset.Demographic dividend can be encashed only if the young and productive component of a country’s population can be gainfully employed. For this, it is also necessary to have sufficient capital for setting up labour-intensive industries and adopting policies which favour labour-intensive activities. The young population must be employable, which means higher literacy, appropriate skills and prospects for steady advancement. Other factors also become important such as the quality of manpower. This is dependent on access to health and education. If a large number of children are malnourished or their growth is stunted, then they will be less productive. India still has a few more years before its phase of potential demographic dividend comes to an end and the population begins to stabilise at around 1.6 billion by 2050. Unless the country gets back to a high growth trajectory with a significant expansion in employment opportunities, we will end up in a low income trap.The UP initiative raises several important issues. Is the draft policy a tacit admission that we have missed the bus on demographic dividend and that a larger population is only likely to increase the proportion of dependent population to the productive population in the country? From available data, it would appear that there is still another decade when the dividend may still be available to take advantage of, but then, there must be policies to expand labour-intensive manufacturing and transform India into a base for low-labour-cost economic activity. This is what we saw at play earlier in China, and now see unfolding in Vietnam, and even next door in Bangladesh. Some of our current policies are going against this logic. The Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme, for example, is putting massive amounts of public money into promoting capital and technology-intensive industries which have low employment potential. There should, instead, have been a major focus on promoting small and medium industry, even perhaps allowing space for the unorganised sector, which could generate higher employment per unit of capital invested.Population control through state action did not work in India, and is unlikely to do so now. In China, it was through the draconian implementation of a one-child policy which may have succeeded in moderating population growth, but that kind of inhumane state action is impermissible in a democracy. We should draw lessons from the Emergency. Even if we regard a lower reproductive rate as desirable, what has proved to work are education, particularly for women and the expansion of female employment. Aiming for a higher rate of economic growth, which automatically reduces the reproductive rate, is a better proposition than hoping to raise economic growth through limiting population growth. The latter is a questionable assumption.Some other aspects of the policy are welcome. These include reduction in mortality rate among mothers and children, encouragement to the longer spacing of births and promoting the overall health of mother and child. These should be essential elements of any sensible public health policy. We do not need a population control policy. We need a better public health policy and a better education policy, and above all, a coherent economic strategy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-uttar-pradesh-initiative-282761
