15-07-2021||---||Government sans governance is unimaginable||William Boyer, an American political scientist, defined governance as the action of governments plus its interaction with non-governmental partners in the process of governing — their collective relationship, the economy, and public policy. It is a collaborative process within a set of predefined laws and rules, enunciating public policies.India is, perhaps, one of the few countries with a comprehensively written Constitution, leaving little, if any, scope for its non-compliance. It defines the framework of public policy and governance by governments. With the changing realities over time, the Indian Constitution has seen amendments over 100 times. But, its basic character remains unchanged, making it a most dynamic document that has withstood the vicissitudes of politics of all shades.Governments, if they function following constitutional proprieties, will deliver good governance. They shall check deviations and variations from the law. For, if they start ignoring the rules of law, why would the people need them? There can, thus, be governance without a government, but the converse is not true and is unimaginable.In the past three decades, irrespective of their political character, some of the governments did things, some of which were beyond the constitutional limits, to meet their personal and political goals. The public essence of these political establishments was missing, and their capabilities to manage and lead the bureaucratic set-up stood suspect.These days, the basics of governance are amiss more often than expected owing to the ambitions and greed of a few. The common man suffers and those in power attempt to bribe him through subsidies, freebies and doles, to hide their sins and incapabilities. The core issues of education, healthcare, employment and basic amenities, required for an improved living, are less focused goals of governments. Education and jobs, if assured and ensured as basic rights of the citizens, will minimise the need to provide doles.A recent trend is to mislead the common man through false and unsubstantiated information through social media, which remains largely unregulated on the pretext of freedom of speech. Surely, freedom of speech does not mean freedom to lie and mislead or create divisions and unrest in society. A statutory code of conduct to ensure discipline in social media and the written law of torts is necessary for a cohesive and an informed socio-economic growth.A rise in generational aspirations is natural, and the system has to evolve to meet them. For this, information, education and communication have to improve with modern techniques. Governmental efforts to suppress rising aspirations through traditional or outdated methods, and even tricks, most of which are not considered credible anymore, seem to be doing more damage than imagined. Ignoring the stakeholders’ consultation for any contemplated government policy or action and suppressing the common man with the use of State’s power will not help. It may sharpen and deepen divisions in society.The slow rise in maturity and inadequate understanding of and attention to the requirements of nation-building are other discernible features of our new crop of politics and bureaucracy. Instead of guiding the officialdom to rise and work for the nation, the politicians prefer to deepen the spoils system for their immediate and personal gains. Not many try to understand governance, though they are quick to promote those who take refuge in leakages and pilferages in the government. A person discredited with squandering billions of public money can get away with just one godfather who has clout in the corridors of power.The decline in governance is so sharp, that those in power do not hesitate to defend and protect the most immoral, corrupt and even inept persons. Power is being traded for personal greed, wealth, and even for other immoral acts at the altar of interests and well-being of the common man, particularly those who have no access to information and are poorly endowed.Another glaring drawback in governments is that they ignore facts and data. Conclusions are drawn without the knowledge of reality. Dictates of whims and fancies are believed more than what is on record. There is no accountability for uninformed conclusions and decisions. Some political philosophers assert that wrong decisions do get noticed and accounted for during the elections, but by then enough damage is done to the system and the people.On the other hand, some information experts blame the data management policies and systems for the lack of information with the policymakers. There is no statutorily established system through which an official or a politician is guided and provided information before s/he gets on with any policy planning and implementation. Elected representatives are just thrust with power immediately on election without any orientation and prior access to information and guidance. Governance appears to be the least of their concerns.Undeniably, judicial scrutiny of executive decisions has saved the country from many embarrassing and not-so-well-informed decisions and situations. There have been occasions when laws and rules have been either moderated or annulled by the judiciary primarily because these were violative of the well-established principles of the Constitution and public policy.Judicial scrutiny and moderation became more pronounced after the Emergency in 1975, and more importantly after the 42nd Constitutional Amendment. But some thinkers believe that even such scrutiny can be manipulated and manoeuvred.This may not happen all the time, but it is not unheard of or unnoticed. Can judicial scrutiny be made more stringent and infallible?The declining public essence of governance has reached alarming levels, though it may not be correct to say that all governments have not governed well. However, there is a need to wake up. For effective and people-centric governance by the governments, effective data and information management systems, enhanced transparency, and effective and un-manoeuvrable judicial scrutiny need urgent attention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/government-sans-governance-is-unimaginable-283199
15-07-2021||---||Ailing school education needs govt’s focus||So, we have a new Education Minister. Thankfully, no longer the Human Resource Development Minister. Thankfully, no longer Ramesh Pokhriyal. Shall we also expect a new thrust on the real issues of education?After health and economy, education is the third biggest casualty of the pandemic. Sadly, only the visible aspects of the educational crisis get any political attention. Media reports suggest that the new Education Minister has started attending to some of these. On the very first day, he participated in a pre-scheduled conference of the directors and vice-chancellors of some of the leading higher education institutions. The calendar of JEE and NEET has received his attention. He has also made the mandatory noises about implementing the New Education Policy.But that is not where the real crisis in the education sector lies. It lies in the massive, though invisible, educational loss that schoolchildren have suffered over the past one year. So far, the minister, or the ministry, has not even acknowledged it. In one sense, the problem is not new. Ever since the days of Kapil Sibal, Union education ministers have behaved as if they are ‘higher education’ ministers. An obsession with IITs, IIMs, Central universities and other institutions of national importance, and on entrance tests to the coveted medical, engineering and management institutions, has preoccupied the ministry for well over a decade now. This is accompanied by occasional ideological battles on secularism or Indianisation, and so on. The problem has been compounded this time. School education, increasingly on the fringe of policy attention, has slipped further from public discourse. The pandemic has accentuated the deadly process of ‘educide’, slow but sure murder of educational opportunities, that has been happening for quite some time. This must occupy the minister’s attention.The new Education Minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, could begin by reading some recent media reports. A report from Haryana recently brought out an alarming drop in the number of students that have enrolled in private schools this year. As many as 12.5 lakh students did not enroll in private schools this year, a drop of more than 40 per cent. The number dropped from 29.8 lakh last year to 17.3 lakh this year. We must not assume that all or even most of these students have dropped out from schooling altogether. In all probability, most of these students have shifted to government schools to avoid the high fee of private schools. But it is reasonable to assume that a small fraction of this number, mostly girls, may simply not go back to any school. This is also true of government schools where a sharp decline in family income is likely to force many boys to enter the labour force and many girls to take to domestic duties. Many other media reports confirm this trend.Or if he has more time, the minister could read up the Annual Status of Education Report 2020. This report on the quality of school education in rural India focused, in 2020, on the impact of Covid and documented the extent of educational losses due to the lockdown in the first wave. It records that while most students had textbooks, there was little educational support available to them during the year. While smartphones have spread their reach in rural India, 42 per cent families of schoolgoing children in rural belts of the country still do not have a smartphone. The proportion was 55 per cent for the poorer families. Assuming that they did have an electronic device, the problem also lies with the availability of reading material. Only 35 per cent students received any reading or support material from their schools. The proportion was 40 per cent for private schools. The additional material was delivered almost entirely through WhatsApp. So, from ‘WhatsApp University’, we have now moved on to ‘WhatsApp schools’.Many other reports have confirmed other widespread effects of the pandemic on school education: higher dropout from schools, shift from private to government schools, increase in child labour for boys, domestic work for girls and adverse effect on children’s nutrition and health due to the closure of mid-day meals. In other words, much of the strides made in school education over the past decade and a half or more may have been wiped out over the past one year and a half. This is not just a loss in the quality of education, it is also de-skilling of our labour force, something the minister should be concerned about as he also holds the portfolio of skill development. The challenge in higher education may look different but it has similar characteristics: dropouts from colleges or universities, very poor access to educational material, especially for students from a disadvantaged background, and lack of educational guidance.Here, then, is my appeal to the Education Minister: I know you wish to sound excited about the New Education Policy. I understand that there might be pressure to increase saffron ideology in the syllabi. I can guess the pressure on you to manage entrance tests that children from the ‘middle class’ are invested in. Attend to these by all means, as you have to. But can you please put all these on the backburner and attend, first of all, to the real and silent crisis of school education?Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ailing-school-education-needs-govts-focus-283200
15-07-2021||---||All about Xi Jinping and party||The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) concluded its centenary celebrations with a grand event and speech by CCP general secretary Xi Jinping on July 1. It provided the CCP and Xi Jinping an opportunity to share their assessment of the journey thus far and give a broad sense of direction for the future. In his speech Xi Jinping mentioned the Belt and Road Initiative and the ‘community of shared destiny’ — his personal projects — hinting that he would continue in office beyond the party congress next year.The celebrations confirmed also that the CCP leadership is sensitive to the military’s morale. Contrary to its announcement in March, a carefully vetted crowd watched a military parade and flypast by the latest generation J-20 ‘stealth’ fighter aircraft and ZL-10 transport helicopters over Tiananmen Square. The party was honoured with a 100-gun salute.The entire CCP politburo was present on the Tiananmen Gate Tower. The state-owned CCTV showed Xi Jinping deferentially walking a step behind his grey-haired predecessor Hu Jintao. Former President Jiang Zemin was absent, possibly because of age. The invitees included many retired veteran cadres, including 104-year-old Song Ping and former Premier Wen Jiabao.Suggesting that Xi Jinping is possibly seeking the support of party ‘elders’ at the next party congress, Jiang Zemin’s long-serving chief of staff and ex-Vice President Zeng Qinghong was present. Particularly interesting was the presence of Bo Xicheng, son of one of China’s ‘Eight Immortals’, Bo Yibo and brother of incarcerated former politburo member Bo Xilai, who tried to push Xi Jinping aside in the run up to the 18th party congress in 2012 and take over China’s top three posts!The CCP’s international liaison department had requested political parties from around the world to send congratulatory letters on the occasion. Of the Indian parties, only the CPI and CPI (M) responded positively.Xi Jinping’s nearly hour-long speech was crafted to exude confidence blended with aggression and nationalism. It was calculated as much to concretise the CCP’s monopoly on power in China as to rally nationalist sentiment against anti-China foreign forces and mobilise the people towards achieving the second centenary goal under the CCP’s leadership. It avoided mentioning calamitous disasters like the Great Leap Forward and Cultural Revolution, in which over 80 million people lost lives, were disabled or scarred for life. Surprisingly, neither did it list what material benefits the people could expect in the coming decades.Xi Jinping paid the ritual obeisance to veteran Chinese communist revolutionaries, acknowledging them by name. The rest of his speech focused on the party: how it had ushered in ‘socialism with Chinese characteristics’, ‘profoundly changed the course of Chinese history in modern times’, modernised China, and its indispensability for China. Xi Jinping declared ‘we must uphold the firm leadership of the party. China’s success hinges on the party. Without the Chinese Communist Party there will be no new China and no national rejuvenation’. The party was mentioned 133 times.It also conveyed a message to foreign powers, whose remarks bore Xi Jinping's imprimatur. Stressing that China was no longer ‘a semi-colonial, semi-feudal society’ and had ended ‘all the unequal treaties imposed on our country by foreign powers and all the privileges that imperialist powers enjoyed in China’, Xi Jinping was emphatic that ‘any attempt to divide the party from the Chinese people or to set the people against the party is bound to fail’.Alluding to increasing US pressure on China, he declared that ‘the Chinese people will not allow any external forces to bully, oppress, or enslave us; anyone who deludes themselves into doing so will suffer a crushing and bloody head-on collision with the great wall of steel (PLA) made of the flesh and blood of 1.4 billion Chinese people’. China’s official news agency Xinhua subsequently released a toned-down version saying ‘anyone who would attempt to do so will find themselves on a collision course with a great wall of steel forged by over 1.4 million people’.Xi Jinping subtly directed credit for achievements towards himself. He declared ‘a historic resolution to the problem of absolute poverty in China’, as China marched towards its second centenary goal. The goal of alleviating absolute poverty by 2021 was Xi Jinping’s flagship programme. Xi Jinping also said ‘in this new era, we have upheld and strengthened the party’s overall leadership’, overcoming many ‘major risks and challenges’. Xi Jinping traced these achievements to the 18th party congress. He reinforced this with a call to uphold the core position of the general secretary on the party central committee and in the party as a whole.Xi Jinping’s uncompromising remarks on Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan are revealing. He promised Hong Kong and Macau the rule of law, but tempered with greater autonomy. On Taiwan, he specifically mentioned the 1992 consensus and reiterated China and the party's commitment to the ‘full reunification’ of China.Xi Jinping asserting full reunification indicates that he will remain unyielding on issues of sovereignty. It is relevant for those with whom China has unresolved territorial or maritime disputes. While the celebrations allowed the CCP to effectively project its contribution to China’s ‘rise’ and its future relevance, the repeated references in Xi Jinping’s speech to foreign bullying, efforts to separate the party from the people, and call for the people’s support, reveal the worries of the party leadership. He deftly fashioned his speech to take credit for China’s achievements and affirm that the party would guide China towards ‘the second century goals’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/all-about-xi-jinping-and-party-283215
