16-07-2021||---||No respite in sight for Covid-hit financial sector||As the year progresses and there are signs of the second Covid wave abetting, there should be a pervasive upbeat mood. But that is not the case and the financial sector, which is left holding the baby, is preparing to face further headwinds.The mood is not lifting for the following reasons. There is apprehension of a third wave and the unknown havoc that fresh virus mutants and variants may cause. Plus, even as global agencies and analysts are lowering growth forecasts, retail inflation is breaching the central bank’s comfort zone.The inflationary pressure is the result of sharply rising international commodity prices, particularly oil, and domestic bottlenecks caused by partial lockdowns. Absolutely, the last straw is the delayed monsoon in northern India leading to a cut in the kharif sowing area. If agriculture, which has been the sole bright spot in the economy also falters, then India’s cup of sorrow will overflow.The health of the financial sector is determined in good part by the overall condition of the economy, plus the biases that financial players have built up on the basis of recent experience. The sharp rise in NPAs and the spate of financial scandals have caused managers and managements of financial firms to become very risk-averse and there is a tendency to park funds in government paper rather than sanction loans which can go sour and bring trouble.As for the overall economy, the World Bank has cut its forecast of growth in the current financial year to 8.3 per cent from the earlier 10.1 per cent. The latter was in the final analysis none too high as it was meant to compensate for the 7.3 per cent contraction that the economy suffered in the previous year. The bank says that “the pandemic will undermine consumption and investment as confidence remains depressed and balance sheets damaged.”Moody’s, the financial biggie, finds that Covid has increased risk to households and small businesses which may hurt bank profitability. The government’s efforts to shore up the management and capital of public sector banks, as also the decision to create a ‘bad bank’ to take over stressed assets will help, but won’t be enough to make the dominant sector robust and ready to forge ahead.Roughly the same sentiments are reflected by Fitch Ratings which sees risk to financial institutions mounting as the second wave takes its toll on the economy. What lies ahead may not be worse than what has already been experienced, but the risks from prolonged disruptions and lockdowns as a result of another wave have remained.In this overall situation, the financial sector will be further stressed, even before it has been able to fully recover from last year’s setback. Stressed assets will rise further, even though the figures may be initially camouflaged by loan restructuring. A lot of non-performing assets will officially be classified as standard but will be intrinsically stressed.Credit growth is likely to suffer and once adequate provisioning is done, so will the bottom lines. Fresh capital buffers will be there to counter the risk of instability, but the additional capital brought in will have to be paid for. So, return on capital employed will also be under pressure.The non-performing assets situation is rather intractable as it has been in the trouble zone since 2015; the successive waves of Covid infection have taken away from remedial action and sent things further downhill. The RBI calculated late last year that the NPAs of the banking sector could go up to 13.5 per cent by September. After the impact of the second wave settles, this could go up to 14.8 per cent. This poses a “real challenge for RBI to maintain the financial system’s stability”, feels former RBI deputy governor Rakesh Mohan.According to the RBI’s latest financial stability report, the second wave has taken a “grievous toll” on the economy, but things have begun to look up from May as the second wave has started to abate. It expects gross NPAs to go up to 9.8 by March next year (2022) from 7.5 this March (2021).The report seeks to reassure by stating that the dent on balance sheets and performance of financial institutions has been much less severe than projected earlier though a clearer picture will emerge once the regulatory reliefs created by the RBI work themselves out. The capital and liquidity buffers created by financial firms have made them “reasonably resilient” in being able to withstand future shocks.At the end of the day, the health of the economy and that of its financial sector depends on how the vast majority of Indians fare. Lower middle-class families which took loans against gold last year are this time around selling whatever gold heirlooms they have left in order to pay children’s school fees and meet similar, absolutely essential expenditure. According to a London-based metals consultancy, gross scrap supplies, which include gold derived from melting ornaments, may touch a nine-year high if another wave emerges. Their hunch: “We can expect distress sales in a big way in August and September when a third wave could actually set in.”Financial firms, specialising in giving loans against pledged gold, typically to daily wage earners, small entrepreneurs and farmers, are selling large chunks of such gold which have become theirs as a result of defaulting borrowers unable to repay losing their security. As a result, gold prices in Indian wholesale markets are falling and the trend in gold imports is weak.This underlines a degree of social distress which India has not known in decades. If this is the financial condition of all Indians, except those truly better off, it is easy to see how the economy will remain in trouble and the financial sector which lives to serve it will be equally stressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/no-respite-in-sight-for-covid-hit-financial-sector-283882
16-07-2021||---||Nepal’s quest for political stability continues||On July 12, Nepal’s Supreme Court resurrected the country’s House of Representatives for the second time in six months. Given an earlier ruling that had underscored the need for all efforts to keep the House going for its full term, and interim verdicts interdicting PM KP Sharma Oli’s new inductions as ministers from discharging their duties, this verdict was not surprising. But the court also annulled Oli’s caretaker PM role and ordered the appointment of Opposition leader Sher Bahadur Deuba of the Nepali Congress as the next PM, something that some see as judicial overreach, as floor tests are the usual route in parliamentary democracies.The present topsy-turvy in the politics of Nepal began on May 22 when President Bidya Devi Bhandari simply accepted PM Oli’s recommendation to dissolve the House and let him continue as PM till elections which would be held in six months. Oli had earlier lost a trust vote in the House after several members of his own party, UML (Unified Marxists Leninists Communist Party of Nepal), backed by former PM Madhav Nepal, refused to support him.The President was unwilling to accept the prime ministerial claims of Deuba even though he presented a letter signed by 146 MPs from the Nepali Congress, the Maoists led by Prachanda, around a dozen MPs from the UML and the Upendra Yadav faction of the Madhesi party, the Janata Samajbadi Party (JSP). Deuba’s supporters crossed the half-way mark of 137, but party and personal partisanship, rather than good constitutional behaviour, appeared evident in the presidential action.Nepal’s Constitution has an interesting Article — 76(5) — which, in the eventuality of a stalemate in the appointing of a prime minister through party processes, opens the way for the appointment of any MP, who can obtain the confidence of the House, as PM. It also frees MPs from party whips. The insertion of this Article was done to prevent frequent dissolutions, which had been the norm in Nepal till the adoption of the new Constitution in 2015. Deuba’s claim was under this Article and upheld by the court.It bears noting that the appointment of a PM under this Article leads to dissolution in case the incumbent does not secure the House’s trust. For Deuba, whether he wins the trust vote or not, he is likely to remain in harness at least till the elections. It was for this reason that he insisted on the inclusion of this Article in his appointment notification. This had not been done by the President’s Secretariat in the initial notification, perhaps cleverly, and that led to an unseemly three hours delay before it was done, and he was sworn in on July 13.In the 275-member House of Representatives, Oli’s party has 121 MPs, while Deuba and the Maoists between them have a total of 112 MPs. The key is, therefore, the JSP with 32 MPs. But this is a party divided with one faction, led by Mahant Thakur that supported Oli and had even mustered a Deputy Prime Ministership, and another, led by Upendra Yadav that strongly opposed him. The situation having changed, there is every reason for the Mahant Thakur faction to be willing to shift their allegiances — indeed, in Nepali politics there are no permanent friends or enemies and political partnerships of all kinds are par for the course — but this faction’s support for Deuba remains to be seen.If he manages support from the Madhav Nepal faction of Oli’s UML and even half of the JSP, Deuba would be home and could remain PM for nearly 18 months — the balance of the five-year term of the House of Representatives. Having noted the above, political uncertainty is the name of the game in Nepal and there can be no assurances of how things play out on the floor of the House or later, no matter the need for stability and governance given that Covid-19 is raging in the country along with a severe attendant economic stress. Not surprisingly, there are some signs of even a patch up between Oli and Madhav Nepal.Happenings in Nepal are of obvious interest to India, but the Foreign Ministry had been clear, and rightly so, that the political goings-on in Nepal were its internal matter. The general belief, though, is that Oli was given a prop which is best evidenced by the support extended to him by the India-friendly Mahant Thakur faction of the JSP. In May 2021, Oli wasn’t the only option and India had old ties with the Nepali Congress, so conjectures abound, including about promises by Oli on security and Madhesi issues and possibly secularism and role of monarchy.Pivoting is necessitated, but so is a clearer understanding of the influence of western players in the polity of Nepal, which has certainly increased manifold, helped also by Nepal’s exposure to globalisation.Interestingly, the Chinese, who were missing for some months after being most visible as political dealmakers in the first half of 2020, reappeared on the Nepalese scene, literally on the eve of the court verdict, announcing on July 8 the setting up of a China-South Asian Countries Poverty Alleviation and Cooperative Development Centre. They claimed that this was green-lighted by the Foreign Ministers of Nepal, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka in April. While there may or may not have been behind the scene moves by them in evolving the new reality in Nepal, they have certainly indicated a willingness to deal with the outcome.In 2017, during the elections and pollsters predicting a drubbing for him, the then fourth-time PM, Sher Bahadur Deuba, publicly stated that his astrologer had told him that he would serve as Nepal’s PM seven times. In the event, the Nepal Communist Party led by KP Sharma Oli won a decisive victory wining nearly two-third of the seats in the House of Representatives. But obviously, Deuba’s astrologer knew better!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/nepals-quest-for-political-stability-continues-283881
16-07-2021||APRIME MINISTER in the Westminster system of governance has the sole right to choose his or her Council of Ministers. He or she can also drop one or more ministers whenever he or she thinks it necessary and induct a minister or more whenever he or she thinks fit. There has been some criticism and many comments on Modi’s recent rejig of his Cabinet. He has expanded the number to nearly 80||Modi’s Cabinet reshuffle||Scheduled Castes were allotted 12 slots, Scheduled Tribes eight. There is nothing wrong in that. In fact, that is how it should be in a multi-religious, multi-cultural society.Some critics have pointed out that Modi had boasted, after the 2014 and the 2019 elections, that caste had died and been buried by the electorate. He might have willed that to happen or dreamt that had happened. A leader is entitled to his fancies. The bitter truth is that caste will not go away from our ancient land in the foreseeable future. It is too deep-rooted to be wished away.Take my Goan Christian community. Its adherents were converted from Hinduism by the Portuguese over 400 years ago. One would have expected the ubiquitous caste configurations to have disappeared after conversion, but it is practiced even today, in marriages in particular. If something so traumatic as changing gods could not excise caste from consciousness, how does any impartial observer of the political space expect this PM or any past or future PM to eliminate caste considerations from something so relevant to expectations as representations in a Cabinet?Modi had said caste had been buried, but he had also said black money would be eliminated with demonetisation and Covid had quietly fled the country because of some unnamed advantages we Indians have been blessed with! But I am for ignoring those erroneous calculations. I have no doubt that he tried hard, he worked like he always does, 18 hours a day, and he felt victory was his on each occasion! He should have admitted those miscalculations. If he had done that his credibility would not have taken a tumble.When he gave a place to different castes in his Cabinet, he was aware that efficiency would suffer. He neutralised this by entrusting some critical portfolios to newcomers whose capabilities he had observed over a period of time. A less-known politician from his native Gujarat replaced Dr Harsh Vardhan as Health Minister. It is a calculated gamble.Mansukh Mandaviya was the Junior Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers in which capacity he dealt with the pharmaceutical industry, the pricing of essential drugs, etc. His work there has propelled him to higher responsibilities. Modi probably has arranged for increased supply of vaccines in the next five months, something he has kept to himself to spring a pleasant surprise.Ravi Shankar Prasad was a vociferous proponent of his leader and his policies. Why was he dropped? I can only guess that he was more confrontational than required. This created too many hassles in the matter of appointment of judges and attracted negative attention internationally when he twisted the hands of local Twitter bosses. What Modi probably desired was a workable balance which Prasad was unable to provide.A former bureaucrat has been saddled with three portfolios: Communications, Information Technology and Railways. Ashwini Vaishnaw was an IAS officer of the Odisha cadre. A huge responsibility has been cast on him. For succeeding here he needs more than grey matter. He needs to learn the skills of a juggler also.Narayan Rane from Maharashtra has, at last, got some importance after changing three parties. I cannot figure out what the BJP will gain, maybe a Lok Sabha seat or two, if at all. Rane himself lost his seat last time out. His two sons contested two Assembly seats and only one of them won. If Modi has been told that the Maratha vote will consolidate behind Narayan Rane, I can safely state that the PM has been misinformed. In the Konkan, it is the OBC vote that predominates.My recollection of Narayan Rane is a personal one. For over 20 years, I was chairman of charitable organisation called the Happy Home and School for the Blind. President Bill Clinton and PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee had visited our school. I took over the reins from retired Justice Bakhtawar Lentin of the Bombay High Court. He had succeeded former Vice-President of India and former CJI, Justice M Hidayatullah.Despite our credentials, Narayan Rane, as CM of Maharashtra, when approached by a restaurateur of the city, cancelled our government lease of the land on which we had built the boarding school and transferred it to the restaurant owner! I met the Chief Secretary, Arun Bongirwar, and threatened to sit on the road in front of the school with 200 blind boys. I also filed a writ in the High Court, which succeeded. Our pro-bono lawyer, Navroz Searvai, told me that in his long career in the courts he had never encountered such gross abuse of power.The rabbit that a shrewd politician like Modi intends to pull out from his hat is in the establishment of the Ministry of Cooperation (cooperative societies are a State subject under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution) and investing the responsibility to his trusted lieutenant. What is the purpose of this unexpected move? Why does the Home Minister, the No. 2 slot in the Cabinet, with a full-time job, have to do with cooperatives? His many agencies and the Income Tax Department and Enforcement Directorate under the Finance Ministry are sufficient to tackle the ills spawned by cooperative banks and sugar manufacturers. Why has Amit Shah been roped in? We will wait and watch with bated breath.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/modis-cabinet-reshuffle-283846
