17-07-2021||Senior journalist||Why we need to worry about our Parliament||When he entered Parliament for the first time as Prime Minister, Narendra Modi had bowed, touched his forehead to the stairs and said he was in the ‘Temple of Democracy’. Over seven years later, the sanctity of Parliament as an institution seems to be at stake as he leads a freshly refurbished council of ministers during the monsoon session starting on July 19.There will be some high-decibel debates in the two Houses. The Opposition will push for discussions on the Modi government’s handling of Covid, the vaccination policy, the economy, price rise, besides a slew of other issues. The Congress will certainly raise the Rafale aircraft acquisition, one of Rahul Gandhi’s pet themes, after the French authorities began investigating possible corruption in the deal with India. The second largest Opposition party, the TMC, fresh from its victory in West Bengal, will be raring to go, and is all geared up to accuse the Centre of undoing India’s federal structure.The government, on its part, will be seeking to pass 23 Bills, of which six had been introduced in earlier sessions. Many have been implemented through ordinances that need to be ratified by Parliament. These include matters such as the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill 2021 that aims at, according to the bulletin, a ‘speedier, cost-effective’ and less disruptive framework for insolvent resolution of distressed corporate debtors. Bills pertaining to electricity, insurance and coal-bearing areas are also in the pipeline.It sounds like business as usual but the ground under Parliament is shifting, both literally and metaphorically. This is not just because the area around India Gate is dug up and a grand new Parliament building is to be constructed as part of the Central Vista. It’s because this ‘temple’ too has traditions that need to be adhered to, in order to keep the beating heart of Indian democracy in good shape. But if we examine data on parliamentary scrutiny, it would appear that our democracy has had a coronary. Only 15 per cent of the Bills brought into this House of Parliament, the 17th Lok Sabha, have been sent to select and standing committees for scrutiny.Undermining the committee system undermines Parliament, and therefore, one of the pillars of Indian democracy. Our Parliament has always worked through the committee system. Parliamentary committees are small units of MPs, across political parties, who work through the year even when the House is not in session to scrutinise Bills and budgets of all ministries. They also call upon domain experts to speak to the committee so that they can be better prepared for legislation on specific areas. They submit a report to the House and recommendations are often accepted by the government that is making new laws. Governments are not legally bound to send Bills to committees but it was the norm to do so and is considered the best practice.In the first term of the NDA government that came to power in 2014, 27 per cent of the Bills were referred to committees. Without the excuse of Covid and truncated sessions, the trend of avoiding cross-party parliamentary oversight was already visible. In contrast, if we examine the data, UPA-2 sent 71 per cent of the Bills to committees, while UPA-1 sent 60 per cent.Some of the most dramatic legislations of this government, post the 2019 win, were not sent to any committees and the consequences are there for all to see. The abolition of Article 370 and the radical overhaul of laws that altered the status of Jammu & Kashmir and divided the state into two union territories, is a case in point. Yes, it was an ideological agenda of the BJP and so it was done in one fell stroke.The other significant legislation that continues to invite significant resistance are the farm laws. As a nation, we are still paying the price for the hasty ramming through of the farm laws in September last year. Ever since, there have been protests that have not stopped and it has also not been possible for the government to notify the laws and get its way.A quick recap of what happened the day the Bills were rammed through the Rajya Sabha. First, the Opposition parties demanded that the Bills be sent to a select committee where farmers’ lobbies and other stakeholders in the structure of agriculture would have had a say. The request was denied. Next, the Opposition asked for a division or counting of votes; ignored and eventually on something so critical, the Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, Harivansh, passed the farm laws through a voice vote. A ruckus followed, Opposition MPs threw the rule-book at him and eight were suspended from the House for a week.It was indeed a terrible day for democracy and it can be said that the government and protesting farmers are both paying the price of legislations on which an open debate was not allowed. Opposition MPs have since been saying that Parliament has become a ceremonial clearing house for laws the government wants passed, without oversight.Another factor impacting the ruling party’s attitude to Parliament is the passing away or retirement of the members of the older generation who respected the institution. BJP’s first Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, for instance, was a fine parliamentarian, familiar with all the rules and traditions of the House. He would have known that Parliament is not a boxing ring where a televised match is going on and the aim is to knock out your opponent.But because Parliament is a precious institution, let’s hope that in the ebb and flow of public life, it can somehow be retrieved for democratic debate. In the din, voices do get heard and important points are made. Over to the session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-we-need-to-worry-about-our-parliament-284279
17-07-2021||Science Commentator||More to this space race than billionaires||THIS month is witnessing some unusual activity, with billionaires becoming astronauts. The space flight of Richard Branson earlier this week is to be followed by a similar space mission led by Jeff Bezos. The third one by Elon Musk is not far away. More than half a century ago, the space race between America and the Soviet Union reached its zenith with the first human landing on the lunar surface. It was the Cold War era and the exploration of space was in its formative years. In the past two decades, China emerged as a serious contender in the space sector with its human missions and programme to build a space station. This, together with India’s successful missions to the moon and Mars, led to an Asian space race. Several other countries in Asia have developed national space programmes. Now, the world is witnessing a new space race in which the contenders are billionaire-entrepreneurs and not nation-states. This race can potentially change the contours of space business in future.The participation of high-profile businesses may have made space flights look like a billionaire’s game, but the new space race is about hard science, technology and business. The first fully-crewed flight of Branson’s Virgin Galactic has demonstrated that humans can fly into space and return safely to the earth in a plane. This is no ordinary plane but an aerospace plane combining the features of an aeroplane and a space rocket. For decades, such a spaceplane has featured in science fiction books and movies and has been on the drawing board for a long time.A spaceplane is different from a space shuttle which was the mainstay of space travel till a few years back. A shuttle is launched into space from the ground on a rocket and propelled into its desired orbit, while a spaceplane or rocket plane is flown on a mothership and is ejected at a certain altitude from where it propels further to the edge of space. Both the mothership and spaceplane are reusable, unlike rockets that burn out after placing satellites or human capsules into their orbits. Spaceplanes don’t need spaceports either. They can simply take off from an airport.Satellite launches and human missions are prohibitive due to high costs involved in making new rockets and launch vehicles for every new mission, and building dedicated spaceports. On the other hand, private companies are using ‘air launches.’ It has taken almost two decades of development, trials and failures – including fatal mishaps — to reach this point. Branson’s other company, Virgin Orbit, has used a Boeing 747 to release a mid-air rocket carrying satellites and has successfully placed several satellites in their orbits. NASA has also used the services of commercial operators to deliver cargo to the International Space Station (ISS). Together, Virgin Galactic and Virgin Orbit have demonstrated the technical feasibility and safety of a spaceplane for both satellite launches and human space flights.Now, the space companies are ready for ticketed customers for their sub-orbital missions. This opens up a new segment of space tourism and private satellite launches. National space agencies and their arms have been into commercial satellite launches such as those executed by India’s Antrix Corporation. Since these agencies use rockets for satellite launches, the lead time is a few weeks to several months. On the other hand, a Virgin Orbit spaceplane can be quickly requisitioned for launching a satellite at short notice. This could come in handy for national security agencies in times of emergencies. Space tourism is, of course, going to be a source of revenue with many millionaires and adventure travellers, including one from India, lining up for experiencing the thrill of weightlessness in a suborbital mission.The advent of commercial space transportation rakes up a host of regulatory issues. The current frameworks for the aviation and space industry do not adequately cover human space transportation by commercial entities. The regulators will have to get commercial players to establish safety for human passengers and clearly outline the risks involved. The industry is still in its learning period and there are diverse views on how stringent such regulations should be.Interestingly, the idea of a reusable space launch vehicle in India was mooted by missile scientist APJ Abdul Kalam in the 1990s. He called it the hyperplane, and strongly advocated it during his presidency. He envisaged a hyperplane or a multi-purpose aerospace vehicle to operate like an aircraft, using regular runways. Such a vehicle could be extensively reusable and provide higher payload efficiency. Since it was to operate as an aircraft, the launch costs could be much lower. Kalam got the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to work on the concept of a ‘single-stage-to-orbit’ launch vehicle powered by an air-breathing scramjet engine. The hyperplane, in Kalam’s vision, was also to be a mid-air missile launching platform. It was his dream project. To a great extent, the dream became a real project in the form of Reusable Launch Vehicle (RLV) of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). A few critical technologies relating to RLV have been tested on the ground and in flight, but its capability to land on the surface is yet to be tested.Given the new policy to allow private sector entry into the space sector in India, it may be worthwhile for the government and ISRO to prioritise the RLV programme for private participation. Developing a working reusable aerospace vehicle in a short time requires huge investment and testing of several critical technologies. Private investors should be interested in this, because of the future commercial use of such a vehicle for placing satellites in orbit as well as for space tourism.A vibrant space ecosystem is taking shape in India, but investors with deep pockets have been cautious so far. It is time for Indians who are in the same billionaire league as Branson and Bezos to take the plunge in the space sector. The risk may be worth taking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/more-to-this-space-race-than-billionaires-284308
17-07-2021||When the Red Army withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989||The Great Game continues||Just as communist internationalism was buried with the death of Soviet Union, the epochal end of the war in Afghanistan should put an end to global jihad. Now, as the US withdraws from Afghanistan, all that is remembered even in India are the last 20 years since 9/11, not the 1990s — the decade of Islamist terrorism that recreated the Indian polity, ending in the pre-eminence of the Hindutva forces. A repeat of the 1990s is what India should fear, but that seems unlikely to happen. After all, this time around, the withdrawal of the US is not really the victory of the Taliban or the validation of jihad. Even when about half of Afghanistan is in Taliban control, none of the capitals of its 34 provinces has been fully captured by them, proving that the Afghan forces haven't simply melted into the dusty hills. The Taliban do not have an air force and the US-supplied choppers still give government forces an edge over them.Despite stories of thousands of Afghan armymen running away to Tajikistan, there could still be a US-sponsored ceasefire and an earnest effort to accommodate non-Taliban elements in the interim government. The de-legitimisation of the Ashraf Ghani government can only be seen as the fall of yet another puppet regime that was foisted on an indifferent people, not really different from all experiments, old and new, by alien forces. Yet, the Taliban, with their rule by tribal diktats, are not ready for a transformation into a political entity that runs a parliament or contests elections. So, the interim government can be expected to be a jirga of mullahs with daggers drawn.But more importantly, the present-day Taliban are not a monolith, as they used to be, and not fully controlled by Pakistan. The leaders in Peshawar, Doha and the ground forces need not necessarily remain pawns in Pakistan’s strategic games. Sure, their families in Pakistan are at the mercy of the ISI and the leaders have been told in no uncertain terms about the price they would have to pay for talking to India. In fact, Pakistan so badly wants the Taliban to have international legitimacy that it wants them to talk to everyone but India. Still, India is talking and all the investments by the security and intelligence agencies in the last two decades are finally paying off.While the Taliban were welcomed as liberators earlier, now they are feared — even hated, at times — and that makes them more vulnerable, and also amenable to those reaching out. They have indeed started to portray themselves as reasonable by not killing those who surrender before them. A Foreign Policy news report of last year talked about daughters and sisters of some Taliban fighters going to school, which was unthinkable earlier. That does not mean that the Taliban have stopped being regressive; there are reports of the Taliban clergy asking for lists of girls above 15 and widows under 45 to be married off to their fighters. But the fact remains that there are various shades of regression among the Taliban, prompting observers to believe that there could be various shades of opinion, aspiration and allegiance too.Meanwhile, the ISI seems to be grooming a new leadership that would toe its line blindly, unlike veterans like Mullah Baradar or inheritors like Mullah Yaqoob. Some of these Afghan nationalists of the old guard may see reason beyond Islamist internationalism and respond to Indian overtures. For, many of them are straining at the Pak leash, wanting to have an independent role and seat at the Afghan high table. The least that the Indian agencies can seek from the Taliban leaders who are willing to do business with them is to secure the Indian embassy, consulates and assets. This will be the real test of the Indian enterprise in Afghanistan. India has sunk nearly $3 billion in Afghanistan creating infrastructure — bringing power, roads, schools and health facilities to the people. Scholarships for students and medicare for the critically ill should have generated some goodwill that Pakistan cannot easily obliterate.If the agencies that have overseen this Indian investment have been serious in their efforts these last two decades, there is every reason for them to succeed in negotiating with the Taliban and nurturing some genuine allies in order to protect Indian interests in Afghanistan and also back home. The worst-case scenario of Afghanistan slipping fully into Pak-Taliban control and turning into a human bomb-making laboratory for all Islamist hotheads ought to make the Indian government draw up a contingency plan.This time, withdrawal is not the defeat of the US forces and hence it should make them put an end to Islamist internationalism as an accepted political ideology for regime change in Islamic countries or a tool for political destabilisation in countries with Islamic minorities. Just as communist internationalism was buried with the death of Soviet Union, the epochal end of the war in Afghanistan should put an end to global jihad. The practice that began with religious soldiers — the mujahideen — travelling to fight the war against the kafir in Afghanistan has spread far and wide, even to the American shores, with devastating results. Afghanistan needs peace, as does the rest of the neighbourhood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-great-game-continues-284318
