18-07-2021||In 2007||Sadly, bigotry won’t die easily||He wanted me to drink coffee, I didn’t want to. He seemed the sort to negotiate with his fists — rightly, too, for he was a head taller and a ton heavier. Luckily, he lapsed into a reverie, induced possibly by liquor or drugs.The (white) British man next to me said in a low voice: “Don’t worry, there are enough people here to help if things get nasty.” Fortunately, the journey ended without incident.But why I, in a railcar full of white people? Well, the coffee-enforcer was going by the colour code of Britain. He knew that a non-native, minority brown person would be easier to browbeat than the native white man next to me. It’s a no-brainer — UK’s 87 per cent people are white; white people have the highest incomes, 63 per cent higher than black households. Even with a mind addled by liquor, the coffee man respected the colour code — you don’t mess with the majority.The coffee incident flashed before the mind’s eye when three black footballers representing England misfired in the penalty shootout in the final of the European Championships last weekend. Penalty-missers are generally offered kindness and comfort — their pain at letting the team down exceeds the pain fans feel at a loss.Marcus Rashford, Jadon Sancho and Bukayo Saka, however, carried the burden of colour, too. Team sports attempt to obliterate individual identities and build a unitary identity — Team England. But loss leads to swift disintegration in the eyes of the bigoted fans. For them, when a black man shines, it’s Team England’s triumph; when a black man falters, it’s that individual’s failure — even treachery. High expectations and great disappointment stoke fires of bigotry. Liquor adds fuel to the fire.In India, it could be caste or religion that marks people as different and worthy of contempt. North-eastern footballers or South Indian cricketers will confirm this.When would we see a person as just a person, not a representative of a religion, caste or ethnicity? It won’t happen in a hurry — racism and bigotry are probably written into our DNA. Researchers say fearing and distrusting the unfamiliar — the ‘out group’ — made sense in times when your very life depended on it. Living in small clusters, early human beings needed to protect their resources — just like the apes from whom they evolved. Water, a safe and secure place of habitation, and food sources had to be protected. Territory had to be defended, for new entrants wanted the same resources. It made sense to be suspicious of those who were different, and to trust those who were similar, i.e. members of the ‘in group’.Strength lay in numbers — from this comes the pre-modern idea of converting people to your own tribe or religion, in order to gain more land and corner resources.On our planet, humans are dominant because they are the most cooperative species; Yuval Noah Harari says it’s imagination that’s the secret of this dominance. “Sapiens can cooperate in extremely flexible ways with countless numbers of strangers,” he writes.Humans can fight in the name of an imagined creator and for an unproven heaven. Diverse people can unite for an imagined tribe in sport — a Manchester United football fan from Chandigarh, for instance, can instantly bond with one from Shanghai or Sydney. The flip side is that they will also have animus for, say, the tribe of Manchester City without ever meeting its members.Sport brings out the best and worst of human beings. The worst is often in the form of racism, as three black English players would testify. Sadly, bigotry won’t die easily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sadly-bigotry-wont-die-easily-284845
18-07-2021||“I t feels like a part of oneself is gone||Farewell Danish Siddiqui, emphatic chronicler of lived history||Jami is a decade senior to me and Danish was nearly a decade junior. In common between us is AJK Mass Communication Research Centre, Jamia Millia Islamia, where each of us had studied before embarking on our careers as photo and video journalists. “Danish’s death cuts deep,” Jami added. “We have been there, gone through that same mix of adrenalin, fear, wound up tension, exhilaration and sorrow.”In my early years as one of the first women to be a cameraperson in a news organisation, I used to study Jami’s work, learning how to tell the story with visuals — through details of composition, light and shot breakdown. In my recent years as an independent filmmaker, I have been admiring the sharp accuracy of Danish’s photographs, as he documented moments that visualised the complexity and horror of our times. His photos reveal injustice and expose perpetrators. They dignify victims. During the anti-CAA protests and the subsequent violence in north-east Delhi, it seemed as if Danish was everywhere. Again and again we would find ourselves relying on images credited to him as we raced to document the heady events as they unfolded.“As a photojournalist, you always get to see events from the first row. And it is an honour. You carry the responsibility of being the eyes and ears of those who are not there,” Danish had said at MCRC’s inauguration of the academic session of 2018-19, where he was felicitated as distinguished alumni. Danish had recently been awarded the Pulitzer Prize for feature photography for documenting the Rohingya refugee crisis.“If people can see their own loved ones in place of the person in the photograph, my work is done,” he said, addressing an auditorium full of students. “I see myself as the connection between my subjects and the viewer who I think can stand up and make a change for good.”“For Danish Siddiqui, photojournalism was a social responsibility, not just a career option,” his friend and one-time colleague Bilal Zaidi has written on Facebook. Social media has been flooded with tributes, both by people who knew Danish and others who are influenced by and admire his work as well as work ethic. At the same time, there have been hateful comments targeting Danish because of his Muslim identity and the fact that his work served as evidence against Islamophobic propaganda and fake narratives.I refused to allow organised online hate speech to contaminate my personal sense of grief at the loss of Danish, who has been a steadfast and brilliant chronicler of lived history. I went to his Facebook profile where we had been friends. I scrolled through the photos he had shared and tried to numb the sharp stab of shock by reading his words. Danish had become best known for conflict photography, but there had always been deep sensitivity and empathy in the way he framed what he witnessed. His subjects, locations and themes were diverse. He drew attention to the extraordinary in the ordinary, offering dignity and grace to those on the margins.I turned to our common friends and mentors for solace. Sabeena Gadihoke, who is Professor, Video and TV Production at AJK MCRC, has been my teacher too. She shared that Danish had been extraordinarily gifted as a student. “It is very hard to get my head around the senseless and violent death. I have also been deeply saddened by the hate speech after his death but what no one can take away from Danish is the power of his images and what he told us about hate and suffering,” said Sabeena.Danish had taken a class with the new batch of MA students at MCRC as recently as two months ago. He had spoken about how the photographer balances distance by being not too close to intrude, and yet wide enough to give viewers a sense of scale. “They say that journalists have to learn to be distant, but Danish was always conscious about the emotional connect of his images,” Sabeena shared.Shohini Ghosh is Officiating Director and Professor at MCRC and has known both Danish and me as film students. “Today we are grieving for the student we taught, the warm and generous person that he was,” she said. “I see a future that will laud and treasure the work of Danish Siddiqui. Because he dared to show an India and a world that the political rulers of his time would rather have us forget.”— The writer is a filmmaker & author. natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/farewell-danish-siddiqui-emphatic-chronicler-of-lived-history-284820
18-07-2021||The 1936 Olympics in Berlin were organised to showcase the German Third Reich as a diadem of the world. The Germans defeated the Indian hockey team 4-1 in a practice match. This sent a warning down the spine of a complacent Indian squad||When Dhyan Chand met Hitler in 1936||His teammates called him Dara. Dhyan Chand and Dara both belonged to the Punjab Regiment. Dhyan Chand, the team captain, was enrolled in the clerk trade and held the rank of Naik at that time. Dara was airlifted from Delhi and managed to reach Berlin in the nick of time.The day was August 15, 1936. As predicted, Germany and India reached the finals and the two teams stood facing each other in the hockey stadium. At 11 am sharp, the whistle blew and the match started. In the grandstand sat Hitler, confident of Germany winning the match on the strength of the practice match results. The Germans had already sent an invitation to the Indian team for a social evening to fete the victors.In the first half, the Indians were unable to pierce the German defence. In one rally by Dhyan Chand, the German goalkeeper collided with him and the goalkeeper’s hockey stick stuck him in the face. Dhyan Chand collapsed on the field and had to be carried out. The Germans struck in the meanwhile and scored a goal. At half-time, Germany led by a solitary goal.Dhyan Chand had lost a few teeth but was revived. He decided to change from stud-soled shoes to rubber-soled canvas PT shoes, his normal footwear. The game resumed, and the Germans were aggressive. The Indian captain played a mesmerising game, controlling the ball as if by divine wizardry and fired in three quick goals. Hitler left the match midway. The final score was India 8, Germany 1.In the evening function, a German officer came to Dhyan Chand and said the Fuhrer wanted to meet him. Hitler stood talking to the German players. Joseph Goebbels stood in the background. Himmler stood adjusting his pince nez.“Mein Fuhrer, the Indian team Kapitan Herr Dhyan Chand.”Now what transpired has been related by Dhyan Chand in his own words.“I did a salaam to the Fuhrer. Hitler scanned me from top to bottom. I am not a tall man. I was wearing the only coat I possessed and my canvas PT shoes with white pants.”“You are the hockey wizard everyone is blaming for turning the tables in today’s match. Congratulations, your team played magnificently. I am told you had an injury in the match. How are you now?”The translator translated from German to English. Dhyan Chand smiled and looked calmly at Hitler, “Shukriya Janab. I have left a tooth in Germany in today’s match but otherwise I am fine. We are grateful for your fine hospitality.”Hitler started smiling when he heard the answer and he spoke again. “What do you do when not playing hockey?”“Janab, I am in the Indian Army.”“What is your rank?”“Janab, I am a Naik or Corporal.”“A Corporal. Even I have been a Corporal in my young days. You are a man of great ability and prowess. I can’t believe that the British don’t value your worth Herr Dhyan Chand. I offer you to join the German army as an officer. Clearly you know how to gain victories for your side.”There was total silence as the dictator spoke. The surrounding Nazis looked expectantly at Dhyan Chand’s face. When he answered, he told the translator, “Please tell His Excellency the Fuhrer that I am deeply honoured by his generous offer. However humble my rank, I am an Indian and India is my home. I am happy remaining a poor Corporal among my own people.”Hitler nodded his head slightly, looked at him again and moved on to meet other people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-dhyan-chand-met-hitler-in-1936-284818
