19-07-2021||Director||Covid variants and the spectre of the third wave||Rakesh KochharProfessor, GastroenterologyAfter reaching the peak of over four lakh cases per day in India, the daily Covid-19 cases during the second wave have been on the decline, but there remains the possibility of a third wave affecting us. With opening up of the lockdown, people have thrown caution to the wind. They are flouting Covid norms, flocking to the hills in ‘revenge tourism’ and putting everyone at risk once again.The Spanish flu had troubled mankind in four waves, and the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 has already hit many countries in three waves. The situation is compounded by the report of a Belgian woman getting infected with two variants together and that of the first Indian who got Covid infection getting it again a year later.The current surge of cases in the UK, the US, South Africa and South East Asia is linked to the emergence of the Delta variant of the coronavirus. It is one of the four variants of concern (VOC). Variants emerge from mutations or changes in the genome sequence of an organism. Mutations emerge purely by chance and can result from genetic ‘copying errors’ made when the organism replicates.When a virus has one or more new mutations, it’s called a variant. Random mutations that allow a virus to survive better or become more infective are passed on to the next generation when the virus multiplies. Many mutations may make the virus weaker or less infectious.For the infected individual, mutations become a matter of worry if the variants become more infective or cause a more severe disease or escape the effectiveness of vaccines.Some current VOC include Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta. Some of them are more infective and can cause a more severe disease, others reduce the effectiveness of some monoclonal antibody medications and the antibodies generated by a previous Covid infection or vaccine.The Delta variant has spread to over 100 countries and is the primary cause of the Covid resurgence in many places. The Delta Plus variant is its subdivision, which originated in Maharashtra. It is suspected to trigger new cases of Covid-19 in the state. Apart from the primary symptoms, it can also cause stomach ache, nausea, appetite loss and vomiting.A number of variants have been designated as variants of interest (VOI). These include Eta, Epsilon, Theta and Kappa. VOI can be potentially more infective or cause a severe disease or escape immunity. Evidence for all these is preliminary. Earlier this month, the WHO termed the Lambda variant also as a VOI. Originating in Peru, it has been detected in more than 30 countries in the past four weeks, predominately in South America.Then, some variants are being monitored. These include Iota and Zeta. There is inadequate information as yet about their significance.Public health experts have been warning of an impending third wave in India. It has been said that it is only a question of when it will strike. This concern has been raised because of people ignoring preventive measures. Even the Supreme Court has intervened to stop religious gatherings. The Union Home Secretary has pointed out that there has already been an increase in the R-factor (reproduction number) in some states. The R-factor indicates the speed at which the infection is spreading in the country.Some scientists have projected that the third wave could arrive in the next two months if we did not become more cautious and break the cycle of the spread of the virus.As on July 14, only about 31 per cent of the target population has received a single vaccine dose and just 7.7 per cent is fully vaccinated. This leaves a large part of the population vulnerable. It was being suggested that the third wave may affect more of children as they would remain vulnerable because vaccination has been offered to only the over 18 year group.Data on this account is, however, conflicting. On the one hand, reports suggest an increase in the number of children getting infected in Pune (268 children among the new 2,065 Covid patients from July 1 to 7). On the other hand, a serosurvey from the PGIMER, Chandigarh, shows that over two-third of the children tested had already developed antibodies to the virus. Large serosurveys across different regions and different age-groups are needed to know what percentage of the population has been exposed to the virus infection.India needs to monitor the emergence of new variants by genome-surveillance. Recent data from Kerala shows that 62 per cent of the cases were caused by the Delta variant, 26 per cent by Alpha, 8.24 per cent by Kappa and 2.7 per cent by Beta. The Alpha and Kappa proportion in Kerala is the highest in the country. In Maharashtra and the North-East, the overwhelming variant remains the Delta variant.The Covid variants are also notorious for transgressing borders, through travel. Delta, which had originated in India, is now responsible for over 90 per cent of the infections in countries as diverse geographically as the UK, Indonesia and Russia. The Lambda variant, which originated in Peru, has been reported in only one Asian country: Israel.To prevent the third wave, we must adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour and avoid unwarranted travel, crowding and social gatherings. Vaccination coverage must be enhanced to break the vicious cycle of transmission, which, in turn, will decrease the likelihood of the emergence of new variants. There is a risk that one of the random mutations may turn out to be an “escape mutation”, which allows the virus to slip past the natural antibodies present due to past infections and existing vaccines.A report from scientists in France, published in Nature, is revealing. It found that the Pfizer and AstraZeneca (Covishield) vaccines provide only 33 per cent protection against the Delta variant after the first dose. Two weeks after the second shot, the Pfizer vaccine was 88 per cent effective against Delta, and the AstraZeneca vaccine 60 per cent effective.This calls for a strict watch on the emergence of new variants. And, the faster we carry out universal vaccination, the more we can decrease the chance of “escape mutation”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-variants-and-the-spectre-of-the-third-wave-285202
19-07-2021||National Spokesperson||Delhi’s success story can  be replicated in Punjab||Why is it that even 74 years after Independence we still cannot guarantee basic dignity of life to the citizens of this country? Why is it that basic issues like access to 24x7 electricity, water, good healthcare and education are all still pipedreams?Unless the PPAs are scrapped, Punjab will continue to pay around Rs14,000 crore per year for its failure to draw power from private plants.India as a country and Punjab as a state are power-surplus. Despite this, Punjab faces an unprecedented situation where industries have been asked to compulsorily shut down and government offices have reduced their working hours on account of acute power shortage. How can we become a superpower if we cannot even manage our own electricity distribution?Delhi was in a similar situation before the AAP government was elected in 2015 — the discoms had threatened to push the city into darkness unless the government bailed them out. Citizens were paying very high tariff and yet facing hours of unscheduled power cuts. Invertors and generators had become common appliances in every middle-class household. Fast-forward to today — Delhi citizens get 24x7 electricity and 200 units of free electricity a month, and invertors-generators have been consigned to history. This happened only because there is an honest and proactive government, where the Chief Minister himself analysed every aspect of electricity distribution and ensured zero tolerance for corruption. The government invested heavily in augmenting the transformer capacity. Delhi’s cheap electricity also dramatically reduced power theft, which further improved the financial health of discoms, but in a manner that actually helps the citizens instead of hurting them.Punjab’s electricity situation has been ruined due to successive corrupt governments. Faulty power purchase agreements (PPAs) have been signed by past governments and the current dispensation has not taken any measure to rectify the situation. These agreements are a perfect example of crony capitalism where a few private companies profiteer at the expense of bankrupting the PSPCL. Things have come to such an embarrassing stage that the PSPCL does not even have the resources to distribute the electricity it has purchased. In one such absurd agreement, Punjab is buying electricity from GVK’s Goindwal Sahib plant at the rate of Rs 9.9 per unit, while the same can easily be bought at the rate of Rs 3.46 per unit from the national grid. This has led to Punjab’s consumers paying one of the highest electricity charges in the country at Rs 8.37 per unit for domestic use.Punjab’s electricity demand varies from 6,000 to 14,000 MW per day in a typical year. Peak requirement is during the three months of the paddy season. Despite not having peak requirement for nine of the 12 months, a problematic clause in the PPA forces the state to pay 100 per cent fixed charges to private players even if it does not draw any power from these plants. Since 2013, the PSPCL has paid Rs 5,400 crore for its failure to draw power from these plants — the people of Punjab have had to pay even when they have been economical in consuming electricity. Punjab pays one of the highest fixed-cost charges in the country which get transferred to the consumers.Unless the PPAs are scrapped, the state will continue to pay around Rs 14,000 crore per year for its failure to draw power from private plants. This is a triple whammy because while the citizens have to bear the cost, the government is being compelled to shut down the state-owned power plants and further continue to pay the employees.The story of Delhi’s electricity transformation makes it absolutely clear that one needs an honest government and a strong political will to drive reforms. If a state like Delhi, where the elected government has limited powers, can provide for the needs of all its citizens, then why can’t Punjab, with full statehood, achieve the same? These chronic issues can only be resolved by a new government that has no vested interests and can challenge the status quo. As is clear from the example of Delhi, AAP is the only alternative to challenge this perpetual cycle of corruption.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/delhis-success-story-can-be-replicated-in-punjab-285209
19-07-2021||Former Deputy CM||Why power-surplus state finds itself in a mess||We all know that power is a fundamental driver of growth and development. It is the life-breath of any economy. But in Punjab, it had for long remained the most neglected area.When we took over in 2007, against the basic demand of 9,000 MW of power, Punjab had a total installed capacity of just 6,201 MW. This meant that the state’s economy was working at 50 per cent below potential. On top of it, transmission losses ran as high as 32 per cent, leaving us with less than 4,000 MW for actual use. This was not even half of the actual demand. How could the state progress then?People of Punjab faced daily power cuts of 14 to 16 hours. Farmers used to get four hours’ supply for tubewells, while industrial units remained shut for three or even four days a week.Against this backdrop, when we promised a power-surplus Punjab, we were laughed at. But we had to free the lungs of the state’s economy from this power paralysis. We had two options: buying power or installing fresh capacity. Buying was not an option as the state’s transmission infrastructure could carry only 5,000 MW, while we needed 9,000 MW. More than 70 per cent of the substations were overloaded. Plus, power cost a prohibitive Rs 10-12 per unit.Nor did the government have Rs 22,000 crore needed to install thermal plants. The only option was to engage with the private sector. We knew those who had done nothing to address the crisis would find faults with our decision. Therefore, we went in for global tenders and signed agreements under the most transparent Standard Bidding Document prepared by the Union Government under the then PM Manmohan Singh.We succeeded in securing two of the only six projects allotted throughout the country. And Punjab signed power purchase agreements (PPAs) at the levellised tariff of Rs 2.8643 (fixed rate Rs 1.18) per unit for the Talwandi Sabo plant (PPA signed on September 1, 2008) and Rs 2.890 (fixed rate Rs 1.36 ) per unit for the Rajpura plant (January 1, 2019) — among the cheapest in the country at these points in this cluster.Power availability in Punjab in the previous 60 years since Independence was just 6,200 MW. In just four years, we took it to 13,000 MW — against the required 9,000 MW. We made people forget power cuts and sell the private generator sets they had bought during the era of power cuts. This is the dream story of how we turned a power-starving state into a power-surplus Punjab.Against this background, it’s a miracle how the Congress government has managed to bring the era of power cuts back. In 2017, we gave them a power-surplus Punjab. It now faces a shortfall of 4,000 MW. Against 7,000 MW added by us in just four years, the present government has not added a single unit to the installed capacity. In fact, they have managed even to reduce the capacity by 880 MW by shutting down plants.No wonder, power cuts which had become a thing of the past are back with a vengeance. There are long, unannounced daily cuts of domestic supply. Farmers are short of power by three to four hours every day — in the midst of paddy plantation. The industry is crying. The wheels of Punjab’s economy have come to a screeching halt.And amidst all this, the only things the rulers of today can think of are how to fight among themselves and then to divert people’s attention from their concrete failures and follies and focus with brazen lies on issues like sacrilege of Sri Guru Granth Sahib, not failing to mock even the High Court! And they are the ones talking of justice.But I must close with an appeal on behalf of the people of Punjab to these ‘power-drunk’ rulers: Learn to respect the good work done by your predecessors. If you think the PPAs signed by us were wrong, scrap them. Sign new agreements. Beg, buy or borrow, do whatever but supply power 24x7 to domestic consumers and minimum eight hours in the daytime to farmers, traders and the industry. Stop looking up to the rain gods or holding Barkha havans. ‘Bijlee, not blame’ is what Punjabis demand. Deliver or quit and keep fighting among yourselves at leisure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-power-surplus-state-finds-itself-in-a-mess-285215
19-07-2021||Strategic Analyst||Reforging old bonds||The second half of 2021 will be a period of Russia and India, in terms of diplomatic activity in New Delhi. The year 1971 was the story of the Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation between India and the Soviet Union. In three weeks, there will be celebrations in Moscow and in New Delhi marking the golden jubilee of the signing of that historic document.Indians engaging Russians in government or outside will never hear questions in Moscow such as ‘are you with us or against us’.PM Modi and Russian President Putin have recently agreed to set up a new mechanism for taking down any cobwebs in mutual engagement: a 2+2 ministerial forum, which is now a familiar structure in many bilateral relationships worldwide, and has proved productive. The first such meeting of Russian and Indian foreign and defence ministers will convene shortly.Inter-governmental commissions worked well in the Soviet era in advancing Moscow’s ties with New Delhi. They were effective institutional structures in government-to-government relations after the 1971 treaty took Indo-Soviet ties forward. Ministerial meetings of the commission will take place in the second half of this year and focus on defence, economy and trade.All this is in preparation for Putin’s visit to India later this year, taking into account what Russia’s Deputy Chief of Mission in India, Roman Babushkin, calls ‘epidemiological considerations’. Optimism is high that the Putin-Modi summit will take place this year in person.If that happens, Putin’s will be the first high level, big power visit to New Delhi since Covid-19 descended on various countries. The chance to bag that spot was to have belonged to British PM Boris Johnson as Republic Day guest, but he cancelled his travel plans after a variant of coronavirus spread in the UK around that time.All this makes up a full plate as far as bilateral events go, but there is a lot more in the pipeline which puts Moscow at the front and centre of New Delhi’s diplomatic calendar for the remainder of 2021. Next month, India will assume the presidency of the UNSC. The council’s President-designate, TS Tirumurti, has begun coordinating with Russia’s Permanent Representative to the UN, Nebenzia Vassily Alekseevich, on how to advance a multipolar agenda.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is now chair of the Russia-India-China trilateral cooperation mechanism, better known as RIC. Jaishankar intends to convene a meeting of RIC foreign ministers in New Delhi in September. India also currently holds the presidency of BRICS. The BRICS leaders, according to present plans, will hold their 13th summit in India in September.Before all this happens, Russia and India are expected to complete the process of mutual recognition of each other’s certificates of vaccination against Covid-19. Sputnik Lite, the single-dose Russian vaccine, would have arrived in India by then. Expanding partnerships to manufacture Sputnik V vaccine in India would have also made bilateral vaccine cooperation widespread by year-end. All this will lay the ground for a revival of people-to-people interaction that lost steam when the Soviet Union collapsed.Sentiment and emotion, reminiscent of the Soviet era, are still high on the Indo-Russian agenda, as Russian-speaking Jaishankar’s three-day visit to Moscow this month showed. He chose the nearly century-old Institute of World Economy and International Relations of the Russian Academy of Sciences (IMEMO) for his only public engagement, although several platforms were offered to him. He chose this venue as a tribute to Yevgeni Primakov, whose contribution to India’s robust defence preparedness and strategic stability during the years when the Soviet Union unravelled, will only be revealed when top-secret documents of that period are declassified, if ever. Primakov, the first head of the Soviet spy agency KGB’s successor, the Foreign Intelligence Service, was Russia’s PM when India tested its nuclear weapons in 1998. He was associated with IMEMO from 1970 till his death six years ago.With so much of Russia on India’s diplomatic calendar for the rest of this year, an oft-repeated question is bound to pop up again: ‘What is Russia’s relevance for India?’ In the last two decades, India became attractive for the entire world because of its economic opportunities and on account of its emergence as an important global power. The latest conclusive evidence of this status was India’s election to the Security Council with a huge majority a year ago. On both these counts India is now facing challenges.Jaishankar stressed in his IMEMO speech that what India and Russia ‘have in common is a clear sense of national interest and a strong sense of national resolve. We have dealt with each other long enough to know that these qualities are very much part of our basic character.’ As India’s foreign and economic policies face questions, which were presumed to have gone away over two decades ago, it is important to remember a critical point: Indians engaging Russians in government or outside will never hear questions in Moscow such as ‘are you with us or against us’.Unlike some other familiar countries, Russians do not have an attitude of entitlement from Indians, despite the massive support they have given India since Independence in every sphere. History has taught us that Russians will not foment a ‘colour revolution’ in India. Nor will they seek regime change through interference in India’s sovereignty. That cannot be said with any certainty about many other countries, which are supposedly New Delhi’s friends. None of India’s other friendships has shown the strength of resilience in relations with Russia.‘The paradox, though, is that precisely because it has held so steady, this relationship is sometimes taken for granted. The case for its constant nurturing is therefore as powerful, if not more, than with the more volatile ones,’ Jaishankar said. That is what his ministry is preparing for in the remaining months of this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reforging-old-bonds-285220
