21-07-2021||---||Eyeing cooperatives to tap financial resources||A day before the Cabinet reshuffle on July 6, the Cabinet Secretariat announced in a press release: “In a historic move, a separate ‘Ministry of Cooperation’ has been created by the Modi government for realising the vision of Sahkar se Samriddhi (Plenty through Cooperation).And it went on to elaborate the vision implied in the measure: “In our country, a cooperative-based economic development model is very relevant where each member works with a sense of responsibility.” And the press release ends saying: “The Central Government has signalled its deep commitment to community-based developmental partnership. Creation of a separate Ministry of Cooperation also fulfils the Budget announcement made by the Finance Minister.”Tracking back to the Budget speech of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, we find in paragraph 94, in the section under the heading, ‘Government Financial Reforms’, the declaration of intent: “The government is committed to the development of multi-state cooperatives and will provide all support to them. To further streamline the ‘Ease of doing business’ for cooperatives, I propose to set up a separate administrative structure for them.” So, the government has been pondering over the issue for quite some time. It wants to tap the cooperatives.There are two aspects to this ministry then. It is an economic ministry. It deals with cooperatives as banks, mainly in the agricultural sector. There are also urban cooperative banks, but the sector is rooted in agriculture. The main reason behind the setting up of the National Bank of Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) in 1981 was to provide financial support to the cooperatives. Interestingly, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has brought the cooperative banks under its purview, to oversee their functioning. The Ministry of Cooperation is in some ways like the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, which is linked to the functioning of the Ministry of Finance. The basis of cooperatives in the country is the large number of cooperative banks spread across the country. The Multi-State Cooperative Societies (MSCS) Act was enacted in 2002. There are 20 multi-state cooperative societies which come under the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, as do the 1,469 cooperative societies in various states, with Maharashtra leading with 567 of them, followed by 147 in Telangana and 133 in Delhi, and just four in Uttar Pradesh.The range of registered cooperative societies is reflected in the list of those registered before 1986. They include Boots Employees Cooperative Credit Society Limited, Canara Bank Officers Cooperative Thrift and Credit Society Limited. There is another list of 1,296 multi-state cooperative societies and banks, which includes the Farm to Foreign Exports Entrepreneur Development Multi-State Cooperative Society, which operates in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and was registered on January 16, 2020.There is then a huge web of cooperatives spread across the country, which seems to reflect the underlying philosophy of cooperation as expounded by 19th-century British entrepreneur and visionary Robert Owen, and which has come to be known as Owenite socialism. It needs to be noted that the stakeholders in the cooperatives are different from the shareholders in a financial institution. The cooperatives raise capital, earn profits and they are used by the stakeholders. It is meant for internal circulation and consumption. This is indeed a taboo in the free-market enterprise where shareholders look to profits from the commercial transactions, and they cannot ever use the resources for their personal needs.What is it then that the Modi government would want to do with the cooperatives, big and small? Does it want to make them part of the Atmanirbhar plan, and dovetail it with the different schemes like Startup India, Make in India, Skill India et al? The government may want to streamline these many small units, merge them into larger enterprises, and make them veritable financial resources for new ventures. There is the felt need that the financial infrastructure in India is inadequate, that formal banking is not able to cope with the challenge of financial inclusion. The cooperative banks and societies can then be pressed into service to fill the gaping holes. The cooperatives then are an untapped financial resource in terms of funds to be raised and the ready-to-use institutional framework of a bank. It is interesting that the Modi government should have woken up to the prospect of using the cooperatives network to solve some of the financial infrastructure challenges.In doing so, the government might be killing off the spirit behind the cooperatives, the idea of self-help and the pooling of resources in a small group. The philosophy of the cooperatives is that small is beautiful. If it goes big, as in too big to fail, then it ceases to be a cooperative. Another essential aspect of cooperatives is autonomy, and this is the autonomy of a group of people who live in a community or share the common interests of a community. The members of a cooperative should not be reduced to the status of a faceless shareholder in a huge corporation. The idea behind a cooperative is idealistic, something intimate and harmonious.The characteristic that the Modi government has displayed in the last seven years has been that of dreaming big, doing big things in a big way, the very antithesis of what a cooperative stands for.Instead of encouraging more cooperatives to emerge and flourish, where the model is that of a kibbutz, of shared life and values at an inter-personal level, the government might end up turning the cooperatives into something like the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector.Cooperatives are not about the small size of operation. It is about a worldview of cohesive local communities, something that is needed as a social balm for a society that is forever living in the shadow of gargantuan corporations, national and multi-national. The cooperative is an antidote to capitalism gone astray. It offers an alternative worldview, which many can dismiss as utopian. But it abides by the utopian spirit. Prime Minister Modi, it looks like, is keen to turn the cooperatives into capitalist enterprises, where ruthless competition is the leitmotif.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/eyeing-cooperatives-to-tap-financial-resources-285994
21-07-2021||---||Afghans continue to be at the receiving end||On July 17, Bruce Riedel, formerly of the CIA and now at Brookings, warned that the power vacuum in Afghanistan after the US troop withdrawal will adversely affect India by spawning terrorism. Similarly, The New York Times (July 15) reported Chinese fears of insecurity in the region after the killing of nine Chinese workers in a ‘Belt & Road’ hydroelectric project in Dasu, Pakistan’s Northwest, due to a suspected explosion.Riedel had issued a similar warning on April 27, 2021, by reminding President Joe Biden of what President Barack Obama had said in his memoir A Promised Land: “The Riedel report made one thing clear: Unless Pakistan stopped sheltering the Taliban, our efforts at long-term stability in Afghanistan were bound to fail.”What was this Riedel report? In February 2009, Obama chose Riedel to chair a White House Review to synthesise suggestions from heavyweights like Richard Holbrooke, special envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan, Gen David H Petraeus, Central Command Chief, and Admiral Michael G Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, before the next NATO summit.In a joint press conference at the White House on March 27, 2009, Riedel and Holbrooke outlined Obama’s strategy for NATO presence in Afghanistan: “To disrupt, dismantle and defeat al-Qaeda, and to ensure that their safe havens in Afghanistan and Pakistan cannot threaten the United States anymore.”They added that the US exit strategy would depend on that.Biden’s White House address on April 14, 2021, also claimed that they had achieved the “disrupt, dismantle and defeat al-Qaeda” strategy. However, Riedel did not agree. He said that Joe Biden, who inherited “a terrible deal from Trump’s feckless negotiators” had “failed to engage with Prime Minister Imran Khan”, which was a mistake. This is because Pakistani generals “will be more hubristic and dangerous than ever”, as Pakistan is the winner “again” in Afghanistan, by outlasting two superpowers.Riedel reminded America that Washington DC had made ‘many mistakes’ in Afghanistan by not paying any attention after the Soviets left, allowing it to descend into a ‘failed’ state, permitting the Taliban and al-Qaeda to enter that vacuum. Riedel blamed former President George W Bush for taking his “eye off the ball” in Afghanistan after the 2001 US invasion and letting Osama bin Laden escape into Pakistan.In my opinion, a bigger mistake was made in 1992. This was after the failed coup d’état in the Soviet Union in August 1991 and eventual disintegration. In September that year, three Baltic states seceded and declared their independence. A limited ‘Belovezha’ accord signed on December 8, 1991, was modified by the December 21 Alma Ata Protocol in Kazakhstan, creating the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) by Russia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Western powers, including the United States, recognised these independent countries.On March 9, 1992, President Mohammad Najibullah made a direct appeal to the United States through The New York Times to help him in maintaining stability in Afghanistan. This was after President Boris Yeltsin stopped all direct assistance to Afghanistan, which grounded the Afghan air force and encouraged defections, which affected the Afghan army too.Senior journalist Edward A Gargan reproduced Najibullah’s text of appeal to the US in The New York Times. Najibullah’s tone was premonitory: “If fundamentalism comes to Afghanistan, war will continue for many more years… Afghanistan will turn into a centre of world smuggling for narcotic drugs. Afghanistan will be turned into a centre for terrorism.” However, none in Washington DC listened.Najibullah also echoed the then Secretary of State James Baker’s statement that Islamic fundamentalism had posed a significant threat to regional stability: “You may think that the Central Asian republics are significant for the United States of America… That’s right. But I must say that the strategic and political significance of Afghanistan is much more than these republics. If Afghanistan is lost and is turned into a center of fundamentalism, you will lose the Central Asian republics.”During this period, even King Zahir Shah’s US-based representatives had appealed to the State Department and the CIA that the retention of Najibullah in Afghanistan was very necessary as he was the only Afghan leader who would be able to hold the country together, obstruct the jihadis from coming into power and prevent Afghanistan’s splintering. They even conveyed that Najibullah should be accepted by the US, just as it had recognised the CIS leaders, who were mostly authoritarian.Unfortunately, the rivalry between the State Department and the CIA prevented this from happening.Steve Coll, in his book The Ghost Wars, vividly records the clashes between the State Department and the CIA over Najibullah. Initially, the State Department’s special envoy to Afghanistan Edmund McWilliams had differed with CIA’s Station Chief Milton Bearden over Najibullah’s fate. The CIA wanted him to go, as desired by Pakistan’s ISI. Milton Bearden started resenting “interference” by the State Department over their turf.In Washington DC, this rift between the CIA and the State Department was carried higher by the then CIA Deputy Director Thomas Twetten and Peter Tomsen, State Department’s new special envoy to the Afghan Resistance. Robert Kimmitt, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, told The New York Times (January 3, 1991) that Secretary of State Jim Baker had wanted to “coax the rebels and the Najibullah regime into democratic elections”, but that “they (meaning CIA) are just bucking policy.”However, during that period, Texas Congressman Charlie Wilson, member, US House of Representatives’ Appropriations Sub-Committee for Defence, was exercising disproportionate influence over Afghan operations. It resulted in other voices being ignored.Wilson regretted this later. An article in The World, a public radio and podcast programme, on February 11, 2010, said that Wilson, to the end of his life, regretted that “more wasn’t done to stabilise the country” and “the moderate, pro-Royalist factions in the resistance were ruthlessly suppressed by more extreme Islamic militants on our side.”These ‘regrets’ of ‘mistakes’ are not going to help the hapless Afghans now who continue to be the victims of external interference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/afghans-continue-to-be-at-the-receiving-end-285964
21-07-2021||---||The Uttar Pradesh chessboard||After the elation comes despair. Feet on the ground, the Opposition in Uttar Pradesh has had to contend with the harsh realities of what the horsepower of resources, muscle, manipulation, coercion and the alleged misuse of official power meant. The Samajwadi Party (SP)-Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) duo emerged trumps in the first phase of polling for the panchayat elections in April that entailed direct voting to elect village-level representatives. Voters showed a distinct preference for the SP-RLD that came first, followed by the BJP and the BSP, with the Congress and others trailing for the remaining positions.The storyline changed when it was time to elect the block ‘pramukhs’ (second-tier heads) and the zila panchayat ‘adhyaksha’ or district panchayat presidents, constituting the third and topmost tier in a three-level hierarchy. These heads were elected by the village-level panchayat representatives in indirect elections that generally unsettled the level playing field by increasing the scope of manipulation using money and muscle. A ruling party is historically advantageously placed to win the second and third level of the elections, which are not officially fought on party symbols. However, because it is generally known which candidate is endorsed by which party, political trends can be extrapolated. Logically, the BJP should have lost because the electoral college was made up of SP-RLD-backed winners. Quite the contrary happened. As allegations of intimidation, violence, assault and firing from the Opposition flew thick and fast, the BJP officially netted a majority of the block (67 out of 75 seats) and zila panchayat (635 out of 825 seats) president posts, thereby reinforcing its grip over the rural bodies that should prospectively help in the Assembly polls next year.The SP-RLD, which is emerging as the principal opposition, gradually got its act together, despite the BJP’s onslaught. SP president Akhilesh Yadav has now focused his attention on the Muslims, although earlier he seemed keen to live down the pro-minority tag fastened on his party in a Hindutva-dominated polity. His first public interactions were with the mango growers of Malihabad near Lucknow and the weavers, principally Muslims, at the SP’s office in the state capital. From balking at attacking the BJP and the CM, Yogi Adityanath, the SP stepped up the offensive against both through its slogans ‘chunavi chori’ (mandate robbed), ‘chanda chori’ (Ram temple donations stolen) and Corona ‘badintezami’ (Covid mismanagement) to flagging issues of the alleged victimisation of farmers and women, inflation and unemployment.Given its dexterity and ingenuity for turning adversity to advantage, often by debatable means—as the panchayat polls demonstrated—UP’s Opposition is in for the long haul before a party or an alliance can hope to catch up with the BJP. The population policy that in normal circumstances would seem well-intentioned has become another dare to the minorities because the BJP’s constant refrain is that the policy will not hurt any religious community. Why is the point being laboured? Some of its leaders harked back to the Emergency and endorsed Sanjay Gandhi’s slogan ‘Hum do, hamare do’, which preceded a mass sterilisation programme that targeted Muslims to such an extent that they deserted the Congress in the 1977 elections. Every step taken by Adityanath is to bolster his primary agenda of communally splitting the polity.The BSP that arose from an over four-year-long slumber last week, declared its plan to win over the Brahmins, a community that is upset with Adityanath for various reasons. BSP president Mayawati succeeded in winning over the Brahmins in the 2007 state elections through her general secretary, Satish Chandra Mishra, a ‘savarna’ from Kanpur, who is well-networked with the community. Of the 51 Brahmin candidates Mayawati fielded in 2007, 20 won, but by 2017, the community’s support to the BSP declined to a degree where only four of its 52 Brahmin nominees were elected. By then, the community was wedded again to the BJP. Her pro-Brahmin tactic seems like bottling old wine in an old bottle unless she comes up with a credible message that’s also powerful enough to sway the community away from the BJP.In UP’s complex social pastiche, Mayawati’s ability to wean over the Brahmins will depend on her capability to keep her core Dalit votes together. Quite many Dalit sub-castes tilted towards the BJP since 2014. Besides, Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan, the young lawyer-cum-activist from Saharanpur is making a play for Dalit votes under the Azad Samaj Party’s banner. Careful not to assail the BSP—perhaps a sign of continuing Dalit support for Mayawati—Azad, several years younger to her, raised the issues of conducting a caste census and legislating reservation in promotions which the BSP harped upon for years.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra recently dropped in on UP for three days after a long gap, which belied her earlier declared objective to invest more time in the state. The only significant takeaways from her visit were that she seemed open to an alliance with the ‘smaller’ entities, but not at the cost of offending the Congress’s ‘cadre’. If the Congress indeed had a cadre, like the BJP or even the SP and BSP, wouldn’t it remain in the game instead of being outplayed each time since 1989?The BJP keeps the first-mover advantage with the get-up-and-go instincts displayed by the CM, who was justifiably attacked for letting go of the management of the second pandemic surge and leaving people to their fate. The optics, conjured in the pandemic sequel through the exaggerated claims of the panchayat election ‘victory’ and of ‘vanquishing’ the virus, may not be enough of a countervail to offset people’s anger and anguish. Can the Opposition channelise the feelings on the ground into a movement against the BJP and Adityanath?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-uttar-pradesh-chessboard-285927
