22-07-2021||---||Work-from-home gaining ground, warts & all||THE Covid pandemic has altered global lifestyles in myriad ways. The one change that is set to become an enduring element of the employment process is the system of working from home. Work-from-home (WFH) has now become integral to the functioning of nearly all companies, both in India and abroad. It has taken root not just in information technology and digital economy entities but even in those that are involved in manufacturing, construction and all kinds of industrial operations. There is no getting away from workers actually being present at factories or construction sites or those in service sectors needing to interact face to face with customers. But all other activities that can be carried out remotely are being done from home-based locations.As a media professional, my own forays to studios have been replaced by Skype calls from the comfort of my home. It mirrors the situation in most middle-class households where working-age people are operating out of their homes rather than taking the daily two/three-hour commute to their offices. Now that the second Covid wave seems to be on the way out, the question being increasingly asked is whether this is going to become a permanent way or life. Or will physical presence in office return to being the norm as in the past?The answer to the question is complex right now. Many companies are planning a phased return to physical presence in offices, while others are content to continue with the existing WFH system for a longer period. Some IT companies, for instance TCS, have already declared that 75 per cent of their workforce will be working from home over the next five years. Even brick-and-mortar companies like Pepsico and Unilever are planning to have at least a third of their employees working remotely over the next few years. It is clear that ultimately, there will be a hybrid model with some percentage of employees being allowed to work from home while others return to offices. It could also be that employees come to offices a few times a week rather than every day. Every company is trying to work out a formula that works effectively and ensures maximum productivity.But this is not likely to be a seamless process. The reason being that WFH does not suit all employees. In fact, a study by global services company JLL found that as many as 82 per cent of employees missed the interactions of working in an office. The reasons are multifarious. One is that residences are cramped and working among family and associates can be tiring and distracting. The other is that the interaction among colleagues is vital to spur innovation and creativity. Plus, the learning process from seniors and peers is much quicker when meeting in a physical office atmosphere rather than on interminable Zoom calls. The third is the fact that WFH ultimately blurs the lines between office and home, so there is no sense of relaxation or turning one’s back on work. Office hours seem to be climbing as working remotely turns out to be an endless, tedious process with employers feeling entitled to call on subordinates at any time of day or night.Which brings one to the issue of mental health that is burgeoning among those working remotely. There are reports of psychiatrists finding a rise in persons seeking help for mental stress issues on this account. A study by the Milan-based staffing firm GI Group has found that 48 per cent of those surveyed felt Covid-19 had an impact on their mental wellness, though few had taken any steps to deal with the issue. The other related factor is that unlike normal times, the respite from work through socialising or other activities is not available, creating a hemmed in feeling for employees. Corporates now need to think seriously about providing support to workers facing mental health issues owing to the trying environment created by WFH.Having said that, it is undeniable that Covid has led to the creation of a whole new type of work environment that is set to revolutionise the world. Job availability, for instance, is no longer limited to the location of potential employees. Qualified persons living in smaller towns and cities can end up taking jobs that would have earlier gone to those located in larger metros, the usual site of corporate offices. Women will also benefit significantly. The perennial dilemma facing educated, skilled women over whether to stay at home as the primary children’s caregiver or opt for a full-fledged career can be resolved finally with the WFH option. In the years to come, this could lead to a massive increase in the numbers of women in the workforce. As it is, female labour force participation has been declining alarmingly in recent years. The possibilities of working remotely are likely to bring back many qualified women back into the workforce.WFH is a boon for the disabled as well. Those who can work efficiently from a single location but are daunted by the physical obstacles in commuting to distant office locations, can be employed without any hindrance.Job flexibility has equally assumed new dimensions. WFH has given options to those looking for a change, simply because hiring is not limited to those within the same region. Potential employees do not even have to be located in the same country and the prospect of a workforce scattered around the globe has now become a reality.WFH has created a brave new world of opportunities for those who have the skills and are not able to reach the physical office spaces in the usual crowded office hubs. It may not be the solution for everyone as most workplaces will continue to have the bulk of employees carrying out operations in the usual way. But it holds out hope that those who could not aspire to work in the normal way due to movement constraints will now have options before them. No doubt there are shortcomings in WFH which need to be ironed out. Yet the system of working from remote locations, created since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, is certainly a desirable and welcome revolution in the existing traditional job environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/work-from-home-gaining-ground-warts-all-286447
22-07-2021||---||Reclaiming democracy via voters’ whip||THE Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s decision to issue a ‘voters’ whip’ is one more democratic innovation in these dark times when formal democratic institutions and practices are taking a downturn. Democracy is being reclaimed on the streets just when the constitutional democratic apparatus is receding. As they say, creativity thrives in the dark.The idea behind the voters’ whip is simple, though powerful. Right from the inception of parliamentary democracy in our country, every party has appointed a whip tasked with disciplining the elected representatives. This role has a legal sanction after the insertion of anti-defection provisions in the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. Now every party can and does issue a whip to its MPs and MLAs, instructing them to be present on certain days and vote in specified ways. The basic idea is that the voters speak to the MPs and MLAs through the party; hence, they should not be allowed to violate its commands. But what about direct command from the voters? Why can’t the voters bypass the parties and instruct their representatives on how to conduct themselves in Parliament?That is what the voters’whip does. On behalf of the farmers, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has issued a whip to all the MPs for this Monsoon session that directs them to be present in Parliament for all days, to support the above mentioned demands of farmers’ movement on the floor of the House, not stage a walk-out and “not allow any other business to be transacted in the House till the Union Government accedes to the farmers’ demands”. This voters’ whip “overrides the whip issued by your party” and those who defy it face the prospect of farmers’ boycott.It is a conceptual break, but a work in progress on the practicalities. The concept needs to be fleshed out in terms of procedures for issuing the whip (who can issue it? How do we know the voters back it?), mechanisms for monitoring (what exactly constitutes a violation?) and penalty for defiance (who implements it? Exactly how?). A mass movement like the present farmers’ agitation commands exceptional moral authority and can issue such a whip. But the protocols of its use in normal times are yet to be worked out.This is but one more instance of innovation in a movement that has been forced to innovate all the time. Take the very form of protest, the morchas outside Delhi’s borders. These are not traditional marches or sit-ins or squatting. Occupying miles of highway to set up colonies defies classification. Similarly, turning toll plazas into sites of regular protest, organising massive Kisan Mahapanchayats, coalition of farm unions with khap panchayats, building alliance with trade unions, the use of community langar for supporting agitations, extending the idea of langar to daily-use items or even oxygen cylinders — all these are innovations in democratic practices.Last week, there was another such innovation, not connected to the farmers’ movement. Chhattisgarh’s capital Raipur witnessed a public hearing on the condition of migrant workers. But this was not another jansunwai, where the victims present their case to a panel of experts and judges. In this experiment, the jury comprised 17 migrant workers themselves.They deliberated for three days, heard from co-workers and the experts, to arrive at their verdict. This reversal of gaze takes the idea of public hearing forward and deepens its democratic character.One of the most startling innovations in recent time was, of course, Shaheen Bagh. It sprung up just when everyone thought it was impossible to raise minority voice under this government, just when the discriminatory Citizenship Amendment Act seemed like a fait accompli, just when all legitimate forms of protest were being criminalised. An all-women day and night neighbourhood gathering was a breathtaking idea, executed to perfection with nationalist symbolism. It combined defiance with pedagogy, anti-politics with deep politics, questioning of political authority with questioning of gender roles.These might appear like isolated examples, but they are not. Just start looking around for newer ways of expressing democratic aspirations and you would find something everyday. A few months ago, unemployed youths in Uttar Pradesh played a prank on the Yogi government, an incident that served to highlight the widespread unemployment among the educated youth. Last week, some citizens started a #ThankyouModiji campaign, taking a photograph before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s banner outside petrol pumps, to highlight the rising prices of petrol and diesel. You can keep adding to this list.At this stage in history, when we are experiencing “democracy capture” — a capture of democracy through democratic means — these examples hold out hope for the country. There is a parliamentary session going on but the PM is unwilling to make a statement on the floor of the House and answer questions on millions of deaths due to the second Covid wave. The Pegasus disclosures have opened our eyes, if that was needed, to the mockery of constitutionally guaranteed liberties. In this context, andolans and andolanjivis hold out hope for our democracy.A historian and theorist of democracy, John Keane, has described these as instances of “monitory democracy” —innovations that add instruments of monitoring the health of democracy and thus deepen its quality. He lists India as one of the prime examples of such democratic innovations. We must also recognise that in post-colonial democracies, such innovations do not merely supplement the existing and functional democratic institutions. They also fill a deeper gap. Many constitutionally mandated democratic institutions only exist on paper in our democracy. Newer practices like the voters’ whip promise to fill the void left by the non-functioning of such institutions.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reclaiming-democracy-via-voters-whip-286441
22-07-2021||---||China’s role in Afghanistan||THERE have been contentious debates on whether India should discard its policy of non-alignment in an emerging world order that is getting increasingly dominated by an aggressive China. There is merit in abiding by the ideals of non-alignment or ‘genuine non-alignment’. We have good relations with the US and Russia. The reality is that the threats we face from across our borders are from the Xi Jinping-led People’s Republic of China. Beijing has used its growing economic and military power on and across its land and maritime borders against 18 neighbouring countries to enforce its territorial claims on them. We are also now seeing increased determination in countries like Vietnam to resist Chinese efforts to trample over them.Given China’s links with the Taliban, India should strongly back the Ghani government in Afghanistan.The crude belief of the Chinese establishment is that Beijing sets the rules for bilateral relationships, while others have to abide by them. China’s policies towards India are clear. It aims to contain India by the use of military force for ‘salami slicing’ and acquiring Indian territory in phases. While the concentration was earlier on seizing territory on our eastern borders, the focus has shifted to Ladakh. After a tense face-off involving the deployment of tanks on the Himalayan heights last year, agreement was reached on a Chinese withdrawal. This was accompanied by the understanding that China’s troops would have to return to positions they held in January 2020. The Chinese, however, remain in control of Indian territory in Depsang, Gogra and Hot Springs.In its effort to contain India, China has made it a point to back political parties and leaders across South Asia, who it believes are anti-India. This was evident in recent years in Nepal, the Maldives, and Sri Lanka. This Chinese strategy does not always work, as most South Asian leaders now see no gain in unnecessarily offending India. Moreover, leaders like Sheikh Hasina in Bangladesh and the astute monarchy in Bhutan are too experienced to be influenced by such Chinese efforts. China refuses to recognise the present borders of Bhutan. It also continues to use Pakistan to undermine India’s interests, whether it is in Afghanistan by backing the Taliban, or by enhancing Pakistan’s military, maritime, missile and nuclear capabilities. Moreover, China’s BRI is now running into trouble, as it leads recipient countries like the Maldives, Pakistan and Sri Lanka into a debt trap, thereby mortgaging their sovereignty. India is now better placed to respond to China’s efforts to become the dominant and hegemonic power across the Indian and Pacific Oceans.China has territorial and maritime boundary disputes with 18 countries across its land and maritime boundaries, commencing with its maritime boundary claims on large parts of Vietnam. Beijing regularly voices its claims to the territory of Vietnam, citing historical precedents. Beijing claims that the disputed territories were once controlled by it during the rule of its Ming Dynasty. Beijing also has unjustifiable claims on Vietnamese territory in the Paracel Islands, parts of the South China Sea, and the Spratly Islands.China also has untenable claims on its maritime borders with the Philippines. Beijing has violated international law by refusing to abide by the order of an international tribunal, which rejected its claims. Apart from its territorial claims on India, Japan, the Philippines, Russia and Vietnam, China also has territorial disputes with Nepal, Bhutan, North and South Korea, Taiwan, Brunei and Tajikistan, and even with ASEAN members, like Singapore, Brunei, Malaysia, Indonesia, Cambodia and Laos. But, instead of displaying unity to counter China’s territorial ambitions, ASEAN countries are divided on how to deal with China’s territorial claims.In their declaration titled ‘The Spirit of the Quad’ on March 12, the leaders of the US, India, Japan and Australia focused on measures for cooperation in dealing with Covid-19. They also pledged to promote a ‘free, open, rule-based order, rooted in international law’ to promote security, and counter threats in the Indo-Pacific, and beyond’. More significantly, they noted: ‘We commit to promoting a free, open-based order, rooted in international law, to advance security and prosperity. We support the rule of law, freedom of navigation, and overflight, peaceful resolution of disputes, democratic values, and territorial integrity.’ The meeting resulted in agreement that the US would establish a plant to produce one billion vaccines a year in India, by Johnson & Johnson, by the end of 2022. In the meantime, however, Johnson & Johnson is facing production problems in the US, where its share in the production of Covid vaccines is marginal.It is evident that rather than seeking to resolve differences across its neighbourhood in the Indian and Pacific Oceans, China seeks to impose its will on others, with whom it shares land and maritime borders. This is despite the fact that there is no dearth of groupings like ASEAN and BIMSTEC that are seeking to promote regional economic cooperation. China, however, wishes to enforce its rules when it comes to its territorial claims. It is in this background that given China’s links with the Taliban, it is only appropriate for India to strongly back the democratically elected Ghani government in Afghanistan.The American withdrawal from Afghanistan has been conducted in an inexplicable manner. The US has left the Afghanistan army equipped like a paramilitary force, with hardly any artillery, tanks and other essential equipment. Despite its propagandistic claims, the Taliban have yet to take control of even a single provincial capital. There would be disappointment, if the US does not deal firmly with Pakistan-backed terrorism in Afghanistan. The US has, instead, promoted another Quad, which is meant to link it with Pakistan, Afghanistan and Uzbekistan. This does look rather odd, when the challenge the Afghans are facing is the continuing support of Pakistan for the Taliban. India, however, has its own friends in Afghanistan with whom it can cooperate, and do its best, to assist a friendly neighbour sailing in troubled waters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chinas-role-in-afghanistan-286403
