23-07-2021||---||Self-belief at the core of China’s relentless march||ON July 23, 1921, the Chinese Communist Party was founded in Shanghai. Since then, the communists in China have metamorphosed many times, but always on the premise that China is destined to be a nation with a unique destiny and a unique purpose.One of those who were present at the time when the Communist Party was born was young Mao Zedong, a librarian at Beijing University. Like most other communist leaders, he was from a prosperous peasant family, had studied well and was upset with the behaviour of the Chinese elite. The thing which perturbed the educated young ones was that the Chinese elite seemed most eager to accept the total superiority of foreigners, were willing to accept the foreigners’ judgements about all that was wrong with China and were willing to subordinate the interests of China and the Chinese people to the interests of the foreigners. In 1919, the university-educated young ones had risen in rebellion against the Chinese elite in what came to be known as the May Fourth Movement. Ironically, the Communists continued to seek detailed guidance from Stalin’s Russia. Six years later, this enabled the nationalists in China to slaughter the entire top-rung communist leadership and their seconds-in-command. The mantle of leadership of the Chinese communist movement was now picked up by Mao, as yet a relatively unknown and marginal member.This slaughter happened because the Chinese communists followed the guidance from Stalin’s Soviet Union too literally. But this was also perhaps the last time when the communists in China took guidance from an outsider. Rather, they would set up their own systems of learning from any source which provided the best knowledge at that point of time. Few in India know that even the membership of the Communist Party in China is based on stiff competition and that every member, howsoever senior, has to undergo formal training — and refresher courses — on how to perform his task as a leader well.Every once in a while, such a strategy of self-sufficiency has led them into blind alleys. The Great Leap Forward was one such alley, as was the Cultural Revolution. Chairman Mao’s idea that starlings and sparrows were the cause of famine in China also resulted in a dramatic destruction of Chinese agriculture. But the Chinese quickly came out of such blind alleys to chart a new path for themselves. They never lost faith in their ability to do things well. They also did not hesitate to educate themselves with the latest ideas from the western world. Thousands of students were sponsored for education to the universities of the West and then lured back to work for the nation — but on terms set by the nation, on issues of relevance to the Chinese people.Each metamorphosis of China’s communists has been accompanied by intense internal debates, often supported by skullduggery. The winner of course takes all; the loser gets lost in the dustbin of history. Every now and then, those wanting a change have resorted to seeking allies among student rebels. Mao’s reaching out to students to execute the ill-fated Cultural Revolution ensured his control over the party, wiped out rival leaders and ensured economic stagnation. The Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 and the massacre of students that followed were another occasion when conflicts within the party leadership escalated out of control when one set of contenders sought to leverage support from students to win ideological battles within the party. These students, among the most elite within China, occasioned neither sympathy nor support from the people at large.Subsequently, the Chinese abandoned the path of communism and took to capitalism. Capitalism with a Chinese twist was, it is popularly believed, characterised by the State allowing private entrepreneurship. But more important than that was the synergies which the State created for private entrepreneurship, the enabling environment that was created by the State. Chinese entrepreneurs — as also entrepreneurs from countries like India — soon discovered that the government had set up a significant number of self-governing townships which, for want of a better phrase, allowed for plug-and-play entrepreneurship. Here, various civic and tax permissions were facilitated by the government. Labour trouble was pre-empted by simply providing workers with adequate housing, insurance, healthcare facilities and affordable food. All at the initiative of the government.Moreover, the Chinese authorities took the initiative to ensure many small, piecemeal, non-tax benefits to businesses. One of the most interesting episodes in this regard was the treaty that China Post negotiated with the US Postal Service under UPU rules in 2010-11. This enabled the Chinese to send to America parcels below 1.5 pounds at competitive rates. Shipping a similar parcel from California to New York was costlier. The ever-hungry retail consumer markets of America were soon flooded with cheaper Chinese products. It was only in 2019 that the Americans wised up to the advantage that they had provided the Chinese over US businesses. The Indian Postal Service, the superior managers of India Post, struggling to keep the postal system relevant, did not even seem to be aware of the loopholes in the UPU rules that allowed such an advantage to the Chinese.The Chinese government did take care to ensure that deleterious ideas from outside were nipped in the bud. One such idea was a founding idea from the earliest days of the Soviet Union, the idea of nationalities and self-determination. This idea, of presuming that the world was made up of distinct natural nationalities and that each nationality had the right to remain self-governing, was as incorrect as it was simplistic. It had no historical basis, no moral superiority, and yet had become a key idea of governance models approved of by the West. Not only did the Chinese abandon this idea, they also ensured that as the social media revolution was unleashed on the world in the first decade of the 21st century, it would not become the facilitator of ideas which were likely to break up China.In this regard, their strong belief in the greatness of their culture helped. The Communist Party was never in doubt that there was a single Chinese nation whose territories existed bounded on one side by the sea, on another side the deserts and on the third side the Himalayas. There was no ideological doubt over this unity.In the spring of 1947, when India’s nationalist leadership was still debating whether India was a geographical entity or a nation made up of religions masquerading as nationalities, the Chinese delegation to the Asian Relations Conference emphatically informed their Indian hosts of Tibet being but an outpost of China. Irrespective of whether there was any geographical or historical basis for these claims, the mere fact of constant assertion, backed up by a belief in the uniqueness of the Chinese people, has meant that the Chinese willed a nation into being and today the world is left with little option but to accept their contention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/self-belief-at-the-core-of-chinas-relentless-march-286922
23-07-2021||---||The huge cost of producing cheap food||IN a recent BBC Radio broadcast, Prince Charles said: “How we produce food has a direct impact on the earth’s capacity to sustain us, which has a direct impact on human health and economic prosperity.” The clamour for producing cheap food, which is at the very foundation of the mad race towards an unfettered economic growth, is actually based on externalising the ‘hidden costs’ of modern industrial farming.The focus on producing surplus and cheap food threatens the very survival of the country’s smaller farms, Prince Charles said, adding that if these small farms disappear, “it will rip the heart out of the British countryside.” The warning has been sounded at a time when Statista, a global business data platform, estimates the total number of employed and self-employed farmers in the UK to have come down drastically to a mere 1,07,000 in 2020.In many ways, his warning finds reverberations in the iconic farmers’ movement being witnessed in India, wherein the protesters appear to be worried about the possibility of their livelihoods being usurped by big agri-business companies once the Central farm laws are implemented. In addition, although 86 per cent of India’s farmlands are below 2 hectares, categorised as small and marginal, the advent of the Green Revolution in the mid-1960s emphasising on the need to intensify production per unit of land, has come at a huge cost. Instead of making a long overdue correction, more of the same is now being pushed by facilitating the entry of big agri-business companies.This reminds me of a plenary talk I delivered at the 2017 Organic World Congress titled ‘World Must Detoxify its Toxic Farmlands’, presenting a six-point charter for a more specific action-oriented programme at the local, national and international levels to reverse the ecological devastation that industrial farming has inflicted on the planet. Intensifying food production has not only inflicted a severe blow to environment by destroying natural resources, including soil and water, and acerbating climate change in the process, but the resulting unsustainable food systems that have been encouraged over the past few decades in the guise of building efficiency and competitiveness have also taken a heavy toll on human life.While the ‘hidden cost’ of producing cheap food has been talked about time and again, with some of the well-known experts and even some of the international committees, including the International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development (IAASTD) in 2009, and more recently, the 2021 report of The Economics of Biodiversity presented by economist Partha Dasgupta, warning that business as usual is not the road ahead, global leadership has simply ignored these concerns. It will, therefore, be interesting to see how the UN at its proposed Food Systems Summit (UNFSS) in September 2021 plans to come up with an effective and implementable roadmap for radically overhauling the way food is produced, processed, transported and consumed.But, as Albert Einstein had once said, we cannot solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used when we created them. This is exactly what more than 300 civil society organisations, small-scale producers, indigenous communities and individual scientists/experts are pointing to, and this is what the UNFSS has to be careful about. Launching a campaign for boycotting the so-called People’s Summit, they accuse the UNFSS of “facilitating greater corporate concentration, fostering unsustainable globalised value chains, and promoting the influence of agri-business on public institutions.”This shouldn’t come as a surprise since the World Economic Forum too had in 2009 come up with a New Vision for Agriculture to be executed by 17 multinational agri-business companies. Finding corporate-led market-based solutions to a crisis that is actually the outcome of creating over the years an enabling environment for free markets is not what the world requires at this crucial juncture. Rethinking agriculture is the need of the times given that half the world’s land is used for agriculture, and as a consequence of pushing intensive farming systems, it also happens to be the second biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions.Nevertheless, another timely report by Rockefeller Foundation — ‘True cost of food: Measuring what matters to transform the US food system’ — that not only quantifies the cost of producing cheap food, but goes much beyond providing a value tag to the ‘hidden costs’ should hopefully shake up our blinkered economic thinking. Cheap food has always been considered essential to keep economic reforms viable. So far, it has worked because economists and policymakers refused to measure its true cost. But the massive environmental disruptions, resulting human health costs and huge livelihood distortions resulting from producing cheap food, are so large that it is no longer possible anymore to keep the shocking figures under the carpet.American consumers spent roughly$1.1 trillion in 2019 on food. The report says the food price tag, however, does not include the cost of healthcare from diet-related illnesses, the damage it does to environment, including soil, water and biodiversity, greenhouse gas emissions resulting in climate change, agrarian distress and much more. Adding up all these costs, “the true cost of the US food system is at least three times as big — $3.2 trillion per year.” While this certainly is a conservative estimate, what the report helps bring out is to provide numbers to what was already known – the current food system that the world follows is badly broken.Globally too, the true cost of producing food is three times higher than what consumers pay. In India, where agriculture output is worth Rs 20.19 lakh crore, and where farming as a profession is at the bottom of the economic ladder, studies are needed to quantify the true cost of producing food. Farming remains in distress because to provide cheap food, the right price is denied to growers. Reversing this would require bold decisions based on a completely fresh thinking and approach. The same economic and scientific thinking that led to the crisis cannot be expected to provide any real-time solutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-huge-cost-of-producing-cheap-food-286919
23-07-2021||It was the Zoroastrian festival of Navroze||The truth yet to be told||Why did Sharad Pawar mention me and in what context? I was more than puzzled. The calls on the mobile did not stop. It was not just the print media; the electronic media was even more persistent. My daughter gathered that the Police Commissioner, who had been shifted out, had accused the state’s Home Minister of demanding a monthly contribution of Rs 100 crore to be collected from liquor bar owners and others who flout rules. This collection was to be made by an officer who had been recently reinstated in service after 17 years of suspension, facing a murder charge which had yet to be adjudicated by a court of law.It was clear now to the eight diners at the table that Sharad Pawar had suggested that I should be asked to inquire into the police chief’s allegation. The minister was from his party, the NCP, and was his (Pawar’s) nominee in Maharashtra’s Cabinet. I was nonplussed. Pawar had not spoken to me prior to making the suggestion to the Delhi Press, which was present in strength to ascertain his reaction to the allegation.I refused to get involved. It would have been more appropriate if Sharad Pawar had asked my opinion about the officer before he cleared him for the job. It would have saved him the bother. Moreover, it would not have led to the demoralisation in the ranks of the police that was inevitable when such murky details of the Crime Branch being used to collect monies was so brutally exposed.The National Police Commission headed by the respected ICS officer, Dharma Vira, had predicted the politicisation of the police by the misuse of the power of appointments and transfers. Over the years, this prediction has not only been proved right, but the extent of the malaise has surpassed the calculation of the commission’s members, two of whom — KF Rustamji and NS Saksena of the colonial-era India police — were veritable intellectual giants.The deliberate choice of the wrong persons to fill cutting-edge appointments at the senior-most levels is the greatest obstacle to good governance in a very sensitive apparatus like the police. The safety and security of people’s lives and property should be the prime consideration when appointments are made at that level. If the accent is not on the good of the public, but the amassing of wealth to keep the party and its leaders in clover, then the recipe for disaster is writ in bold letters.I confess that I had erred in my surmise that Sharad Pawar, a shrewd politician who kept a tag on every IAS and IPS officer in the state, would not give in to pressures being piled on him to make the wrong choice of a Commissioner. Strait-laced citizens, besides disgruntled police officers, had regaled me, a retired cop, about the propensities of the candidates. If I had the faintest suspicion that he was about to make a wrong choice, I would have quietly spoken to Supriya Sule, the MP who had the ears of her father. I have a healthy regard for her strength of character.Only officers of impeccable integrity should be considered for top jobs. If those entrusted with the choices do not follow this cardinal principle, it will be obvious that they do not care for public good. Such politicians should not be elected next time out.I was aware of the Home Minister’s penchant for cash for transfers. Too many officers and men who had paid were floating their stories! Sharad Pawar may have thought it difficult to extricate his man from damnation, but if the minister’s career was doomed, the Commissioner, without whose help he could not have enjoyed a free run, should also follow his political boss into inferno. I guess this was his trend of thought.But I do not look at the problem in terms of individuals. It is much deeper and more serious. The criminal-police-politician nexus needs to be broken. The allegation levelled by Param Bir Singh against Anil Deshmukh has fallen into Amit Shah’s lap. He should grasp it with both hands if he has the overall good of the people of India at heart as he seems to imply in his memorable Op-ed page article published in a leading English newspaper a month or so ago.At present, the NIA and the CBI, both reporting to the Union Home Minister, are hell-bent on cornering Deshmukh. They have shown no interest in destroying the evil nexus. If the people are to benefit, the nexus between venal politicians and evil police officers must end.The Bombay High Court has caught on to the game. It has asked the CBI to ascertain how Sachin Vaze, the inspector who was in charge of illegal collections from bar owners and cricket bookies, was reinstated in service against all canons of law, rules and morality. From that starting point, the whole sordid story of how politicians patronise willing cops for mutual benefit will be exposed!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-truth-yet-to-be-told-286915
