24-07-2021||---||When citizens bear the brunt of State power||Regardless of the regime, the exercise of State power against the citizens in India has often been far from benign. It has mostly been brutal, to say the least. What has happened of late is the expansion of the definition of crime to include IPC offences under draconian special laws like UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act), a kind of carte blanche for acting with impunity, with the judiciary being largely ineffective as a bulwark against such use of excessive and arbitrary powers. In addition, a discriminatory legalism has come in. Dissidents get the wrong end of it, while those close to the establishment can fearlessly move ahead.First of all, we don’t have a rule of law as much as the law of rules. The executive is competent to push the envelope here as did the colonial administration earlier. Hitherto even preventive detention had some legal fig leaf as a protection for the citizen. Any detention order of a citizen had to go before the High Court within three weeks; its continuance was dependent on the High Court clearing it. In any case, no such detention was possible beyond six months. In the 1980s, TADA (Terrorist and Disruptive Activities Prevention Act) changed all that and the court finally quashed the law itself. Now, in comes a law like UAPA, worse than the repealed TADA, where no bail can be given by the court; higher courts eschew giving bails and the prosecuting agency can take any length of time in pressing the charges. The citizen is denied freedom; without charges being framed, the courts at various levels are primed to view it as a national security issue that they would not like to give any relief to the incarcerated citizen or ask questions to the prosecution. Basic jurisprudence is thrown to the winds: bail, natural justice, special law invocation for a normal criminal offence, frequent fabrication of cases and foisting them on persons ‘inconvenient’ for the regime goes on with impunity. The MEA’s press note after Stan Swamy’s death clearly amplified this shadowy and malevolent understanding. Meant to assuage international opinion, it insensitively stated that in India, the authorities adjudicate to uphold the law and not the legal rights of individuals. With such understanding, what natural justice will the citizen expect?Stan Swamy’s death highlights what is wrong with the system. India is not a signatory to the UN Convention against Torture. So, custodial torture is bound to be there and there are myriad ways accountability can be avoided. Human rights campaigner Harsh Mander did a study of UP prisons at the behest of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). Nearly 70% of the inmates were undertrials; 45% were Dalits and members of the minorities; 60% of the prisoners had spent time longer than the maximum punishment admissible for their alleged charges which were mostly minor or said to be foisted on them.Law is always in favour of the establishment because the latter makes it. In the absence of consultation, discussion and without following parliamentary procedures, it ends up as an expedient instrument in the hands of the executive. When the judiciary delays the scrutiny of the ‘vires’, it continues as a fait accompli. That a law militates against the basic structure of the Constitution and basic human rights and dignity is of no consequence Finally, it appears that because the judiciary has not been able to ask for the basic evidence before taking cognisance, there is miscarriage of justice. It also doesn’t call the prosecution to question if charges are not pressed for several years, whereas no investigation should take more than three months if someone’s freedom has been curtailed. Under the law of rules, your freedom and rights exist until you are framed. As and when you are required to establish it legally, it is such a cumbersome exercise with an uncertain outcome that it looks like an enablement only on paper.Earlier, lack of technology and limited manpower had created a limited ability to infringe upon citizens’ rights. Now with the police armed to the teeth, draconian laws multiplied, federal forces who can come in like stormtroopers and a legal system showing commitment to the people in power, the reach of misuse has expanded manifold. The force may not be good enough to provide protection of life and property of the citizens, but ample enough to protect the interests of the well-heeled and the political elite. The delay that we see in the judicial system is a recipe for the law of rules holding sway for a long time. This means no relief is available to the common citizen but this impunity will be visible — red in tooth and claw. For these excesses, no one will be held accountable: the police, jail officials, the prosecution and the politicians.Recent revelations about surveillance malware which can play havoc with privacy on the one hand and introduce false material to incriminate a person on the other, regardless of culpability, indicate the immense power of the State to frame ‘inconvenient’ individuals at will. The Pegasus controversy and Arsenal Consulting findings put the unconscionable activity of the State and its agents within the realm of possibility.The Indian State has often been brutal to its citizens and there is no attempt to rethink or course-correct. Who are culpable for incarcerating the republic? Everyone in the chain who made it happen is responsible. Finally, it’s humans who suffer because they have consciousness, not the State, as historian Yuval Noah Harari argues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-citizens-bear-the-brunt-of-state-power-287227
24-07-2021||---||All set for high-stakes poll across the LoC||PAKISTAN-OCCUPIED Jammu and Kashmir, a sliver of the undivided princely state that has been under Pakistan’s occupation since 1947, goes to the polls tomorrow. Over 32 lakh voters in a region with a population of 43 lakh will elect a 53-member Assembly for a five-year term.Of the 53 seats, 45 are general, while eight are reserved for women, technocrats and religious scholars. The region is usually part of the international narrative in the context of being described as a training ground for terrorist groups that are proscribed by various countries and multilateral bodies.In the last few weeks, after the election date was announced, the region witnessed a high-decibel electoral campaign. The region has become an extension of Pakistani politics, particularly Pakistani Punjab. Former Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s daughter Maryam Sharif is camping in the region and has become the most visible face of her party, Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N). Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan too held rallies for his Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) near the election date. Lost in the barbs between the rival Pakistani politicians are the local specificities and larger forces that are equally important to understand the political and governance landscape of the region.In terms of understanding the politics of the region, which is less based on ideological reasons as party hopping is common, one requires a rigorous understanding of the social structures which are quite different from the widely researched and known realities of J&K on the Indian side of the Line of Control. The earlier dominant groups of the region have been the Sudhans, Rajas, Dhond and Abbasi caste groups who live in the Haveli and Bagh districts of central Pakistan-occupied J&K. Actually, military service had been the prime source of livelihood even before 1947. The British army recruited men from the region in large numbers, sending many of them to the far-off shores of Europe during the two World Wars. The army as a career continued to be attractive even after 1947, only this time, the Pakistani army was the one recruiting them. The former President of Pakistan-occupied J&K, Sardar Mohammad Anwar Ahan, who retired as a major general in the Pakistani army, had told this writer in Rawalpindi that the Bagh and Haveli districts have one of the highest representations in the Pakistani army.Because of the association with the Pakistani army, the country’s most important institution, the Sudhans and other caste groups from the region’s central pocket had initially dominated the political and social life of the region. It is sarcastically referred to as the Pajero culture after the fleet of Pajeros the elite own and their mansions, not only in the region but also in various parts of Pakistan such as Rawalpindi or rich enclaves in Islamabad. The ruling elite spend a considerable time in Islamabad, which is also considered the second capital of the region.After the 1960s, because of large-scale migration to the UK from Mirpur and consequent remittances, rival elite social structures in the region were created. In the 1980s, over 50 per cent of Pakistan’s foreign exchange earnings reportedly came from the Mirpur diaspora living in Birmingham followed by Bradford cities of the UK. Some British nationals, who were born in Mirpur, claim that more than half of the population living in Britain on Pakistani passports originated in Mirpur. Mirpur is to the southern part of the region, adjoining Gujrat area of Pakistani Punjab and Jats are the dominant group here. In 1996, Barrister Sultan Mehmood Chaudhry, a Mirpuri Jat, was elected the prime minister on the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) ticket, which energised the diaspora. This was the first time a Jat became the prime minister or executive head of the region. It is not surprising that Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan, who has repeatedly invoked the diaspora during his campaign in the region and has lived in the UK, picked Barrister Chaudhry to head the PTI in the region. His main rival is the sitting Prime Minister and PML (N) leader Farooq Haider, belonging to an influential sub-caste of Janjua Rajputs. Janjua Rajputs, as Pakistani-American author Shuja Nawaz notes in his book, Crossed swords: Pakistan, its army, and the wars, have a long history of joining the cavalry in the military because of their light build and are present in Pothwari-speaking areas, including Pakistan-occupied J&K and Rawalpindi. Author Shuja’s own brother Asif Nawaz, a Janjua Rajput, was the fourth Pakistani army chief from August 16, 1991, until January 8, 1993.On paper, there is a separate Constitution for Pakistan-occupied J&K and the chief executive is called the Prime Minister and the constitutional head is known as the President. The big elephant in the room is the institutional control of Islamabad. In May 2010, when PPP was ruling Pakistan, the Prime Minister of Pakistan-occupied J&K, Farooq Haider, opposed the appointment of the police chief, of the rank of inspector general, by the federal government without any consultation with him. A Bill passed by ‘Azad Jammu and Kashmir council’, an unelected body chaired by the Prime Minister of Pakistan and based in the posh F-5 sector of Islamabad, didn’t require assent of the President of the region.In June 2018, taking cognisance of the international embarrassment due to the institutional control by unelected council, the 13th amendment to the “Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) Constitution” was passed. This reduced the council to an advisory body though it could reportedly still retain 20 per cent of the income tax generated from the region to cover the administrative expenditures. However, last year, there were attempts by the ruling PTI in Islamabad to revive the council’s powers, though the draft proposals were reportedly rejected by the ruling PML(N) dispensation in Muzaffarabad.While there are greater forces that otherwise constrict or shape the work of elected political structure of Pakistan-occupied J&K, the last few weeks of electoral campaigning have once again provided a rare opportunity to understand the complexity of the region with a greater focus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/all-set-for-high-stakes-poll-across-the-loc-287228
24-07-2021||---||A generation that won’t buy||In the middle of the past decade, Marie Kondo became a global superstar by teaching people how to throw away things and fold clothes neatly. The KonMari method of purging and tidying up one’s physical belongings found favour with young professionals who had seen a bewildering jump in earnings in the boom years of the early 2000s. Wall Street Wizkids and their Dalal Street counterparts had acquired expensive lifestyles and believed that the coming decades would bring even more riches. They had faith that their move from economy to business class would lead on to first-class flights, and then, perhaps even private jets.Instead, they ran head first into the tsunami of the global financial crisis of 2008. At that time, as governments and central banks stepped in to bail out international finance capital, most believed that the collapse was going to be short-lived. But the global economy never recovered fully. The now ageing offspring of the financial bubble began to accept the fact that their days of untold affluence were a thing of the past.That is where Marie Kondo and other gurus of minimalism found fertile ground. Those who had once dreamt of only donning designer chic from Avenue Montaigne, embraced Uniqlo. Understated and utilitarian designs with neat and clean lines became the new fad. White replaced flashy colours, and mindful deliberateness replaced speed. The search for a slower life that shunned conspicuous materialism was partly a genuine turn away from the excessive consumerism of the early years of the 2000s. The bigger reason, however, was that the rich were no longer earning as much as they did earlier. So, they made virtue out of the necessity of cutting back on their expenses.No wonder neo-Japanese minimalist culture caught on as a global fad. The Japanese faced decades of recession well before the rest of the world did. Those who began to work in the mid-80s never saw the growth their parents’ generation had experienced. Years upon years of zero growth and zero interest rates resulted in a kind of anti-consumerist movement, where all consumption had to be utilitarian. Even sushi was turned into an assembly line system in popular restaurants, and almost everything could be got off no-frills vending machines.The new Japanese utilitarian-minimalist aesthetic sat on an old tradition of economy of expression, whether it be Zen paintings conjured up with a few brush strokes, or Haiku poetry made of just three phrases, or even the masks of Noh drama. These traditional elements that used openness and negative space to highlight objects, lent themselves perfectly to the austere utilitarianism of Japanese culture since the 1990s. If it required more expressive outlets, to release the tensions of underpaid overwork, there was always Manga and Cosplay.Why would this be of any interest to us in India? It is because, of late, a section of India’s wealthy professionals has also started to follow this modern Japanese minimalism. YouTube now regularly recommends videos shot in a minimalist style, often with Japanese subtitles. Where once people watched shows on the lifestyles of the rich and famous, they now search for vlogs on how to declutter one’s home. High-end home décor stores have launched cheaper pret-a-porter lines to find more buyers, or even hold on to erstwhile clients who now find themselves financially constrained.The biggest impact has been felt by young people from India’s upper-middle class families. They have only seen riches and a comfortable lifestyle, which their parents’ generation gradually grew into. They have only commuted in luxury cars, taken holidays abroad, got the latest gadgets, fast Internet, kept their air-conditioners on full blast throughout the summers, routinely eaten avocado and quinoa salad, and never thought twice before buying the latest sneakers. The least they want, as they set out to earn their own living, is to maintain their current lifestyle, the one their parents gave them.Imagine their shock when they realise that the salaries being offered against their expensive degrees wouldn’t even buy them the latest Apple airpods. Some work for relatively low pay and live in their parents’ homes. Others continue to extend their studies in the hope that salaries would catch up to their expectations. Covid has made things even worse. The young have seen their parents being made redundant at their workplace, and being forced to retire much earlier than they should have. In other cases, the chief earner of the family has been downsized out of a top corporate job. The home has become tension-ridden. There is a sense in the household that money is tight and it has to be saved. Children are being asked to switch off lights and fans, where earlier they would run unattended, in empty rooms.This trend is doubly dangerous for an economy such as ours, where goods and services are mostly produced for the top 10 per cent of citizens. Not only have India’s buying classes cut back on their consumption in the short term, but also they are now reorienting themselves to a minimalist life that eschews overt consumerism. The new generation, which has seen stagnation for the past decade and more, is coming to maturity in an atmosphere where frugality has been aestheticised. They have seen their parents face bad days and are more likely to save the money they earn, which is already much lower than their class is used to. This is a long-term demand effect that can continue for decades.It is very clear that India can no longer rely on its affluent to spearhead consumption-driven economic growth. The Modi government and its economic advisers need to see this and change the way they deal with the economy. Neoliberal trickle-down economics has to be abandoned now and the State has to take control of the economy's commanding heights to not only create jobs, but also create a new class of consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-generation-that-wont-buy-287229
