25-07-2021||It has been well over a year since the onslaught of Covid-19 began in India. The first phase was a relatively minor one which led us to lecture prematurely that all was well. We even began to export whatever vaccines were available with us. Then the second||Health, education neglect||This, however, is not the objective of this article. Facts cannot be distorted by fudging data, Covid did happen, lakhs of people did die, and our preparations were not anywhere near the mark. Why did this happen? We cannot blame the British Empire, we have had 73 years of Independence; that is enough time for a first-rate health structure to come up. However, since the dawn of Independence, no government has paid heed to two priorities of development: health and education. Look at the budgetary allotments over the years and you will know the root cause of the problem. What should have happened is the development of model hospitals at the district, divisional and state headquarter levels. Stress should not have been put on magnificent buildings, but on full quota of doctors, nurses and state-of-the-art equipment. A cluster of villages could have had a primary health centre which could take care of minor problems and refer other cases to a higher level hospital.Along with this was the need to have an adequate number of medical colleges and training colleges for nurses. The number could have been worked out on the basis of the number of hospitals. Enough generalist and speciality doctors should have been recruited and posted equitably. Special focus was needed for rural dispensaries because most are without doctors, who do not want to go there because of lack of facilities.Above all, there was a need for political vision and a will at the top that health and education are the two fundamentals of human development which lead to overall development of the country. This has been sorely lacking since 1947 and during the course of a very long career in the government, I have seen health ministers and health secretaries dealing almost the whole time with the matter of transfers and postings. There is so much pressure that there is no time for policy matters. Even after all these years, we have not developed a policy and lobbies within lobbies carry the day. In such a situation, corruption thrives, right from the purchase of medicines and equipment to positions and transfers. The result is that our prestigious institutions for learning and research (PGI, AIIMS, etc) face a tsunami of patients from all over, because the system at lower levels does not work. This leads to these institutes of excellence dealing with thousands of outdoor patients at the cost of their teaching and research.Coming to education, the less said the better. Our leaders and educationists have always talked of setting up higher institutes of learning, but where are the students going to come from? Our primary schools are mostly on paper — proper accommodation, toilet facilities (especially for girls), etc, are lacking. There are not enough trained teachers. These teachers are not models of intellectual or teaching abilities or moral rectitude. The unions are very powerful and do not allow any major changes. Here, too, a lot of time is wasted on postings and transfers. And likewise, the infrastructure is also missing — not enough schools, colleges, no laboratories. We should have created a national-level structure with the objective of teaching children to think, to develop a scientific temper. Producing lakhs of graduates in History, Political Science, etc, is of very little use. We need students indulging in creative thinking right from the beginning and undertaking research in universities. The number of arts students needs to be drastically reduced and these young boys and girls should be taught other skills which would give them jobs in industries. The needs of industries should be worked out in advance.The government and industries should fund research in universities, even the military can give funds for research in the needed spheres (this is done in developed countries). We need our professors and students to do their research together. International-level seminars, webinars, exchange programmes should be regularly held so that we can keep abreast of developments. We have now entered the digital age, and that was quite some time ago. Today’s world is far advanced in robotics, AI, microbiology, etc, and where are we? Covid and the resultant closure of schools has led to online teaching and learning. Millions of children have no computers, no smartphones and families of four or even five children have to share one phone, which is normally with the father. This has resulted in dropping out of two or three of the children who now work to support the family. I have seen the hunger in their eyes (leave alone their stomach) for education. Even the poorest of the poor realise that only education and good health can get them out of the vicious cycle of poverty.Years ago, when computers had arrived, the Chinese realised that they did not have enough children who knew English. They selected five million boys and girls and gave them a crash course — in a short time, they had the nucleus of a new generation of English speakers. They improved their universities and schools, trained faculties and made it a national movement. They sent thousands of students to study in the US, UK and other countries, and most came back and helped close the gap with the West.Why cannot we produce a hundred million smartphones (or more, if necessary) and give them to these children? Experience tells us that most of the teachers are not very savvy in teaching online. We should design a crash course for use in the whole country. These measures by themselves will give us a good start and systems should be devised for selecting students for higher studies and diverting others to skilled jobs.We missed the Renaissance and the awakening of the artistic and scientific temperament, we missed the Industrial Revolution and today also we are hardly present in these fields. Let us not miss the Digital Revolution. Those who can afford to are going abroad for their graduation and further studies — most will not come back (unlike China). The only reason is the quality of education which gives them better opportunities. How have the Nadellas and many others risen to the highest levels on the corporate ladder? I am sure there are men of vision in various fields — come forward and make this vision of good education and good health a reality. In both these fields, we have to work from the bottom-up: primary schools, primary health centres, high schools and skill development centres, colleges fully equipped to focus on science to prepare students for jobs in industry, research facilities to enable faculty and students to carry out cutting-edge research, well trained faculty at all levels, modern gadgets to help especially those who cannot afford them. Let there be a national plan and let it be formulated by our leading professionals from India and abroad. Form a team to formulate this plan and monitor it, get leading industrialists and government experts to focus on infrastructure. Let in even renowned NGOs. The plan should include crash courses for teachers to be able to teach online and enough training centres for teachers at colleges and higher institutes. A health plan can be formulated on similar lines.In fact, in addition to reservation of various kinds, had we planned for a revolution in education and healthcare, we would have already been a developed country. Today, along with the reserved classes, we have millions of poor people (who live below the poverty line) from other sections of society who also need help. Help can only be along the lines indicated above, otherwise the middle-class and rich children will go abroad and others will be stuck at home in abysmal poverty, ignorance and poor health. The times call for a revolution in these fields — if we miss this Digital Revolution, we will be doomed. The demographic dividend that we talk of will turn into a nightmare if large sections of the youth remain uneducated and unemployed.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/health-education-neglect-287730
25-07-2021||What a rotten calendar of events we’ve had so far||Afghan riddle||There has to be a larger picture that we are all missing: all these disasters are not just acts of God, they are man-made and should shake us out of our complacency to discover what we have done wrong and must now remedy. What I can come up with is that at the core of most problems is man’s hubris in assuming that he is the centre of the world. Gandhiji was spot-on when he said the earth had enough to satisfy man’s needs, but not human greed.Enough has been written by greater thinkers on such subjects so I can add little more. What has somehow got buried in recent events such as Pegasus and the Punjab and Karnataka soap operas is what is happening in a region not far from home. More than a century after Rudyard Kipling wrote about the Great Game being played between England and Russia, we are back to square one and nothing seems to have changed at all. Neither the imperial mindset of the western powers, nor the tribal notions of honour and loyalty. Since the 1980s, Afghanistan has become the nemesis of Russia, America and Europe and no matter how cruel and violent the Taliban are, they have managed to set the clock according to their time.If only rulers and politicians read history before they formulated their foreign policies! The three Afghan Wars, fought between 1839 and 1919, were a mirror image of what has happened in Afghanistan since 1979, when the Soviets began creating small Maoist groups to take on the tribal lords. The bloody nose dealt to the Soviets and to the American and UN troops since then has come full circle, with the Americans leaving Afghanistan and running away to the safety of their middle-class lives. What did all these so-called superpowers achieve, one is tempted to ask. They have left a bitterly divided society, terrified of the Taliban with no human rights at all. Their women, children and young men live in hourly dread of being abducted, raped or killed. Their schools are shut, their lands ravaged by minefields and broken waterways and the once beautiful orchards of Kabul and Kandahar are now gone. In a land-locked country, the only means of survival is farming and animal husbandry and now even that is not an option. The images of starving children, weeping widows and ruined villages, to say nothing of the sub-human condition of the refugee camps, should shame us all.And yet, this is not the first time the so-called civilising efforts of the great powers have birthed a savage society. Much of Africa, looted and divided by European imperialists, is now in the hands of the Boko Haram and other such medieval warlords. Syria, Iraq, Yemen, the Latin American countries, such as Venezuela, are all ruins of human hubris and imperial ambitions. History buffs may recall the name of one Sir Charles Napier, who was sent by Lord Dalhousie to the NWFP to annex and subjugate the tribal lords almost a century ago. Napier’s famous dispatch after he annexed Sindh was a one-word message: ‘Peccavi’. This was a pun on a Latin word, a state of atonement meaning ‘I have sinned’. It was not just a clever play of words. It was also a realisation that slowly dawned when he reflected on what the British annexation of a hostile tribal area, set in a harsh mountainous country, would mean for the future of the Empire and, most crucially, for its hapless citizens. History buffs will also recall that the First Anglo-Afghan War was also known by the British as the Disaster in Afghanistan.In his posthumously published ‘Defects, Civil and Military of the Indian Government’ (1853), Napier detected and condemned the growing superciliousness of the English in India towards the Indians: ‘The younger race of Europeans keep aloof from Native officers… How different this from the spirit which actuated the old men of Indian renown,’ he wrote. ‘The Eastern intellect is great, and supported by amiable feelings,’ he added, ‘and the Native officers have a full share of Eastern daring, genius and ambition; but to nourish these qualities, they must be placed on a par with European officers.’When the Sepoy Mutiny broke out in 1857, Napier’s ‘Defects’ was hailed as a prophetic work. Modern-day imperialists (and petty politicians too) must understand that it is time to study the past in order to build a better future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/afghan-riddle-287731
25-07-2021||The Indian Air Force||Rank outsiders in the eyes of civilians||It is a known fact that for various reasons, the ranks of the Indian Army are more well known and recognised by civilians, though thanks to Wg Cdr Abhinandan and Shahrukh Khan, who played the role of Sqn Ldr Veer in the movie ‘Veer Zara’, the ranks of Wing Commander and Squadron Leader have better resonance. To overcome this problem, the IAF and Indian Navy officers sometimes introduce themselves to civilians by quoting their rank equivalent to the Indian Army.A friend, who is a Group Captain in the IAF (equivalent to Colonel in the Army), happened to visit Hyderabad and ended up staying in a hotel near the airport as he could not get accommodation in any Officers’ Mess. The polite but enthusiastic receptionist made him fill in the personal details and said, “Dear Captain, here are the room keys.” His words, though courteous, irked the Group Captain. He told the receptionist, “You can either address me as Group Captain or you can call me by my name. If you address me as Captain, you are demoting me by three military ranks. The equivalent of a Captain is a Flight Lieutenant in the IAF.”The receptionist listened attentively and replied with extraordinary courtesy, “Sure Captain, I will follow that.” The Group Captain understood that explaining to him the ranks was to throw pearls before a swine and he moved on.The receptionist could make out that the guest was not happy and immediately informed the lady who was in charge of customer care. She called up the officer in his room: “I am aware of the incident, sir, and will personally look into this. You can trust me Commander.” The military officer, keeping his calm, informed the young and energetic lady that Commander is a rank in the Indian Navy and its equivalent in the IAF is Wing Commander. He asked her to educate herself about the military ranks using Wikipedia. She assured him that such a mistake would not occur in future.After making the entire hierarchy of the hotel staff familiarised with the ranks of the Indian Air Force, the confident Group Captain thought he had brought a change in the knowledge level of employees and they would not cause any embarrassment to officers in future. With these thoughts, he moved on to check out of the hotel only to find that his name on the bill was prefixed with the rank of Lieutenant. This was the last nail in the coffin. With a heavy heart, the Group Captain bid goodbye hoping that some day people will understand and know the equivalence of military ranks.Military ranks and their equivalent should be taught as part of the school curriculum, and especially so when these can be used as titles under the purview of Article 18 of the Constitution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rank-outsiders-in-the-eyes-of-civilians-287732
25-07-2021||Primary education and healthcare should have been our top priorities after Independence. Lip service was paid||English is an aspirational language in India, promote it||Take something as basic as water. UNICEF says that less than 50 per cent of Indians have access to safe drinking water, and that water-borne diseases lead to an economic loss of $600 million (Rs4,200 crore) a year — shocking and avoidable statistics. Safe and easily accessible water supply for all Indians would increase India’s GDP by 2 to 3 per cent, according to one estimate. Adequate primary healthcare centres, particularly in the rural areas, are at the very core of a healthy population. India has just 25,000 of them, nowhere near enough for a population of 1.3 billion. Only 1.8 per cent of India’s GDP is spent on health, whereas Bangladesh spends 2.34 per cent. Not surprisingly, an average Bangladeshi lives to 73 years, compared to 69 for an Indian. Five decades ago, when Bangladesh became independent, its life expectancy was much lower than India’s.Let’s turn to education. I am convinced that the biggest flaw in the New Education Policy is the continuation of the entirely unworkable “three-language formula”, and the downplaying of English. Just the other evening, I had tuned into an English news channel. One of the panelists, an advocate in the Supreme Court, was adamant on speaking in Hindi, much to the annoyance of the moderator who insisted, quite rightly, that he speak in English since it was an English channel. Mulishly, he continued in Hindi. I suspect it is an unwritten policy of the government that its representatives speak in Hindi on English channels, even though they may be quite fluent in English. This is noticeable in press conferences as well. Such an attitude is disrespectful of non-Hindi speaking people in South India and much of the North-East. It would be interesting to know where these “Hindi-only” wallahs send their children to school. If they are true to their rigid stance, their answer should be “government schools, where the medium of instruction is Hindi”. Again, I suspect they, or at least most of them, have actually enrolled their kids in English-medium schools. Hypocrisy permeates Indian life, especially among our politicians.A recent report by the Unified District Information System for Education (UNDISE) is most revealing. It covers 26.5 crore children, from primary to the senior secondary level, in 15 lakh schools across the country. It shows that 26 per cent children now study in English-medium schools, though Hindi remains by far the largest medium of instruction, accounting for some 42 per cent of the total enrolment. All the southern states, except Karnataka, have more children in English-medium than in vernacular schools. Surprisingly, this is also so in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi.In many of the English-medium schools, instructions are imparted in the local language. What does this mean? Simply that the children want to be taught in English, but can only do so if their teacher instructs them in their mother tongue. The parents of these children probably know little or no English, and converse with their kids in the vernacular, yet are keen that their children become fluent in English as well. A strange situation, but there it is. My Maharashtrian maid and her husband cannot speak English, only Marathi and some Hindi. But they made sure that their two children were educated in private English-medium schools, despite the fact that studying in government school would have been free of cost. Both children are fluent in English, have well-paid jobs, and have earned enough to move their parents from a slum to a decent house in a middle-class locality. There must be many such instances all over the country. In other words, English is an aspirational language in India, the path to better jobs. That is the reality, but somehow the government refuses to face it.On my first trip to China in the mid-1980s, I noticed something that has stayed with me. The state-controlled TV and radio had daily lessons on how viewers and listeners could learn and improve their English. When I and others on the study tour took our walks on the Shanghai waterfront, Chinese students would flock to us, eager to practise their English. Their government realised a long time ago that the knowledge of English was vital for progress in various fields, particularly in information technology. That realisation has made them an IT superpower, with several of their universities and institutes of higher learning ranked in the world’s top 100 (India has none). They have never thought of English and the Roman script as “colonial” hangovers.English got us to where we are in the IT field, yet the present dispensation is trying its hardest to make us lose that advantage. How foolish and short-sighted!English, or Hinglish, has over the years truly become an Indian language, spoken in different ways and with different accents, all over the country. Its increasing usage has made it an essential link language. It is also a global language. In so many ways, it unites, not divides, our nation. It is one of the glories of our diversity, and the sooner this is recognised, the better.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/english-is-an-aspirational-language-in-india-promote-it-287733
