26-07-2021||---||Covid-linked fungal infection poses challenge||THE surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave has declined to a great extent as the disease is hardly active in less than 100 districts of India. The wave saw a sudden increase in Covid-19-Associated Mucormycosis (CAM) cases. The disease has been widely called ‘black fungus’, basically a misnomer because there is already a group of black fungi in medical literature known as dematiaceous or phaeoid fungi. The media might have coined this oversimplified term because the lesions are blackish in colour due to local necrotic (dead) tissues. This group of fungi invades the wall of vessels (angioinvasion), thereby obstructing blood supply in the respective body part.Mucormycosis is not a new disease and is regularly reported by medical institutions. But during the second wave, its caseload increased enormously. ByJuly 15, there were 45,432 cases and 4,252 deaths in India. Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal also reported CAM cases, but not to this extent.This disease was declared under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, on May 20, wherein all government and private health facilities were to follow guidelines for screening, diagnosis and management. Henceforth, all cases are to be conveyed to the World Bank-funded Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (IDSP) of states and UTs. Professional bodies like the ICMR, NCDC, Fungal Infection Study Forum, European Confederation of Medical Mycology and the International Society for Human and Animal Mycology have also released their respective advisory.Mucormycosis is an acute infection caused by several fungal agents belonging to the mucormycetes group. In one-third of the cases, the causative fungi are of a mixed nature i.e. mucormycetes with another fungus, usually Aspergillus species. These fungi are found ubiquitously in soil and our surrounding environment. In the past, these mucoralean fungi used to be taken as non-pathogenic to humans and animals. They were also considered as fungal contaminants. In labs, these are known as ‘lid-lifters’ and in houses as ‘bread moulds’ due to fast growth.The understanding about mucormycetes has changed because these are emerging as highly opportunistic pathogenic organisms, invariably entailing fatal consequences, especially when an obvious underlying predisposing factor like poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, malignancy or trauma already exists in a particular clinical setting. In South-East Asia, diabetes mellitus, whereas in Western countries, malignancies are the risk factors. Cases are being increasingly reported among healthy individuals also where there is no apparent underlying risk factor present. The commonest symptoms are one-sided or bilateral facial swelling, headache, nasal or sinus congestion, blurred vision and pain in eye with blackish lesions on the nasal bridge or upper inside of the mouth.Why has there been an upsurge? It was not there during the first wave, and all of a sudden, so many CAM cases cropped up throughout India. It began with a few cases reported from Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, and almost simultaneously from Gujarat, followed by Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Karnataka. Subsequently, cases poured in from almost every state. Most of the patients had recovered from Covid-19, but came back with fulminant CAM. Various risk factors are contemplated; however, evidence-based studies are to be carried out before reaching a definitive conclusion.There was injudicious use of steroids (recommended dexamethasone 0.1 mg/kg; methylprednisolone 0.5-1.0 mg/kg) to avert cytokine storm and in high doses than the prescribed one and for a prolonged duration. Some states have even distributed dexamethasone to the public along with home isolation kits. The other risk factors may be prolonged use of contaminated masks without changing. There is a strong possibility of the use of a contaminated accessory during inhalation of oxygen by patients.During the peak of second wave, there was an acute shortage of medical grade oxygen. Hence, most hospitals had to shift to industrial oxygen. Although it is said that there is no basic difference between both grades except for the minor one of dispensing, but the public at large still suspects it to be one of the causes. The humidifiers used, i.e. distilled water versus sterile or even tap water was also alleged to be a source. Moreover, frequent steam inhalation, six-seven times a day, is also considered as a risk factor.There is a higher level of iron, in the form of ferritin, among Covid-19 patients, which is favourable for the growth of mucormycetes. In addition, most people took zinc as a preventive or therapeutic agent, which is also conducive for fungal growth. Some of the reports state that the Delta strain of SARS-CoV-2 (B.1.617.2) was targeting the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas through ACE2 receptors, insulin production, leading to a diabetic state among patients during the recovery phase.The diagnosis is not difficult. If done at an early stage, half the battle is won. CT scan and MRI are useful to know the extent of the disease. The CT score is also useful to categorise Covid-19 as mild, moderate or severe.For treating CAM, first of all, parallel to managing Covid-19, the underlying risk factor (uncontrolled diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis) has to be reversed. Second, extensive surgical debridement of the local necrotic tissue must be done. Delay may cost the life of the patient. Third, the anti-fungals are given in the form of amphotericin B (Conventional or Liposomal). There was an acute shortage of these drugs due to high demand. Hence, the government managed supply by rationing on a daily basis. The other drugs used are posaconazole and isavuconazole as injectable and oral formulations. Early detection and surgery followed by appropriate multi-disciplinary assessment is the key to success. Covid-19 patients should monitor their blood sugar levels for 4-6 weeks after discharge. Let’s hope such a situation does not emerge during the looming third wave among children after a month or so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-linked-fungal-infection-poses-challenge-288279
26-07-2021||---||Recalling Young India’s Kargil triumph||IT’S been 22 years since Pakistan’s perfidious intrusions in the Kargil sector brought the country to the brink of war. This article is not about why and how Pakistan stabbed us in the back and totally surprised the polity and the military, but it is a tribute to the young officers and men of 8 Mountain Division, which I had the honour and privilege to command.Many of them made the ultimate sacrifice, displaying unique courage and bravery which many a time went beyond the call of military duty. As I reminisce these past years, I think of some of the officers, who perhaps today would have been commanding brigades, and similarly the young soldiers who would have risen in rank in their respective cadres. But the legacy they have left behind is far richer and will outlive any rank which they would have attained in uniform.Kargil was a call to arms which witnessed some of the most intense battles fought at altitudes ranging from 14,000-18,000 ft, in one of the world’s most inhospitable terrain and under adverse weather conditions. The one lasting impression left embedded in my mind is the unique quality of the soldier of the Indian Army. For a minute, imagine him waiting for the order to advance to capture an enemy post in inhospitable terrain, with heavy snow, temperatures at minus 30°C, and observe enemy artillery targeting his detachment. With one command from his leader, he moves with his comrades for the final assault without a second thought on whether he will return to see his family, his expectant wife, children or ageing parents. He overcomes these emotions with a high sense of duty, courage, determination and unflinching loyalty to his unit, the Army and the country. Many of the sacrifices by these young men have become a part of our folklore, and must be narrated to keep their memories alive and as a source of inspiration for the youth of today.Soldiering is a calling. It epitomises three cardinal principles of the oath: one, a soldier signs an unlimited liability contract; two, a runners-up position is unacceptable; and three, unity in diversity is non-negotiable. It is in pursuance of these principles that he delivers. Steep cliffs, high mountains, weather, ice and snow, the restrictions on evicting the intruders from own side of the demarcated line, and the disadvantage of assaulting uphill against an entrenched enemy, are for him par for the course. ‘Naam, Namak and Nishan’ is his creed, nothing less will satisfy him. In Kargil, as always, our soldiers upheld every part of the contract. This is what makes our soldiers the cynosure of all eyes. Woe betide any adversary who casts an evil eye. Young India displayed its might. The world still wonders. Our soldiers picked up the gauntlet, and delivered. This is the saga of inspiration for Young India and our folklore for the years and decades ahead.Every successful attack had a story of ferocity in execution and the glory it brought to the regiment, the Army and the nation. Some of our young officers and men who went into battle fought tenaciously, and many returned draped in the national flag. They were us, from every walk of life, from every part of our motherland. Unity in diversity! They had fire in their belly, and they scripted history.Take the story of Capt Vijayant Thapar, a fresher from the Indian Military Academy, for whom honour, duty and upholding the family values and traditions were of utmost importance. Before going in for an attack on one of the most formidable features held by the enemy, Vijayant told his men that “if I turn back, shoot me, and I will shoot anyone who turns back.” This was the level of motivation of this young officer, who on hearing that his company commander had been killed, assumed command, and though the sub-unit captured their objective, Vijayant was hit by machine gun fire while leading his men to victory. He was posthumously awarded the Vir Chakra.The 1999 Kargil war is replete with stories of valour and bravery. Capt Anuj Nayyar was part of his battalion’s attack on a tactically important feature. Anuj’s company commander was injured, and the command devolved on his young shoulders. As the sub-unit advanced under heavy enemy artillery and mortar fire, Anuj moved forward and destroyed the first bunker with a rocket launcher and grenades. Still under heavy fire, he led his men to destroy two more bunkers. The company then began its assault on the last remaining bunker, but while clearing it, an enemy grenade directly hit Anuj, killing him instantly. Anuj was posthumously awarded the Mahavir Chakra.The 50-day war vindicated the training, motivation, esprit de corps and camaraderie of the Army and since it brought the battles and its aftermath to our living rooms, it created euphoria of a rare kind. Corpses of the brave dead were cremated with honour in every nook and corner of India, representing the might and strength of every citizen.The 8 Mountain Division won three Param Vir Chakras, the nation’s highest gallantry award. Capt Vikram Batra, Honorary Lieutenant Yogendra Yadav and Subedar Major Sanjay Kumar were the recipients of this coveted award. While Vikram was awarded the PVC posthumously, the other two are serving and living legends at our training institutes, motivating the future generation to achieve glorious heights.Vikram Batra was a small-town boy from Palampur, who while in college was highly motivated to join the Army. He was commissioned into his battalion and soon thereafter, sent to the icy heights of Dras to throw back Pak intruders. Besides being renowned for his courage, he is also remembered for the success signal, Yeh Dil Maange More, which he conveyed to his commanding officer on successfully accomplishing his task.In the second attack which was to follow a fortnight or so later, Vikram displayed his qualities of leadership in leading his sub-unit to capture a tactically dominating feature in the face of heavy enemy fire disregarding his personal safety. Despite sustaining severe injuries, he continued to lead and later succumbed to his injuries.In the same unit as Vikram and in the same battalion attack, then Rifleman Sanjay Kumar displayed rare courage for a young soldier when he singularly charged the enemy fortification and though severely injured, continued to engage the enemy to assist his sub-unit to overcome the opposition. The third recipient, Grenadier Yogendra Singh Yadav, also a greenhorn, was involved in an attack in which he sustained seven bullet injuries; but he pressed on and succeeded in killing four enemy soldiers in close combat. He refused to be evacuated till the objective was captured.This story would be incomplete if I don’t mention the families of martyrs who having lost their loved ones, continue to live life with pride and dignity. One such lady is the wife of a martyred soldier, Naik Bachan Singh, who was killed during the early stages of the war. Displaying immense courage and fortitude, his wife, Kamlesh Bala, educated her twin sons to the best of her ability and today, one of her sons, Capt Hitesh Kumar, is a commissioned officer in his father’s battalion.Today when we celebrate the hard-won victory with joy and ecstasy, we need to take time to pay our homage to the 527 officers and men who made the ultimate sacrifice. Today is also the time for the millenials to draw inspiration that Incredible India is also Invincible India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/recalling-young-indias-kargil-triumph-288278
26-07-2021||---||Haunted by the past||THE politics of adjustment is commonly associated with the political economy of a nation — about rectifying internal imbalances that are consequences of policies relating to its economic growth and social and political advancement. It seems reasonably safe to make the assertion that such an adjustment process also becomes necessary in the foreign policy arena during periods of tremendous economic difficulty, fractious political disputes and radical transformation of the international system.Being in a hostile mode vis-a-vis a country with GDP six times larger than India’s marks a delusional frame of mind.The last time when India faced cataclysmic shifts of the tectonic plates was in the early 1990s. Looking back, India’s post-Cold War adjustment process turned out to be seriously flawed on three counts, and their carryover largely accounts for its present-day predicaments. Fundamentally, India lacked a strategic vision. The master tactician in Prime Minister Narasimha Rao prioritised ‘management’ of problems. The result was that India crossed the river but without a clear sense of direction as to what lay beyond.Typically, ‘Act East’ was one major step in that transition but it eventually lost momentum. Most importantly, India misjudged the inevitability of Russia’s rise from the ashes and came to regard that country as a ‘failing state’. Much of this was to be attributed to the brain-washing by the American mentors who propagated that the smart way was to ‘cross the Rubicon’ by hitching wagons to the Washington Consensus.How India, a civilisation state with such intense familiarity with Russia historically, could have underestimated that nation’s innate genius to regenerate is beyond comprehension. When great Russian strategist Evgeny Primakov proposed a strategic conversation between Russia and India with a third civilisation state in their common neighbourhood as an anchor sheet of predictability in a world order that was entering unprecedented turbulence in the historic transition to multipolarity, Delhi ignored it.The second great failure in Indian thinking was in its understanding of the epochal changes taking place in China as that country’s farsighted leaders introduced a massive programme of reform to improve its infrastructure, manufacturing capacity, housing and education, which soon transformed the country’s capital stock from one of the weakest in the world to one of the best. India instead tapped into the Western propaganda of the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests as defining China’s future.Russia could sense China’s inexorable rise as early as the 1980s when the reform began, and under the leadership of Mikhail Gorbachev, seriously started preparing for a new relationship, which Boris Yeltsin followed through with three visits to China in a seven-year period alone. During Yeltsin’s second visit to Beijing in 1996, the historic agreements were signed on the pacification of China’s borders with Russia and three Central Asian states (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan), the delineation of those borders and the normalisation of the relationships.Watching the stunning development, Henry Kissinger noted, ‘It shows a certain alteration in the international situation’. He added, ‘Some of the other agreements show that there’s some movement to create a Eurasian security system ... of which we (US) are not a part. And as a long-term tendency it should give us some concern.’ Suffice to say, we missed the significance of that momentous realignment in world politics right in our neighbourhood, and worse still, reacted to it negatively. The outright rejection of Primakov’s invite to India to climb on board the RIC platform has had a deleterious impact all around.India was preoccupied with ‘catch up’ with China. This, in turn, caused India’s entrapment in a ‘unipolar predicament’, another catastrophic fault line in its adjustment to the post-Cold War era. Today, as the pandemic calls for a period of adjustment, these fault lines are making the process very complicated. Kissinger was very prescient. Put simply, India missed the train 25 years ago when Primakov made his wake-up call in 1998. The failure to jettison the false notions narrowed our space to manoeuvre when the world order entered a phase of unprecedented volatility.‘Missing the wood for the trees is not acceptable’ — wasn’t that the poignant message coming out of External Affairs Minister Jaishankar’s meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at Dushanbe on July 14? Chinese President Xi Jinping, in his first-ever visit last week to Tibet’s border regions with India, also underscored the highest importance attached to ‘lasting stability and high-quality development for the plateau region.’ China and Russia, the two biggest Asian powers, are facing genuine difficulty to have strategic communication with India.The pandemic has come as a shock therapy. The time is opportune to seriously introspect where the ‘unipolar predicament’ landed India, which is sleepwalking, lacking conviction in Quad, yet unable to get rid of that albatross. And, this is at a time when the diminishing influence of the US in world politics is plain to see. The Biden administration’s unceremonious backtracking last week on the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia to Germany is a glaring example that the US’ transatlantic writ stands seriously eroded. America’s allies, big and small, are expanding their strategic autonomy.Allies have no desire to plunge into a new Cold War against China. ASEAN has opted for non-alignment. India failed to grasp that the ticket to the big game would increasingly depend on how a country handles economic engagement and that the defining characteristic of these extraordinary times will be alignment of interests, where the broadest possible space is needed to exercise strategic options. The interests, of course, must always be rationally analysed and options defined from a long-term perspective. Being in a hostile mode vis-a-vis a country with GDP that is six times larger than India’s marks a delusional frame of mind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/haunted-by-the-past-288257
