27-07-2021||---||The end of a dream||Think of living in a society where surveillance is normal, and sedition charges are routinely filed against politico-cultural dissenters. And think of the ruling regime that wants us to believe that the allegations of surveillance using Pegasus spyware are wrong, and everything is perfect except the noise made by a set of ‘disruptive’/ ‘anti-national’ conspirators. Is it the end of a dream that many of our freedom fighters strove for—the dream of a new India evolving through the spirit of decolonisation, and cherishing the values of equity, justice, moral, intellectual, political freedom and symmetrical cultural pluralism? Is it the time to throw all these principles into the dustbin of history, and get ready to enter the dystopian age?Yes, it is frightening. Yet, we have to acknowledge it. And possibly, we too have to look at ourselves to comprehend why this dystopia is becoming so obvious. Let us reflect on the tyranny of power, and the trivialisation of fundamental democratic principles. Dialogue is replaced by the monologue of the supreme leader; majoritarianism is equated with the ultimate virtue; every dissenting voice is seen as a conspiracy against the nation; and the widespread network of the propaganda machinery with its technological glitz and patriotic noise seeks to transform everything into its opposite—say, a rights activist into a terrorist, a professor with conscience into a conspirator, or a young/idealist student into an enemy of the nation. Is it that you and I too are becoming increasingly used to this culture? Are we escaping from freedom, and accepting the cult of narcissism? Or is it that with the tyranny of power and the emergent authoritarian personalities, the state seeks to generate the psychology of fear amongst people?We live amid fear—the fear of being targeted, and branded as a ‘conspirator’; the fear of being observed and monitored through the newly formed sophisticated technologies of surveillance; the fear of being sent to a dark cell of a non-hygienic/over-crowded prison, and not granted the bail. Well, the likes of Gandhi, Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh might have cherished the principle of freedom, and modern/enlightenment philosophers might have generated this aspiration. But then, in this dystopian age, freedom, it seems, is a myth. Is it that we are abandoning the idea of freedom except the superficial freedom to buy and consume, or surf multiple television channels, and watch cricket, soap operas and spicy Bollywood stories? As the findings of the Pegasus project have revealed, there is no notion of privacy; and the telephone number of anybody, be it the Supreme Court staffer who accused a former Chief Justice of India of sexual harassment or Rahul Gandhi, can be potentially targeted. And it is obvious that these technologies of surveillance would further promote an authoritarian political culture.And at the same time, this phenomenon of the ever-growing chains of surveillance leads to yet another important question relating to our everyday life. Is it that it is not just the State, but you and I too have begun to celebrate and internalise the idea of surveillance? Yes, the CCTV camera has entered the very soul of our existence. The school principal is observing, monitoring, hierarchising and disciplining her colleagues and students; the gated community is observing every visitor; and some ‘alert’ parents observe their children through the eyes of the CCTV camera. From railway stations to airports, from market complexes to cinema halls—we are under surveillance. And in the name of ‘safety’ and ‘security’, we seem to have accepted it; in fact, it would not be wrong to say that we are demanding more and more surveillance. This is the irony of our times. In a way, we too have prepared the ground for the arrival of a state that seeks to enter even our bedrooms.Likewise, we should also ask ourselves a question: Do we really like to value and preserve our privacy? See the way with our obsessive indulgence with the ever-growing communication technologies, everything private about our lives is becoming a commodity for public consumption: be it a honeymoon picture or the new car bought at the time of Diwali. For many, it is not very easy to retain the distinction between the ‘private’ and the ‘public’ amid the Facebook/WhatsApp-induced temptations of ‘sharing’, ‘following’ and ‘subscribing’. As technology seduces us, we fall more and more into the chains of surveillance. In the dystopian age, technology does not liberate us; it is a chain of surveillance.What is the message that this dystopian message is conveying? Abandon the idea of freedom. Instead, be a loyal conformist. Deny your creative agency, and wait for the miracle to be delivered by the supreme leader. Follow the prescribed ideology of nationalism—its symbols, its uniform and its military dream. And be ‘productive’; never question the ‘good intentions’ of the corporate empire to enhance economic growth and build smart cities; those who think of Gandhi and Marx, love Tagore and Sartre, read George Orwell and Michel Foucault, and speak of freedom, satyagraha and creative rebelliousness are ‘useless’, ‘non-productive’ and ‘dangerous’. And accept the logic of surveillance. It is for your benefit. It assures ‘safety’ and ‘security’; and it eliminates the possibility of all sorts of danger that might emanate from ‘terrorists’, ‘Maoists’, ‘environmental fundamentalists’, ‘disobedient journalists’ and ‘unruly’ university students!It is for us to decide whether we are ready to enter this dystopian age, or acquire the courage to say that to live gracefully is to fly in the open sky.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-end-of-a-dream-288656
27-07-2021||---||China eyes dominance on land and sea||NOTE the ferocious, uncivilised words of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) media video platform Xigua: “We will use nuke bombs first, we will use nuke bombs continuously. We will do this until Japan declares unconditional surrender for the second time.”Japan has been singled out as a nation to be threatened because two weeks ago, Taro Aso, its Deputy Prime Minister, had said: “Japan must defend Taiwan.” Isn’t there an uncanny similarity with the war cry of Roman senator Cato the Censor (234-149 BC): “I consider that Carthage must be destroyed”?Is the CPC in its senses? Has it lost its balance and mental stability? Is it afflicted with an incurable psychosis? History is replete with instances of psychopaths getting high on power and low on sense of judgement to go on the rampage, ending pathetically with self-destruction, like Hitler in 1945. In the process, however, the present-day CPC under Xi Jinping has forgotten (or is ignoring) founder-guide Mao Zedong’s words: “The atom bomb is a paper tiger.”The utterances, however, came when China didn’t possess nuclear technology. Hence, it was said more in jest to boost the morale of a weak nation’s technological deficiency. By pooh-poohing the Americans and the Soviets, it sought to camouflage fragility, helplessness and an inferiority complex. Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev, however, had rightly figured out the complex psyche of the CPC leaders. He perceptively observed: “China craves for war.” In August 1969, the Time magazine identified Mao-led CPC’s diabolical plan: “How many border battles before an all-out war?”In the South Asian context, the real story awaits India, even if it takes part in the coalition of nations to take Beijing head-on. If not today, surely in the near future, as the CPC penetrates the Asian heartland notwithstanding vulnerabilities around the Pamir Knot where meet at least eight countries/regions: Tibet, India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, six of which are landlocked.Nevertheless, it’s this terrain which was referred to by English geographer Halford Mackinder: “Who rules the heartland commands the world island; who rules the world island commands the world.” Obviously, the 21st-century CPC has targeted Mackinder’s grandiloquence to fulfil its ambitious global supremacy — to develop an alternative land BRI (Belt and Road Initiative) to supplement the existing sea line of communication (SLOC), which traditionally has been China’s Achilles’ heel.Simply put, the CPC wouldn’t accept anything short of both. It, therefore, has twin options in mind — land and sea — as the history of the last 300 years shows that without sea combat capability, none can be a superpower. Understandably, therefore, China assiduously followed the philosophy of the once-mighty Soviet “sea power of the state”, so successfully propounded and put up by arguably the most accomplished of Moscow Admirals, Sergei G. Gorshkov. Little wonder then that the CPC-controlled navy has overtaken ship-by-ship strength of the once-mightiest American navy.It’s clear now. The CPC is game for a two-theatre and three-nation combat zone as the latest “nuke Japan” words reveal — Tokyo, Taiwan and New Delhi. The first, as declared by the CPC, is a nuclear target, implying either air power or short-medium range surface-to-surface nuke warhead (ballistic) missile, the goal being Japanese islands claimed by Beijing. The second target, Taiwan, has to be a combo of army, marine and air cover for which the collateral is bound to be humongous owing to limited land space with a high demographic density. The third, India, in the CPC’s eyes, is a “nagging irritant” pretending to “punch above its weight”. Having already penetrated deep into India’s trade, commerce, strategic infrastructure, investment, telecom, real estate, China-imported criminal espionage and financial fraudsters wreaking havoc in the hinterland, the killing of Indian soldiers and simultaneous slicing of the border terrain come comparatively easy to the CPC-PLA combo of surprise and deception.No wonder, the July 21-22 Tibet visit of Xi Jinping has targeted India all the more, as he came within 15 km of the Indian border, following the route once taken by the fugitive Dalai Lama to cross over to India in March 1959. “On to Tawang” is “Mission Xi”, hence, Xi’s visibility at Nyingchi, 436 km from Lhasa, but just a stone’s throw from the Indian posts of Khinzemane and Dhola; Hathung La and Karpo La. However, none from the Indian establishment so far has made any noise about Xi’s ‘provocation’ by coming so near to India’s sovereign territory. Conversely, recall the then President Pranab Mukherjee’s visit to Arunachal Pradesh in December 2013. Remember China’s diplomatic protest — “Indian actions complicate the boundary question”. Again, deep inside India, and far from the border, when the Dalai Lama met the Indian President in December 2016, came the spiteful comment by the CPC: “Disturbance to China-India ties”. How obnoxious and repulsive Han wolf warrior diplomacy could be!Xi’s visit to Tibet, next to Arunachal Pradesh, came on the day of the India-UK naval exercise in the Bay of Bengal near “choke points” between the Indian Ocean and South China Sea. “The sea belongs to China” is what seems to be on Beijing’s mind. Thus, in case of a reversal at sea, the Chinese hope to come hard on the Indian land front, positioning themselves to bargain from a position of strength at least in the Himalayas.So, let Tokyo, Taipei and New Delhi brace themselves for the worst with the US navy’s diminishing capability to take on the desperate CPC-PLA duo. Indeed, the drawbacks of the US navy today are too stark to be missed. It simply cannot fight the water war solo. Gone are the days of the redoubtable prowess of the Pacific Theatre Command of the Second World War. There’s got to be a coalition of naval armada. Hence, the need for Quad: Canberra, Delhi, Tokyo and Washington.Against this background, let there be no illusion about the development of real-time physical confrontations unfolding thick and fast. The problem is that whereas none of the powers wants war, circumstances may lead to the start of a war. And there clearly are emerging fronts which China has focused on.Interestingly, whereas the coalition would be more interested to preserve and protect its collective interests in the ocean-island front of Japan and Taiwan, the land front of India doesn’t appear to hold much promise to the coalition. It’s because the land front is vast, and an incredibly difficult and logistical nightmare even for those whose terrain fall thereunder. So, India once again faces the stark prospect of a fight with China on the high hills of the Himalayas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-eyes-dominance-on-land-and-sea-288657
27-07-2021||---||Deuba’s stint a chance to reset India-Nepal ties||PEOPLE I met in Baitadi, far-west Nepal, the area from where Sher Bahadur Deuba comes, told me in the Nepali equivalent that he was born with a silver spoon in his mouth. At 75, he has become the Prime Minister of Nepal for the fifth time, a record he shares with Surya Bahadur Thapa and Girija Prasad Koirala. This time, the Supreme Court not only ordered his appointment as PM, but also decreed that those who signed up for him on May 21 under Article 76(5) would be exempt from their party whip.Instead of the 149 signatures that Deuba obtained, he got 165 trust votes, making him look good. From Pokhara in Nepal, a friend quoted a song from the Hindi film CID, ‘Kahin pe nigahein, kahin pe nishana’, explaining that Deuba is PM by default, resulting from the blood, sweat and toil of Prachanda who was locked in a power struggle with KP Oli for three-and-a-half years. The beneficiary of the duel was Deuba, thanks to the Supreme Court. Oli skipped Deuba’s swearing-in, while President Bidya Devi Bhandari exited the ceremony prematurely without congratulating Deuba.Deuba has spent time in jail and also remained under house arrest. Under him, the Nepali Congress has split into three factions and he leads a party where loyalists like Bimalendra Nidhi are challenging him for its presidency in September. In October 2002, Deuba was dismissed by King Gyanendra for incompetence as he failed to conduct elections owing to Maoist insurgency. An Indian General was invited to Kathmandu to make a presentation in Baluwatar (Nepal PM’s official residence) on how elections were held regularly in J&K despite insurgency and cross-border terrorism. Deuba was about to declare unilateral ceasefire and invite Maoists for talks when he was fired. He will now conduct an election in 2023 without the fear of marching orders or any threat to his government as it is insulated because a no-confidence motion is barred for two years. For a change, Deuba’s stars are shining bright.Deuba has so far appointed only four cabinet ministers, two each from NC (Home & Law, Justice) and Maoist Centre (Finance & Power, Energy). The Constitution restricts the government to 21 cabinet ministers and four ministers of state. He has to distribute the loaves of office to Janata Samajwadi Party (Upendra Yadav) who has sought seven ministers and one MoS while the Mahantha Thakur faction of JSP, which voted for Deuba at the last minute, and 22 lawmakers from the Madhav Nepal group who voted defying the party whip, are also ministerial aspirants. The Nepal group has been unable to work out a plan that ensures they do not lose their lawmaker status in CPN (UML) by crossing over to Deuba. He is waiting for this imbroglio to be resolved. After three-and-a-half years of instability, an alliance government promises hope.For Oli, the grand irony is that he commanded a two-thirds majority in Parliament, simple majority in the Upper House, ran six of seven provincial governments and enjoyed a majority in the local bodies. This unprecedented electoral trust was squandered due to Oli’s arrogance, ego, governance deficit and corruption, catalysed by the power struggle. Oli’s descent from Baluwatar to Balakot (his private residence) was unexpected. Deuba is familiar with the geography of Baluwatar. His primary mission is to get hands on the Covid pandemic which has been exacerbated by a shortage of vaccines and corruption in acquisition of medical equipment. India had promised additional vaccines (already given separately to the Nepal Army twice), but is unable to oblige. Of Nepal’s 30 million population, 72 per cent require vaccination which means 44 million doses.Bhandari has written to several heads of state urging for vaccines. Nepal was to get 10 million doses from China and the US. At present, 2.5 per cent have got two doses and 46 per cent, one dose.Reviving the economy and resetting relations with India are Deuba’s priorities. Maoist Janardhan Sharma, famous for the Maoist debacle at the Battle of Khara in 2005, is the new Finance Minister, replete with grit but without any background in economics. Prime Minister Modi took some time to congratulate Deuba, but he did it heartily. When Oli was elected the PM first time, Sushma Swaraj reached Kathmandu to congratulate him. But it took the 1st Amendment to the Constitution for Oli to be invited to India on a state visit. Lately, India had painstakingly won over arch-foe Oli and till the Supreme Court verdict, was counting on his survival. Keeping China out is a top priority for India, and Oli, once a Chinese favourite, was seen as the right person for keeping Nepal out of Chinese orbit. During the Oli-masterminded cartographic aggression that included the disputed Kalapani, 274 of the 275 lawmakers voted for it. The new map is incorporated in Nepal’s coat of arms and backed by the Constitution.In the guise of China South Asian Countries Poverty Alleviation and Cooperation Development Centre to commemorate 100 years of Chinese Communist Party, Beijing gathered ambassadors of all South Asian countries except India, Bhutan and the Maldives to bypass the moribund SAARC.Thanks to Oli, China lost an excellent opportunity to displace India as the main influencer in Nepal. Still, the Global Times optimistically ran an article titled, ‘China-Nepal ties solid despite new pro-India Prime Minister’. New Delhi has a fresh and overt chance of cementing state-to-state relations through smarter diplomacy and timely, qualitative delivery of projects, as for a change it has been doing lately and strengthening people-to-people relations. This time, India must get it right.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/deubas-stint-a-chance-to-reset-india-nepal-ties-288667
