28-07-2021||---||Vaccination the key to reining in virus variants||Several strains or variants of coronavirus have been reported since the onset of Covid-19. These variants have been given different names and they have been changing over time. Initially, on account of its genetic similarity with the earlier coronavirus that caused severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in 2003, it was given the name 2019 novel coronavirus (n-CoV-2019). Later, it was named as SARS coronavirus 2 or SARS-CoV-2 by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses.Another coronavirus nomenclature having a mix of letters and numbers, e.g., B.1.1.7 or B.1.617, depicts the virus lineages, based upon their phylogeny. They are based on the scientific nomenclature system of lineage developed by the open-source international agency, Pango. The global initiative on sharing avian influenza data (GISAID) and Nextstrain use the clad system for naming and tracking the variants. The virologists use these names in their research.The variants were also named by the media and public after the countries where they originated, like the UK variant, Brazilian variant and African variant. These names sounded like stigmatising the respective countries. The variant B.1.617.2, first reported from India in October 2020, was labelled the ‘Indian variant’.The World Health Organisation (WHO) has suggested a nomenclature that should be easy to pronounce and was ‘non-stigmatising’. On May 31, it recommended that letters of the Greek alphabet such as Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta be used to name the coronavirus variants.Further, based on the transmission rate and clinical severity of the variants, the WHO has also classified them as VOIs — variants of interest (low transmissibility and disease severity); VOCs — variants of concern (increased transmissibility and high disease severity); variants of high consequence (not easily diagnosable, ineffective vaccines and breakthrough cases, very high number of severe cases and hospitalisation).The Alpha variant is the B.1.1.7 lineage virus that originated in the UK, Beta is the B.1.351 lineage virus that originated in South Africa, Gamma is the P.1 lineage virus that originated in Brazil and the Delta variant belongs to the B.1.617 lineage, first reported from India.As per the WHO, these variants are classified as VOCs as they either show an increased transmissibility or detrimental change in the Covid-19 epidemiology; or increased virulence or change in clinical disease presentation; or linked with decreased effectiveness of public health measures or available diagnostics, vaccines, therapeutics.All these variants were associated with an increased incidence rate, severity of disease and mortality in the respective countries of origin.At present, the Delta variant, which caused the second wave of Covid-19 in India during April-May 2021, has spread to more than 100 countries and is causing a serious health threat. In some cases, breakthrough infections have also been reported where the Delta variant infected even those who had received two shots of vaccine.In a recent study, Delta was found to be over 1,000 times more infectious than the original variant. It is spreading globally like wildfire and has gained prominence in countries such as Indonesia, Bangladesh, the UK, the USA and South Africa. Based upon its very high infectivity, it is anticipated to grow into a dominant global variant soon.A few other variants have been kept in the category of VOIs. For example, Eta is a variant of the B.1.525 lineage that has been reported in many countries since December 2020. Iota, that originated in the US in November 2020, is a variant that belongs to the B.1.526 lineage. The Kappa variant was reported from India in October 2020 and belongs to the B.1.617.1 lineage. Another VOI reported from Peru in December 2020 belongs to the C.37 lineage.These variants have undergone genetic changes that may cause increased transmissibility, disease severity, immune or therapeutic escape. They are considered an emerging risk due to the significant community spread or may lead to increased relative prevalence with time.Another group of variants is ‘Alerts for further monitoring’. They have an unclear impact in terms of epidemiology, but may pose a future risk. They require monitoring and frequent assessment. No names are given to such variants until they become VOIs or VOCs, based on epidemiological evidences. Some former VOIs, such as Epsilon (lineage B.1.427/B.1.429), Zeta (lineage P.2) and Theta (lineage P.3), are now kept in this group as they no longer pose a major risk to humanity.Genetic sequencing studies of the virus from the field in real time are important to understand how the virus is mutating and evolving into a new variant and whether it could become a VOI or a VOC in future.We know now that the new variants — VOCs — were associated with the pandemic waves. India faced a deadly second wave this year due to the Delta variant. Experts have pointed out the possibility of a third wave later this year.On an average, in many countries, the gap between the two waves has been nearly six months, owing to increased transmissibility and immune avoidance capacity of the newly emerged variants. It is also attributed to a decreased antibody response gained from a previous infection over time, which seems to last up to an average five-six months.The waning immunity in population and laxity of adherence to preventive measures coincide with the emergence of a new infectious variant that results in the next wave.Regardless of when and if the next wave will come in India, vaccinating the maximum population as soon as possible is the best approach. Vaccination would prevent the severity of the disease or loss of life during the next wave, if not the infection itself.This has been observed in the UK where more than 80 per cent adult population has been vaccinated with at least one dose and 60 per cent has been given both doses. As the cases surge there due to the Delta variant, the severity and hospitalisation is not as much as it was in the previous waves. As per the latest data from the UK, out of the 3,692 hospitalisations with the Delta variant, 58.3 per cent (2152) were unvaccinated while the fully vaccinated were only 22.8 per cent (843) and the severity of the illness was less in the vaccinated group.New coronavirus variants emerge only when the virus spends more time and replicates in the body of its host. To prevent such a possibility, the most effective measures are to vaccinate the maximum population quickly and observe strict adherence to the preventive measures in the unlocking period. Our laxity will give leverage to the virus to produce more variants using our own bodies and we cannot afford to lower our guard and invite another wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/vaccination-the-key-to-reining-in-virus-variants-289072
28-07-2021||---||The way forward for implementing NEP||On July 29, 2020, as India was battling the first wave of the Covid pandemic, the National Education Policy (NEP) was launched to re-imagine education in India. NEP-2020 had undergone a comprehensive consultative process with all key stakeholders to create a visionary policy that speaks to the aspirations of young India. It has been a year since NEP-2020 was launched and it is an opportune time to take stock of what has happened and the way forward.The recommendations on higher education received in the past year have been engaging. Public policy of any kind requires a lot of effort in all stages of the policy-making cycle. Harold Lasswell, at the University of Chicago and Yale University, developed a multi-dimensional model of effective policy-making that is used even today. The five dimensions of his model are: agenda setting; policy formation; decision-making; policy implementation; and policy evaluation. Policy-makers around the world have learnt enormously from Lasswell’s model.The current times and the unique challenges and opportunities that India faces demand a reassessment of the model.I propose three additional dimensions between the policy formation and the decision-making process: creating awareness among all stakeholders; building consensus among institutions; developing institutional mechanisms to support the policy.The one year of NEP-2020 has focused on the three proposed dimensions. Stakeholders are seeing the efforts of the Government of India towards ensuring that the policy is implemented in right earnest. Since the launch of NEP, the government has been preparing plans for its implementation.However, vibrant democracies such as India, where ‘education’ is on the Concurrent List of the Constitution, require deliberations, debates and discussions at all levels of the government and regulatory architecture, and among different types of higher education institutions (HEIs).The three successful outcomes of the last year are:1. Extensive efforts to create national, regional and state-level awareness relating to NEP with the active participation of stakeholders. It has created a collective consciousness of NEP among the members of the education community, which is now much more prepared to implement the policy.2. Concerted efforts by the government and regulatory bodies in galvanising intellectual consciousness among the HEIs. Other than understanding the policy better, it has empowered the HEIs to take ownership of the policy. The HEIs, with support from the UGC, AICTE and AIU, have rendered yeoman service for building consensus around NEP.3. One of the major challenges in the implementation of any policy is the absence of relevant institutional mechanisms that can work towards implementation. While some efforts have been made to put in place a few institutional mechanisms for supporting the implementation of NEP, a lot more needs to be done. The higher education community is concerned about pathological callousness, institutionalised inertia and irresponsible indifference that can adversely impact the implementation of NEP-2020.I propose five steps that will ensure that NEP is implemented effectively in a time-bound manner:1. Prime Minister’s Advisory Council on implementation of NEP (PMAC): The PM has spoken on several occasions about NEP-2020 and its transformative potential for the future of India. To take advantage of the demographic dividend, this must be led from the highest levels of the state apparatus. The PMAC, chaired by the PM, will be the nodal agency to coordinate with all institutions to ensure the successful implementation of NEP.2. Education Minister’s Steering Committee on implementation of NEP (EMSC): Constituted in the Ministry of Education, the EMSC will be working continuously with all stakeholders to identify and resolve bottlenecks in the implementation. Chaired by the Union Education Minister, it will be responsible for taking complete ownership of the implementation process and will work closely with all other regulatory bodies.3. National Higher Education Ministers’ Council for implementation of NEP (NHEMC): The NHEMC is an important initiative that needs to be created with all education ministers of the states and chaired by the Union Minister of Education, with the Union Education Secretary as its Member-Secretary. The success of NEP depends significantly on the work that must take place in the states; there is a need for state governments to work closely.4. Empowered Standing Committee on Legal and Regulatory Reforms for implementation of NEP (ESC): A gap between the vision of NEP and the existing legal and regulatory framework is a major challenge in its implementation, which requires intervention. Chaired by the Union Education Secretary, the ESC should be empowered to propose legal and regulatory reforms across the education sector to help implement the NEP.5. Vice-Chancellors’ Working Group for implementation of NEP (VCWG): The Vice-Chancellors/Directors represent the most important constituency for the implementation of NEP in higher education. The VCWG, under the chairmanship of the UGC Chairman, with members as select VCs/Directors of HEIs, can work towards implementing NEP.Every effort in policy-making requires a significant impetus to capacity-building. These measures will ensure that we create a robust institutional architecture that will leave no stone unturned in the process of NEP implementation.The inspiring vision of NEP can be effectively implemented only if we are ready to establish institutional mechanisms outlined above to build the necessary capacity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-way-forward-for-implementing-nep-289073
28-07-2021||---||Misreading Afghan situation||THERE seems to be an unholy rush in several countries, including India, to already concede Afghanistan to the marauding Taliban forces. The implications of what a Taliban takeover may mean for the hapless people of the blighted country, in particular for its women and children, as an obscurantist and intolerant version of Islam is given free rein once again, seem to be no more than collateral damage. Suddenly, this is now for the Afghan people to decide as if the choice lies in their hands. There are already reports coming in that in areas that have fallen under Taliban control, there has been swift and even ruthless imposition of the strict dictates of the Sharia, or at least how the Taliban interpret it. To describe such people as merely conservative but actually very smart and sophisticated political operators is a cosmetic makeover that says more about the commentators than about the Taliban themselves. It suits them to be painted in gentler hues since they may go about their violent impositions without meddling foreigners to distract them. Nothing detracts more from President Biden’s passionate urging about freedom and democracy and respect for human rights, than this unseemly abandonment of a people staring at the loss of even the limited freedoms that they had begun to enjoy despite a fragmented, but nevertheless democratically elected government.There also appears a vain hope that the Taliban are nationalistic after all as if the current Kabul government is not. If the Ghani government relied heavily on American support, the Taliban, the creation of Pakistan, have survived and flourished because of Pakistani support. Americans lost the plot because they failed to battle the real enemy — the manipulative handlers sitting in Islamabad. One may rubbish Pakistani calculations on Afghanistan being its indispensable “strategic depth”; or to predict that Pakistan may itself come a cropper once the Taliban are entrenched in Afghanistan and begin to pursue their own “interests”. That may well be the case, but in the meantime, Pakistan’s quiet satisfaction at having seen off another superpower into ignominious defeat is patent.That Pakistan is gaining renewed strategic relevance because it now controls the levers of influence over the dangerous new force that may soon be presiding over turbulent Afghanistan, is apparent from the overtures being made to Islamabad by the cluster of neighbouring countries. Even some Indian commentators are urging Pakistan to please see a convergent interest in a “peaceful and stable” Afghanistan. In urging New Delhi not to perceive the Taliban as a Pakistani instrument, to engage with it so that it may resist Pakistani efforts to use it to harm Indian interests, is a flight from reality staring us in the face. The Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad armed cadres are fighting alongside the Taliban. Could they be doing so without Pakistani encouragement if not direction? Do we really believe that a Taliban-controlled Afghanistan will not once again become a base for renewed and intensified cross-border terrorism against India? Pakistan is posing as a guarantor against similar activities against China, Russia and perhaps even Iran. If their concerns can be assuaged at least initially, would there be any support if India is targeted?I believe that eventually, Pakistan may not be able to control other extremist forces such as al-Qaeda or ISIL, being able to find bases and sanctuaries in Afghanistan. We know that they are already active in some areas of the country. But that may be of little consolation. As the Chinese are beginning to discover, they cannot depend upon Pakistan to protect its personnel working in the country. Will they be able to do so in Afghanistan? But it’s too late now for them to reverse course. All they can do is to hope for the best.What may be the best or the least bad option for India at this difficult juncture? The best course lies in shoring up the Kabul government and helping it to prevent a complete takeover by the Taliban. If the ongoing civil war can grind to a stalemate, that might be the best outcome in the short run. The Taliban momentum needs to be broken.The recent Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) deliberations on the Afghan situation may be a pointer to forging a regional consensus on preventing a Taliban takeover and supporting a power sharing dispensation. There may be room for enhanced political and material support for the Kabul government and India could certainly lead the way in this regard. If Turkey is to take on responsibility for guarding Bagram airport, then here is an interlocutor that India needs to engage with. The Taliban have been swift to warn Turkey on its taking on this role from the Americans.It may be tactically wise to engage with the Taliban and India has been doing so. It should not, however, give in to demands that India should stop assisting the Ghani government, including with arms supplies. Short of putting boots on the ground, India should put its full weight behind the Ghani government despite its many infirmities.The bottom line is this: a military stalemate in Afghanistan, even a protracted civil war, may be a better outcome from India’s standpoint than a Taliban takeover. One may not be able to contribute to the Taliban’s defeat. We may, however, be able to prevent its victory and that would be a more prudent choice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/misreading-afghan-situation-289083
