29-07-2021||---||Digitally deprived & divided||On Guru Purnima this year, a Marathi poem went viral on WhatsApp. It is a poignant tale of a girl student in a village school, who like crores like her in India, has been affected by the prolonged Covid-induced lockdown. She narrates her plight to her favourite teacher. Its gist: “Respected teacher, I am sorry for not being able to pay my respects to you in person today. Corona snatched away my father. I have left the village in search of work to feed my family. Online education is beyond me; how can I afford a smartphone? But one day, I want to come back and sit in your class.”The poem brought tears to my eyes. I immediately recalled Shah Rukh Khan’s TV and print ads of Byju’s during the lockdown, for which the online tutorial company must have spent a fortune. “Just download Byju’s, the all-new learning app,” Shah Rukh tells children and their parents. “Progress guaranteed.”This online tutorial company was founded ten years ago by Byju Raveendran, whose market value has now reached $16.5 billion (Rs 1,22,000 crore) — more than double the Modi Government’s annual budget for school education (Rs 54,873 crore). His own personal wealth has soared to $2.5 billion (Rs 18,000 crore). Byju’s now has over 40 lakh subscribers. No doubt, this has been made possible by aggressive advertising, and by charging fees that only the rich and upper middle-class families can afford. Several other companies offering online education have also sprung up. The mainstream media hails them as India’s start-up success stories by young billionaires.Now, someone will surely ask: “Why are you objecting to Byju’s and other such companies providing excellent digital learning tools to our children?” Good question! Indian students having access to high-quality digitally-enabled education is most welcome. What’s saddening and deeply troubling is this: Those who ask such questions either do not know, or do not care, about two large categories of students in India. One, poor students in villages and urban slums who have no access even to a smartphone, leave alone the tablet that comes along with Byju’s fee package. Two, children in middle and lower-middle class families who can never afford the fancy learning apps, which are mostly in English. Hence, the entrenched discrimination against education in native Indian languages has been exacerbated in the online space. Haven’t all of us seen this digital disparity during the corona lockdown period? With schools closed, crores of poor and middle-class students have been pushed behind, whereas their rich counterparts have progressed.The world over, inequities in education perpetuate and further widen socio-economic disparities. This is true even about the US, the world’s wealthiest nation, and also China, which is fast catching up. But Beijing has now begun tackling this problem in a unique way. In an unprecedented crackdown, the Chinese government issued guidelines last week that could force its online tutoring companies to become non-profit organisations. Immediately, their share prices crashed. Why has China taken such stern steps to rein in its booming $100 billion private education industry?The answer lies in two important speeches its President Xi Jinping delivered on this subject — first at a national conference on promoting ‘socialist education with Chinese characteristics’ in 2018, and then at a session of the country’s top legislative body in March this year. He criticised the big-money tutoring sector as “a chronic disease”, which must be cured. Because of stiff competition for good jobs, many Chinese parents prefer after-school tutoring classes for their children, paying fees that in some cases account for 30 per cent of the family’s total annual spending. This is sharply widening inequality in Chinese society. Therefore, Xi Jinping said China needs an education system in which all schools have improved facilities for all students.In recent speeches, Xi Jinping has called for strong measures against the “disorderly expansion of capital”. This means, the nation’s financial resources should flow in such a manner that they satisfy the needs of the common people — and not benefit only the rich. In other words, education should not become a for-profit business — access to ‘Sarasvati’ should not be determined by ‘Laxmi’.Under the new Chinese guidelines, authorities have been asked to reduce homework load, raise quality of school education, and standardise education services. The government has pledged to spend more to increase free online learning services, including by supporting non-profit tutorial firms. Importantly, it will prohibit foreign investment into such businesses. In contrast, almost all online education companies in India, including Byju’s, have big foreign investors.China has another important reason. Declining birth rates, aging population and shrinking workforce because of the earlier one-child policy compelled the government to introduce a new three-child policy on May 31. However, it sees the private tutoring industry as a major obstacle to raising birth rates, since it burdens parents with exorbitant education fees. More children mean having to spend more on tuitions. One Chinese feminist wrote on Weibo (the equivalent of Twitter): “It’s not like we don’t want to have kids. But as soon as we have kids, our life falls apart. That’s why women don’t want to be mothers.”How far will China’s extraordinary steps succeed in reorienting its education system towards greater equality and social justice? Time will tell. However, after reading all these developments in China, my mind again went back, sorrowfully, to that WhatsApp poem in Marathi. Do our politicians and policy-makers have the ears to listen to that poor village girl’s lament: “Online education is beyond me; how can I afford it?” And do they have the commitment to act?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/digitally-deprived-divided-289680
29-07-2021||---||Inglorious war, fought gloriously in Lanka||THIRTY-FOUR years ago, India sent its forces to Sri Lanka after the Indo-Sri Lanka peace accord was signed on July 29, 1987, leading to a botched-up military operation until India pulled its troops out from the island in March 1990. In some ways, it was India’s ‘Vietnam war’, and one that India’s military establishment would rather not talk about. Sadly, New Delhi chose to ignore the military campaign from 1988, once it became clear that it was a foreign policy failure, even as hundreds of India’s brave soldiers died fighting someone else’s war, and over 3,000 came back home, wounded. Worse still, it was 20 years after Indian soldiers were bloodied in their battles in Sri Lanka that a memorial to the gallant troops was constructed on the outskirts of Colombo at Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte in 2008. And it took another two years before the first official memorial service was held on August 15, 2010, by the Indian High Commission. Now they visit the site every Republic and Independence Day of India. But why were Indian troops sent to Sri Lanka?New Delhi had, at the request of the Sri Lankan government, sent in a ‘peace-keeping force’ after the accord was signed. However, from the beginning itself, there were signs that all wasn’t well. Apart from the resentment to the accord among many Sri Lankan politicians, and the boycott by the LTTE of the signing ceremony, Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was lucky to have escaped a major head injury when a Sri Lanka soldier swung a rifle at him during a guard of honour. It soon became evident that India was to undertake a peace enforcement mission and not a peace-keeping mission — even though India’s mission was called the Indian peace-keeping force — as the other party to the conflict (the LTTE) was not a signatory to the ‘peace accord’. India, however, had a different perception of its role in Sri Lanka, and its initial plan was named Operation Pawan (which in Hindi means the Wind) — an ironic reflection of the Indian optimism to conduct a whirlwind campaign, with limited resources. Military commanders in New Delhi didn’t quite expect to get bogged down in a bloody war of attrition. But events were to prove otherwise.The Indian armed forces had been informed about the possibility of an intervention as early as May 1987, but their mission was constantly changed, and the orders finally disseminated to the IKPF on July 30 carried little specifics about the role of the armed forces. The IPKF’s operational control from June 1987 onwards, was effectively concentrated in two centres — with PM Rajiv Gandhi’s office and the (then) Army Chief Gen Sundarji’s office — but the refusal of the Indian Navy and Air Force to subordinate their elements to the Indian Army, was only an initial obstacle in the execution of a difficult and highly ambiguous mission. And the task of implementing a deceptively simple brief — to disengage the Sri Lankan army from Tamil militants by interposing between the two, and to clear the mines and booby traps (in Jaffna area) — was given to India’s 54 Infantry Division. As an Indian Army reserve division with a role and experience in airborne and amphibious warfare, it was considered most suitable. It was moved with about 6,000 men to Sri Lanka. But the conflict, from October 1987, took a nasty turn, and eventually the Indian force in Sri Lanka rose to over 60,000. With an army at over million strong committed extensively on the borders and in internal security, the Sri Lankan intervention appeared to most Indians only as a sideshow!Apart from the complacency of India’s Army chief, who even publicly declared that India would demolish the LTTE within three days, President Jayewardene’s decision to suddenly revoke his earlier amnesty (that encouraged the LTTE insurgents to surrender), declaring the LTTE illegal, led to a violent surge of brutal attacks with no rules in place. Thus, the IPKF soon faced booby traps and improvised explosive devices (IED) around the 1,300 square km of the Jaffna peninsula, accommodating 50 per cent of Sri Lanka’s Tamil population. Suddenly, the failure of India’s initial attempts to subdue the LTTE — the flawed plans of the IPKF, the absence of its numerical superiority and a lack of medical facilities to treat the wounded — became glaringly evident. India was rudely shocked, and it took fresh stock of the situation. It could neither abandon its role in Sri Lanka, nor fight back decisively. It decided to do the latter, and injected fresh leadership and troops into the IPKF. However, with its essential tactical doctrine still strongly grounded in mid-intensity conventional manoeuvre warfare, the Indian Army took a while to adapt to the demands of Sri Lanka’s low-intensity conflicts. The conflict in Sri Lanka also became known as the ‘Cyanide War’, as Tamil rebels were all given cyanide capsules that they were to swallow if captured alive!By 1989, the rabid anti-Indian politico-military climate in Sri Lanka had stretched the patience of the IPKF, as even the Tamils came to view it is an ‘army of occupation’. Thus, two years after the signing of the tattered peace accord, a new Indian Prime Minister, VP Singh, ensured a full pullout of the IPKF by March 1990. After 967 days, at a cost of 1,155 soldiers dead and an expenditure of Rs 300 crore (then equivalent to about $17 billion), the Indian Army returned to mixed reactions at home. It was a thankless war surrounded with ambiguities, and appropriately described by Lt Gen Kalkat as a ‘blind man’s bluff’. The most serious politico-military implication of the Sri Lankan (mis)adventure was India’s inability to project its military power overseas, despite the enormous strategic advantages provided by Sri Lanka’s proximity. The Indian Army wasn’t defeated, but its creditable combat performance was overshadowed by its inability to achieve a sweeping operational success in Sri Lanka. At no stage, though, from all available evidence, were the sheer courage, determination and decency of the Indian soldiers questioned. They fought an inglorious war, gloriously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/inglorious-war-fought-gloriously-in-lanka-289682
