30-07-2021||---||Disinvestment delay may affect revenue inflow||Opinion among analysts is veering round to the view that the government’s disinvestment agenda, which includes privatisation, is likely to get delayed. If this were to happen, it will impose a cost not just on the economy but also on the general level and sense of well-being.The hope among government circles is that with the ferocity of the second Covid-19 wave abating, the much feared third wave will not turn out to be a lethal one even if it were to make a brief appearance. If this were to happen, the current financial year will see a proper recovery by achieving around 10 per cent growth that will go a part of the way in undoing the damage done by the massive 7.3 per cent economic contraction of last year.A recovery must go hand in hand with an improving fiscal situation and for that to happen, the revenue from disinvestment will have to live up to expectations (2021-22 budget has anticipated a disinvestment bonanza of Rs 1.75 lakh crore against the paltry Rs 32,800 crore garnered last year). Conversely, disappointing disinvestment revenue will tie the government’s hands and not allow it to go in for the spending stimulus without which a proper recovery cannot take place.What the government will not do to get resources to spend is to engage in a huge dose of deficit financing by placing bonds with the RBI and getting an accommodation, something that is commonly referred to as printing money. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has uttered an unambiguous “no” to this idea in Parliament.So, the government is seeking to garner resources through two main routes — greater tax buoyancy and successful disinvestment. On tax buoyancy, there is a bit of a chicken-and-egg situation. If tax revenue rises robustly, the government will spend well and give a boost to the recovery momentum. But tax revenue will not rise robustly unless there is a recovery momentum.So, we get back to disinvestment and privatisation which can have a degree of autonomy. Irrespective of how the recovery momentum picks up, disinvestment can go ahead, driven as it is by other factors. Thus we can have a situation where recovery is sluggish but disinvestment makes progress, putting some much needed resources in the government’s hands and enabling it to spend. This will give the recovery a push which will, in turn, bring in more revenue.Right now, government sources are manfully asserting that the disinvestment agenda will be met, give or take a month or two. Some progress has indeed been made with the government receiving ‘expressions of interest’ from intending bidders, but the overall progress has been slow as bidders have been unable to do due diligence with necessary rigour because of travel restrictions imposed by partial lockdowns.Three individual cases bear listing. The privatisation of Air India faces uncertainty with Cairn Energy seeking to lay its hands on the national carrier’s international assets. LIC’s IPO (initial public offering) process has slowed down because of Covid-19 related hurdles. And this in turn, has acted as a decelerator to the privatisation of Bharat Petroleum.But what has really set back the whole idea of privatisation is the vulnerability that the government’s proposal to privatise two public sector banks has developed. Privatising public sector banks was a bold political idea which thereby became high profile. Political opposition to the move is there, but this was to be expected. What is more serious is the heightened balance sheet stress that the banks are facing as a result of the pandemic-induced slowdown in loan recovery. They are burdened with non-performing assets ranging between 9 and 16 per cent. Besides, demand for bank finance and therefore growth prospects have remained subdued because of the economic uncertainty.NPAs (non-performing assets) belong to the past. What is critical for disinvestment or privatisation to succeed is the future. Can there be investor confidence that underprivate management, these banks can be made to turn around and give a better account of themselves? This, in turn, is predicated on their market presence.Large public sector banks have a wide reach through their massive branch networks and once potential borrowers know that their proposals will be dealt with professionally and promptly, they will eagerly come forward. But speculation over which are the two public sector banks whose privatisation has been proposed by the Niti Aayog indicates that they cannot be called truly large.The whole issue is whether commercial banking as we know it has a bright future. If it does, then there will be no lack of investor interest. The success of the massive Zomato public issue and the general buoyancy of the stock market indicate that investors have the resources and the willingness to invest, provided they can get enthused by a business.Right now, there does not appear to be any public enthusiasm over the privatisation of public sector banks and that is putting a damper on the whole idea of disinvestment. Hence, the speculation that a part or a lot of the disinvestment process will get delayed and carried over to the next financial year. This will have adverse revenue implications which will dampen the government’s urge to spend.This brings us to the cardinal issue of the public’s sense of well-being. Distribution of highly subsidised or free rations is essential to take care of the plight of workers, particularly migrants, who are without income. Plus, small businesses remain in acute need of working capital to get their business going. The absolute priority for the government is to spend adequately in these two areas.It has to do this either through growing revenue or by printing notes. When note printing is out, recovery is subdued and the disinvestment agenda is uncertain. It does not bode well for consumer confidence and the overall public sense of well-being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/disinvestment-delay-may-affect-revenue-inflow-290158
30-07-2021||---||Finally, a step to energise maritime sector||The recent announcement by the Government of India (GoI) to appoint a national maritime security coordinator is a step in the right direction. For the sake of posterity, it would be useful to trace the background of when, why and how the seed got planted.Enacted by Parliament in 1958, India’s Merchant Shipping Act had also constituted a National Shipping Board (NSB) to advise the government on the development of Indian shipping. The Deputy Chief of Naval Staff (DCNS), then being the second seniormost officer of the Indian Navy, was a member of the NSB.In due course, however, the Vice-Chief became the number two man in the Naval Headquarters, but the DCNS remained a member of the NSB. When I was Director Naval Operations (DNO), the DCNS deputed me to attend the NSB meetings in 1996 and again in 1997.During the 1997 meeting, while discussing the major ports, I raised a basic question: Who decides where to develop major ports in our country and in consultation with whom? I illustrated this with two examples. One, had the Navy been consulted for the security implications and consequences of even the temporary blocking of the entrance to the Gulf of Kutch (GoK) before the development of Kandla, or before setting up in the GoK the facility for Bombay High crude oil supply for all refineries in north India, from Mathura to Panipat? Two, were the Railways consulted for hinterland connectivity before developing the Jawaharlal Nehru Port? And, why did the rail/road/highway connectivity, container parks and related infrastructure not come up in time for the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) operationalisation?Clearly, there appeared to be a need for a coordinator to ensure an integrated development of the nation’s maritime sector with a built-in security overlay. I acknowledged that this was not the mandate of the NSB, but added, “Somebody should be doing it and ‘maybe’ the NSB could make such a recommendation.”On return to the NHQ, I sent this as an aide-memoire to the DG Shipping for inclusion in the minutes. In addition, all this was put down on file and routed to the DCNS and Chief of Naval Staff (CNS) for information. As expected, the minutes of the 1997 meeting were issued without my contribution.At the Naval HQ, the CNS directed the naval staff to expand the scope and formalise a proposal for the constitution of the National Maritime Commission (NMC) to bring all maritime-related issues, underpinned by national security, on one table. His successors also weighed in on the proposal. The Navy offered to service the commission and provide the support infrastructure.However, bureaucratic diffidence ensured that there was no progress, even though the proposal could not be snuffed out.The Kargil Review Committee (KRC), formed after the 1999 Kargil war, picked up the proposal and recommended the formation of an apex body that would manage the nation’s maritime affairs by enforcing linkages between the Indian Navy, the Indian Coast Guard and other ministries and departments of the state and Central governments.Its acceptance by the Group of Ministers provided the political heft for it to overcome the bureaucratic hurdles and it slowly gathered momentum.By 2004, the proposed NMC had been extensively discussed inter-departmentally and a meeting was scheduled for May under the chairmanship of the Cabinet Secretary to formalise the proposal for approval by the Union Cabinet. However, with the General Election then delivering a surprise verdict, the issue went into limbo. Queries regarding the reason for the bureaucratic resistance brought out the unstated but underlying apprehensions about the Navy playing a predominant role and, more specifically, ‘who would call the shots?’ in the organisation.After in-house discussions in 2005, the CNS took a pragmatic position that the subject was important, but the modality was not. And, in a fit of institutional self-abnegation, the Navy renounced all claims to leadership and offered to be just the secretariat of whatever body was constituted, but to no avail.It can be inferred that the NMC proposal must have undergone many more transformations over the years as successive Chiefs of Naval Staff pursued it without success. The terror attacks in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, did generate a lot of paper and some security coordination on the ground. But, in the absence of political resolve, the integration of maritime development processes with security built in ab initio still remained elusive despite its strategic imperative.It has taken over a decade after 26/11 and two decades since the KRC was set up for the GoI to announce its approval to aggregate the issues of the nation’s maritime development under the security umbrella. The decision to appoint a ‘national maritime security coordinator’ says a lot about the maturity of today’s decision-makers to finally throw off the yoke of unfounded, ill-conceived and self-serving doubts and apprehensions.This bold decision can potentially infuse much-needed, albeit much-delayed, energy into the maritime sector that is today central not only to national economy but also to national security.Details of the GoI mandate are yet to emerge in the public domain but it is hoped that the government will not stop short of establishing a functionally effective structure for a truly integrated and fully secured development of the nation’s maritime sector — and induct domain professionals as appropriate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/finally-a-step-to-energise-maritime-sector-290159
30-07-2021||---||Lift the lid off Pegasus||What do I know of Pegasus? In Greek mythology it was the flying horse that was used by Bellerophon to do the impossible — reach Heaven. Bellerophon did not succeed in her mission. She was killed and the horse was turned into a constellation.What about the Pegasus that opposition leaders are accusing Modi and Amit Shah of using against some of them, as well as others on the ruling party’s list of suspects? Will that Pegasus, too, meet the fate of the Greek horse? In the process will it singe those who purchased the software from NSO, the Israeli company that made the software?Who purchased the software? How much was spent? What was the purpose? Such questions are never, and will never be, answered. If they were answered, the world of cloaks and daggers would collapse. In which eventuality would the security of life and property and the security of nations be in jeopardy? All countries of the world, even tiny ones with a limited number of inhabitants, are required to keep a watch on their own citizens who are bent on disturbing peace.I was never entrusted with the task of collecting or analysing intelligence. I would have been hopeless in the art of spying. When I was a Deputy Commissioner of Police in Mumbai in the late sixties, my course mate, Suryakant Jog, hurried to see me in my office one day with an intercept his Special Branch had made. He hurried me off my seat to the Commissioner’s room with the telephone intercept.Bal Thackeray, the Shiv Sena’s founder and chief, was talking to one of his ‘shakha pramukhs’ about an attack on a public meeting to be addressed by the labour leader, George Fernandes, that very evening in Shivaji Park, which came squarely in my jurisdiction. The Police Commissioner was SG Pradhan. He sent Suryakant post haste to meet the Chief Minister, Vasantrao Naik, with this sensitive piece of information. In the meantime, the Commissioner and I wrapped up our strategy to counter the Shiv Sena’s plan.Suryakant got the Chief Minister’s ear immediately on arrival at the latter’s office. Suryakant later told me that Naik did not bat an eyelid. It was obvious that he knew of the plan and had kept the information to himself. Suryakant got the feeling that Thackeray’s plan had the CM’s approval! When this was communicated to Pradhan in my presence we were mystified. The Commissioner left it to me to navigate the waters. I decided to strengthen the defences. The Inspector in charge was an old hand. He told me that he had dealt with dozens of such political gatherings successfully and he could not understand why a young DCP with limited hands-on experience should disrupt time-tested arrangements.I could not tell him why but I had in my own way made the defences harder to penetrate. When the Sainiks decided to abandon their diabolical plan, and the meeting ended without a ripple, I was asked how the CM’s expectations were not met. I pleaded ignorance. If the attack had taken place, there would have been a major confrontation between the workers owing allegiance to a mercurial labour leader and the lumpen elements of Bal Thackeray’s Sena.I am mentioning this incident or ‘non-incident’ to impress on my readers the importance of eavesdropping on the phones of some selected opposition leaders, especially those with a propensity to initiate violence. Such eavesdropping is as old as the hills. It is generally known to the opposition leaders that their phones would be under surveillance.Numerous agencies, besides the intelligence unit of the police, have been empowered to tap telephones. Even the section of the income tax department that deals with major defaulters is so empowered. Each has its own different rules and procedures to follow. Senior officials with the required powers to sanction the intercepts are designated. A highly sophisticated spyware like the Pegasus would be discreetly assigned to the RAW or the IB and only the Directors of these two pole intelligence organisations would be the sole officials entrusted with its deployment.Since there is no overview by Parliament prescribed by law, like it is in the US, for example, the scope for abuse is considerable. If Pegasus was used to garner information on our unfriendly neighbours, who in any case must be keeping an eye on us, I would not complain. But why, if it is true, Ashwini Vaishnaw, who was inducted as a minister later, Prahlad Patel, who was already a Minister of State, Sanjay Kachru, Smriti Irani’s OSD from 2014-15, and Pradeep Awasthi, Personal Secretary to the former Rajasthan CM, Vasundhara Raje, were kept under surveillance? It costs oodles of money to deploy Pegasus for each surveilee.Putting Pravin Togadia, former international president of the VHP, in the selected list is understandable. Modi and he fell apart after the 2002 Gujarat riots. The woman who had accused the then CJI of molestation also figures on the list put out by The Wire and The Guardian. That too is not surprising. The government, any government for that matter, would like to keep a tab on the foibles of any top judicial officer of the realm to manipulate him when its vital interests need a helping hand.The Opposition and some sections of the civil society are asking the government to disclose if it had bought Pegasus software, and if so, how the payment was effected and from which fund. They will not get this information from government sources, or from the suppliers.But what really bothers me is that could this software be used to plant false evidence on the computers of pro-poor activists like Stan Swami and other Bhima-Koregaon accused? I do not know the answer. In the hands of the unscrupulous, Pegasus could change the colour of justice. And that would put the people of my country at extreme risk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lift-the-lid-off-pegasus-290161
30-07-2021||---||This agitation is not just about farmers now||JULY 26 was a special day to ask a big question: can the farmers’ movement be the vanguard we need in rescuing our constitutional democracy and reclaiming the republic?On July 26, the historic kisan morcha at the borders of Delhi completed eight months. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) marked the day by organising an all-women Kisan Sansad within earshot of Parliament. Just when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was hoping to erase the farmers’ movement from the country’s mindscape, it sprang up to occupy the centre stage once again. The successful and peaceful conduct of Kisan Sansad addressed some of the real as well as orchestrated anxieties associated with the Republic Day protest this year. The same day, the SKM leadership was in Lucknow to announce ‘Mission UP and Uttarakhand’. The detailed calendar for these two states signalled a move to expand, deepen and intensify the movement.It so happened that Rahul Gandhi chose the same day to drive a tractor to Parliament with a banner opposing the three farm laws, leading to a day-long detention of some Congress MPs. Within the House, all Opposition MPs followed the whip issued by the farmers’ movement and continuously raised the issues flagged by the farmers. This rare coincidence of protests inside and outside Parliament may have meant little to the Narendra Modi government, but it did indicate the political clout of the farmers’ movement and its role as the opposition in the country, currently.The question now is not what the farmers can secure for themselves. The prime issue is not about if and when the farmers would succeed in their immediate objective of getting the anti-farmer laws repealed and securing legal guarantee of the Minimum Support Price (MSP). The real question is what the farmers can secure for the entire country — whether they can lead the larger battle for saving the very idea of India.My answer is in the affirmative. Not because I draw upon ‘insider information’ as a participant, not because I believe in any special virtues of the peasantry. I believe the farmers can play a decisive role in reclaiming our rapidly shrinking republic because their class interest happens to coincide with the project of saving the soul of India. If democracy, diversity and development are the three key pillars of the idea of India, farmers’ movement cannot but provide anchors to all these ideas. In saving themselves, the farmers save the republic of India.I am not suggesting that farmers are inherently more democratic than other classes of citizens. They are not. But one thing is clear: in today’s India, farmers need democracy more than other classes. Businessmen can buy their way to achieve what they need. The middle class can access power through bureaucracy and occasionally through judiciary as well. The working class in the organised sector still has some, though fast-dwindling, procedural protections to safeguard their interests. Farmers as a group have no avenue open to them other than street politics, agitations and movements. They need democratic spaces to exercise this option. Their class interest coincides with the project of saving democracy. The ongoing farmers’ movement is acutely aware of this. It is not a coincidence that exactly a month ago, the farmers had marked June 26, the Emergency Day, by organising ‘Save Agriculture, Save Democracy’ protests outside Raj Bhawans across the country.Similarly, the farmers’ movement provides the strongest bulwark against the assault on the idea of a diverse India. Not just because farmers and farming are inherently diverse and protecting farming is about protecting diversity. And not merely because the movement happened to have originated among the Sikh peasantry. Above all, the project of uniting farmers requires the movement to take on the BJP’s politics of divide and rule. In Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the farmers’ movement has already established itself as the most powerful organised force to take on the politics of communal division. As the movement spreads to other regions of the country, this is the true ‘Bharat Jodo Andolan’.Finally, the farmers are a force that can shape an alternative path to India’s development. Again, it is not that farmers believe in alternatives more than anyone else. It is just that their livelihood concerns and collective interest push them towards equity and ecological sustainability. The present movement underlines the farmers’ quest for equity, their demand for a dignified minimum price for their produce, and their determination to combat corporate takeover of agriculture. Sooner than later, the challenge of climate change would force the farmers to be the torchbearers of sustainability as well. Poor ecological practices are now beginning to turn into poor economics for the farmers and causing their ruin. Farmers are not some relic of the past. They can be a potent force to shape India’s future.First, this is not an argument about the necessity and inevitability of farmers’ role in history. Farmers need not always play the role of a revolutionary vanguard, the role assigned to the working class in the Marxist theory. But there is one commonality with the logic advanced in The Communist Manifesto: like the proletariat, the farmers in today’s India are the only class whose interest happens to be aligned with the forward movement in history.Second, this won’t happen by itself. The alignment of interests ensures that the farmers are well placed to play a historic role. But it all depends on how consciously and carefully the farmers’ movement takes up this task. It depends upon how the present movement combines the immediate economic issues of the farmers with the larger political issues involving their long-term interest. It depends on how well the movement succeeds in spreading itself beyond its current geographic epicentre and in uniting all sections of Indian farmers, from big landowners to the landless peasants. That is the historic responsibility of the farmers’ leadership.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/this-agitation-is-not-just-about-farmers-now-289685
