31-07-2021||Yea||Mighty snooping on the meek||To ask some of them, one has to assume that the government did indeed buy the Pegasus software, as alleged by the global consortium of 17 media organisations, and that it deployed this software — listening to, reading and watching all that was happening on thousands of mobile devices. If the allegations are true, why did the government buy this software at all? All governments all across the world are listening to private conversations all the time, why then buy this particular software? This seems to be another instance of a monumental goof-up, comparable in scale to the blunders during the first lockdown or the oxygen crisis of the second coronavirus surge. Fortunately, no lives were lost or no one was made to walk thousands of kilometres; only a few hundred crores of taxpayers’ money were lost and some political embarrassment caused, which is of course par for the course.Buyers of Pegasus software do it primarily for one reason: deniability. The software can be deployed by third-party contractors, launched from third party servers — kept in Ukraine today, Serbia tomorrow and Croatia the day after. The contractors check in and out of servers like guests walking in and out of hotel rooms. This makes the operation untraceable because it cannot be proved who launched the software and from where. Even more valuable is the kind of snooping offered: to infect and take over a device without leaving a trace. The saleability of Pegasus-like expensive software lies in their efficiency in remaining hidden in the infected device. All buyers, allegedly our government included, fell for this claim, which has been conclusively proved wrong.So, like most of the stuff the government buys, Pegasus is a dud (if the Centre has bought it). Pegasus’s failure is twofold. Technologically, it is inferior software that does not perform what its makers claim it does. Any decent hacker can take over a mobile device, but the challenge is in taking it over without the host knowing about the infection. Huge amounts of money are paid to ensure that the host does not even suspect an attack and that the software does not leave a trace behind in the mobile device. But Pegasus did leave a trace that was forensically analysed by the Citizen Lab of the University of Toronto. If this is weapons-grade technology, then it is a gun that backfires. Apple’s App store has already launched a new version of the application iVerify to ‘check your device for trails of Pegasus software.’Now, the second failure is a blunder of epic proportions. NSO has left the database of all those individuals against whom the software was deployed in some unsecured server from where it has been either hacked or leaked. If the NSO itself has leaked the database — like some Income Tax department official leaking the Radia tapes to all and sundry — then the Pegasus scandal should go down as the most comical snooping attempt ever made in the history of techint. After all, this snooping deal has invited international ignominy on all those who bought the software. The media organisations have only mentioned this database as a ‘leaked list’ without explaining whether it was leaked by NSO or someone in the governments that used it, or whether NSO’s servers were hacked.For a government that believes in Atmanirbhar Bharat, these allegations are a big blow to its competent swadeshi image. India claims to be a software superpower, whereas it actually might be getting fooled by glib double-crossing vendors with ineffective wares. The allegations, in fact, point towards the failure of our national capacity to build and operate weapons-grade technology.The bright side of the Pegasus scandal is the understanding that we are being watched, heard and read all the time. If the Israelis have half-decent software, the Americans and the Chinese would definitely have foolproof versions that won’t leave a trace even in the Apple phones that they design and manufacture. If the Chinese have this capability, nothing stops them from sharing it with their strongest ally, the Pakistanis. In a country where everyone conducts even the most confidential business over WhatsApp and there are WhatsApp groups for officials in most government departments, snooping would have become pretty easy now.There are only two possibilities for those in public life. A life of Gandhian transparency, where one leads a life without anything to hide while knowing full well that every bit of one’s life is being scrutinised by a hostile entity in power. If it is not possible to be Gandhi-like, the only option is to keep the mobile phone out of the conversation, which might sound like an oxymoron, but all devices are potential targets and hence have to be kept out. Finally, the question remains — should governments deploy such means against their citizens? When the façade of deniability is torn down, what remain exposed are big men eavesdropping on the meek who get crushed under their mighty boots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/mighty-snooping-on-the-meek-290774
31-07-2021||Science Commentator||Meeting the challenge of new climate normal||The images of incessant rain, floods, landslides and rockfalls going viral on social media platforms these days may appear straight from a movie or a sci-fi novel on the apocalypse. Unfortunately, they are real climate disasters hitting different parts of India, and many other countries across the world. Heatwaves in North America, devastating cyclones in the pre-monsoon weeks and extreme rainfall events in India, massive floods in China and floods in parts of Germany are all part of the same larger story — a change in the global weather patterns.Scientific bodies like the Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change have been warning of the catastrophic impacts of global warming for decades. All these warnings are not only turning into reality but also hitting us harder with each passing year.The impact of such extreme weather events gets exacerbated due to manmade causes like faulty planning and public policies. Extreme weather has become the new normal, to use a cliché. We need to seriously ponder on how we are going to adjust our lives to this new climate normal.First, recognise the intrinsic connection between climate change and extreme weather events. The public discourse on climate change often focuses on future projections of temperature rise under different emission scenarios. This leads to the wrong perception among policymakers and the general public that climate change is still a few decades away. While projections serve a purpose, we have enough observed data that establishes that the global temperature is rising and weather patterns are fast changing.The Indian monsoon has seen definite deviations — an overall weakening of the monsoon circulation, longer dry spells, higher frequency and intensity of extreme rainfall and reduction in the total rainfall in the June-to-September season. Indian scientists such as Roxy Mathew Koll have also reported the reasons for this — the warming of the Indian Ocean due to carbon emissions, notably in the western Indian Ocean and the Arabian Sea.Such warming is not only affecting the monsoon circulation but also increasing the frequency, intensity and duration of cyclones and causing extreme rainfall wherever local meteorological conditions are favourable. The tropical cyclone Tauktae that hit the Gujarat coast in the pre-monsoon weeks remained active even 24 hours after its landfall, indicating the increase in the duration of tropical cyclones, along with bigger intensity.We need to boost research in climate science to gain further insights. At the same time, action to save lives and property needs to be taken now. This is better done by fine-tuning weather forecasting and dovetailing forecast with administrative and community action on the ground. In the recent past, the precision and accuracy of forecasts from the India Meteorological Department have vastly improved. In addition to regular bulletins and warnings, the department has begun issuing an ‘impact forecast’ that covers the likely outcome of predictions in a given area, taking into account its topography and other parameters.For instance, when heavy rainfall is predicted in a particular district, people can be warned if it will lead to flooding. Such forecasting should be extended to all disaster-prone districts and efforts made to involve communities in the dissemination of the warnings. This can save lives, as demonstrated by the accurate prediction of cyclones and administrative action to evacuate people to safer places. The change is visible in Odisha which used to witness a heavy loss of life in the 1990s. In the same way, an early warning system for landslides and other steps are taken to reduce risk in identified locations.Simultaneously, we need to review all relevant policies and take corrective action to reduce the impact of extreme weather events such as heavy rainfall and resulting floods. This is the most difficult and tricky part. Evacuation should not be the only option every time a cyclone is to hit the coast. A long-term solution would be to redrawing city plans, wherever they exist, to restoring lakes and natural drainage systems, building stormwater systems and so on.All cities on our coasts — Mumbai, Chennai, Visakhapatnam etc. — need to be climate-resilient or prepared for extreme rainfall events as well as sea-level rise and storm surges. Key infrastructure installations are located in coastal areas. Villages in the coastal areas that are witnessing coastal erosion also need to be better prepared through measures like protection and regeneration of mangroves.Climate concerns should be kept in mind while building large infrastructure projects and industries. The construction of hydro-power projects and growing urbanisation in fragile hilly regions needs to be checked. The Environment Impact Assessment framework should be made more stringent rather than be diluted.At the same time, our engagement with the global community in climate talks under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change should continue. Climate diplomats are still engaged in the crucial issues of climate finance, emission reduction and the target of limiting temperature rise to 1.5 degrees, as committed under the Paris Agreement. Now there is talk of achieving net-zero emissions by 2050.All these are long-term goals and ambitions, with little impact on the situation on the ground. Hopefully, the series of extreme events in different countries will inject a new sense of urgency into climate negotiations.As an obligation under the global climate framework, India came up with the national climate action plan in 2008, with several missions for different sectors such as energy, food, biodiversity, Himalayan ecology etc. The states were told to formulate state-level climate action plans and also designate nodal agencies for climate change. A national climate adaptation fund was also created subsequently. Scientists have prepared district-wise climate vulnerability maps based on state-level climate trends and socio-economic factors. It was done first for the north-eastern states and then for the rest of the country.So, we have climate science telling us that the temperature is rising and how the monsoon is getting affected, and the Met office is coming up with better predictions, Central and state governments have prepared climate plans and we also know of the more vulnerable districts. Only one piece in the climate puzzle is missing — action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/meeting-the-challenge-of-new-climate-normal-290775
31-07-2021||VC||Democratising higher education with ABC||The National Education Policy-2020 (NEP-2020) is committed to creating new opportunities for lifelong learning through a flexible, facilitative, interactive and democratic educational ecosystem, replacing the prevailing restrictive, demotivating and colonising one. The provision of the innovative Academic Bank of Credits (ABC) in NEP-2020, besides the multidisciplinary graduate attributes, learning outcomes, skill-based dynamic and flexible curricular structure, multiple-entry-multiple-exit option and experiential learning pedagogies, will help actualise this commitment.It is imperative to understand how the ABC will work and democratise our learning system. The ABC will digitally store academic credits earned from select institutions to award a degree/ diploma/PG diploma/certificate upon accumulating credits essential for the completion of these. It will ensure a seamless mobility of learners among various disciplines and institutions for earning credits through courses/combination of courses of their choice for degree/diploma/certificate/course work.As such, the ABC will facilitate a seamless integration of the campuses and a distributed and blended learning environment by creating opportunities for students’ mobility amongst the institutions.The ABC will perform the functions of a commercial bank, with the facility for students to hold accounts. The bank will be responsible for the opening, validation and closure of these accounts. It will facilitate verification, accumulation, transfer/redemption of credits and degree authentication for the academic account holders. It will also verify the credits required for the authentication of degrees.Higher education institutions having Grade A from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) or the top 100 institutions in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) or institutions with a minimum score of 675 from the National Board of Accreditation (NBA) for at least three programmes shall be eligible for registration in the ABC.The credits earned by the students may be verified by the bank’s educational transcript. The transcript will showcase specific credits earned by the students and the level of learning outcomes they have achieved in a particular learning module, as well as for the overall course/programme. These transcripts shall be recognised by all institutions that are a part of the consortium on the ABC.The ABC may also allow non-science students, e.g. from the arts and commerce streams, to take up courses in the science stream after pursuing a bridge course. The ABC will offer multiple-entry-multiple-exit options to the students and ensure that the learning space is available to them for anytime, anywhere, any type, any amount and at any level of learning.The ABC may also help integrate skills into a choice-based credit system by providing wide-ranging options for choosing courses from several institutions. Through the ABC, students can plan for learning objectives and pursue courses to satisfy their learning needs. Programme- and course-wise graduate attributes/learning outcomes, respectively, will help students select institutions and courses of their choice for earning credits.The ABC, thus, brings student centricity to the higher education system, and enables students to choose courses and institutions, facilitating learning from a wide range of course coordinators and institutions. For instance, a student can be enrolled for a programme in one institution (parent institution) and simultaneously be enrolled for courses of her/his choice in multiple institutions (sister institutions) for earning credits in the physical and/or online mode.Thus, the ABC allows students to choose their preferred direction and pace of learning, and multiple-entry-multiple-exit options to complete degrees through informed choices.Additionally, this ensures an enhanced integration of institutions for conducting academic activities and facilitates lifelong learning opportunities. An added advantage is that the learners have the option to either learn formally and/or informally in full-time and/or part-time modes, and go for any credit course (theory/practical/project etc), excepting the core courses.Consequently, the ABC will promote the much sought-after quality, flexibility and collaboration, alongside access and equity to improve the efficacy of the higher education system endowed with global competencies and life skills.The responsibility of implementing the ABC should be entrusted to the General Education Council, the fourth vertical under the Higher Education Commission of India.The UGC, in the regulation on the ABC, makes it mandatory that the students earn 50 per cent of credits assigned to the programme from the institutions enrolled for the degree/diploma/certificate. This implies that credits assigned for the core courses have to be mandatorily earned from the parent institution. This ceiling may vary in the future upon bridging the digital divide for scaling up and leveraging the benefits of the ABC optimally.Another catch point is the seven-year validity period for credit redemption. It is essential as the curricular framework and course module will undergo drastic changes after seven years. Regular updation of the curricular framework and course modules is a must and healthy practice for ensuring dynamism in the programme and infusing newer concepts and developments in the domain knowledge.On the first anniversary of NEP on July 29, 2021, the rollout of the ABC for implementation from the next academic session has paved the way for revolutionising and democratising the higher education system.Now, it is the responsibility of the higher education institutions to help actualise the ABC to the ground realities to leverage its optimal benefits for the learners. The very idea and concept of educational institutions is founded and grounded on the premise of satisfying the ever-evolving learning needs of the youth and empowering them with the global competencies and skills and enabling them to become socially and economically relevant. This is the only road that will lead us to Atmanirbhar Bharat.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/democratising-higher-education-with-abc-290778
