01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Private schools can charge last year’s tuition fees this academic year, says Haryana Education Department||Haryana Education Department said on Monday that private schools could charge students only last academic year’s tuition fees this year---a decision that sets aside Rohtak’s Fee and Fund Regulatory Committee’s order that came amid the raging coronavirus crisis.Additional Chief Secretary (School Education) Mahavir Singh said in his latest order: “The order passed by the chairman of the committee are (sic) set aside as being inconsistent with the rules and directions of the state government”, and adding that schools could charge tuition fees it had charged students in the academic year 2019-20.The state education department’s order came after Abhibhavak Ekta Manch appealed against the committee’s order dated May 29.The organisation had accused the chairman of the committee of “illegally” allowing private schools to charge tuition fees as per Form VI, going against the state government’s order dated April 23 and May 22, 2020.“The private schools are directed for strict compliance of the directions dated April 23 and May 22, 2020, since they were issued in view of abnormal circumstances and financial hardships being faced by the residents due to lockdown in view of the Covid-19,” the order said.The state government had ordered private schools to charge only tuition fees from students, in effect delaying payment of all other charges, such as building and maintenance fund, admission fee and computer fee that schools normally charge in the light of the escalating coronavirus pandemic.
01-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||MLA Balraj Kundu summoned over 'defamatory' remarks against ex-minister Manish Grover||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 1A Rohtak court has summoned Balraj Kundu, the independent MLA from the Meham Assembly constituency, in a defamation case against BJP leader and former Haryana Minister of State for Cooperatives Manish Grover.The Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Ashish Kumar Sharma has summoned Kundu for August 4 to face trial in respect of offence under Sections 499 and 500 of the IPC.Kundu at a news conference convened on January 3, 2020 had accused Grover of indulging in rampant corruption during his tenure as minister and instigating violence during the Jat agitation for grant of reservation in February, 2016. “Grover indulged in corrupt practices during his tenure as minister and minted money through his son and crony contractors, causing losses to the tune of hundreds of crores of rupees to the state exchequer. Certain IAS and HCS officers have also been involved in the open loot of public money, while the Chief Minister has been kept in the dark,” Kundu had alleged.Kundu, who was supporting the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP government in Haryana, had withdrawn his support to the alliance after no concrete action was taken on his complaints against the former minister.Maintaining that the allegations levelled by the MLA were baseless and derogatory, Grover stated that he had got a legal notice served on Kundu to withdraw his defamatory and malicious remarks but he did not apologise, following which the complaint was filed before the court.“The allegations levelled in the present complaint prima facie constitute an offence under Sections 499 and 500 of the IPC against the accused for making the allegations regarding involvement in corrupt practices as well as in the Jat agitation of 2016. In these circumstances, let the accused be summoned for August 4, 2020 for facing the trial in respect of offence under Sections 499 and 500 of the IPC,” the court observed in its order.
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports biggest spike yet, records 265 new cases||Haryana reported 265 new COVID-19 cases and one new death in a span of 24 hours---the largest increase in coronavirus cases the state has seen so far, officials said.With 129 new COVID-19 infections, Gurugram alone accounted half of the Monday’s reported cases.Sirsa (28), Faridabad (25), Rohtak (14), Sonipat (13), Hisar (13), Kaithal (11), Palwal (11), Bhiwani (5) Jhajjar (4), Fatehbad (4), Kurukshetra (4) Nuh (2) and Jind (2) made up the rest of Monday’s count for Haryana.Monday’s development took Haryana’s total coronavirus infection tally to 2,356. The state also reported one more death. A 62-year-old man who had a history of cardiac problems died in ESIC Hospital in Gurugram. He was admitted to the hospital a week ago after he showed symptoms.Gurugram accounts for 38 per cent of the state’s cases.The district-wise breakup of Haryana’s COVID-19 cases is as follows: Gurugram (903), Faridabad (392), Sonepat (212), Jhajjar (101), Nuh (72), Palwal (70), Panipat (62), Ambala (54), Hisar (53), Karnal (52), Rohtak (45), Sirsa (43), Narnaul (41), Bhiwani (38), Kurukshetra (35), Kaithal (29), Jind (29), Panchkula (26), Rewari (23) Fatehbad (19), Chakri Dadri (13) and Yanunanagar (9).    Four districts---Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar---account for 68 per cent of the state’s cases.About 44 per cent of Haryana’s COVID-19 patients have recovered already. The state has 1,280 active cases.The state has so far officially recorded 21 deaths.
01-06-2020||Rohtak||5,000 band artists lose livelihood in Rohtak amid lockdown||Out of respect for his profession, Satish Kirar, owner of Indraj Band, along with his younger brothers—Bhim Sen and Arjun—used to start the morning by playing the drums and other musical instruments at his shop in Quilla Road Market. Like much else, this gesture has taken a back seat amid the lockdown.Now, his mornings are spent placing fruits and vegetables on ‘rehris’ for his younger brothers outside the shop. They are now arranging two square meals by selling fruits and vegetables.Satish had employed 22 people. All of them are now working either as labourers or street vendors after losing the job.More than 5,000 band artists and others associated with them have become jobless in the district as their livelihood has been severely affected due to lockdown restrictions, said Rohtak Band Union president Ramesh.“The situation has become so worse that many of the band owners have vacated the shops as they are unable to pay rent while several others are seriously mulling over doing other work by quitting their ancestral profession as they predict that the circumstances will take a long time to become normal,” he said.Ramesh said around 60 bookings of weddings, religious ceremony and retirement functions were cancelled during the lockdown while he had received Rs 5,000 per booking in advance from the parties. Many of them were now mounting pressure on him to return it but he had spent the money in paying salary to his 40 employees, he said.Raju, owner of New Laxmi Band, and Jai Karan of Jai Laxmi Band have vacated their shops after finding themselves unable to pay the rent. Now, they are searching for new jobs to earn money to feed their family. Similarly, Rajesh Kirar, owner of Hariom Band, has made up his mind to quit the profession. Kirar maintained he was finding himself unable to come to terms with the losses. The situation had forced him to borrow money from relatives to make both ends meet.“We were giving training to our fourth generation about playing these instruments and singing so that they could follow the ancestral profession but the lockdown forced us to shelve the plan. Children are now being encouraged to pursue higher education to make future secure,” said Satish whose grandfather introduced Indraj Band over six decades ago.
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Now, no travel pass to cross Delhi-Haryana border||No travel pass is required to cross the Delhi-Haryana border from Monday, the Haryana government has announced."The traffic movement is completely smooth between Gurugram and Delhi, and Faridabad and Delhi and so is elsewhere," a senior police official told IANS here.The Delhi-Haryana border was opened as per the Central government guidelines and no pass would be required, he added.Massive traffic jams were witnessed on the borders of Haryana and the national capital on Friday as the former restricted the entry of motorists, except essential service providers and e-movement pass holders, owing to a spike in the coronavirus cases.Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij had blamed Delhi for a spike in patients owing to free movement of people.He said the cases reported in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar districts that are located in the National Capital Region had been spiking despite certain restrictions.Meanwhile, the Haryana government on Sunday decided to extend the lockdown in the containment zones till June 30.It was also decided to open the restricted areas in a phased manner in accordance with the provisions of the National Disaster Management Act and guidelines issued by the District Magistrate and the departments concerned.These decisions were taken at a meeting presided over by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar with senior officers here.It was also attended by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and Home Minister Anil Vij.It was decided in the meeting that the District Magistrates could impose restrictions in the areas in their jurisdiction under Section 144 of the CrPC on movement of individuals from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m., except for essential services.It was decided that there will be no restriction on interstate and interdistrict movement of persons and goods.In addition, the shops will remain open from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.It was decided that sports activities could begin from 5 a.m. as against the earlier decision of 7 a.m.However, wearing of mask is compulsory in the public places, workplaces and during transportation.Also, the individuals must maintain a minimum distance of six feet in public places. Shopkeepers will ensure physical distancing among customers and will not allow more than five persons at one time.Besides, large public gatherings or congregations continue to remain prohibited. In marriage related gatherings, the number of guests will not exceed 50 and while performing last rites, the number of people will not exceed 20.The government has decided to allow the functioning of offices with 100 per cent attendance of Group A and B officers and 75 per cent attendance of Group C and D employees.Interstate and intrastate buses will ply along with the taxis and cabs in accordance with the standard operating procedures.Delhi borders witness traffic congestion as curbs ease Heavy vehicular traffic was witnessed on Monday at the Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Noida borders as commuters came out in large numbers on the first day of the Unlock-1.On Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) way, that connects south Delhi with Noida, heavy traffic was witnessed in the morning.The vehicular queues went up to over a kilometre as the police deployed at the border checked the passes and the identity cards of the people travelling.The Delhi Police asked the people to return, those who did not have the passes issued from the authorities.Even the motorcyclists were asked to turn back. The traffic in the national capital also witnessed a surge as a number of vehicles were seen on the streets in areas like Jhandewalan, ITO etc.Similar, scenes were witnessed at the Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Ghaziabad borders.Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurugram have already sealed their borders with the national capital as the number of the Covid-19 cases saw a spike, with majority of the cases linked to those travelling to Delhi. On Saturday, the Centre took an exit step from the 68-day nationwide lockdown, declaring that the restrictions will be limited only to containment zones up to June 30 and that the prohibited activities will be opened in a phased manner in areas outside these zones, allowing restaurants, malls, religious places and education sectors to open in a phased manner.Applicable from Monday, June 1, the fresh order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) spoke of the expanded fresh guidelines a day ahead of the end of lockdown 4.0.As per the order, international air travel, operation of Metro Rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls, and political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions, and other large congregations will remain prohibited. IANS
01-06-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Daily wagers on brink of starvation in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, May 31Carrying his lunch box, Charan Singh of Kutubpur village cycles to city’s Fountain Chowk every morning. A daily wager, he has been doing so for the past five years. “These are harsh times. I have been without work for two months now. Nobody is hiring us (labourers) any more. We are on the brink of starvation,” he says.“What weighs on our minds is not the fear of Covid-19, but the loss of livelihood. I am unable to feed my family. I have no money,” he adds. Just then a car halts. Charan Singh and others rush towards it. Except two, the others return disappointed.At least 150 daily wagers gather at the chowk every day in the hope that someone will hire them. Most return home, empty-handed. For 12 years, Jabbar Singh of Chitta Mandir area of Yamunanagar earned a living assisting masons. Now he is without work and has no money to buy ration for his family.The plight of Gaurav of Tirth Nagar is worse. Surviving on a single meal, he arrives for work without a lunch box. “The workers are happy even if they are hired for half a day. Those failing to find work leave at 2 pm. Most of us skip lunch,” he says.
01-06-2020||ibune News Service||9 of  Bhiwani MLA’s family positive||Chandigarh, May 31Covid cases continue to rise in Haryana, with 168 fresh cases taking the state’s tally to 2,091.The state also reported a suspected Covid death from Sonepat, with a 65-year-old woman having history of tuberculosis and respiratory disorders succumbing to the disease. However, the state health bulletin pegged the number of deaths at 20.A total of 97 persons tested positive in Gurugram, followed by 28 in Faridabad and 20 in Bhiwani. Those infected include nine members of Bhiwani BJP MLA Ghanshyam Saraf’s family. Saraf’s personal assistant tested positive for Covid on Friday. The fresh cases also include nine from Hisar, four each from Ambala and Kurukshetra, two each from Mahendragarh and Karnal and one each from Palwal and Panipat.Meanwhile, 77 persons were discharged today, taking the total number of those cured from the disease in the state to 1,048. There are 1,023 active cases in the state now.Bhiwani turned into a hot spot, with nine members of Saraf’s family among 20 persons who tested positive since last evening. The MLA tested negative, district health officials said, adding that they had taken the second sample of the MLA and the report was awaited.Officials said the MLA and his personal assistant had attended a function in Chandigarh last week. After the personal assistant showed symptoms and tested positive upon his return, the district authorities ran tests on his family, as well as on Saraf and his family.The Bhiwani Chief Medical Officer said a woman and her one-year-old child were among the 15 who tested positive on Saturday. Five persons tested positive on Sunday, which put the tally of active cases at 26. A health official said the Bagh Kothi locality, housing the residence of the MLA, was sealed and declared a containment zone.With 26 fresh cases in Faridabad, the number of cases went up to 371 on Sunday. The fresh cases include a 62-year-old man in Sector 16, a 55-year-old man in Sector 17, a 49-year-old man in Sector 11, a 55-year-old man in Sector 10 and a 63-year-old man in Jawahar Colony.In Kurukshetra, three members of a family in Azadpur were among the new patients. In Ambala, a three-year-old boy and his five-year-old sister are among the new cases.
01-06-2020||Kurukshetra||ICMR team surveys Covid exposure||A team of experts from the ICMR is in Kurukshetra to conduct sero-survey to measure Covid exposure using IgG Elisa test.Rajiv Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said, “A team from ICMR comprising 14 members reached Kurukshetra on May 28. They planned the survey in two days. Five sites were to be visited on the first day to collect 200 blood samples and another five sites on the second day to collect 200 more. The team’s objective is to do a survey, sample collection, serum separation, dispatch and send to the NIRT, Chennai.”Dr Sukhbir Singh, Civil Surgeon, said, “The team is here and is likely to leave on Monday. It has arrived to conduct a survey for research.”Asked whether Haryana would begin measuring Covids exposure as advised by ICMR, Arora said the state could wait for one week as the infection positivity was still not high. The state would wait for the ICMR report. — TNSLockdown extended
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Will hire 300 more doctors, set up labs: Vij||As Haryana’s Covid tally hit another morbid milestone of 2,000 cases on Sunday, Health Minister Anil Vij said 300 more doctors would be recruited and one testing laboratory set up in each district in the coming days.“We will have more doctors, beds, hospitals, testing and quarantine facilities. Also, services of fourth or fifth year MBBS students of both government and private colleges would be utilised,” he said.Vij clarified that the doctors would be recruited on ad-hoc basis. Earlier, when Covid cases had started coming in, the state had recruited 447 regular doctors.He said people of the state had no reason to panic as the machinery was ready to handle about 12,000 patients with existing facilities. “At present, active cases are around 1,000.”Vij said that the state was conducting 5,300 tests per day at present. The tests per million in the state has reached around 4,600 with over 1.16 lakhs conducted so far. “The number of Covid hospitals will also be increased. At present, we have nine,” he said. The state currently has 383 containment zones, as per Vij.As cases in Gurugram crossed 750 on Sunday, Vij reiterated his stand on now allowing inter-state movement. “It shouldn’t be allowed. The MHA guidelines released on May 30 also gave states the right to decide on inter-state movement.” —TNS
01-06-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Rana has confessed to liquor smuggling, police tell court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31The Haryana Police have claimed that JJP leader Satvinder Singh Rana has confessed to liquor smuggling. Rana was arrested on May 13 from Chandigarh after liquor boxes were found stolen from the L-1 AB godown he had taken on rent in Samalkha.The police made the submission in a Panipat court hearing Rana’s bail application on May 29. They said he admitted to have got liquor removed from the godown and sold it in other states. According to Rana’s disclosure statement, he, “in collusion with co-accused Ishwar and Binder, got liquor removed from the godown and sold it to Kalu of Ahmedabad” and also in Gujarat, Bihar, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, the police claimed. Rana’s bail application was rejected for the second time.The Excise and Taxation Department had allotted an L-1 AB licence at Samalkha to a Punjab-based distillery. The licence was checked on August 9, 2016, and cancelled on September 22 after some irregularities were found. The godown was sealed with 5,539 boxes of liquor. Liquor was stolen from the godown in 2018 and a case was registered on April 7 the same year. The godown was again sealed with 3,757 boxes of liquor. On April 28 this year, during the lockdown, liquor was stolen after breaking open the shutter on the rear of the godown. This time, only 832 boxes were found.In all, 4,707 boxes were stolen from the godown from the time it was first sealed. Initially, six persons were arrested, Sudhir, Sombir, Rajnish, Deepak, Ajmer and Ishwar.The police submitted that Sudhir, in his disclosure statement, said that Ishwar told him to transfer money into Rana’s account. He also handed over Rs 2.5 lakh to him. Rana failed to return the aforesaid amount despite Sudhir’s repeated requests. Later, on Rana’s bidding, Sudhir went to the Samalkha godown to steal liquor, the police added.Rana was arrested on Sudhir’s statement, the police said. The godown in Samalkha was given on rent to Rana and his partner by Hawa Singh of Sonepat.During the bail hearing, Rana told the court that the case was an offshoot of political rivalry as he had contested elections nine times and had been member of the Assembly twice. Rana had contested the 2019 Assembly election on the JJP ticket from Kalayat.The police told the court that several similar cases had surfaced during the lockdown. It said the present case and other “similar cases involved hatching of a well-knitted conspiracy with the active involvement of several officers, bureaucrats and politicians”.
01-06-2020||---||Rape accused ends life in police presence||
01-06-2020||Mukesh Tandon---||Rajpura distillery seeks time to join SIT probe||Tribune News Service Panipat, May 31 The Punjab distillery that allegedly supplied illegal liquor to smuggling kingpin Bhupender Singh of Sisana has sought time from the SIT probing the case to join investigation and answer questions. Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said the SIT headed by Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma had served a notice to the management of the distillery at Rajpura in Punjab and sought its reply to 10 questions. “The management has submitted its reply to some questions and asked for more time to respond to the remaining. We are not in a position to reveal details,” Randhawa said. The distillery is under the scanner in the Kharkhoda liquor smuggling case. The investigations by the SIT revealed that the illicit liquor seized was from the Rajpura distillery. Bhupender brought it from the distillery without giving excise fee to the governments of Punjab and Haryana on a fake permit. After bringing the liquor on lower price, he replaced the labels with branded ones and supplied it at high prices, especially to states where liquor sale is prohibited. The theft from the godown came come to light after Randhwa directed verification and found shortfall of 5,697 boxes. The SIT also found connivance of police officials with Bhupender. Cases have been registered against police officers, including two of inspector rank, in the case.  Randhawa said raids were on to nab three main accused — Kharkhoda ex-SHO Inspector Jasbeer Singh, Bhupender’s brother Jitender and ASI Narender.
01-06-2020||Panipat||Patient’s kin, health staff clash at hospital||The family members of a Covid patient on Sunday allegedly misbehaved with the hospital staff. They were allegedly thrashed by the guards and employees of the Health Department on the general hospital premises.  The family members had been brought there by the Health Department to collect their samples. The Civil Surgeon has ordered a probe into the matter. According to the information available, a 63-year-old person of Samalkha tested positive for Covid on Sunday and was referred to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women at Khanpur Kalan.  The department’s team brought the patient’s contacts and family members to the general hospital at Panipat to collect their samples. Meanwhile, an altercation took place between the family members of the patient and Health Department employees. Several people gathered there. The patient’s contacts alleged that the employees misbehaved with them. When the family members opposed them, the employees thrashed them. But the Health Department officials denied the allegations. Civil Surgeon Dr SL Verma said that the matter came to his knowledge in the late evening. “I have asked that an inquiry be conducted into the matter,” he said. The staff members, who were on duty during the clash, have said that the patient’s contacts started misbehaving with them, Verma added. But the facts would become clear after detailed inquiry, the Civil Surgeon maintained. Both parties have given complaints to the police. The police would investigate the matter on their own, he added.  Inspector Rajbeer Singh, SHO City police station, said no complaint had been received so far. — TNS
01-06-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Employer not bound to justify transfer: HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 31 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that an employer is not under any obligation to record the reasons for transferring an employee. The assertion came in a case where a Taxation Inspector was transferred from Panchkula to Nuh. “There will be no obligation upon the employer to record reasons for effecting the transfer,” Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa asserted, while dismissing the petition filed against Haryana and other respondents. The petitioner had challenged the order dated May 7 issued by Haryana Excise and Taxation Commissioner, whereby the petitioner was transferred. Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, the counsel for the petitioner contended that the inspector’s date of superannuation was June 30, 2021. The counsel stated that as such, the transfer order passed close to retirement date could not be maintained. In an attempt to buttress his submission, the counsel adverted to the transfer policy dated April 7, 1989, before contending that the transfer was in violation of its terms and conditions. After hearing counsel for the parties at length and perusing averments made in the petition, Justice Dhindsa asserted that it was by now well settled that transfer was an incidence of service. Justice Dhindsa observed that orders of transfer were open to interference if passed in mala fide exercise of power in violation of any statutory provision or issued by an authority not having the jurisdiction to direct the transfer. Justice Dhindsa noted that in the present case, the state counsel apprised the court that the petitioner had served in Panchkula since January 15, 2015, a period in excess of five years prior to issuance of the impugned transfer order. Justice Dhindsa stated the petitioner’’s counsel did not controvert that three years was envisaged as normal tenure of posting even in the transfer policy and even otherwise, it was by now well settled that terms and conditions contained in a transfer policy did not vest an enforceable right in an employee. “It is not that the petitioner is on the verge of retirement and has been transferred. He still has a tenure of more than one year. The counsel will interject to contend that there are no compelling circumstances to direct the transfer of the petitioner and as such, the clear inference is that the transfer from Panchkula to Nuh is mala fide. Even such a submission is being noticed only to be rejected,” Justice Dhindsa asserted.
01-06-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Selja, Surjewala form new team within Congress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31Coming soon after the conclusion of the Rajya Sabha election, the Covid crisis has redefined the factions within the already divided Haryana Congress.Turning pointAfter the imminent “break up” of state unit chief Selja and Congress Legislature Party leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda over the party ticket to the latter’s son, three-time Rohtak MP, Deepender Hooda, for the sole Rajya Sabha seat from Haryana, a new alliance has been forged.Selja and AICC media in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala have joined hands to take on Haryana’s Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) government in the state while the father-son duo have been raising their voice on farmers’ issues.A former Rajya Sabha MP, Selja, who took over as the state chief just before the Assembly elections were due in Haryana and found support from Hooda, was looking at re-nomination to the Rajya Sabha on Congress ticket from Haryana.Sources maintain that the last-minute turn of events, in which the party ticket went to Deepender, left Selja disappointed. This was indicated by her absence on the day Deepender filed his nomination for the RS seat as also on the day he was declared elected. However, Hooda has repeatedly emphasised that all is well between them.Though Selja and Surjewala were always on good terms, Hooda and Selja were seen as a team right through the Assembly elections. This equation, however, seems to have changed with the state president addressing joint press conferences with Surjewala who took the lead within the party on “exposing” the BJP government’s ill-preparedness during the Covid crisis.Though Hooda had announced a protest against curbs on paddy cultivation post-lockdown if the order was not withdrawn and even addressed a few press conferences, Surjewala went out among the farmers and organised protests on this issue and regularly visited mandis while the procurement was on to highlight the concerns of the farmers.Also, the first to hold press conferences through the video-conferencing, Surjewala has been visiting district hospitals to give away PPE kits and masks to doctors and nursing staff, raising issues of the medical fraternity, police personnel, sanitation workers and the government employees among others on the frontline of the Covid war.While the Rajya Sabha election may have altered the face of factions in the Haryana Congress, Hooda, a former Chief Minister having the support of a majority of the MLAs in the Assembly, is comfortably placed in the party.
01-06-2020||---||2,000-quintal wheat drenched in Narnaund||Hisar, May 31 Nearly 2,000 quintals of wheat lying in the open in the grain market in Narnaund town of Hisar was soaked by sudden rain on Saturday night.  On Monday morning, 1-2 ft water could be seen in the grain market where thousands of bags of wheat were stocked after procurement. Kuldeep Gautam, an arhtiya, said they had stored the wheat after cleaning. He said wheat stock procured on May 8 was still lying in the mandi. Arhtiyas said the grain market had poor drainage that resulted in water stagnation every time it rained. “We have repeatedly highlighted the problem of poor drainage and no proper outlet to clear the rain water, but to no avail,” said Gautam.
01-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||4.86L got ration amid Covid: Manohar Lal Khattar||Kaithal, May 31 A total of 4.86 lakh persons have been given ration  through the distress token   system during the pandemic. This was stated by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar while addressing   heads of various departments  at the mini-secretriat here today. He said the state was in a better position than many others   in the fight against Covid. He expressed concern over the   depleting water table in many areas of the state.   He said crop   diversification could be a  solution, but farmers should play an important role. He held a meeting with  select farmers in the presence of district-level officials. Many farmers    who could not enter the venue despite getting an invitation expressed unhappiness. Mediapersons were disappointed as the scheduled  video-conference     was cancelled   after a wait of over two hours.
01-06-2020||ibune News Service---||Faridabad MLA protests sewage overflow||Faridabad, May 31 Hundreds of residents led by Faridabad-NIT segment Congress MLA Neeraj Sharma blocked the main road and staged a sit-in for over three hours on Sunday in protest against sewage overflow in one of the localities of the constituency. The protest came to an end after an assurance from the officials of the Municipal Corporation, Faridabad, for resolving the issue. Addressing the protesters, the MLA said they were left with no choice than to come on to the road to highlight the issue of blocked sewage. Charging the authorities of ignoring the problem of civic amenities, he said locals were at the receiving end due to the overflowing sewage in the streets of Jeevan Nagar, Part 2, located near the Ballabgarh-Sohna road here for the past few days. Neeraj blamed the laxity on the part of the officials concerned for forcing the people to stage protests, especially during the lockdown.
01-06-2020||---||3,200 security men set to lose jobs||Chandigarh, May 31 Over 3,200 outsourced security guards in the Health Department are set to lose their jobs as they will be replaced by Home Guard volunteers. Commandant General and Director General, Civil Defence, Haryana Government, in a communication to the Director General Health Services (DGHS) on May 19 conveyed his acceptance of the state government’s request to deploy Home Guard volunteers for the security of medical and paramedical staff in district hospitals, community health centres and primary health centres. On May 13, the DGHS in a letter to the Commandant General had requested him to deploy Home Guard at government hospitals apparently for better security of the medical and paramedical staff in view of certain attacks on the medical fraternity. Meanwhile, Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), alleged that the decision was “unjustified and inhuman” at a time when the security personnel were fighting the war against Covid along with frontline warriors. “It is another injustice with the working class by the Khattar government which has failed to honour its commitment of protecting the livelihood of the poorer sections of society,” Lamba said. Earlier, the Health Department had wanted Home Guard to be deployed at government hospitals by March 31. However, the proposal was kept pending in view of the Covid crisis and strong opposition from employee unions. Health Minister Anil Vij has said that the state government wanted “foolproof” security for government hospitals and medical and paramedical staff and the decision to depute Home Guard was part of that initiative.
01-06-2020||Kurukshetra||Lioness at Pipli Zoo gives birth to two healthy cubs||Asiatic lioness Sakshi has given birth to three cubs at Pipli Zoo in Kurukshetra. One of the cubs died due to weakness within 48 hours of being born while the remaining two are healthy. Lioness Sakshi (8) and lion Geet (10) were brought from Junagadh in Gujarat in December, 2015. This is the fourth time that Sakshi has given birth to cubs. According to the sources, on December 2, 2016, Sakshi gave birth to two cubs and on May 5, 2017, to three cubs, but none of them survived. On June 7, 2018, Sakshi had delivered five cubs of which two had died. It was found that cubs were not being fed by Sakshi. As per standard operation procedure, the remaining cubs were fed special artificial milk powder manufactured in the USA. They were later shifted to the Rohtak zoo. The three cubs were named Arjun, Geeta and Sudha. While Arjun and Geeta got their names from the Mahabharata, Sudha was named after Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha. For the zoo authorities, the birth of the two cubs is a joyous occasion and Sakshi is being given diet as per the directions of veterinary expert Dr Ashok Khasa. Their father Geet is being kept at a distance from them. The zoo is closed for public since March due to Covid. — TNS
01-06-2020||---||Online competition for schoolchildren||Karnal, May 31 Amid the ongoing lockdown owing to the Covid pandemic, when the schools are closed, the District Council for Child Welfare has stated online competition ‘Balsangam’ for students for keeping them engaged in creative and art work. DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the competition would be held in three different categories namely rangoli, painting and best out of waste.  The students of three age groups — 5 to 9, 10 to 14 and 15 to 18 — can participate in these competitions to show their talent. The first, second and third prizes of the competition will be given prizes of Rs 3,000, Rs 2,000, Rs 1,000 respectively. The students will be given appreciation certificate for the participation.
