01-01-2021||New Delhi||Cold wave to abate in north India, temperatures likely to rise by 3-5 degrees Celsius from Jan 3: IMD||North India, which has been reeling under severe cold wave, is likely to get some relief from January 3 as temperatures are expected to rise by three to five degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday.A western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation lies over Afghanistan and its neighbourhood at the middle and upper tropospheric levels is likely to move slightly eastwards to central Pakistan and its neighbourhood during the next 48 hours and remain practically stationary there during the subsequent three or four days.There is also an induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan."Under the influence of these systems light/moderate fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall over the western Himalayan region is likely during January 4-6. With its peak intensity on January 4 and 5, there is a possibility of heavy rain/snow over Jammu and Kashmir. Hailstorm at isolated places is also likely over western Himalayan region during this time," the IMD said.Minimum temperatures over the north Indian plains are between one to six degrees Celsius except at isolated places in  south Haryana and north Rajasthan where it is between zero to minus one degree Celsius."These are very likely to increase gradually by three to five degrees Celsius over these regions during the next three days and no significant change (is expected) thereafter for the subsequent three days," said the IMD."Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are prevailing over many parts of the plains of northwest India and adjoining central India. These are likely to continue over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next 24 hours and abate thereafter," it said.Dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and north Uttar Pradesh in the morning hours of January 2 and 3, and likely to abate thereafter, the IMD said. PTI
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports six COVID-19 deaths, 286 new cases||Haryana reported six fatalities linked to the coronavirus on Friday, bringing the death toll to 2,911 even as 286 fresh cases pushed the state's infection tally to 2,62,611, according to a Health Department bulletin.Two new deaths were reported from Rewari and one each from Karnal, Panchkula, Jhajjar and Fatehabad districts, as per the state Health Department's daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported fresh COVID-19 cases are Gurugram (64)  and Faridabad (28).The number of active cases in the state is 3,314, while 2,56,386 people have so far been discharged after recovering from the infection.The COVID-19 recovery rate in Haryana stands at 97.63 per cent, according to the bulletin. PTI
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||COVID vaccine: Punjab, Haryana to hold dry run on Saturday||On the Centre's directive, Punjab and Haryana will conduct a dry run for COVID-19 vaccination on Saturday. The Centre had said a dry run will be conducted by all state and union territories on January 2 to test the linkages between planning and implementation, and to identify the challenges.The Punjab government will conduct the drive in Patiala on January 2 and 3, state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said in a statement here.He said as per the Centre's guidelines, Punjab has selected Patiala district where the dry run will be conducted at Government Medical College; Sadhbhavna Hospital; and the Community Health Centre in Shatrana.  The UNDP and WHO will be supporting the drive, he said.In Haryana, the dry run will be held in Panchkula, state's Director General (Health Services) Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj told PTI.The drive will be held at three sites, officials said. For each of the three sites, the medical officer in-charge will identify 25 beneficiaries (healthcare workers), the Centre had said.The states and UTs have been asked to ensure that the data of beneficiaries is uploaded on Co-WIN, an online platform for monitoring the delivery of the vaccine.Earlier, a two-day dry run for the distribution and administration of COVID-19 vaccine in two districts of Punjab concluded on Tuesday.The districts of Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr) had been selected for the dry run, aimed at testing the laid out mechanisms for the vaccination roll-out in the health system.Before Saturday's nationwide exercise, the earlier dry run drill had been planned by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Assam and Gujarat. --- PTI
01-01-2021||Rohtak||Farmers at Tikri, Shahjahanpur border usher in New Year in style||Farmers camping at Tikri (Delhi) and Shahjahanpur (Rajasthan) borders welcomed 2021in a different style.Punjab farmers organised a special langer at Tikri that served special dishes such as halwa and jalebi for residents of Delhi and Haryana, who were special invitees to the protest site. At the Shahjahanpur border, young protesters danced to anti-government protest music coming from speakers installed in tractor-trolleys late on Thursday night. Significantly, the celebration forced the police personnel of both states---Haryana and Rajastha---deployed at the border to swing into action late in the night. “Some minutes before the new year, a group of young protesters suddenly took out tractor-march at the border to celebrate the occasion and started raising anti-government slogans. Thereafter, several youths danced to songs from the DJ (speakers) fitted in tractprs by playing Haryanvi songs ‘Modi ji thaari taup kadai sa hum Delhi aage’ and punjabi song ‘Pinda-pinda vich paro trolley kaam nahi chalna canter naal’,” said Ashok Arya, a leader of All India Kisan Sabha.Arya said more than 100 farmers broke the barricades in the day on Thursday, prompting the action. Police remained on their toes until celebrations ended, he said.  “We are upset over the martyrdom of more than 40 farmers during the ongoing protest but a special langer at Tikri border was organised on the first day of 2021 for which people of Delhi and nearby area of Haryana were invited,” said Pargat Singh, a farmer leader, adding that the battle had reached at decisive stage and they were confident of their victory. Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda also visited the protest site at Tikri. He announced he had cancelled his birthday celebrations on January 4  in solidarity with famrers.  Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda meets farmers at Tikri border. Tribune photo
01-01-2021||Shimla/Chandigarh||Chandigarh, most of Punjab and Haryana, colder than Shimla; read why||Chandigarh and most of the plains in Punjab and Haryana were on Friday colder than the 'Queen of Hills' —Shimla.The reason: the sun is shining brightly in Himachal Pradesh these days while a thick blanket of fog refuses to lift off from most parts of the northern Indian plains.Many places on the plains—Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Ambala and Hisar were colder than hilly tourist destinations Shimla, Kufri, Dharamsala and Dalhousie in Himachal Pradesh, the Met Office in Chandigarh said.Chandigarh, located in the Shivalik foothills, recorded a minimum temperature at 6.1 degrees Celsius, while Shimla, located around 7,000 feet above sea level, saw a low of 6.8 degrees, Kufri 4.8 degrees, Dalhousie at 7 degrees and Dharamsala 3.2 degrees Celsius.Shimla, the Queen of Hills, is recording the 'warmest' days owing to long sunny spells, while cities like Chandigarh, Amritsar, Karnal, New Delhi and Lucknow, located in the plains, are reeling under a severe cold wave as the sun remains fogged out. Some parts of Delhi recorded 1.1 degree Celsius, coldest so far this season.Hill destinations have been experiencing long hours of sunny weather for over a week and the day temperatures in most places have risen. The dry weather would prevail till January 4, the Met office in Shimla said.But nights and mornings are intensely cold.Data accessed from the weather bureau indicates the weather in hill destinations of Shimla, Kufri, Narkanda, Chail, Kasauli, Dharamsala, Palampur, Dalhousie and Manali is 'warmer' in the day, perfect for a break from the biting chill of the plains."What a pleasant sun in Shimla. In Delhi, basking under the sun these days is a rare occasion," said tourist Sahil Khanna."We are enjoying the long sunny days," his wife Shilpi added.Manmohan Singh, director of the meteorological department in Shimla, told IANS that the maximum temperatures increased by one-two degrees due to prevailing dry weather.He said the humidity level of plus 80 per cent causes fog."In the plains it is more than 80 per cent. However, in the hills it's around 50 per cent these days."Hisar in Haryana shivered at minus 1.2 degrees Celsius, while it was 0.2 degree in Narnaul, 4.4 degrees in Ambala and 3.5 degrees in Karnal.Punjab's Faridkot recorded a low of 0.2 degree Celsius."It will be bright and sunny till January 4, when there are chances of widespread snow and rain in the state," added Singh. This will be along with other parts of northern India where rainfall is forecast by the IMD. — IANS
01-01-2021||New Delhi||Protesting farmers stay put in severe Delhi cold as stalemate continues||Thousands of farmers dug in their heels at protest venues outside several Delhi gateways, undeterred by the biting cold and firm in their resolve to not return home till their demands are met, as the New Year dawned with the minimum temperature dipping to 1.1 degrees Celsius.The government and the farm unions had reached some common ground on Wednesday to resolve the protesting farmers' concerns over the rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP.After the sixth round of negotiations between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of thousands of farmers protesting on Delhi borders, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said at least 50 per cent resolution has been reached with mutual agreement on two out of four items on the agenda and discussions would continue on the remaining two on January 4.Security remained tight at the national capital's borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri border points, where the farmers have been camping for more than a month now, braving the severe Delhi winter.The city recorded a minimum temperature of 1.1 degrees Celsius on Friday, the lowest in 15 years for the month of January.Meanwhile, the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha is likely to meet during the day to discuss its next course of action.There is, however, no question of withdrawing from the two issues which are legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) and repealing of the farm laws, senior farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni has said."The government has addressed our demands to drop penal provisions against farmers in an ordinance relating to stubble burning and to put on hold a proposed electricity amendment law," he said.The sixth round of talks was originally scheduled for December 9, but it was called off after an informal meeting of Home Minister Amit Shah. Tribune Photo: Manas Ranjan Bhui."But, we want to make it clear that there is no alternative to our two remaining demands which include repeal of the three agriculture laws and legal guarantee for MSP," Chaduni added.The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, one of the protesting farm unions, has issued a statement saying the Centre's appeal to farmer leaders to suggest an alternative to repeal of the laws is impossible."The new laws will hand over control of agriculture markets, farmers' land and food chain to corporates," it added.The sixth round of talks was originally scheduled for December 9, but it was called off after an informal meeting of Home Minister Amit Shah with some union leaders failed to reach any breakthrough. The protests have also led to traffic congestions, forcing the police to divert vehicular movement.Taking to Twitter on Friday, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed owing to the agitation and suggested them to take alternative roads."Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for LMV (Cars/ Light Motor Vehicles), two-wheelers and pedestrian movement," it tweeted."The Chilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders."Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44," it said in a series of tweets."Available Open Borders to Haryana are Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders," the Delhi Traffic Police said in another tweet.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.In Jind, 14 khap panchayats adopted resolutions to boycott BJP Members of Parliament and Members of Legislative Assembly. They have also decided to boycott BJP's public meetings, and said they would hold up black flags to BJP lawmakers visiiting the district.  They also called for a boycott of products made by the Ambani and Adani Groups, as well as Patanjali. — TNS/PTI
01-01-2021||Hisar||Hisar recorded the coldest-ever New Year morning at -1.2 degree Celsius||Hisar recorded the coldest-ever New Year morning at -1.2 degree Celsius. This was -8 degrees Celsius below normal.The freezing temperature came as a shocker for local residents as Hisar was colder than Manali, Himachal Pradesh—which recorded 1.8 degree Celsius—according to report by Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).The IMD data indicated, that while the plains are in a severe grip of winter, the hilly areas have witnessed warmer weather, as the temperature in Manali was above normal by 2 degrees Celsius while Shimla recorded 6.8 degrees Celsius which is a departure of 4 degrees Celsius from normal.Bathinda, in Punjab, also recorded -0.2 degree Celsius while Narnaul in Haryana was at 0.2 degree Celsius.The region continues to be in the grip of a severe cold wave as the mercury remained sub-zero level continuously for the second day in Hisar.Residents woke up to a chilly New Year morning, along with dense fog prevailing in the town and entire adjoining areas.A blanket of frost in the field and grassy grounds gives a look of snowfall. The visibility was reduced to barely 4-5 meters on the highway.The motorists have complained, that they have to drive with utmost caution due to low visibility.Jaiveer Singh, a milkman who comes to Hisar from Rajli village to distribute milk, said that he almost took two hours to cover 20 km stretch on the Hisar-Kaithal highway.“The vehicles were lined up and crawling at very low speed, and had to apply brakes every now and then to avoid collision with the front vehicle going on in a row”, he said.The IMD web portal reveals that earlier, the lowest temperature on January 1 in Hisar was 1.6 degree Celsius in 2018. However, on January 31, 1929, the lowest temperature of -3.9 degree Celsius.The maximum temperature of Hisar was 16.2 degree Celsius—which is below normal by -5 oC. The IMD predicted generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers from January 2 to January 5.
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Be on guard despite decline in coronavirus cases: Haryana CM Khattar||Extending New Year's greetings to the public, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday warned people to remain on guard despite a declining trend in coronavirus cases in the state."It is a matter of relief that coronavirus cases in the state are now gradually reducing, but we still have to take precautions," Khattar tweeted."May this New Year pave the way for happiness, prosperity and progress in your lives," he added. — IANSआप सभी को नव वर्ष की ढेर सारी शुभकामनाएं।हम लोगों के लिए ये राहत की बात है कि प्रदेश में कोरोना के मामले अब धीरे-धीरे कम हो रहे हैं, लेकिन हमें अभी भी सावधानी बरतनी है।यह नया साल आप सभी के जीवन में सुख, समृद्धि व उन्नति का मार्ग प्रशस्त करे, ऐसी कामना करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/tajq0YWMKA
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||In pictures: Cold wave continues in Punjab, Haryana; Hisar shivers at minus 1.2||There was no let-up in the cold wave sweeping Haryana and Punjab on Friday, with Hisar reeling at minus 1.2 degrees Celsius.A thick blanket of fog enveloped the two states in the morning, reducing visibility levels, Meteorological department officials here said.The minimum temperatures continued to hover well below the normal limits, they said.Hisar had on Thursday too recorded the same minimum temperature, eight notches below normal limits, making it the coldest place in the two states.Among other places in Haryana, a severe chill gripped Narnaul, which recorded a low of 0.2 degree Celsius.Also read:Chandigarh, most of Punjab and Haryana, colder than Shimla; read whyHisar recorded the coldest-ever New Year morning at -1.2 degree CelsiusSevere cold wave in Delhi; temperature dips to lowest in 14 yearsSirsa, Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak and Bhiwani experienced a cold night as well at 2 degrees Celsius, 4.4, 3.5, 2 and 3.9 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh registered a low of 6.1 degrees Celsius.Cold wave conditions also persisted in many places in Punjab.Faridkot reeled under a severe chill, recording a low of 0.2 degree Celsius.Bathinda and Amritsar were also under the grip of intense cold, recording their respective minimum temperatures at 1.2 degrees Celsius and 2.2 degrees Celsius.Pathankot, Halwara, Adampur, Ludhiana, Patiala and Gurdaspur also recorded below normal minimums at 3.1 degrees Celsius, 3.5, 3.1, 4.6, 4.8 and 3.7 degrees Celsius, respectively. — PTI
01-01-2021||Sonepat||Undertrial ends life||A 30-year-old undertrial reportedly hanged himself in a barrack in the district jail on Wednesday. The police handed over the body to his kin on Thursday after post-mortem. The deceased, who had been lodged in jail for the past two and a half months along with his father, was identified as Shiv Bharat of Ganaur. His sister-in-law was lodged in the Panipat district jail in the same case. He was arrested for the murder of his wife on October 12. He was posted as SDO at the Panipat refinery and was under suspension after registration of the case. His body was found in the barrack on Thursday morning. — TNS
01-01-2021||---||Manual amended to check illegal sale of property in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 31In a major decision to protect the rights of property owners, the Haryana Government has amended the Haryana Registration Manual.Officials empoweredIt was clarified that if a person had a right in the property and someone else transferred it without his consent, the right in that property continued to subsist and the transfer had no effectSanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary and Financial Commissioner, Revenue and Disaster Management, said the amendment had been made to ensure that persons with valid titles did not have to seek legal recourse to get the deed of fraudulent sale cancelled.The amendment would empower registering officers to accept and register cancellation deeds cancelling the sale deeds registered fraudulently by a person not entitled to transfer such property.It was clarified that if a person had a right in the property and someone else transferred it without his consent, the right in that property continued to subsist and the transfer had no effect.According to the amendment, if a document was registered at the instance of a person not empowered to present it, any person could, within four months from the date of knowledge that such a document was invalid, present his document.The registering officer, after following procedure contemplated under the Registration Act, 1908, could re-register the document as if it had not been registered previously.The parameters would be applicable for ‘shamlat deh’ land illegally partitioned and alienated in the past without getting the title adjudicated under the relevant statute by the competent authority or court.In case of the executant desiring cancellation the earlier document, the registering officer could re-register, ignoring the earlier registration, under Section 23-A of the Registration Act, 1908.
01-01-2021||Gurugram||Woman strangled  in Gurugram, in-laws booked||A woman was allegedly strangled to death by her husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law. An FIR has been registered.The victim’s father-in-law, a head constable with the Haryana Police, was also accused of attempting to rape her in the past.According to a complaint filed by a Sirsa resident, his niece was married to the Bhiwani resident in 2013 and the family lived in Palam Vihar area.“On Tuesday, her father-in-law informed us that she was unwell and hospitalised. When we reached the hospital, he told us that she died after consuming poison. She was living at her home for the past four months and had come to Gurugram on December 5. Her in-laws strangled her to death,” the complainant said.An FIR has been registered against the victim’s husband, father-in-law and mother-in-law. “We have handed over the body to her family after the post-mortem. The accused head constable is posted in Gurugram. We are verifying the facts and accused will be arrested soon,” said sub-inspector Kanwar Singh. — OC
01-01-2021||---||Six  fatalities, 271 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 31With 271 fresh Covid cases, the overall tally in the state reached 2,62,325 on Thursday. With six deaths, the toll went up to 2,905.Two deaths each were reported from Hisar and Panipat while one death each was recorded from Jhajjar and Kaithal.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (61), followed by Faridabad (30).A total of 497 patients were cured in the past 24 hours, taking the tally of discharged cases to 2.56 lakh.
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana advertises 7,298 police posts||A day after withdrawing an advertisement for recruitment for 6,000 posts of constable, Haryana has now invited applications for 7,298 posts.In a notice uploaded on its website on Wednesday, the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) has invited applications for 5,500 posts of male constable, 1,100 posts of female constable and 698 posts of female constable for Durga One, an all-women armed police force of the state police. The applicants have been asked to apply only by February 10, 2021.While the minimum and maximum age limit for candidates is 18 to 25 years, the candidates belonging to economically weaker sections (EWS) have been given relaxation of five years in the maximum age limit like it is being already given to those belonging to SCs and BCs.On Tuesday, it withdrew an advertisement vide which it had invited applications for filling 6,000 posts of constable in the state police force.The advertisement for filling 5,000 constable posts of men and 1,000 women issued on June 9, 2019 was withdrawn by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) on Tuesday through a notice issued on its website.In the Assembly session held in November, Khattar had announced that a relaxation of five years in age would be provided in police recruitment to EWS candidates. — TNS
01-01-2021||Karnal||Two Punjab youths held in Karnal for links with banned body ‘Sikh for Justice’||Two Punjab-based youths have been arrested by the Special Task Force (STF) of Haryana Police allegedly for their association with a banned organisation.An FIR has been registered against them in Karnal in which the police claimed to have seized two illegal weapons from them.The accused have been identified as Tej Parkash alias Kaka and Akashdeep, residents of Draha village in Ludhiana. Both the accused are believed to be members of ‘Sikh for Justice’ organisation which is banned in India.Confirming the arrest, Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police (SP), Karnal, said that a team of STF Hisar arrested two persons from Karnal on December 23 and these accused were associated with Gurmeet Singh of USA. They were taken on four-day police remand and now, they have been sent to jail. “An FIR under Section 10 and 13 of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and 25 of the Arms Act has been registered against them in Karnal,” the SP added.About the findings from these accused, the SP said they had got valuable information. As per sources, the accused had received money from the US to kill two renowned persons in Ludhiana and Amritsar. — TNS
01-01-2021||Karnal||Six child beggars rescued in Karnal||A team of Child Welfare Committee (CWC) today rescued six children while ‘begging’ outside Sai Mandir in the city.They were sent to MDD Bal Bhawan. CWC chairman Umesh Chanana said they had initiated a drive against child begging, under which they visited vulnerable places and found six children begging outside Sai Mandir. He urged the residents to inform on helpline number 1098 about such kids. — TNS
01-01-2021||Gurugram||Official booked after ex-colleague’s ‘suicide’||A retired clerk of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) allegedly died by suicide due to “mental harassment” by his former colleagues. The deceased has been identified as Devki Nandan, a resident of Jaikampura colony here.According to information, Devki Nandan had retired on August 31. However, department officials started “harassing” him and accused him of not submitting dues worth Rs 18.42 lakh in the office. They threatened to lodge a police complaint against him. Unable to bear “mental torture”, Devki Nandan took the extreme step.On the basis of a complaint lodged by the victim’s family, SDO Gaurav Chaudhary and others have been booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC.Dheeraj, the victim’s son, said his father had cleared all dues, but was being falsely implicated in the case.When contacted, SDO Gaurav Chaudhary said all allegations were baseless and he never made any pressure on Devki Nandan. — OC
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Government suspends Chief Engineer||The state placed the services of Chief Engineer Gulab Singh Narwal under suspension with immediate effect.During this period, his headquarters have been fixed at the Irrigation and Water Resources Department, Sector 5, Panchkula. Narwal will be entitled to subsistence allowance under the Haryana Civil Services (General) Rules, 2016 subject to the condition that he will produce a certificate that he is not doing any other service, private business, profession or vocation during suspension. — TNS
01-01-2021||Karnal||College principal given send-off||Stone of multipurpose hall laidYamunanagar: Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar laid the foundation stone of Sardar Shamsher Singh Jauhar multipurpose hall, which is being renovated on the occasion of the 51st founders day of Guru Nanak Khalsa College. Gujjar congratulated senior management member Sardar Bhupinder Singh Jauhar, Sardar Randeep Singh Jauhar and the entire college staff for adding value to society through remarkable services in the fields of education and community services.NAAS secretary appointedHisar: The National Academy of Agricultural Sciences (NAAS), New Delhi, has appointed KC Bansal, former director of the NBPGR, as the secretary of the NAAS for a term of three years. Academy president Trilochan Mohapatra, who is the Secretary to the Centre, Department of Agricultural Research and Education, and Director General, ICAR, communicated to Bansal through a letter about his appointment. The NAAS is the think tank of the nation on all agricultural science and policy related matters.Webinar on effects of drug abuseAmbala: A webinar on Microsoft teams was organised by the biology department of DAV Public School, Ambala Cantonment. Dr Jagjot Singh, consultant psychiatrist of Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, enlightened the students about the harmful effects of drug addiction, smoking and drinking. The aim of the interactive session was to spread health awareness during the Covid pandemic. As many as 120 students of Classes XI and XII attended the webinar and vowed to say no to drug addiction to build their healthy future.KU council holds meetingKurukshetra: The 256th meeting of the executive council of the Kurukshetra University (KU) was held under the chairmanship of Vice Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva on Tuesday. The council approved Rs 12 lakh grant for four regular and distance education students of MA, MSc, MCom and MTech to attend the national and international conferences in India. The council also accepted the recommendation of increasing the honorarium of PhD evaluation from Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 and viva voce from Rs 750 to Rs 1,500. It also gave nod to five increments to assistant professors without NET at the entry level as per the UGC norms.
01-01-2021||OUR soldiers these days are facing the toughest days of their lives. On one hand||Govt must resolve farmers’ issue||Om Parkash SagwalLet go of the past, live the presentEVERY New Year is fresh beginning and while entering into a New Year, every person should ensure that we let go of the past and live the present. Though memories of the past have their own burden, we must learn from the experience and rise above them.Shakti Singh, KarnalIntroduce new system for insurance claimsINSURANCE frauds are being regularly reported in the media. On the lines of CIBIL or credit score, a three-digit score that ranges from 300 to 900 and represents an individual's creditworthiness and acts like a financial report card, the government should now introduce insurance claims score to include claims history, insurance frauds, claims paid/rejected, traffic fines/challans, penalties, blacklisting and more. This will enable insurance companies to identify habitual insurance claimers and traffic rule offenders so as to either charge enhanced premium or refuse insurance cover and blacklist fraudsters. It is also worth mentioning that a higher insurance score is always better and it improves the chances of your insurance approval, reduced/discounted premiums and ensures faster processing of claims.Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
01-01-2021||Panchkula||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar meets new Panchkula Mayor||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today met newly elected Panchkula Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal and councillors at his official residence in Chandigarh.On the occasion, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, former Cabinet Minister and election in-charge of the BJP, Capt Abhimanyu, co-election in-charge and Yamunanagar Mayor Madan Chauhan and Panchkula BJP president Ajay Sharma were also present.The BJP won nine ward seats, while its alliance partner, the JJP, secured two seats in the Panchkula MC elections. The results were announced yesterday.The newly elected BJP councillors are Narinder Pal Singh Lubana, Suresh Kumar Verma, Ritu Goel, Sonia Sood, Jai Kumar Kaushik, Harinder Malik, Sonu, Suneet Kumar and Rakesh Kumar.Later in the day, the newly elected BJP leaders also visited state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar at his residence. —TNS
01-01-2021||Parveen Arora||Haryana Roadways lost Rs 676 cr during lockdown: RTI||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 31The Covid-induced lockdown and restrictions, from March month to October, have led to a loss of Rs 676.43 crore to the Haryana Roadways.This was revealed in a reply to an RTI query filed by Karnal-based RTI activist Rajesh Sharma, who had sought information of the district-wise loss faced by the Haryana Roadways.In the reply, the State Transport Department said the roadways had incurred a loss of Rs 676.43 crore during this period.The Hisar depot suffered a maximum loss of Rs 38.91 crore followed by Faridabad (Rs 38.75 crore), Sonepat (Rs 38.49 crore), Gurugram (Rs 38.09 crore), Rohtak (Rs 35.68 crore), Ambala (Rs 35.49 crore), Jind (Rs 32.33 crore), Karnal (Rs 31.31 crore), Kurukshetra (Rs 30.94 crore), Jhajjar (Rs 30.06 crore), Yamunanagar (Rs 28.22 crore), Bhiwani (Rs 28.02 crore), Fathehabad (Rs 27.09 crore), Sirsa (Rs 26.80 crore), Charkhi Dadri (Rs 25.81 crore), Chandigarh (Rs 24.53 crore), Panipat (Rs 24.35 crore), Kaithal (Rs 23.85 crore), Rewari (Rs 23.85 crore), Narnaul (Rs 23.30 crore), Panchkula (Rs 22.02 crore), Delhi (Rs 20.86 crore), Palwal (Rs 13.98 crore) and Nuh (Rs 13.57 crore), the reply said.It further stated that during this period, the Haryana Roadways had spent Rs 828.83 crore on various heads, including Rs 627.45 crore on the salary of the staff at 24 bus depots, while Rs 10.07 crore on the maintenance of buses, Rs 83.57 crore on diesel and around Rs 107.72 crore on other expenditure.After the imposition of lockdown, the Haryana Roadways kept its buses off road and in June, the inter-state public transport services were resumed after remaining suspended for over two months due to the Covid lockdown. As the scope of relaxation further widened in accordance with the Centre’s guidelines, the inter-district bus services were also started in July, said an official.
01-01-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||37 days on, Yamunanagar mill starts clearing Rs95 cr cane dues||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, December 31Saraswati Sugar Mills on Thursday started the process to clear the dues of cane farmers. In the beginning, it will pay Rs 95 crore for the sugarcane supplied to the mill up to December 21.The mill, which started its crushing operation on November 24, is making payment after 37 days as the state government had failed to issue a notification for the enhanced price of sugarcane timely.As per a provision of the Punjab Sugarcane (regulation of purchase and supply) Act, the sugar mills are required to make the cane price payment within 14 days from the date of supply to the mill.“On Thursday, we started clearing dues of cane farmers. At first, we are clearing the payment of farmers who have supplied sugarcane to the mill up to December 21,” said DP Singh, senior vice-president (cane) of the mill.According to information, the mill has crushed about 36 lakh quintal of sugarcane up to December 30.DP Singh said they had been following the Covid protocol strictly for the safety of farmers and employees of the mill. “We are also making the farmers aware of road safety. Our teams are fixing reflectors on tractor-trailers of sugarcane farmers free of cost to avert accidents during fog,” he added.Notably, the Haryana Government had hiked the sugarcane rate by Rs 10 per quintal this year but the notification in this regard was made recently. The rate of early variety of sugarcane has also been increased to Rs 350 per quintal this year from Rs 340 per quintal in 2019. The rate of mid variety has been raised to Rs 345 from Rs 335 and that of late variety from Rs 330 to Rs 340 per quintal.
01-01-2021||---||Government orders reopening of dental colleges by Jan 4||Rohtak, December 31On suggestion of the Dental Council of India (DCI), the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has asked the state/UT governments across the country to take necessary steps to open the dental colleges by January 4, 2021.Guidelines framed“Needless to say, all SOPs/guidelines with respect to social distancing and prevention of spread of epidemic issued by the Central/state/UT governments will be followed scrupulously by all the colleges,” maintains a letter issued by Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, to the chief secretaries/administrators of all states/union territories.Simultaneously, the Central Government has asked the DCI to issue separate SOPs/guidelines for the dental colleges and suggestive schedule of training of different classes.“Accordingly, the DCI has framed and uploaded its ‘Guidelines for re-opening of dental colleges post-lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic’, ‘Tentative/suggestive schedule of academic programme – (Post-pandemic Covid-19 situation) and its duration, including university exam’ and advisory on ‘relaxation of three months period in submission of post graduate dissertation/thesis’ on its website, which provide in detail the measures to be taken before the reopening of colleges. These guidelines/advisories may be adopted by the dental colleges as per the local conditions and directives of the government authorities,” states a communiqué issued by M L Meena, officiating secretary, DCI, today.
01-01-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Court seeks report on confinement of 5-yr-old special child||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31The Punjab and Haryana High Court has taken cognisance of The Tribune story ‘5-year-old special child found ‘illegally confined’ in Panipat’, dated November 21, and sought a report from Haryana’s Women and Child Development (WCD) Department.The report was sought on the administrative side.The letter from the HC to Director General, WCD department, dated December 4, called for action on the recommendations of Chairperson, Haryana State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights, Jyoti Bainda, for closure of open shelter run by Hari Mahila Vikas Samiti, Panipat; registration of case against manager of shelter home Tejpal and shifting of the five-year-old girl to home for special children.The Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) had found that the five-year-old girl was being illegally confined at the open shelter home run by Hari Mahila Vikas Samiti during its visit on November 19.The girl was Covid-positive too, but as per the Commission, no medical help was provided to her. For the past three to four days, the child was alone at the shelter home. The Commission also learnt that the girl was continuously crying and calling for help as she was locked inside the shelter home and neighbours were providing her food and medicines through a window.The Commission learnt that the child was routinely taken to Tejpal’s home as admitted by the shelter home in charge and staffer Pooja, which “is primarily illegal”.“This is a matter of continuing inquiry to assess whether enough action was taken by the Child Welfare Committee and District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) in the case,” said the Commission in its proceedings.Later, it was Bainda who herself got the FIR registered against Tejpal. The girl has been shifted to a home for special children in Sirsa after she recovered from Covid.“We have written to the Panipat DC for action. We are awaiting report from him,” said Renu Phulia, Director General, WCD Department.Panipat DC Dharmender Singh couldn’t be contacted for comment.
01-01-2021||Parveen Arora||Four stinking water bodies to be turned into model ponds||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 31Four filthy ponds, which had made the lives of local residents miserable with nauseating smell besides becoming a breeding hub for mosquitoes and flies, are being turned into model ponds with the cost of around Rs 5 crore.These ponds will be filled with clean water from nearby canals for which the Irrigation Department is laying pipelines. Splendid lighting, decorative plants, parks and lush green surroundings will add to their charm.Will be filled with clean waterare being laidSplendid lighting, decorative plants, parks and lush green surroundings to be addedIn Kachwa and Gonder villages, the DC has directed the officials to remove illegal encroachmentThe work on these ponds has already been started in Padha, Gonder, Kachwa and Sagga villages, which are among the biggest villages of the district. “This step is being taken by the Haryana Pond Authority and Panchayati Raj Department under a pilot project and soon it will be implemented across the state,” said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.“These ponds were filthy and a constant nuisance for the residents. On the demand of the villagers, the government has started their transformation. The local residents will now have to maintain these ponds,” Yadav said.“I visited the sites two days ago and instructed the officials concerned to complete the work before rainy season so that there is no problem later,” he said.In Kachwa and Gonder villages, the illegal encroachment near the pond may create trouble. The DC has directed the officials to remove it at the earliest.The model pond in Kachwa village is being developed on the demand of residents at a cost of Rs 80 lakh in around 11 acres, while the pond in Sagga village is being developed on around 9 acres at a cost of Rs 78 lakh. Most of the work has been completed in Sagga and the remaining will be completed by April, the DC added.He said the pond in Gonder village was being constructed at a cost of Rs 1.7 crore.The residents hailed the step of transforming these ponds. “We urged Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to develop a model pond at the site of filthy pond. He accepted our demand and now we are happy that the work has been started. Now, we urge the DC to not give this model pond on lease for fishing purposes,” said Suresh Ghai, former sarpanch of Kachwa village.
01-01-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Night curfew in Delhi, party time in Gurugram||Gurugram, December 31Out to beat Covid blues, Gurugram is all set to party hard this New Year. A bit relaxed compared to last few years, the authorities have gone a bit easy this year as they will not bar cars in party hubs.POLICE ON ALERTThe police say checking drunken driving will be a major challenge amid lack of alcometersAll pubs, bars and restaurants have made arrangements for their guests to celebrate the New YearIn a bid to ensure hassle-free festivities, the police have deployed 4,000 personnel in the districtMore than 1,500 cops will be deployed in the east police zone. Besides deploying a huge force, there are plans to make MG Road safe and smooth for trafficWith Delhi imposing night curfew, Gurugram is dealing with diversion of all party goers. The police are on alert, suspecting heavy rush.The police say checking drunken driving will be a major challenge amid lack of alcometers. All pubs, bars, hotels and restaurants have made arrangements for their guests to celebrate the New Year.In a bid to ensure hassle-free festivities, Gurugram police have deployed 4,000 personnel in the district.More than 1,500 cops will be deployed in the east police zone. Besides deploying a huge force, there are plans to make MG Road safe and smooth for traffic.Unlike last year, the police have not declared MG Road as a car-free zone. However, parking on the roadside and outside malls will be prohibited. Visitors have been asked to park their vehicles in specific areas meant for parking.“All cops will work together to ensure law and order and maintenance of peace. We have deployed extra force in all sensitive areas and there will be regular checking. We have put special checking points at roads leading to Gurugram from other districts. Police teams in supervision of ACP and DCP rank officers will check the areas to ensure safety, security and hassle free festivities,” said Commissioner of Police KK Rao.
01-01-2021||---||Haryana Governor refuses to meet Hooda over special session demand||Chandigarh, December 31Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya has refused to meet Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda over calling a special session of the Assembly to move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government.“The Governor refused to meet me without specifying any reason. I am witnessing such a situation for the first time in my political career. The Governor is a constitutional post. Neither is he calling a session nor is the government interested. The government knows that it will not survive once a no-confidence motion is moved,” he said.“The Governor has expressed his regrets regarding your appointment request. Inconvenience caused is regretted. Wish you a very happy New Year,” read the letter from the Haryana Raj Bhawan to Hooda. Congress MLAs met on Thursday and decided to write again to the Governor.“We have asked the Governor to use his constitutional powers to call the Assembly session as the state government has lost the support of MLAs and the people over the farmers’ protest. The no-confidence motion will expose the MLAs who are against farmers,” said Hooda at a press conference.“Farmers have been agitating at the Delhi borders and other parts of the state for 36 days and 42 have lost their lives. In such a serious situation, it is important to discuss farmers’ issues,” he said. He claimed that JJP and Independent MLAs had been speaking openly against the government.On the local bodies’ poll, Hooda said, “The BJP has won just one mayoral post, and that too by a margin of 2,000 votes. We have won in Sonepat by a big margin.”
01-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Street vendors from across country join farmers’ protest at Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 31The farmers’ protest at Singhu border has got strengthened as not only farmers but also street vendors (who sell vegetables and fruits in streets) from across the country reached the dharna site today to show solidarity with the protesting farmers against the three contentious farm laws.Shaktiman Ghosh, all-India general secretary, National Hawker Federation from Kolkata, said that they have come here from various parts of the country to extend support to the protesters.“The farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders for over a month for repealing the three farm laws. These laws will not only affect the farmers but will also affect the poor vendors who were earning their bread by selling fruits and vegetables in the streets,” he claimed.The government wants businessmen to enter the field of agriculture. That would not be tolerated at any cost. That’s why our organisation is here to support the farmers’ agitation, he alleged.Sheikh Salman of National Hawker Federation (NHF) from Telangana, said 600-700 members, including women, from various parts of the country under the banner of NHF have come to Singhu border to extend support to the protesting farmers.Mohit Valecha, national president, youth wing NHF, said that members from across the country -– Hyderabad in Telangana, Kolkata (West Bengal), Pune and Mumbai in Maharashtra, Kadappa and Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand reached Singhu border today.Besides, thousands of farmers continued their protest at Singhu border on Thursday. The farmer leaders have decided to welcome the New Year at Singhu border. Rajender Arya Dadupur, a farmer leader from Haryana, said that he hopes that the New Year would bring new happiness to the farmers.
01-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Woman’s uncle ‘plotted’ double murder||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 31Preliminary investigation into the murder of Rohit of Bakheta village and his fiancee Pooja of Kanheli village here on Wednesday, allegedly by the woman’s kin, revealed that the crime had been well-planned and Pooja’s uncle Kuldeep hatched the plot and executed it with the help of his kin.Weapons used to kill couple recovered; hunt on to nab 5th accused“Kuldeep was unhappy with his niece Pooja’s affair with Rohit and was against their marriage. He went to Rohit’s house a month and a half ago and told his parents that he wanted Pooja to wed Rohit as decks for her second marriage had been cleared. Kuldeep called Rohit and members of his family to Rohtak on Wednesday on the pretext of getting the marriage registered in court,” said DSP Sajjan Singh.He said Kuldeep, his wife Munni, son Manjit and relative Vikas alias Vicky had been arrested while Kuldeep’s other son Kapil was absconding. The weapons used in the crime had been recovered and efforts were underway to ascertain from where these had been procured.The accused were on Thursday produced in court, which sent them to police remand for three days. More vital information was likely to come out during their remand, he added.As per reports, Pooja had married a youth of Jatkheri village in Jhajjar district and had been residing at her parental house in Kanheli village after separating from her husband. Rohit and Pooja met through social media.Rohit’s father Krishan stated in the FIR that they waited for Kuldeep and his family at a Rohtak court till 3 pm on Wednesday, but they did not turn up. Kuldeep called them up and asked them to meet him at the Delhi bypass, where he arrived in a car with his wife, son and niece and some others, he reported.“After talking to us for some time, Kuldeep and his son Kapil opened fire at my sons Mohit and Rohit and Pooja. Mohit suffered injuries in the shootout,” he added.
01-01-2021||---||60-year-old dies of brain haemorrhage at Tikri border||Jhajjar, December 31Another farmer, identified as Ram Kumar (60) of Bhana village (Kaithal), died due to brain haemorrhage at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Wednesday night. He had been staying here for the past some days.According to the information available, Ram Kumar suddenly became unconscious. He was rushed to a private hospital in Bahadurgarh town from where he was referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak due to his critical condition. He died there.Notably, 11 farmers have, so far, lost their lives during the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three controversial farm laws. Eight of them died due to either cardiac arrest or other ailments. Thousands of farmers have been camping at the border since November 27.
01-01-2021||Rewari||Farmers break barricades at Rajasthan-Haryana border||A group of protesting farmers camping at the Delhi-Jaipur highway for the past 18 days today removed the two-layer barricading at Shahjahanpur (Rajasthan)-Khera (Rewari) border to move to the Capital. The police initially used tear gas shells to stop them but later allowed them to go.Tension prevailed as the farmers were thereafter stopped by the Rewari police near Bhudla village, 12 km from the border. Hundreds of farmers however stayed back on the Rajasthan side of the Shahjahanpur-Rewari border. The police had to divert traffic on the highway to avoid a jam following the sudden movement of farmers. There were long queues of vehicles on the highway as well as alternative routes, causing inconvenience to the commuters.Kerala resolution against farm lawsExpressing solidarity with the agitating farmers, the Kerala Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution demanding withdrawal of the contentious central laws. The lone BJP member, O Rajagopal, also backed the resolution, saying “it is the democratic spirit.”“Around 2 pm, nearly 130 farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan in 20 tractor-trailers suddenly started removing boulders and barricades on the highway. The police lobbed teargas shells but the farmers did not stop and broke the barricades with their tractors,” Ashok Arya of the All India Kisan Sabha said.Arya added that farmer leaders present at the Shahjahanpur-Rewari protest site had appealed to the group not to move ahead to the Capital without receiving directions from the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. Rewari SP Abhishek Jorwal said the police would not allow the farmers to go ahead.
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar admits farmers’ stir hit poll result||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today admitted that farmers’ protests were responsible for the poor performance of the BJP-JJP combine in the local bodies poll.Addressing a press conference today, Khattar said despite “adverse circumstances”, the BJP won one municipal corporation mayoral post and one president’s post in a municipal council, while the Congress and Haryana Jan Chetna Party bagged a mayor’s post each.When questioned whether the farmers’ protest was behind the losses, he said he had hinted at it while mentioning the “adverse circumstances”.However, he said the BJP had performed better than the Congress. “We have won in 36 wards while the Congress bagged just 19. The verdict is out. We are ahead,” he said.On the farmers’ protest, he said: “Farmers are our brothers. They are being misled. They are protesting in the severe cold. Our Central leaders and farmers’ representatives have been negotiating. Some demands have been accepted while the rest would be taken up on January 4.”“Our government has done the maximum for farmers in the last six years as compared to any state government in the country,” he said. “The MSP will never be stopped in Haryana,” he said. — TNS
01-01-2021||New Delhi||BJP appoints Saudan Singh for Punjab, Haryana affairs||Feeling the political heat amid farmers’ protests and a setback in the recent mayoral polls in Haryana, the BJP has brought in key party veteran Saudan Singh to shoulder organisational responsibilities in Punjab and its neighbouring states, besides beefing up party’s Dalit outreach.The saffron party today appointed Singh as the vice-president of the organisation with the responsibilities of giving “special attention” to Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh.Singh, who will now have his base in Chandigarh, was the joint general secretary (organisation) earlier. The BJP has also appointed party veteran V Satish as “sangathak” (organiser). He will take care of coordination with the party’s parliamentary office. — TNS
01-01-2021||Hisar||At -1.2°C, Hisar coldest in 47 years; crop yield likely to be affected||Hisar recorded -1.2°C temperature, eight degrees below normal, on Thursday that broke the record for the coldest December night in 47 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The IMD said it was the coldest day of December in Hisar since 1973 when the mercury was recorded at-1.5°C. In contrast, Shimla recorded the minimum temperature at 3°C.Cold weather coupled with dense fog disturbed the normal life in the region.Haryana’s Narnaul saw a minimum of -0.5°C, while it was 0°C in Punjab’s Bathinda. The sub-zero temperature is likely to reduce the yield of vegetables and rabi crops, including mustard and gram, except wheat. The milch animals are also suffering due to the extreme cold.Rajesh Beniwal, a horticulturist from Shahpur village, said the frost and low temperature had damaged flowers of his guava trees and likely to reduce fruit yield.Sant Lal, a small dairy owner of Sundawas, said the milk production had gone down due to the cold wave even though he had made elaborate arrangements to protect his cattle. Dr Rajender Singh, an animal husbandry expert, said the sub-zero temperature affected the dairy animals badly.
