01-09-2020||Chandigarh||17 deaths, 1,694 fresh virus cases in Haryana||Seventeen more people died from coronavirus in Haryana on Tuesday as the state reported a record daily spike in cases for the second consecutive day with 1,694 fresh infections.The state had reported its highest single-day spike in cases on Monday with 1,450 infections.So far, the state has recorded 706 deaths and 66,426 cases, according to a Health Department bulletin.Ruling BJP's Jind MLA Krishan Middha is among those who contracted the infection on Tuesday.“I have been found COVID positive,” he said in a video message while appealing to all those who came in his contact to get themselves tested.The MLA said he was having fever for the past three days after which he got himself tested.Besides Middha, eight legislators of the ruling BJP, including Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, have contracted the infection in recent days.A state government statement here said as per the health bulletin issued by Gurgaon's Medanta Hospital, Khattar has no fever and resting well.His appetite has improved, and he is doing physical exercises along with taking a walk, the statement said.Meanwhile, Gurgaon, Panipat, Karnal, Faridabad and Sonipat reported 100 plus cases on Tuesday.While three fatalities were reported from Panchkula, two deaths each took place in Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Karnal and Faridabad while one person each died in Rewari, Ambala, Panipat, Hisar, Palwal and Yamunanagar, as per the bulletin.Among the districts from where fresh cases were reported are Gurgaon (196), Panipat (161), Karnal (141), Faridabad (132), Sonipat (130), Hisar and Panchkula (98 each), Kurukshetra (84) and Yamunanagar (83), according to the Health Department bulletin.Active cases in the state stood at 11,885 while 53,835 have been discharged after recovery.As of Tuesday, the state has a recovery rate of 81.05 per cent with the fatality rate hovering around 1.06 per cent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17-deaths-1-694-fresh-virus-cases-in-haryana-134795
01-09-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Medanta hospital doctor commits suicide||A doctor of Medanta hospital allegedly committed suicide on Tuesday by jumping off the balcony of his eighth floor flat in the wee hours of Tuesday.No suicide note was recovered from the spot but sources claim that police suspect domestic troubles behind the step. Police kept the body in a mortuary and are investigating.According to the police, the deceased was identified as 41-year-old Dr Sujit Kumar Shah, a native of Nepal, and his family lives in Himachal Pradesh.He was working with Medanta Medicity and lived alone in flat number 801 in Hewo apartment, Sector 47 since the last two years. It was today at around 4 am when he allegedly jumped off from his 8th floor flat’s balcony.The security guards of the society gathered on the spot and police was called. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him as brought dead.The police informed his wife, also a doctor, who lives in West Bengal along with their 6-year-old daughter.She told police that she was not aware about this because she had been living separately since sometime.“The cause behind the suicide is not ascertained yet because no suicide note was recovered. He was working with Medanta hospital. We are investigating from all angles and are trying to find out the reason behind the suicide,” said Inspector Dinesh Kumar, SHO of Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/medanta-hospital-doctor-commits-suicide-134783
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||New college session to begin on October 6 in Haryana||New session for undergraduate courses in Haryana will begin on October 6, the state’s education department said on Tuesday.Prospective students can apply online for admission from September 7-21 and their documents will be verified from September 22 -25. Merit lists will be put up on September 26.Students who have been admitted will be able to submit their fees provisionally from September 26- 29.Open counselling will be held on October 6 to fill up vacant seats.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said in a statement: “The education department was fully geared up for the online admission. The final call on whether to open the colleges or conduct online classes will be taken keeping in mind Central Government's guidelines in the wake of prevailing Covid-19 situation”.The colleges and universities in the state have been closed since March this year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi called a nationwide lockdown to control the spread of COVID-19 pandemic.Haryana has already announced it will not hold examinations for first and second year students in undergraduate students and will promote to the next class on the basis of an internal assessment.However, the examination for the final year will be held later this month according to University Grants Commission’s guidelines. Dates to remember---Date for applying for admission: September 7-21---Verification of documents: September 22-25---Display of merit list: September 26---Fee submission: September 26 to 29---Start of new session: October 6||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-college-session-to-begin-on-october-6-in-haryana-134776
01-09-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram’s ‘hi-tech’ headmaster to be awarded on Teacher’s Day||Gurugram, September 1Gurugram’s ‘hi tech’ teacher Manoj Kumar Lakra credited with developing many in-house apps involving his students has been chosen for national award on Teacher’s Day.Only teacher from Haryana amongst 47 selected from across the country, Lakra is elementary headmaster at government senior secondary school, Bajghera.“As a teacher we put in great efforts to ensure that we manage to make a positive difference in the life of each and every student we teach. The award for me is recognition of this endeavour. Credit goes to students who not just accepted me as teacher, but also trusted me and their efforts highlighted my work,” said Lakra.Lakra had hit the headlines when he along with his school students developed a software and assigned QR codes to all trees on the campus. This app allowed students to scan trees on smartphone and get details like scientific names, generic names and medicinal value of trees.“I was shocked to find that many students could not differentiate banyan from peepal. If we want children to be sensitive towards environment they first need to know their surroundings. The first step is knowing plants and trees near houses and school,” added Lakra.Though a Hindi teacher, Lakra sees cyber world as his true calling. He along with his four students of class IX developed and designed Mid-Day-Meal Haryana app. The Haryana education department adopted this app and applied in all schools to keep tabs on quality and distribution of mid-day meal. Soon, they created Smagra Mulayankan app, fee register app, fund and stock register app, scout and guide app, Pragati app. He had also made a solar helmet which got first prize in a state-level science exhibition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugrams-hi-tech-headmaster-to-be-awarded-on-teachers-day-134757
01-09-2020||---||Faridabad reports 132 new COVID-19 cases, two deaths||Faridabad, September 1The total COVID-19 positive cases in Faridabad climbed to 12,814 with an addition of another 132 new cases on Tuesday.Meanwhile, with two more deaths reported in the past 24 hours, the death tally due to COVID-19 has gone up to 172 in the district.The tally of recovered patients has also moved to 11,852 with 74 patients being discharged today.The patients who died today include a 66-year-old woman from the Sector-16 and a 70-year-old man from Ajronda village. Both patients were suffering from co-morbidities.With a total of 790 active cases, eight of the 39 critical patients are on ventilator while 563 are under home isolation.The recovery rate in the district is 92.5 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-reports-132-new-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-134726
01-09-2020||Sunit Dhawan||115 staffers of Rohtak PGIMS contracted COVID to date; administration says situation under control||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 1A spurt in the number of doctors, nurses and other employees of Rohtak PGIMS testing positive for COVID-19 has been witnessed in the recent days, with as many as 115 staffers of the institute having been found infected with the dreaded viral disease to date.The head of the Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, besides several resident doctors and two faculty members of the Department of Orthopaedics, tested positive for COVID-19 in the recent days.Doctors serving at the institute complain that non-segregation of COVID and non-COVID facilities was the main reason behind the spreading of the disease amongst the institute staffers.“The OPDs of the orthopaedics department as well as the flu clinic are being conducted at the ground floor of the new OPD block. While orthopaedic OPDs are meant for non-COVID patients, patients having COVID symptoms such as cough and fever visit the flu clinic, several of whom are eventually diagnosed with COVID,” points out a doctor serving at the institute.Another doctor, requesting anonymity, maintains that the suspected COVID patients and their attendants visiting the C-block are sent to the Emergency wing to get their OPD cards and admission documents made, thus increasing the probability of the spread of infection.Dr Sandeep, Deputy Medical Superintendent in-charge of the casualty wing, who has contracted COVID, also blames the improper disposal of the PPE kits and negligence on part of the institute’s infection-control committee for the prevailing situation.“I have informed the PGIMS administration about the lapses and negligent attitude of the staff members concerned,” he maintains.On the other hand, the authorities concerned at the institute assert that the situation is under control.“Most of the doctors and other staffers of the institute who have been found COVID-positive have contracted the infection from outside the hospital area. Several resident doctors contracted it from an eating joint located on the campus while others brought it from other cities or colonies,” says Dr VK Katyal, convener for COVID-19 at PGIMS.He states that the number of COVID-positive doctors and other staffers at Rohtak PGIMS was much lower than those at AIIMS in New Delhi and PGIMER in Chandigarh.On being questioned about the non-segregation of the COVID and non-COVID facilities at the institute, he maintained that while the confirmed COVID-19 patients were lodged separately at the PGIMS trauma centre dedicated as COVID hospital, it was not practicable to segregate the suspected cases at the entry level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/115-staffers-of-rohtak-pgims-contracted-covid-to-date-administration-says-situation-under-control-134713
01-09-2020||Gurugram||GMDA to use GIS tech to tackle land scams||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has started a survey via Geographic Information System (GIS) technology for a more accurate mapping of the land surface area across the district.It will modernise the method of demarcating land. The decision was taken after GMDA officials came to know about illegal encroachments on land, which they had no idea were under their jurisdiction.The process will include marking of survey monuments at every 500 meters. Using the GIS-enabled technology, the authorities and elected representatives will be able to determine all encroachments and land scams."This will help us to keep an eye on GMDA's land and remove encroachments. It will also give us an idea of where to conduct an anti-encroachment drive against encroachers. So far, we have been doing it manually. But now the data will be more scientific," said V.S. Kundu, chief executive officer GMDA.The official added that the survey started a few weeks back and is expected to be completed soon. GMDA officials said demarcation of land will help them to understand revenue records across the district."GMDA is a development agency and the authority does not want to indulge in any kind of litigation so we are initiating this exercise to keep accurate land records and demarcate the land accurately. The process will also help to identify land encroachers," Kundu said.Apart from the land survey, the process will also lead to an online record of GMDA land in the district. The main objective, the official said, will be timely actions against the land encroachers and end of any hurdle in freeing the land from encroachers -- which will only be possible with accurate land records.The development comes after a major scam was unearthed wherein some corrupt revenue officers had registered land without No Objection Certificate (NOC).Apart from the registry scam, the Municipal Corporation Gurugram (MCG) and the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) had also demolished eight illegally developed farmhouses in Bandhwari village for encroaching upon the protected Aravalis area.The authorities have also served notices on the developers of 50 illegal farmhouses after the Supreme Court took cognizance of the illegal construction in the restricted zone. Spread over about 30 acres, the farmhouse was situated in Bandhwari village.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gmda-to-use-gis-tech-to-tackle-land-scams-134685
01-09-2020||Problem of sewer overflow has become a routine scene at Sikka Colony||Problem of sewer overflow persists||Ankush, SonepatElectric meters a fire hazardHALF-a-dozen electric meters have been fixed on an electric pole in Subhash Park/ BPS Plenetarium Street, Ambala Cantt. It is not only an eye sore but also spoiling the look of the place and is a fire hazard too. Why can’t we neatly place all these meters on a board/wall? Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you? The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/problem-of-sewer-overflow-persists-134529
01-09-2020||Hisar||Faulty design, Haryana village sans water||Even 12 years after the Public Health Engineering Department set up waterworks at Kirtan village, its residents continue to wait for potable water supply to their homes. Villagers claim canal water can’t reach the waterworks due to faulty design of the inlet channel.Facing perennial shortage, the villagers have been forced to purchase water from tankers as the groundwater is unfit for consumption.A few years ago, tenders were allotted for Rs 40 lakh for repair of the inlet. Tender has been allotted for the third time now for Rs 20 lakh to fix the fault.Sarpanch Rajpal Singh says the village earlier used to get supply from Sishwala village waterworks. “Things turned from bad to worse after the waterworks was built at our village costing Rs 2 crore, as the supply from Sishwala was cut off and water never reached our waterworks,” he says.“Bigger tanks have been lying dry, while a smaller one receives very little quantity, sufficing the needs of 30 per cent of residents.” Every household has tanks, which are filled using hired tankers costing Rs 500 to Rs 600 each. Some fetch water from tubewells on the outskirts, he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faulty-design-haryana-village-sans-water-134458
01-09-2020||
||Objections to Centre’s new farm ordinances unfounded: Dhankar||Chandigarh, August 31 State BJP chief OP Dhankar on Monday hit out at Opposition leaders for their “negative” response to the three farm ordinances introduced by the Centre. He said criticism just for the sake of criticism was not good. Dhankar also criticised the Punjab Government’s resolution against the ordinances. “Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is working against the interests of farmers for the fear of losing revenue in the form of market fee,” he told the media at his Panchkula residence on Monday. “If Opposition leaders had some better ideas, they should have given suggestions to the Centre rather than criticising the ordinances. Their points could have been incorporated while passing the Bills,” the BJP leader said. “The biggest takeaway of these Ordinances is to open markets across the country to farmers so that they can sell their produce at a place of their choice ad get better remunerative prices for their produce,” he said. To prove his point, he gave the example of mustard. “Haryana produces mustard in large quantities, but people here don’t consume it much. On the contrary, people in Bihar used mustard oil a lot while cooking. If a farmer from Haryana is able to sell his produce in Bihar, he will certainly get a better price there,” said Dhankar, who served as the Kisan Morcha president. The state BJP chief said the ordinances gave farmers the freedom to decide the price of their produce.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/objections-to-centres-new-farm-ordinances-unfounded-dhankar-134423
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ajay Chautala is JJP national president||Former MP Ajay Singh Chautala was appointed the national president of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) on Monday.The decision was taken at a national executive meeting of the party in Panchkula. Ajay is serving a jail term in connection with the teachers; recruitment scam in Haryana in 2000 and is currently on parole.“Dr Ajay Singh Chautala, ex-MP, is declared to be national president of Jannayak Janta Party in a national executive meeting at Panchkula,” the JJP tweeted.A party leader said the JJP’s national executive unanimously decided to entrust the responsibility to him.Ajay said, I will fulfil the responsibility by strengthening the JJP. The party will focus on expanding its base in urban areas and making people from all walks join the outfit. A new programme ‘One booth, ten youths’ will be launched. The JJP will try to set up base in other states.”After the announcement of Unlock 4.0 guidelines, the party leadership has decided to mark its presence in the field. To strengthen the party base, Ajay will start a statewide tour.In September, JJP national vice-president Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala will also hold district-wise meetings with party workers, listen to problems and work on the solutions. The meeting also discussed the upcoming Baroda byelection and the urban local body poll. Ajay clarified the BJP-JJP alliance would contest the bypoll. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ajay-chautala-is-jjp-national-president-134424
01-09-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||From today, pay power bills at post offices in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31Beginning tomorrow, power consumers of the state can pay their bills at the local post offices. After the success of the pilot project to facilitate payment of electricity bills at the local post offices in Ambala and Panipat, the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam and the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam, the state’s two power distribution companies (discoms), have decided to extend the facility to the entire state.The decision has been taken to reduce the rush at the payment counters of the power department in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.“In rural Haryana, there are 2,180 branches of post offices and during the pandemic this initiative will help in decreasing the line-up for bill payment at the local offices. The Haryana State Electricity Distribution Corporation is organising such experimental initiatives because it is committed to safeguarding the lives of its customersand providing them with uninterrupted electricity supply,” said Shatrujit Kapur, chairman-cum-managing director (CMD), discoms.In January, Kapur and Ranju Prasad, Chief Postmaster General of Haryana circle, principally agreed to give permission for starting a pilot project for payment of power bills at local post offices in Ambala and Panipat. An MoU was signed between the discoms and the Postal Department, Ambala circle.In view of the ease of payment for consumers from January to August, it was decided to extend this facility to customers across the state. As many as 2,694 counters have been opened at various post offices across the state where bills up to Rs 20,000 can be paid. Customers will not have to pay any extra charges when they deposit their bills at the local post offices.Haryana discoms were able to achieve the profitability for three consecutive years after Kapur took over as the CMD. In 2017-2018, Rs 28,926 crore was collected as revenue which had a profit component of Rs 412.36 crore. In 2018-19, the total revenue went up to Rs 29,962.34 crore in which the profit amount increased to Rs 280.94 crore. In 2019-20, the total revenue further went up to Rs 29,519.74 crore, which included a profit amount of Rs 331.39 crore.Covid effect||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/from-today-pay-power-bills-at-post-offices-in-haryana-134425
01-09-2020||Rohtak||Hooda toeing govt line for fear of CBI: Kundu||Independent MLA from Meham Balraj Kundu castigated Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today for allegedly toeing the government line due to fear of CBI action for the scams during his successive tenures as Chief Minister.Addressing a press me, he said the former CM, who had been championing the cause of farmers, physical training instructors and his son Deepender Hooda, did not raise the issues in the recent Vidhan Sabha session.“He signed the schedule of the recent Assembly session, which did not include the issue of three farm ordinances,” Kundu said.Replying to a question, the MLA claimed that Hooda, who was afraid of CBI action, was being remote controlled by CM Manohar Lal Khattar.Kundu launched a veiled attack on INLD leader Abhay Chautala, stating that leaders of other opposition parties, who claimed to be well-wishers of farmers, had failed to protect their interests. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-toeing-govt-line-for-fear-of-cbi-kundu-134426
01-09-2020||---||1,450 cases, a new record in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 31With 1,450 fresh cases, the highest in a day so far, the Covid tally in the state reached 64,752 today. With a number of employees at the Civil Secretariat testing positive, the Chief Secretary ordered a health camp for Covid testing of all officers and their staff.Seven deaths pushed the toll to 689. Three deaths were reported from Sirsa, two from Kaithal and one each from Panchkula and Faridabad.The maximum cases were reported from Panipat (154), followed by Karnal (135), Ambala (114), Gurugram (113) and Faridabad (103). A total of 1,052 patients recovered in a day, taking the tally of discharged cases to 52,672, with a recovery rate of 81.37 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-450-cases-a-new-record-in-haryana-134427
01-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Gurugram man strangles pregnant wife, booked||Gurugram, August 31A man allegedly strangled his eight-month pregnant wife in a Nathupur village slum near DLF Phase 3.The victim has been identified as Nikki Kumari (18), who was staying with her husband Roshan, a labourer, in a slum of Nathupur village.To mislead the police, Roshan claimed that Nikki was bitten by some insect following which she died, but the postmortem report revealed that she died of strangulation. The police have registered a murder case against Roshan, who is absconding.Preliminary probe revealed that a fight broke out between the couple on Saturday night following which Roshan angrily strangled Nikki. To evade police action, Roshan made an excuse that his wife was bitten by some insect and took her to a hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead.However, doctors found strangulation marks on the victim’s neck and they informed the police.Soon, the police reached the hospital and took the body in custody. It was on Sunday when the postmortem report revealed that the woman was strangled to death, the police registered an FIR on Monday.“The accused is absconding, but we are conducting raids and he will be nabbed soon,” said Inspector Jaiveer Dhul, SHO of DLF Phase 3 police station.Man murdered in front of police post||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-man-strangles-pregnant-wife-booked-134428
01-09-2020||
||Five booked for rape||Hisar, August 31 Five men have been booked on the charge of raping a woman here on August 5 and 6, the police have said. One of accused, identified as Amit, is no more. The other accused are Sonu, Anil and Ramniwas. The fifth accused remains unidentified. The police have said Amit knew the woman. On August 5, he took her to the fields, where he and his friends allegedly raped her. The next day, they took her to Mayyar village, where they again raped her, the police have said.  When the cops traced the girl along with Amit, he consumed poison.He was taken to the Agroha medical college, where he died during treatment on August 9. A judicial inquiry into his death has been ordered. Agroha police station SHO Gurmeet Singh said the police had registered a case of gangrape on the basis of the woman’s statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-booked-for-rape-134430
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||No penal rent from Haryana Government staff for 4 months||In view of Covid, the government has decided not to charge any penal rent from government employees failing to vacate official accommodation between March 1 and June 30. The employees will not face any penal action, including imposition of penal rent, for their failure to vacate houses during this period. They will only have to pay licence fee. State government employees are provided official accommodation in lieu of nominal licence fee. They have to vacate the accommodation a month after retirement or transfer. As per a senior official, the one-time relaxation has been given for their inability to vacate the accommodation due to the lockdown. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-penal-rent-from-haryana-government-staff-for-4-months-134431
01-09-2020||Parveen Arora||Pusa-1509 arrives, fetches low price||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 31Around 2.03 lakh quintal of early sown Pusa-1509 has arrived in Karnal, Indri and Gharaunda grain markets, but farmers are complaining of low prices being paid as compared to last year.It is reportedly being procured for Rs 1,500-Rs 1,950 per quintal this season against last year’s Rs 2,100-Rs 3,200.“I have brought early sown variety of 1509 of two-acres that I had sown in the fields of Yamuna. It has been procured at Rs 2,000 per quintal as compared to Rs 2,400 per quintal last season,” said Nathi Ram, a farmer. “Already the production was low. Last year, I had got 25 quintal crop but this year it was reduced to just 22 quintal. I was already suffering losses and now I am not even able to recover the investment cost.”Gyan Singh, another farmer whose crop of around 7 acres was procured at Rs 1,950 per quintal, said: “Last season, I sold it at Rs 2,400-Rs 2,600 per quintal but this year the loss is massive.”Agriculture Department Deputy Director Aditya Dabas said it was an early variety of 1509 and it was sown in UP and some parts along the Yamuna in the district. “The early variety of 1509 takes around 75-80 days to mature,” he said, adding that there was not much difference in the early and late sown varieties. “Paddy transplantation is prohibited before June 15 and fine has been imposed on defaulting farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pusa-1509-arrives-fetches-low-price-134432
01-09-2020||Ravinder Saini||To evade checking, overloaded vehicles use alternative routes||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, August 31Instead of highways, heavy vehicles, mostly overloaded, are using alternative routes passing through various villages with an intention to evade checking and penalty.The vehicles include those transporting construction materials from the mining areas located on the border of Mahendragarh and Rajasthan.Residents are perturbed over the movement of vehicles through villages. They said deep potholes had developed on roads as overloaded vehicles kept plying there. Even, the fear of mishaps hovers as children play along roadsides in villages.“Kutbapur, Shaharpur, Nooni Kalan, Saloni, Guwani and Dublana are the worst-affected villages. A few months ago, an overloaded vehicle claimed the life of a biker in the village,” said Vijay Pal, sarpanch, Guwani village.Ajit Singh of Saloni village said once, they had succeeded in stopping the movement of overloaded vehicles through the village but the traffic started again after a few days. The issue had been raised before the authorities but to no avail, he added.“Overloaded vehicles avoid the route from Narnaul city to evade the checking hence, these enter from Lehroda village and reach the Rewari-Narnaul highway after passing through Kutbapur, Shaharpur, Nooni Kalan, Salooni and Bachhod villages. The movement of vehicles has even increased pollution in the area, thus affecting the villagers’ health,” said Siyaram Yadav of Shaharpur village.Vikram Singh, sarpanch of Nuni Kalan, said many times, vehicles had damaged the pipeline of potable water in the village. A majority of the vehicles carry stones in an overloaded manner, causing a risk to people’s lives. Roads here are merely 10 to 12-ft wide hence, villagers have to face problems in overtaking these vehicles, he added.Manoj of Kutbapur village said an overloaded vehicle overturned after hitting a tree in the village a few months ago. Luckily, no one was hurt. “We are persistently lodging complaints against the vehicles but no one is paying any heed,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-evade-checking-overloaded-vehicles-use-alternative-routes-134433
01-09-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat
||Petrol pumps fail to pay Rs 51-cr rent, Haryana Government serves sealing notice||Tribune News Service Faridabad, August 31 The drive to recover the pending lease rent of over Rs 51 crore from 22 CNG and petrol pumps here has again failed to reach any conclusion. Claiming that a sealing notice has been served to defaulters, HSVP Administrator Pradeep Dahiya said the DGM of one of the oil companies had promised to deposit the dues shortly. “However, if not done within the given time period, pumps would be sealed,” he added. The rent of the pumps located on the HSVP land is pending for the past several years. “Though several meetings have taken place between the authorities concerned and the pump owners over the pending amount of dues since January this year, the issue stands unresolved,” said a source in the HSVP office, adding: “The pandemic and the lockdown have further deferred the process, affecting the recovery.” Of the total dues, the outstanding amount towards CNG and petrol pumps is Rs 33.02 crore and Rs 18.02 crore, respectively. A total of 22 CNG and 15 petrol pumps are functional on the land of the HSVP which need to pay an annual rent of Rs 18.02 crore. A pump in sector 20-B has failed to pay Rs 4.30 crore, since February 1997, it is claimed. Another one is yet to pay Rs 48.96 lakh, pending since December 1997. While dues of four pumps are outstanding since 2000, the year of pendency of rest of the pumps is between 2002 and 2019. “Majority of these have neither renewed the lease agreement nor paid the rent,” said an official on the condition of anonymity. A notice of land resumption had also been issued in January this year. An appeal has also been filed in the HSVP office under the RTI Act to get information about the rent collected from such pumps. Varun Sheokand, a local resident, had filed an RTI plea in December last year. “The authorities are yet to reply to my application,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/petrol-pumps-fail-to-pay-rs-51-cr-rent-haryana-government-serves-sealing-notice-134434
01-09-2020||---||Illegal dyeing units razed in Faridabad||Faridabad, August 31Buildings or structures of 10 dyeing units functional at the Tilpat village area of the Greater Faridabad area were razed by a team of the DTP Enforcement here on Monday.In wake of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order passed recently in response to a petition filed by a local social activist in 2016, a total of 27 such units have been demolished by the district authorities in the past one week.Revealing that the action has been taken in compliance with the NGT directions, Faridabad DTP (Enforcement) Naresh Kumar, who has also been appointed as the Vigilance Officer, said all illegal units would be removed from the area shortly.He said the owners of such units operating in the region had been asked to either remove these voluntarily or they would be razed by the district administration. “All illegal dyeing units would be removed within a week as per the action plan prepared by the district authorities,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-dyeing-units-razed-in-faridabad-134435
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Now, register for  ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ scheme by September 7||The date for registration under the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ scheme has been extended till September 7. As per Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, 6,37,568 farmers had so far registered on the portal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-register-for-meri-fasal-mera-byora-scheme-by-september-7-134436
01-09-2020||Karnal||Jawan cremated in Karnal village||Havildar Diwan Chand (40), posted in 4 Jat Regiment at Siachen Glacier, reportedly died of heart attack on Friday. He is survived by his wife and two sons. He hailed from Basi Akbarpur village in Gharaunda block of the district. He was cremated in his village with full state honours on Monday. secretary  paid tribute to havildar.  Col Parmod Kumar Yadav, Zila Sainik Board secretary, said Operation Meghdoot was on in Siachen Glacier and any fatality during it was given the status of martyr. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jawan-cremated-in-karnal-village-134437
01-09-2020||---||BJP, Congress leaders condole Pranab’s death||Chandigarh, August 31Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has expressed grief over the demise of Pranab Mukherjee, former President of India, who passed away at 84 on Monday after a prolonged illness.In a condolence message issued, Manohar Lal K hatter said he was deeply saddened by the passing away of former President. He was a scholar par excellence and a vastly experience leader who served the nation with utmost devotion. The country has lost a seasoned statesman in his death, he added.Khattar conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family and prayed to the almighty that the departed soul may rest in peace.Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and HPCC president Kumari Selja remembered former President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday and offered their condolences.The former CM said, “The death of Mukherjee is a big loss for the nation. He served the country in different capacities. He will be remembered as a model politician, able administrator and source of inspiration. Our family’s three generations have had worked with him.”Selja said, “His death is a personal loss to me. My father Dalbir Singh had brotherly relations with him as both were ministers in the Indira Gandhi government. I had a privilege to work with him both in the party and government. He had always guided me like a father.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-congress-leaders-condole-pranabs-death-134438
01-09-2020||---||Online training for IAS officers||Chandigarh, August 31 All trainee IAS officers of the Haryana cadre will participate in the India Government Online Training portal. An official spokesman said the training programme had recently been announced by Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-training-for-ias-officers-134439
01-09-2020||Mahendragarh||Arrest attacker in three days or face stir: Ex-MLA||Even after three days, the police have failed to arrest the assailant who shot at Amit Yadav, son of senior BJP leader Daya Ram Yadav, at his residence in Narnaul town here on Friday night. Meanwhile, former MLA and Haryana Kisan Sangharsh Samiti chief Naresh Yadav has threatened to launch an agitation if the assailant is not arrested within the next three days. Addressing a news conference here on Monday, Yadav said criminals were persistently perpetrating crimes as the police had failed to maintain law and order situation in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arrest-attacker-in-three-days-or-face-stir-ex-mla-134440
01-09-2020||Palwal||Youth rapes teenager||The police have registered a case of rape of a 14-year-old at a village in the district. The incident took place on Sunday, when the minor was allegedly abducted from her house and raped. tnsAmbalaMotorcyclist dies in mishapA motorcyclist has been killed and his friend injured seriously after being hit by a speeding truck near Magharpur village in Shahzadpur. Dinesh (40) of Saha died on the spot and Mohit was injured. TNSOne caught for liquor theftThe police have arrested Rajinder of Naggal in a case of liquor theft. Gurdhian Singh of Ambala Sadar had reported theft of 100 bottles of liquor from his store. A local court remanded the accused in 14-day judicial custody. TNS1 held for drug smugglingThe police have arrested Ram Babu of Rampur in UP in a case of drug smuggling. The accused was sent to 14-day judicial remand. TNSKarnal‘Blackmailer’ in police remandA teacher of a private school here and her husband, both arrested on August 21 from Sector 12 for allegedly accepting Rs 7.25 lakh in lieu of withdrawing gang rape case against the school owner and the Tehsildar, have been sent to one-day police remand. The police will try to recover her laptop, which, as per the police, contains the recording in which the teacher was blackmailing the school owner. He lawyer will accompany her during interrogation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-rapes-teenager-134447
01-09-2020||Rohtak||MDU's prospectus for international students out||He congratulated the Centre for International Academic Affairs (CIAA) for their initiatives. CIAA Dean Prof AK Rajan said international students could apply for academic programmes at the university online till September 15 following which online merit list would be displayed on September 22. Selected candidates will have to deposit fee through online mode up to September 30.Notably, details of MDU's academic programmes are available at portal/website http://ciaa.mdu.ac.in. The Dean said 108 foreign students from 18 countries had already applied for the academic programmes through government of India’s study in India portal. He said the prospectus being released was for direct admission to the academic programmes of university.Off-campus placement driveHisar: Three students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology have been selected in the off-campus placement drive of Manesar-based SGM Paper Product Limited. The drive was organised by the Training and Placement Cell of the university. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Prof Avnesh Verma congratulated the selected students. Placement director Partap Singh said the off-campus placement drive was conducted at the premises of the company’s office in Manesar. Aditya Vir Singh, Assistant Director, said Sapna Jangra, Manish Yadav and Hanumat were among the selected students.Talk on ways to revive economyKurukshetra: Prof MM Goel, retired from Kurukshetra University, said, “To say goodbye to the ‘cobra effect’ of debt, we should adopt the principle of needonomics based on the logo of LIC of India ‘Yogakshemam Vahamyaham’ (your welfare is our responsibility) and authenticate economic thoughts of Mahatma Gandhi which are ethical, non-violent and spiritual in nature.” While addressing the members of Ghaziabad Management Association online on ‘Needonomics for Revival of Indian Economy’, he said the strong determination for implementing Atamnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan calls for “needonomics” as the key strategy. “Indian economy can be made consumer friendly by adopting NAW (need, affordability and worth) approach to marketing of goods and services,” he added. “For bringing socio-economic transformation, we need to propagate righteous (satvik) income after paying the taxes which is good for the use of self and others entitled under altruism as social responsibility flowing from needonomics,” said Prof Goel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mdus-prospectus-for-international-students-out-134449
