01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus cases in Sirsa, Hisar send government in a tizzy||The detection of coronavirus cases in previously unaffected areas such as Sirsa and Hisar has sent the Haryana Government in a tizzy.Coupled with reports that 125 people from Haryana were among those who attended a religious congregation in the Nizamuddin area of New Delhi recently, the situation has given sleepless nights to state government functionaries.Until now, an overwhelming number of cases (21 of the 29) were reported from three districts—Gurugram, Faridabad and Panipat in the National Capital Region (NCR)—bordering Delhi. Except for a couple of cases from Panchkula and Ambala, most cases were reported from the NCR."The detection of cases from cities like Hisar and Sirsa is bad news for the state," said a senior health department official, adding that it meant that the infection was travelling fast from NCR to other regions.Haryana reported one case from Sirsa and one from Hisar on Tuesday and Wednesday.Anil Vij, Health Minister, however, claimed that the state government was fully prepared to tackle the challenge and said that the situation was under control.Haryana reported its first positive case of COVID-19 on March 17 from Gurugram. For almost a week, nearly all cases were concentrated in the NCR, especially in Gurugram, Faridabad and Panipat.That was perhaps the reason that Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced a partial lockdown on March 22 in seven districts in the NCR.COVID-19 trackerTotal persons put under surveillance 13979Persons currently under surveillance 13334Persons completing surveillance 645Persons currently hospitalized 323Samples sent for testing 794Negative tests 543Results awaited 227Positive cases 29||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-cases-in-sirsa-hisar-send-government-in-a-tizzy-64131
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Nearly 125 from Haryana, 9 from Punjab attended Tablighi meet||Nearly 125 people belonging to Haryana have attended a religious congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi's Nizamuddin and all of them are under quarantine in the state to prevent coronavirus spread, officials said on Wednesday.Punjab has identified nine people who attended the congregation and they are in Delhi.The Home Secretary has been directed to compile the record of those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat and the exact number would be clear once the compilation is over, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij was quoted as saying.Official sources said a majority of those who attended the religious congregation were under quarantine in Haryana. Some foreign nationals were also kept in isolation to prevent the coronavirus spread.A Health Department's medical bulletin on Tuesday said nationals of Brazil, Israel, Germany, Japan, Russia, Nepal, Bhutan and several other countries have been assisted by Haryana Police to be evacuated.From Punjab, those who attended the congregation included four from Ludhiana, two from Sangrur and one each from Barnala, Gurdaspur and Pathankot.Rajesh Bhaskar, head of the media wing for COVID-19 communication, said all of them have been identified and kept in Delhi."We have traced their families in the state and all have been found asymptomatic," he added. —IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nearly-125-from-haryana-9-from-punjab-attended-tablighi-meet-64115
01-04-2020||Twelve persons belonging to Trilokpuri of Delhi were quarantined in an educational institute in Pipli Majra village of Yamunanagar district on Tuesday. They were on a religious visit to the district since February 29. Jogesh Kumar||YAMUNANAGAR 12 Delhi natives quarantined||AMBALA 4 back from Nizamuddin isolatedFour persons, who returned to Ambala Cantonement on Tuesday evening after attending a religious gathering at a mosque in the Nizamuddin area of New Delhi, were isolated at a local hospital and their samples sent for testing at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, said Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh here. He said of these four, two were natives of Nepal, one of Sri Lanka and another of Bhiwandi in Maharashtra. Dr Singh said the Muslim community in the district was approached by the health officials to look out for all those who had returned from the Delhi mosque. TNSKARNAL dhaba owners, waiters screenedThe district administration started scanning the health of dhaba operators and waiters as the authorities believe people going towards Punjab and Chandigarh before the lockdown might have stopped there for food. Most of the dhabas are locked at present, but workers are still staying put at some places. The health officials inspected 20 dhabas on the NH-44 and screened the staff. DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said none of the dhaba operators or waiters had any symptoms so far. The health officials even examined 900 migrant labourers, who are at three shelters homes of the city. TNSKAITHAL 8 held for lockdown violationsEight persons have been arrested from three different places for violating lockdown directions in Kaithal district. Those arrested are Baljit Singh, Surinder Singh, Gurjeet Singh, Inderjeet Singh and Manvinder Singh, Vikas, Parteek and Suresh. Separate cases have been registered against them. SP Shashank Kumar Sawan has warned the violators of strict action and urged the people to remain vigilant and act like responsible citizens. OCMAHENDRAGARH 2 samples test negativeThe samples of two persons admitted to the isolation ward at the Civil Hospital in Narnaul here on Tuesday tested negative for Covid. The duo was suffering from fever and dry cough during home quarantine. Civil Surgeon Dr Ashok Kumar said one of the persons returned to Rewari from Kerala some days ago while the second one works in Gurugram. tnsKURUKSHETRA 1 booked for spreading rumorsThe Kurukshetra police have booked Vikas Verma, a resident of Ismailabad, for spreading rumours regarding Covid-19. Dr Jagir Chand said he runs a hospital in Ismailabad and his son and several nephews live in Italy. He alleged that Vikas Verma spread incorrect messages through his number that Dr Jagir's nephew was suffering from Covid virus. Due to spread of wrong information, the doctor claimed to have suffered losses. A case has been registered against Verma under sections 188, 269, 270 and 505 of the IPC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-12-delhi-natives-quarantined-64075
01-04-2020||---||Seven fresh Covid cases, Haryana's tally 29 now||Chandigarh, March 31Panipat woman dischargedRohtak: A woman (34) of Naulatha village in Panipat district, who tested positive for Covid and admitted to the PGIMS, has been discharged after being testing negative now. Her kin too have tested negative. TNSPalwal’s only patient recoversPalwal: A 66-year-old businessman, who was the first and only Covid positive case in the district, has been discharged from the hospital after recovery on Tuesday. He was admitted to the medical college at Nalhar in Nuh district on March 23. TNSWith three members of a family testing positive in Sirsa, two new cases coming to the fore in Faridabad and one person each testing positive in Hisar and Panchkula, the total tally of Covid cases in the state reached 29 today.The detection of Covid cases from new areas of Sirsa and Hisar sent the Haryana Government in a tizzy. This coupled with reports that 22 persons who attended a religious congregation in the Nizamuddin area of New Delhi recently belonged to Haryana, was giving sleepless nights to government functionaries.Anil Vij, Health Minister, stated that the government was fully prepared to tackle the challenge and the situation was under control.Initial reports about the 22 persons attending the religious congregation in the Nizamuddin area suggested that they had come to a village in Panchkula district. Tracing their contacts could pose a major challenge to the Health Department.Sirsa: A 38-year-old woman and her two children — eight-year-old daughter and six-year-old son — tested positive. The woman, running paying guest accommodation — tested positive on Monday night while her children tested positive on Tuesday.Sirsa health officials said samples of 21 persons who came in contact with the woman were sent. They said two tested positive and 13 negative while reports on six samples were awaited.Sources said the samples of 14 more persons who were at a kitty party attended by the woman were sent for testing. The health authorities quarantined those suspected to have come in contact with her.Dr Viresh Bhushan, Civil Surgeon, stated that the woman and her children were under treatment at the PGIMS in Rohtak.Faridabad: The district reported two more Covid cases on Tuesday. This took the tally in the district to six. According to health officials, a 51-year-old man residing in Sector 16 here was admitted to Safdurjung Hospital in New Delhi, where his condition was reported to be stable.An employee of a tour and travel company, it was being suspected that hegot the infection from a person working in Noida who was found positive.The other patient, a 54-year-old man residing in Greenfields Colony, was admitted to a local hospital. He is the husband of the 54-year-old woman who was found infected on Monday. The couple were recovering at a private hospital here.All family members of the newly reported patients were quarantined and their samples collected for testing, said Dr Ram Bhagat, Deputy Civil Surgeon. He said 12 persons who came in contact with them were put in isolation.Hisar: A 54-year-old woman who returned from the USA on March 17 tested positive in Hisar on Monday night. She visited Gurugram and Hisar and went to the Civil Hospital in Hisar before she was quarantined on March 22.Dr Jaya Goyal, Deputy Civil Surgeon, said 22 persons who came in contact with the patient, including relatives, tenants and medical staff, were quarantined and the sample of her husband sent for testing.Panchkula: With another case surfacing in the district, the number of cases had risen to two. The patient, a staff nurse, was kept in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, said the patient was home quarantined after she was found symptomatic. Her condition deteriorated about two days back, after which she was admitted to hospital. Her samples were sent for testing and the report confirmed that she was Covid positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seven-fresh-covid-cases-haryanas-tally-29-now-64074
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Buy protective gear in bulk, say doctors||The Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA) on Tuesday demanded bulk purchase of N95 masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) to protect doctors and paramedics fighting a battle against Covid.Dr Jasbir Parmar, HCMSA president, said the Health Department was providing N95 masks and PPE to those working in isolation wards and testing labs, the stateneeds to go for bulk purchase of these items so that all those at the risk of contracting Covid could be protected.The Tribune on Tuesday highlighted the plight of doctors and paramedics in a news item titled “Haryana’s frontline soldiers battle Covid sans protective gear”.Within hours, a nurse working in Panchkula’s Sector 6 Civil Hospital tested positive for Covid on Tuesday.“Doctors and paramedics have been working 24x7. But at the same time, the government also has the duty to ensure their safety. If the situation goes out of control and those fighting battle on the frontline are also infected then who will rescue the people,” Dr Parmar added.He also demanded cashless reimbursement of medical expenses for doctors and paramedics and proposed rotational duties for them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/buy-protective-gear-in-bulk-say-doctors-64073
01-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||HSLSA comes to aid of poor amid lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 31The Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HSLSA) has stepped in to prevent further deprivation of the society’s deprived during the Covid lockdown. It has directed its district legal services authorities (DLSAs) to ensure effective implementation of government schemes for the poor.Justice Rajiv Sharma, HSLSA Executive Chairman and Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge, directed the initiation of “necessary steps” for effective implementation of announcements made by the Haryana Government to protect the interests of economically weaker sections in view of the outbreak.Justice Sharma stated that DLSAs across Haryana would ensure effective and meaningful implementation of all schemes launched by the state government in view of Covid.He said for the purpose, DLSAs would coordinate with the authorities concerned such as labour, industry and education departments, along with schools, anganwadis, hospitals, Deputy Commissioners, banks and insurance companies, for taking effective steps in identifying persons covered under schemes so they got financial assistance as per entitlement.He said DLSA secretaries would associate public agencies and NGOs for implementation of schemes at the grassroots. He said the authorities would forward calls received on the helplines to other numbers for redressing problems.He said it would provide all possible assistance to persons registered under different schemes for opening accounts after coordinating with banks. He said awareness would be created about the schemes to ensure benefits for the maximum.“Such awareness should be created through different electronic modes such as WhatsApp, Facebook and e-mail and telephonically,” he pointed out.A letter carrying “guidelines for implementation of directions issued by Haryana for providing financial assistance to economically weaker sections of society” had been shot off by Member Secretary Parmod Goyal to all District and Sessions Judges-cum-DLSA chairpersons and Chief Judicial Magistrates-cum-DLSA secretaries.The letter read: “The Government of India and states have announced a complete lockdown amid the rising number of Covid cases in the country. In this challenging situation, the most affected people are labourers, who are bound to bear a large part of the burden and risk during the lockdown.”The letter noted that keeping in view the hardship being faced by economically weak sections, Haryana had announced relief in the form of financial assistance to economically weaker sections. The matter was put up before Justice Sharma, who directed initiation of necessary steps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hslsa-comes-to-aid-of-poor-amid-lockdown-64072
01-04-2020||---||Allow sale of  poultry items, ULBs asked||Chandigarh, March 31The Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department of Haryana on Tuesday wrote to the Urban Local Bodies (ULB) and Rural Development Departments for allowing the sale of poultry products, including eggs, meat and fish, during the ongoing lockdown.It has been clarified that chicken and eggs were the cheap source of protein and boost the immunity of humans and Covid was not spread through poultry products.Both the ULB and Rural Development Departments have been told that the Central Government in a letter dated March 27 had allowed opening of the shops dealing with food and grocery, including those selling eggs, poultry meat and fish, during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/allow-sale-of-poultry-items-ulbs-asked-64066
01-04-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||To track infected cases, YMCA develops ‘Kavach’ app||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 31Govt alerts on fingertipsThe app warns users not to visit places where a potential infected person might have visited in the last 24 hours. Besides, the citizens can get important government advisory from time to time, in case of any emergency, and can get instant help from the authorities.A start-up team of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has developed an app for the authorities to track Covid infected and suspected cases and for giving real-time alerts to citizens if the infected are within the 5-100 metre range.Named as ‘Kavach’, YMCA’s start-up Cyndi Tech developed it as a part of the Centre’s Covid-19 Solution Challenge under which solutions were invited from people.The app warns users not to visit places where a potential infected person might have visited in the last 24 hours. Besides, the citizens can get important government advisory from time to time, in case of any emergency, and can get instant help from the authorities.“If the app is downloaded on mobile phones, the authorities can track suspected and infected cases. Also, the information on whom they have met in the recent past can also be ascertained,” said Lalit Faujdar, part of Cyndi Tech, who is doing MBA at YMCA.He said, “The app sets up a geo-fencing shield to protect you and your loved ones from Covid infection. If any infected person comes within 50 metres of your range, the app will send alerts on all provided numbers.”One can also search any location for possible contamination before going there and can maintain a diary of his or her meetings with time and location details. “In case anyone you have met gets diagnosed with the infection, you will get an instant alert,” Faujdar said.Nitin Sharma, 22, MBA student, who is also part of Cyndi Tech, said, “The app has a feature of news feed which provides government authorities an authentic and direct channel for spreading various kinds of information during such pandemics. This keeps in check the spread of distortions and misinformation.”He added, “We are working on its marketing. It has been submitted to Google Play Store for verification.YMCA Vice Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said, “The Kavach app is going to help in maintaining social distance. The institution is giving all-out support to students to make the innovation successful.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-track-infected-cases-ymca-develops-kavach-app-64065
01-04-2020||Jhajjar||MLA’s visit to CHC  irks HCMS Assn||A controversy has erupted over the surprise visit of Congress MLA Kuldeep Vatsa to the Community Health Centre (CHC) in Badli town here on Monday.While the district unit of the Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) Association has accused Vatsa of violating social-distancing norms during lockdown by coming to the CHC along with several supporters, the MLA claimed he found no doctor present there when he visited the place with four-five persons.“There are 31 employees posted at the CHC, but only three were present. These include two nurses.”The MLA said the Badli Tehsildar was also with him and promised to recommend action against absent doctors and staffers. Mediapersons also reached there and recorded his visit, hence there is no question of violating lockdown guidelines, Vatsa added.HCMS Association district chief Dr Mamta Chahal submitted a memorandum to the Civil Surgeon, alleging that the MLA came to the CHC with a crowd of his supporters around 4.48 pm, whereas doctors at CHC Badli remained on duty till 4 pm. “Thereafter, doctors are on call duty as these days they are engaged in relief camps for migrant labourers and to contain the Covid.” “The CHC is sanitised twice a day. The MLA and his supporters breached the rules of lockdown,” Dr Mamta said and accused Vatsa of misbehaving with the staff.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mlas-visit-to-chc-irks-hcms-assn-64063
01-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Combine harvesters stuck in Maharashtra, farmers fret||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 31With the harvesting season nearing, farmers are worried about getting their wheat crop harvested as a majority of combine harvesters are stuck in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. These were sent in February and were supposed to be back by March-end, but could not due to the lockdown.Seed shops open in Yamunanagar“These shops were opened two days ago, so that farmers can buy the necessary items for their crops,” Yadav added.He said there were 600 dealers of seeds, pesticides and fertilisers in the district. “The dealers have been asked to maintain social distancing strictly at their shops.” TNSThere are around 400 combine harvesters in the district, of which 90 per cent are sent to other states. Farmers may face a labour problem for manual harvesting this season due to shortage of migrant labourers. They used to come around this time of the year from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, but could not due to the lockdown.The wheat crop would be at the ripening stage in the first week of April, but it seemed that the combine harvesters would not be back on time. “I am in Gujarat and cannot come back in the next few days due to the lockdown,” said Uday Singh, a combine harvester operator.Some combine harvesters were on way to Karnal, but were stopped either at inter-district or inter-state borders. “We have started for Karnal, but are being stopped at every naka in districts and at inter-state borders,” said Harish Kumar, a combine harvester operator. He and three others were stuck in Gujarat for the last four days.Farmers said in the absence of combine harvesters, they would not be able to get the crop harvested manually. “In the present scenario, it seems that we will not get labour for harvesting the crop as they are yet to come. Due to the lockdown, migrant labourers are not allowed to cross the border of any town,” said Tarsem Singh, a farmer of Pabana Hasanapur.Gobind Rai, a farmer of Kachwa, said local laburers did not take interest in harvesting, forcing farmers to get labour from other states. “Local labourers do not prefer harvesting and we have to call labour from other states,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/combine-harvesters-stuck-in-maharashtra-farmers-fret-64061
01-04-2020||Panipat||Two nabbed for helping migrants cross Yamuna||The police on Tuesday nabbed two persons of Rana Majra village for allegedly helping the migrant labourers to cross the Yamuna by using rubber tubes.The police registered a case against three persons. The accused were identified as Harun of Rana Majra and Shabir of Garhi Besak village while Munnawar of Rana Majra fled.Sanoli SHO Surender Dahiya said acting on a tip-off, a team raided a Yamuna ghat near Rana Majra village on Tuesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-nabbed-for-helping-migrants-cross-yamuna-64050
01-04-2020||---||Back from abroad, 9 untraced in Ambala||Ambala, March 313 suspected casesThree more suspected patients were reported in the district on Tuesday, taking the total to 45Of these, 33 tested negative and six rejected, with five reports awaitedA Patiala youth in hospital is the only case so farThe administration has served a 24-hour ultimatum to those nine foreign returned persons in the district who have not been traced. They had returned from abroad in the recent past and were listed in the record of the state surveillance cell for examination and home quarantine.After efforts in the past several days were futile, Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma issued a final warning, asking these persons to report their whereabouts to the district administration without any further delay, failing which strict action would be initiated against them. The cancellation of passports was one of the actions being contemplated, it had been learnt.Sharma said the district administration had been tracking, testing and treating all those who had returned from foreign countries as per details of the state surveillance cell.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/back-from-abroad-9-untraced-in-ambala-64049
01-04-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Monthly revenue of Haryana down Rs 3,000 cr||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 31Measures for labourers467 relief camps with a capacity of 70,000 set upMore than 10,000 migrant labourers and the homeless have taken shelter in these campsAdequate food and other facilities availablePink, yellow, khaki card holders to get free ration for April60,000 volunteers registered on covidss.haryana.gov.in800 doctors, nurses, paramedics and others involved in distribution of food in relief camps also registeredRs4,000 each deposited in bank accounts of 6.29 lakh families, out of 12.5 lakh families under the Mukhya Mantri Parivar Samridhi YojanaRs1,000 per week transferred into the bank accounts of over 3.5 lakh construction workersHaryana’s fiscal condition is beginning to take a beating and the indication of the impending trouble comes from Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who admitted that the state revenue for the month was down by Rs 3,000 crore. In his address to the people of the state, here on Tuesday, he said the figure could rise up to Rs 6,000 crore in April. However, he assured that the state’s financial condition was better than others.Khattar presided over the meeting of state cabinet, also attended by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, Health Minister Anil Vij, Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal and Minister of State for Women and Child Development Department Kamlesh Dhanda. Other ministers attended it through video conferencing.After listing the initiatives rolled out for the benefit of the downtrodden, Khattar urged people to donate liberally to keep the state going. “It is not possible for the state to make up for the loss of nearly Rs 10,000 crore,” he said. He said the MLAs donated between one month’s and the whole year’s basic pay towards the relief fund. The IAS officers of the state also donated their monthly salary, he said.“We will launch an app where government employees and other people can pledge a certain percentage of their basic salary. The details of the same will be available by April 2,” Khattar said.A total of Rs 21 crore was received from 2,500 contributors for the relief fund set up by the government. Khattar said monthly expenditure of Rs 1,200 crore was likely to be incurred to take care of 24 lakh poor families of the state. He said 10 lakh families were given Rs 250 crore and the rest would receive the amount shortly.Another challenge that the Chief Minister listed was procurement, which was rescheduled and pushed to mid-April, even as he hinted further delays. “The farmers’ crop is ready for harvesting. We have decided to begin mustard procurement from April 15 and that of wheat from April 20. This delay is on account of the virus and I request farmers to not rush to get their crop to the mandis. They must harvest it and store in their homes or make alternative arrangements. We are hopeful of combating the virus by April 14, but it may take longer,” he said. He assured that the government was fighting the Covid challenge on all fronts.Khattar, in a bid to reach out to the migrant labours, said they would face no problem of lodging or food during the lockdown. “You are our brothers and partners in the development of the state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monthly-revenue-of-haryana-down-rs-3-000-cr-64048
01-04-2020||---||126 shelter homes set up in Haryana, says Speaker Gian Chand Gupta||Panchkula, March 31Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today inspected temporary shelter homes set up at Government Higher Secondary School, Barwala, and Sector 17, Panchkula, for the needy.The Speaker said 126 temporary shelter homes have been set up in the state where over 10,000 migrant workers will be provided shelter and food.He said along with providing food, social distancing is also being practiced at these shelters. Gupta said, “Shelter homes are being sanitised regularly under the supervision of the Health Department.”He said sarpanch Rajinder Goyal and residents of Barwala village have been distributing 2,500 food packets to migrants.Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said arrangements have been made for stay of 998 migrants in the shelter homes.The Deputy Commissioner said 12 temporary shelter homes have been set up in the district. He said 47 labourers have been kept at Barwala and 52 workers at at Sector 17.Besides, 86 migrants have been kept at a shelter home in Kalka and 27 in Marranwala, 60 at Government Primary School, Sector 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/126-shelter-homes-set-up-in-haryana-says-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-64011
