01-08-2020|| Chandigarh||Haryana reports 793 new coronavirus cases; tally crosses 35K||Haryana reported 793 new coronavirus cases and seven deaths, taking the states COVID-19 tally past 35,000.The tally now stands at 35,758 infections with 428 deaths.Faridabad continued to report the most cases, reporting 175 cases on Saturday.  It also accounted for three of the state’s seven deaths. Kurukshetra reported two, and Gurugram and Panipat each reported one.Gurugram (99), Panipat (93), Rewari (85), Ambala (83), Yamunanagar (40), Panchkula (38), Kurukshetra (37) and Rohtak (34) all reported new cases.The state now has 6,250 active cases. Meanwhile, 853 were released on Saturday from hospitals across the state after recovery.Gurugram continues to lead the infection table in the district, with about 9,166 infections of which 918 active. Gurugram has reported 124 deaths so far. However, Faridabad, which has, since the past few days, been reporting the most cases in the state, appears to be quickly catching up---the district tally now stands at 8830 cases, 1149 of which are still active.  The district’s death count now stands at 134.Harayan’s Health and Family Welfare’s Additional Chief Secretary Rajeev Arora told the press at a briefing that the state has ramped up its testing capacity “significantly”, with 6,28,806 tests conducted thus far with a positivity rate of 5.74 per cent. The state’s fatality rate has come down to 1.20 per cent and doubling rate has improved to 25 days, he said.  He also pegged Haryana’s recovery rate at 81.32 per cent.Some 111 people are on oxygen support in the state and 16 people who are critical and on ventilator support.District-wise break up of cases in the state is as follows: Gurugram (9166), Faridabad (8830) Sonepat (2899), Rewari (1794) Ambala (1626), Rohtak (1528), Karnal (1085), Panipat (1146), Hisar (966),  Palwal (929), Jhajjar (823), Mahendragarh (822), Bhiwani (781), Nuh (545), Panchkula (599), Kurukshetra (460), Sirsa (371), Fatehabad (339), Yamunanagar (305), Jind (285), Kaithal (266), Charkhi Dadri (155), Italian (14) and Foreign Returnees (21)   Death toll stands thus: Gurugram (124), Faridabad (134), Sonepat (32), Rewari (8), Ambala (16), Rohtak (23), Karnal (10), Panipat (14), Hisar (15), Palwal (9), Jhajjar (10), Mahedragarh (1), Bhiwani (5), Nuh (12), Panchkula (2), Kurukshetra (4), Sirsa (2), Fatehabad (2), Yamunanagar (3), Jind (5), and Chakki Dadri (1)
01-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Arrested DSP’s son threatens to destroy Bhondsi jail to avenge father; nabbed||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, August 1The Gurugram crime unit has nabbed Ravi Chautala, son of former deputy jail superintendent Dharmbeer Chautala, for allegedly threatening to explode Bhondsi jail.The accused Ravi Chautala was enraged over the arrest of his father who was nabbed for supplying drugs and mobiles in jail. He had released an audio threat a few days ago.Ravi was produced in a city court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody in Neemka jail. The mobile which was used to record the audio clip has also been recovered from his possession.After the arrest of his father, Ravi Chautala went on to issue an audio threat to blast the jail off and attack jail officials. Citing the audio as a national security threat, the Gurugram police registered a case and traced Chautala to Sirsa and nabbed him from there late on Wednesday night.According to the complaint filed by assistant jail superintendent Sanjay Kumar, it was on Friday night when an inmate shared the audio in which Ravi Chautala threatened and claimed that he would avenge his father and was waiting for his father’s bail.“There will be a big riot in jail and whoever wishes to escape it should seek a transfer. I have warned you. All gangsters from Haryana, UP, Punjab, Rajasthan and Delhi are in touch with me. I will set Jail Superintendent and Deputy Superintendent right because my father was insulted in jail,” the accused said in his audio clip.The audio clip went viral through Whatsapp. Following the complaint, an FIR was registered and the accused was nabbed.“The arrested accused, Ravi Chautala (30), confessed that he had recorded the audio on July 24 when he was sitting with some friends. Soon after, the audio clip went viral and reached the jail officers. We have recovered his mobile phone. He was sent into judicial custody to Neemka jail,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP (Crime).It may be noted Chautala’s father, Dharambeer Chautala, was posted as DSP in Bhondsi Jail. He was nabbed by Gurugram police for allegedly misusing his position to facilitate smuggling of drugs and mobiles and SIMs into jail.“Ravi was infuriated by the arrest and wanted to avenge it and thus, issued an audio threat,” the police added.
01-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||Encouraging results in first phase, 3 volunteers given second dose of Covid vaccine at Rohtak PGI||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 1A total of 79 volunteers have so far been successfully administered the first dose of indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Science here under the first phase of its human clinical trial. Three volunteers were given the vaccine of Friday.The trial aims at ascertaining the vaccine’s efficacy in generating antibodies against coronavirus and any adverse effect on health.As nothing harmful was witnessed, the doctors have also started giving the second dose--three were given on Friday--to those who got the first 14 days ago. Prior to that, they underwent a test to check the level of antibodies after the first dose, given on July 17.“We have got encouraging results after administering the first dose to all 79 volunteers under the first phase. All are being observed closely and none of them has so far complained of any adverse effect on their health. Twenty volunteers were given first dose of the vaccine under part-1 and 59 in part-2 of the first phase,” said Dr Ramesh Verma, co-investigator and Professor at the Community Medicine Department.   Dr Verma maintained that the Rohtak PGIMS was among 12 institutes across the country and the only one in Haryana selected for the human trials. The nationwide trials would be conducted in two phases--on 375 volunteers in the first phase and 750 in the second.After vaccination, tests will be conducted on the volunteers to find out the level of antibodies. "The second phase of the trial is likely to start in the first week of September," he added.Dr Savita Verma, trial principal investigator and Professor at the PGIMS Department of Pharmacology, said only healthy people in the age group of 18 to 55 years had been included. A written consent had been obtained from the volunteers, she said.
01-08-2020||Gurugram||Rajasthan cops again turned away by resorts||The three resorts in Manesar, reportedly housing Congress rebel Sachin Pilot’s supporters, refused to cooperate with the Rajasthan Police, turning away their Anti-Corruption Bureau team that wanted to serve notice on two MLAs in an alleged corruption case.The team came looking for Congress MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh at ITC Grand Bharat, Best Western Country Club and Heritage, but none of the resorts reportedly allowed them in.Headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police Saleh Mohammad, the team was told that the resorts “were not housing any guests matching the names or description shared by the ACB.” — TNS
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Six Gurugram officers suspended||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today placed six revenue officers of Gurugram under suspension for registering deeds in violation of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act.An official spokesperson said Tehsildar Bansi Lal and Naib Tehsildars Dalbir Singh Duggal, Hari Krishan, Jai Parkash, Desh Raj Kamboj and Jagdish were suspended and chargesheeted.
01-08-2020||Faridabad||In Faridabad, illegal colonies detected over 250 acres||The Town and Country Planning Department has detected that 60 residential localities have come up in the district in the past seven years. These localities are spread over 250 acres of land.The illegal colonies with 50 to 200 houses are located in villages of Kidawali, Dadasiya, Korali, Jajru, Bhopani, Kailgaon, Nachauli, Newada, Palwali, Qureshipur, Seekri, Saroorpur and Palla in the district.These colonies are in addition to 66 which were regularised in 2014-15. Many houses in the illegal colonies have been registered and have power connections.An official, on the condition of anonymity, said a comprehensive survey of illegal colonies was yet to be carried out, but rough estimates suggest that illegal colonies on 250 to 300 acres came up in the past seven years.Sources in the local administration say the illegal construction continues unabated on the back of political patronage to property dealers, who carry out their business in cahoots with land registration officers.Naresh Kumar, District Town Planner (Enforcement), claimed: “No new colony has been constructed this year so far. All illegal constructions detected so far came up in already existing colonies. More than 20 illegalstructures in colonies that were built in 2013 were demolished.”“We have lodged 56 FIRs. Since January,400 new and illegal constructions have been razed,” he added.
01-08-2020||Rohtak||Minister okays Rs 5 L for champion from Rohtak||Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju has sanctioned Rs 5 lakh for Shiksha, a financially distressed national wushu champion from Rohtak. She had been forced to work as farm labourer at Indergarh village in Rohtak to support her family. She had been helping her mother, who worked as labourer under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.
01-08-2020||Karnal||Girl dies in roof collapse in Karnal||
01-08-2020||Karnal||Students shine in BMC results||18 webinars organisedKarnal: Dr Chander Shekhar, Principal, Dyal Singh College, said that during the Covid lockdown, faculty members of the college worked hard to organise online academic activities. As many as 18 webinars, faculty development programmes, workshops were organised at the international and national level to enhance the academic status of the students and the teachers. Hundreds of students of Haryana, different states of the country and abroad participated in these programmes.Doctoral fellowship schemeFaridabad: In yet another boost to the JC Bose University’s efforts to promote research and start-up, the All-India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) has allotted seats to the university under the ‘AICTE doctoral fellowship (ADF)’ scheme to promote collaborative research between the institute and industries leading to start-up and to nurture talents for technical research. The university has got seven seats out of the total 300 seats allotted to 26 technical universities across the country. While giving information in this regard, Vice Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said the allotment of the seats under the ADF scheme would further support the university initiatives to promote technological research and innovation.Seminar on women empowermentFaridabad: DAV Centenary College, Faridabad, organised a national seminar on “Women empowerment and gender sensitivity: Need and issues” under the patronage of the officiating Principal Dr Savita Bhagat and with Dr Ruchi Arora, teacher in-charge, women cell, as the programme convener. The webinar was meant to highlight the needs and issues of women empowerment and gender sensitivity. The chief guest, Shiv Raman Gaur (IAS retired), Director, Higher Education, DAV CMC, New Delhi, expressed his views on gender equality and said that empowering women contributed to growth, development and stability in society.
01-08-2020||Panipat||Anil Vij tells Karnal SP to probe kids’ murder, lathicharge||Taking note of the lathicharge and use of water cannon by the Panipat police on protesters, Home Minister Anil Vij on Friday sought status report from the district police.Dissatisfied with the status report presented by the district police, the Home Minister ordered an inquiry into the matter by SP Karnal and directed him to report within two days.The incidentOn Friday morning, Home Minister Anil Vij sought status report from SP Panipat Manisha Chaudhary in the murder case of three children and about the lathicharge on the protesters in Panipat by the police on Thursday.Following the directions, DSP Sandeep Kumar, in-charge, SIT, and SHO, Model Town, inspector Sunil Kumar went to the residence of the Home Minister at Ambala today and gave the status report of the case and also briefed him the details.Dissatisfied with the status report, Vij ordered an inquiry into the matter. Vij said, “I have ordered SP Karnal to investigate and submit a report within two days. Whosoever is guilty, strict action will be taken as per law.”The district police have booked 600 villagers, including 39 persons by name under various Sections. The police arrested 14 persons — Mahavir, Ramkishan, Sitaram, Pawan, Sumit, Ramesh, Rajkumar, Ashok, Om Prakash, Pale Ram, Daryao Singh, Rajpal, Satpal Singh and Raj Shekhar — on Thursday and produced them in court on Friday. The court has sent them in 14-day judicial custody, SP Panipat Manisha Chaudhary said.As the allegations levelled by the victims’ parents and the primary investigation of the police are contradictory, we have decided to conduct lie-detection test of the accused named in the murder case, the SP said. We have moved an application in court on Friday seeking permission for the lie-detection test.
01-08-2020||Rohtak||MPhil student of Pt BD Sharma University, who accused HoD of harassment, flunks||A 27-year-old M Phil (clinical psychology) student of the Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS) has alleged foul play in the result of the final-year examinations conducted last year. She has accused the authorities of deliberately failing her in the examination because she had filed a complaint of harassment against the head of the department (HoD).Charges baseless, claims dept headRajeev Dogra, head of the clinical psychology department, has refuted the allegations of sexual harassment as false and baseless. On the complainant flunking the examination in spite of her good academic record, she said he had no role in the exams or viva as he had been debarred from the examination process.“It is difficult to fathom that I flunked the examination. My academic record has always been good. I passed BA (Honours) in psychology with distinction, secured second rank in MA (applied psychology) and fourth rank in first-year M Phil exams, and performed well in the internal assessment,” she told The Tribune on Thursday.In July 2019, she and seven of her classmates had accused Rajeev Dogra, head of the department, of harassment. Two of the students, however, retracted their statement later. Interestingly, those two girls passed the examination, and the rest flunked.“Of the six students who flunked, five cleared the examination with the help of grace marks,” the 27-year-old woman said.The written examination was conducted in October last year and the viva the next month. The results were declared in December. The 27-year-old woman claimed that according to the result uploaded on the university’s website, she had cleared the examination.But when she went to the university to collect her marks sheet on January 3 this year, she learnt that she had flunked. The result was taken down from the university’s website within a week of uploading it. When contacted, the university claimed it was a technical error.The 27-year-old student approached the sexual harassment committee of the UHS, but no decision has been taken so far. Then she moved the Haryana State Commission for Women. On Wednesday, a team of the women’s commission led by its member Namrata Gaur visited the UHS and recorded the statements Gaur said, “We have sought the examination record from the university. The chairperson of the UHS sexual harassment committee has been asked to cross-examine the complainants through videoconferencing and conclude the inquiry by August 15.”
01-08-2020||Jind||Self-immolation bid by khap leader in Jind||A khap leader attempted self-immolation during a protest by sacked physical training instructors (PTIs) after which the police resorted to lathi-charge to disperse them in Jind on Friday.The protesters gathered in the town and went to the mini secretariat to stage a demonstration. The police said khap leader Rangi Ram, who had announced self-immolation in support of sacked PTIs, had demanded their reinstatement. — TNS
01-08-2020||These pictures pertain to Chhoti Market in Sector 9||Ambala sector in pitiable condition||Salary not paid to teachersIndeed it is very shocking to note that the teachers of Government General Midwifery School in Karnal have not been paid salary for the past five months. This is due to the lack of communication between the Directorate of Health Services and of Director of Medical Education and Research. This must be resolved at the earliest by the authorities concerned. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramFrequent power cuts in NarwanaSince a fortnight, it has been extremely hot here and the attitude of electricity employees during this time has been traumatic. There are frequent unannounced power cuts, and nobody picks up the phone in case of emergency. During nights, the voltage suddenly dips and all electrical gadgets stop working. People can't sleep properly .The power employees should be considerate towards the problems of the people. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWaterlogged Kaithal roadsFollowing a spell of rain on Thursday morning, the roads in Kaithal city have been waterlogged. This is the fourth occasion in the current monsoon season that the poor drainage system has resulted in waterlogging of roads. Accumulated rain water has entered some low-lying colonies and some shops in markets. Despite repeated directives by Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh to desilt drains and clean sewerage system, no serious efforts have been made by the departments concerned .The nullahs and drains along the roads and sewerage lines are lying choked . The administration should awaken and act. — Satish Seth, KaithalMandi a bane for residentsThe apple season has started and it is trouble time for residents of Sector 20, Panchkula as heavy trucks can be seen lining up on the road dividing Sector 20-21. This is a recurring problem and residents of Sector 20-21-Peer Mushalla go through this agony for three months every year. It also damages the road extensively. Almost 75 per cent of road space is taken up by the parked trucks. Not only this, drivers of these vehicles can be seen taking bath alongside the road. I would humbly request the administration to take necessary steps to relieve the residents of this ordeal. — Col KJ Singh (retd.), PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
01-08-2020||Yamunanagar||In a first, Yamunanagar gram sabha holds e-meeting||For the first time in Haryana, a virtual meeting of the gram sabha of Khurdban village of Yamunanagar district was held on Thursday through video conferencing amid the Covid crisis.The meeting was addressed by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala; Principal Secretary, Development and Panchayat Department Sudhir Rajpal; and RK Mehta, Director of Haryana Institute of Rural Development, Nilokheri.The other participants at the meeting were Deputy Commissioner, Yamunanagar, Mukul Kumar; sarpanch of the village Yuvraj Sharma and about 300 people, including panches of the gram panchayat, villagers and officials of the local administration.Addressing the meeting, Dushyant Chautala said that technology was the future of the country as it was an effective tool to establish contact with maximum people during the Covid crisis.“During the Covid crisis, it is difficult to hold meetings of gram sabhas. But the sarpanch of Khurdban village has made history by conducting a virtual meeting through video conferencing, paving the way for other villages of the state to conduct gram sabha meetings in the future,” said Dushyant Chautala.Yuvraj Sharma, sarpanch of the village, said that it was mandatory to hold four meetings of a gram sabha in a year. Therefore, they had decided to hold a virtual meeting through webinar.He said that discussions were held in the meeting on issues related to income and expenditure of gram panchayat, MGNREGA works being done during the Covid period, plan for holding studies in the government school of the village, schemes of the Agriculture Department, health issues and awareness of Covid.During the interaction with the Deputy Chief Minister, MGNREGA workers demanded that working days be raised from 100 to 150 days under the scheme.Several other demands, including widening of road from Radaur town to Khurdban village, were also raised by the villagers.Yuvraj Sharma (31), who is M.Tech in Electronics and Communication and has a post-graduate diploma in Panchayati Raj and Rural Development, left the job of assistant professor in MM University, Mullana, in 2016 to contest the election of sarpanch.
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Probe team submits report||The head of the Special Enquiry Team (SET), Additional Chief Secretary Power TC Gupta, submitted his report on the liquor scam to the Home Department today.The tenure of the three-member SET ended today. The other two members were CP Gurugram Muhammad Akil and Additional Excise and Taxation Officer Vijay Singh. Home Minister Anil Vij told mediapersons, “The report has been submitted to ACS Home Vijai Vardhan. It is being examined. It weighs around 15-20 kg. Whatever is there in the report, we will make it public. We will also inform about the action taken.”The SET has checked the availability of stocks in all warehouses sealed by the Excise Department during the past two years. It has examined the cases of seizure of illicit liquor from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020, by the police and Excise Departments.
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||887 recover from virus, a new record in Haryana||A total of 887 patients, including 380 from Faridabad, recovered from Covid in the last 24 hours, the highest figure ever. The recovery rate crossed 80 per cent today, with 28,227 patients having been discharged so far.With 711 fresh cases, the Covid tally reached 34,965 today. Four deaths pushed the toll to 421. One death each was reported from Gurugram, Rohtak, Ambala and Panipat.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (176), Gurugram (78), Rewari (74), Rohtak (62), Ambala (48), Panipat (44), Palwal (37), Hisar (36), Panchkula (29), Karnal (28), Sonepat (21), Mahendragarh (19), Charkhi Dadri (13), Jind (12), Nuh (8), Sirsa, Bhiwani and Kaithal (6 each) and Jhajjar and Fatehabad (4 each).
01-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Victim’s body handed over to family as Covid-negative in Yamunanagar||In a case of gross negligence by the health authorities, the body of a Covid victim was handed over to the family as Covid-negative in Yamunanagar on Thursday.Later, the authorities called up the family to tell them that the victim was Covid-positive.Then, the body was taken to the Civil Hospital from the house of the victim and cremated by the district administration as per Covid protocol late in the evening.According to information, the patient, a known case of pulmonary tuberculosis with pleural effusion on treatment from Government Medical College, Chandigarh, was brought dead to Civil Hospital here on July 28.Cheit Singh, a brother of the deceased, said that they were given the body with a Covid-negative report on July 30.“We took the body home at Jawahar Nagar, Yamunanagar. We started preparations for the cremation. In the meantime, we got a phone call from the Civil Hospital telling us that the victim is Covid-positive. We were told not to take out the body from the body cover,” said Cheit Singh.He said that after some time, the body was taken to the Civil Hospital and was cremated by the health authorities in the evening.“It is a case of gross negligence and action should be taken against those responsible,” said Cheit Singh.Dr Vijay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Yamunanagar district, said that the sample of the body was sent to Ambala for Covid sampling and report came inconclusive on July 29. Therefore, the test was again repeated.“The repeat sample report came out positive but by mistake, the report was given as negative by the data operator. On the basis of the report, the attendants got the body released from the mortuary. But the mistake came in the notice of the hospital authorities immediately and the body was taken back from the family within minutes of reaching home,” said Dr Dahiya.He added that the body was already well wrapped in body cover and it was not opened.He further said that the body was then cremated by the district administration with complete Covid protocol at the designated cremation site.
01-08-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Patient escapes to native place, booked||A Covid patient from Badahshapur, escaped from home isolation. The patient was a native of UP and has reportedly run away to his native village. An FIR has been registered at the Badshahpur police station. Officials of the Health Department are now trying to contact him.According to the police, the Covid patient was a native of Rai Bareli in UP and lived as a tenant in a room, located on Darbaripur road. It was on July 17 when he tested positive for the virus and the Health Department sent him in home quarantine. After two days, the Health Department team contacted him on his mobile, but it was found switched off. When the team reached his rented room, he was found missing.The department traced him at his native place. Today, medical officer Dr Vibha filed a complaint at the Badshahpur police station and an FIR has been registered against him.A senior police officer said they were contact the accused patient so that he could be quarantined at his native place.
01-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram plans to distribute seized Covid drugs to poor||The district drug department plans to distribute Covid drugs seized from the Iraqi smuggling cartel to patients belonging to economically weaker sections (EWS).A couple of days ago, the drug authorities had conducted a raid at Sector 47 here and seized 132 vials of Remdesivir, 55 strips of Fabiflu and 18 packs of Lopikast from three smugglers and a local pharmacist. They were allegedly trying to smuggle the Covid drugs to Iraq, where the medicines would have been sold at ten times the price.As the medicines are case property now, the department plans to seek their custody from the court citing the Covid emergency.“The medicines are genuine, but case property. We will move an application in court and try to get the custody of medicines. If we get the custody, we will distribute the drugs among poor patients,” said Drug Controller Amandeep Chauhan.Remdesivir costs Rs 5,400 per vial in Gurugram. But in the National Capital Region (NCR), it is being reportedly sold for Rs 50,000 per vial on the black market. A strip of Fabiflu, which is available for Rs 2,500 here, is being sold for Rs 6,000, while Lopikast which costs Rs 3,990 per vial is being sold for Rs 12,000.
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||High Court: Continue probe against pvt  diagnostic lab||The High Court today ordered continuation of investigation against SRL Limited, while ordering that the challan or final investigation report in a case alleging misreporting of Covid results may not be filed. The order by Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul will remain in force at least till the last week of August, when the case would come up for further hearing.ABOUT THE CASESRL Limited carries out tests on 1,522 samples from April 4 to 20, 44 of which test positiveCivil Surgeon complains misreporting, after which 15 samples, sent for retesting, test negativeInquiry carried out, followed by issuance of a notice to the diagnostic laboratoryMemorandum of understanding cancelled with immediate effect; FIR registeredThe diagnostic company had moved the High Court against Haryana for quashing an FIR registered in Gurugram on July 9 under provisions of the Disaster Management Act and for cheating, forgery and other offences.Senior advocate RS Rai and accompanying lawyers told the Bench that the petitioner was designated as a private laboratory for Covid testing vide a notification dated March 29 and a memorandum of understanding signed between the company and Haryana Medical Service Corporation Limited.The company carried out tests on 1,522 samples from April 4 to 20, 44 of which tested positive. The Ambala Civil Surgeon complained misreporting of some samples, after which 15 samples were sent to the PGIMS in Rohtak for retesting, where these tested negative.An inquiry was conducted, followed by issuance of a show-cause notice, which was replied to by the petitioner. The memorandum of understanding was cancelled with immediate effect vide a letter dated April 21. The FIR was subsequently registered.The Bench was told that the company had conducted the tests with ICMR-approved kits in accordance with guidelines of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.“World over, an error of 10 to 12 per cent is being seen with respect to diagnostic tests being carried out for Covid. As such, an error has crept in on this count, if at all, though it is not admitted. It will be unreasonable on the part of the authorities to allege mala fide intent,” Rai added.
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana doing well in checking spread: Niti||Haryana is among the few states which have been able to lessen Covid spread while not affecting trade and industry.Its efforts have caught the eye of Niti Aayog, which recently tweeted, “Haryana has emerged as one of the strong performers among states in India with respect to the management of Covid pandemic.”Niti Aayog took a detailed presentation recently on various methods adopted by the state in its fight against the pandemic.In the last four months, the state had recorded 32,876 cases, with 25,758 having recovered and the virus proving fatal in case of 406 patients.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said, “Districts like Gurugram and Faridabad, which share proximity to New Delhi, have an excellent recovery rate of 87.09 per cent and 78.5 per cent, respectively.”“We were on our toes since the beginning. We kept a vigil on foreign returnees through the police from an early stage. The mechanism for contact tracing was formulated on time, which played a major role in containing the spread,” he said.“Fatality management was also among the key factors. Death audit was done in a systematic manner and corrective measures taken to reduce fatalities,” Arora added.
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Health dept to recruit 2,200 specialists||As Covid cases continue to spike, the Health Department has decided to recruit over 2,200 specialised medical and paramedical staff to combat the Covid pandemic.The Additional Chief Secretary (Health) has agreed to the proposal of the Director General (Health Services) to recruit the staff on contractual basis. The staff to be recruited included 1,604 staff nurses/nursing officers, 307 laboratory technicians, 197 radiographers and 92 pharmacists.Besides, one intensivist, five duty medical officers, five technicians/anaesthesia technicians/ operation theatre technicians and one counsellor will also be recruited. — TNS
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice on Khemka plea||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the Union of India on notice on a petition by IAS officer Ashok Khemka to consider him for empanelment at the level of Additional Secretary to the Government of India.Khemka is currently posted as Principal Secretary, Science and Technology, Haryana. Taking up his petition, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh fixed August 24 as the next date of hearing. — TNS
01-08-2020||Hisar||Four members of Bishnoi gang nabbed in Rajasthan||The police have been on the alert after the arrest of four members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang — belonging to Hisar, Fatehabad and Panipat districts in Haryana — by the Bhilwara police in Rajasthan yesterday.On Wednesday, the Bhilwara police arrested the gangsters after a hot chase on the Ajmer-Bhilwara highway.They were found in possessing of a cache of firearms, including 20 pistols and cartridges. The police, especially in Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad, have become alert after the accused revealed to the Rajasthan Police that they were scheduled to deliver the arms in Hisar district.The arrested gangsters were identified as Rajender alias Joker of Mugalpura village in Uklana and Pravesh of Uklana, Monu of Rajuwala village in Fatehabad and Vikram of Panipat.Police sources said Rajender has six criminal cases registered against him in Hisar including attempt to murder.The accused revealed to the Bhilwara police that they were acting on the directions of a jailed gangster Subham.Hisar SP Ganga Ram Punia said that they were keeping track of the situation. “The Bhilwara police will take Subham on transit remand for interrogation about the firearms’ destination in Hisar,” he said.
