01-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Violation of SOPs: Two Rohtak markets shut for 3 days||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 1District Magistrate-cum-Disaster Management Officer R.S.Verma has ordered the closure of Old Sabzi Mandi and Malgodam Road markets in Rohtak city for a period of three days for non-compliance of directions issued to check the spread of Covid pandemic.In the orders passed today, the local SP, Duty Magistrate and Incident Commander have been directed to ensure the implementation of the said orders.The orders state that the local authorities and officials concerned had reported that the shopkeepers of the said markets were not following the directions and standard operating procedures (SOPs), which could trigger the community transmission of Covid.“The number of Covid cases is rising continuously due to non-compliance of the relevant guidelines at the local markets. The violation of the guidelines and SOPs has been recorded by drone cameras and if this is allowed to go on, it can lead to dire consequences,” the orders maintain.The District Magistrate has warned that if the shopkeepers flouted the orders at the other markets of Rohtak, those markets would also be closed likewise.
01-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak PGIMS to conduct human trials of indigenous Covid vaccine||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 1Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, is all set to conduct clinical human trials to evaluate the safety and efficacy of an indigenous Covid vaccine.As per official sources, the safety of the candidate vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, a Hyderabad-based company, has already been proven in animal studies.“Rohtak PGIMS is among the 12 institutes across the country and the only one in Haryana selected for conducting the human trials. We have obtained the requisite permissions for the purpose and will begin these as soon as we receive the vaccine,” Dr Savita Verma, Professor at the Department of Pharmacology at Rohtak PGIMS and Principal Investigator of the study, told The Tribune.Professor Verma said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV) had provided the strain of the Coronavirus for developing the vaccine to the said company.Prof (Dr) Dhruva Chaudhry, State Nodal Officer for Covid-19, and Dr Ramesh Verma, Professor at the Department of Community Medicine at Rohtak PGIMS, are the co-investigators.The team of researchers has requested residents to come forward as volunteers for the study. The interested persons may call on the PGIMS Covid-10 Helpline no. 9416447071.“The volunteers participating in this endeavor shall be looked after well to manage any mild or serious side-effects,” maintained Dr Verma, adding that the trials would be conducted in two phases, on 375 volunteers in the first phase and 750 in the second.
01-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Motherhood after 45 years: UP, Haryana have highest child-bearing rate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 1Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Haryana reported the highest child bearing rate of women in the age group of 45-49.According to Sample Registration System (SRS) Statistical Report 2018, released recently, UP reported a fertility rate of 10.4 in 45-49 age group in 2018 while Haryana had 7.0. At national level it was 4.8.The fertility rate is defined as number of live births per 1,000 women.The fertility rate in Haryana in 45-49 age bracket was lower previously--3.5 in 2017, 3.3 in 2016 and 2.0 in 2015.The SRS report, published by the office of Registrar General of India annually, also evaluates fertility of women in comparison with their education standards across different age groups.In Haryana, among the literates in the age group of 45-49, the women who were educated below primary level led with 10.2 fertility rate, followed by graduates and above at 8.3 and primary educated ones at 8.2. The illiterate women had a fertility rate of 7.4 in this age group.  Otherwise, Haryana had its highest fertility rate in the age group of 25-29 at 169.1 in 2018, implying most mothers in the state bear children in this age group. It is followed by the age group of 20-24 at 118.3 and 30-34 at 91.4.Even in the age group of 40-44, Haryana reported a fertility rate of 10.6 in 2018.In the North, J&K women had a fertility rate of 6.5, Himachal Pradesh (HP) had 1.5, Punjab and Uttarakhand had reported 3.5 while Delhi had 1.7 in 45-49 age bracket.Except for Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and West Bengal where fertility reached its peak in the age group 20-24, and Jammu & Kashmir where fertility reached its peak in the age group 30-34, the highest fertility in all the other bigger states and UTs was attained in the age group 25-29, says the report.Fertility, however, declined from age 30 in all, except Jammu & Kashmir where it declined from age 35.“The higher fertility rate in 45-49 age group in Haryana is due to widely available treatment for infertility and son preference which forces couple to have children till late. However, if we see the overall picture, social economic transition has forced women to compress their reproductive period. It starts late and ends early,” said Prof Aswini Kumar Nanda, who works as a health economist at the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh.  Infant mortality rate  Infant Mortality Rate (IMR), which is defined as the infant deaths (less than one year) per thousand live births, in Haryana was more than the neighbouring states in 2018.The IMR in Haryana was 30 while it was 13 in Delhi, 19 in HP, 20 in Punjab and 22 in J&K. At national level it was 32. It was the highest in Madhya Pradesh at 48 and lowest in Kerala at 7.However, the IMR dipped in Haryana by 44.4 per cent from 2006-08 (55.4) to 2016-18 (30.8).The neo-natal (when age is less than 29 days) mortality rate in Haryana was also higher than Delhi, HP, J&K and Punjab.
01-07-2020||Ambala||9 fresh cases take Ambala’s Covid tally to 328||Nine fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in Ambala on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 328.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said the fresh cases included seven members from two families, including four from one and three from another, in Ambala city, who all were contacts of Covid patients, a 60-year-old male and a 25-year-old woman, both from Ambala city, having travel history.After the discharge of a cured patient, the total number of active cases in the district has reached 32.
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sultry weather in Haryana and Punjab||Haryana and Punjab witnessed a hot and humid Wednesday, with maximum temperatures settling two-three notches above normal limits.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a maximum temperature of 36.5 degrees Celsius, according to the Meteorological Department here.In Haryana, the maximum temperature in Hisar was 40.6 degrees Celsius, followed by Ambala 37.7 degrees Celsius and Karnal 37 degrees Celsius. Amritsar in Punjab recorded a high of 39 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 38.1 degrees Celsius and Patiala 37.7 degrees Celsius. PTI
01-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Man shot dead in Haryana||A 48-year-old man was shot dead by three motorbike-borne assailants in Mandhar village of this district in Haryana, police said on Wednesday.Gurvinder Singh was shot in his head and chest on Tuesday evening, they said, adding the victim was rushed to a hospital here where he died during treatment.A case has been registered against unidentified miscreants, police said. PTI
01-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram to restart bus services in three phases||Gurugram will restart its public transportation system from July 2, officials said---a development that several parts of the country gradually ease restrictions on movement imposed in March.Gurugram, which opened up its malls on Wednesday more than two months after it was closed down in an attempt to stop the spread of coronavius, would start with restarting its city bus services---the GMCBL City Bus Service.The bus services will resume gradually in three phases---with some routes opening up at a time.   “Permissions came looking at the difficulty of people to move from one place to another in the city. The Buses would be sanitised prior to their running and abide by the Standard Operating Procedures. GMCBL has worked out a detailed SOP guidelines that would apply to bus drivers, CSA’s, passengers, depot staff and special measures for creating public awareness,” GMCBL Chief Executive Officer Sonal Goel. Passenger advisories have been displayed at four main bus stops---Iffco Chowk, Hero Honda, Gurugram Bus Stand and near Mini Secretariat.Phase 1 will have six routes and a fleet of 68 buses. These are the bus routes that will open up on July 2.Route 212: Basai Chowk - HUDA City Centre (Mudrika) Route 134: Iffco Chowk to IMT Manesar Route 112D: Gurugram Bus Stand to Sec-56 (Ghata) Route 218: Gurugram Bus Stand to Sohna Route 116F: Rajesh Pilot Chowk to Railway Station Route 122: Gurugram Bus Stand to Sikander Pur Metro Metro services however have no permission to resume yet. Guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs said on Monday called Unlock 2 said metro services will remain suspended until the government decides otherwise.
01-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram malls reopen, receive slow footfall||After almost four months, the malls in Gurugram reopened on Wednesday.The malls received a lukewarm response despite taking all safety and security measures amid the ongoing pandemic.The malls, even, announced sales post noon, but they received a slow footfall.“We expected a good footfall especially with the youngsters, but have got a lukewarm response. We, even, sent out messages about special offers in our mall after 12:00 pm, but no use. We are hoping for business to pick up by evening,” said one of the mall managers on the MG Road.“The malls have been worst hit by COVID lockdown, and it will take many months to bring people back. We have been opened and have spent a moolah putting all SOP's in place to fight any fear of COVID transmission but don't expect much business. People are sticking to online shopping and nobody wants to come in for buying clothes, shoes etc. The Cinema halls are shut so is the play area and half the food court With no recreation we don't expect many to come in,” said a mall owner in Sushant lok.Surprisingly, one of the most popular and crowd-gathering malls, Ambience, on Delhi-Gurugram border also bore a barren look this afternoon.The malls have seen a drop in online sales after they were reopened. Meanwhile, the MCG teams are keeping a close tab on all the malls.“We have been inspecting their arrangements every few hours. No many people have turned out owing to COVID fear, but we are ensuring complete sanitization and screening modules to keep malls ready for shoppers,” said Joint Commissioner, Hari Om Attri.
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt orders colleges, universities to remain shut till July 31||The Haryana Government on Wednesday ordered that colleges and universities in the state will continue to remain closed till July 31 as per Unlock 2.0 guidelines issued by the Centre.It also announced summer vacation in all government and private schools from July 1 to July 26 for teaching and administrative staff who had been attending schools, even though no regular classes were being held in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.“Subsequently, from July 27, 2020, the schools will reopen for teachers and non-academic staff only, and students will not attend schools,” Education Minister Kanwar Pal said.The Union Home Ministry will issue necessary guidelines on allowing students to attend schools after reopening as per the circumstances prevailing then, he said.Meanwhile, in an order issued to vice chancellors of government and private universities, and college principals, the Higher Education Principal Secretary said, “Following Centre’s guidelines, the state government has decided that all universities and colleges shall remain closed till July 31.”       However, online learning for students will continue.“The administrative staff in the universities and colleges will be coming as per the usual protocol for completion of administrative works. However, all precautionary measures as notified by the MHA, Government of India, and by the state government shall be adhered to meticulously at the institutional level,” said the order.All vice-chancellors have been asked to hold consultations with various stakeholders regarding reopening of higher educational institutions and submit their recommendations to the government within the next 10 days, as per the order.All colleges, universities and schools in Haryana have remained shut after a coronavirus lockdown was imposed in March.                Education Minister Pal also said that during the summer vacation in schools, the ‘Chief Minister’s Distance Education Programme’ will continue to function.He said that all school heads and other officers appointed for supervision will prepare a report and present to the directorate. PTI
01-07-2020||Vijay Mohan||Home to IAF’s latest war bird, Rafale, country's oldest airbase at Ambala has an amazing history||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 1When the French-made Rafale multi-role fighter aircraft procured by India touch down at Ambala later this month, the country’s oldest airbase would have witnessed a century of amazing transformation and borne testimony to some of the most significant moments in Indian military aviation.What was initially an unpaved strip catering to flimsy biplanes of yore is now a massive sprawl gearing up to house one of the most advanced flying machines. The first batch of six Rafales out of the contracted 36, are reported to arrive at the frontline base on July 27, with a major infrastructure upgrade, including hardened shelters, hangars and maintenance facilities coming up over the past three years.“Ambala's tryst with military aviation dates back to 1919 when ‘Camp Umballa’ was created and 99 Squadron of the Royal Air Force (RAF), equipped with Bristol fighters, was located here. Ambala's next ‘avatar’ was as headquarters of the RAF India Command in 1922,” reads a plaque at the air force station. It saw several changes in its role before coming to its present designation of No. 7 Wing on August 1, 1954.In the early days aircraft such as De Havilland 9A and Bristol F2B flew out of Ambala. As air operations in India began increasing, more officers were transferred to Ambala and it was made a permanent air force base on June 18, 1938. The then Advanced Flying Training School was also based here. It was from this airbase that Spitfires and Harvards flown by Instructors took part in the fighting in the Srinagar Valley in the 1947-48 Kashmir Operations.In the pre-Independence era, Ambala has also been the home of No. 1 Squadron, the first Indian Air Force unit that had been initially raised at Karachi. After operations against tribesmen in the North Western Frontier Province, the squadron moved to Ambala in the mid-’30s. March 1939 saw one of the most significant events in the IAF, when then Flight Lieutenant (later Air Marshal) Subroto Mukerjee took over the squadron from Squadron Leader CH Smith at Ambala, becoming the first Indian officer to command a squadron. Subroto was promoted as Squadron Leader in August. He had earlier become the first Indian officer to become a flight commander. By then all three flight commanders in the squadron were Indians.Also read: Behind massive build-up at LAC is the IAF’s never-seen-before airlift capabilityImmediately after Independence, Marshal of the Indian Air Force Arjan Singh, then a Group Captain, took command of Ambala airbase. He led the first flypast over the Red Fort to mark Independence Day.In the early years after Independence, the Indian government could access the eastern frontiers only through air and it was during this time that Ambala airbase played an important role in controlling the tribal disturbances in the North East. It was then also made the centre for aerial photographic survey, a new advancement in this field which proved to be of great value later.The Flying Instructors School (FIS) was formed at Ambala on April 1, 1948, with Tigermoth aircraft, but was relocated to Tambaram near Chennai in October 1954. Later, Ambala operated Vampires, Toofanis, Mysteres and Hunters in a combat role. The airbase was attacked in 1965 by Pakistan’s B-57 bombers. However, apart from damage to a cathedral that was on one side of the airfield, no harm occurred.The only IAF squadron to have received the Param Vir Chakra, the highest gallantry award, No.18 Squadron, was based at Ambala with Gnat fighters when a detachment was moved to Srinagar for operations in 1965. Flying Officer Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon, the posthumous recipient, was part of the detachment. Under the conditions of the 1948 ceasefire agreement with Pakistan, India was not allowed to station fighter aircraft at Srinagar during peacetime and the detachment had to be rushed to Srinagar on declaration of hostilities.  In May 1999, the No. 1 Squadron, also known as Tigers, revisited their old home for undertaking serious war business. Now equipped with the Mirage-2000 the Tigers undertook electronic intelligence gathering and escort duties for aircraft flying strike missions and recce sorties. A total of 234 operational sorties were flown from Ambala as part of Operation Safed Sagar during the Kargil conflict, which included several missions at night. More recently, the Mirage 2000s are reported to have operated from Ambala during the strike across the Line of Control on terrorist camps at Balakote in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir.When the IAF upgraded the MiG-21 Bis to the Bison version in the mid-2000s, No. 3 Squadron, the Cobras based at Ambala, was the first to receive them. It was also with this squadron that the IAF’s first woman combat pilot, Bhawana Kanth, flew her maiden solo sortie in a fighter aircraft from this airbase.Not many know that a part of the Old Grand Trunk Road once passed through the present area of the airfield. An ancient bridge has been renovated to its original specifications and is being maintained by the Air Force. The area is the venue of demonstrations such as sky diving and aerobatics. In February 2003, the remains of a Supermarine Spitfire were discovered by locals in a riverbed near Ambala, which was reconstructed to its original shape as a display item at the airfield.Located adjacent to the Chandigarh-Delhi Highway in the state of Haryana approximately 240 km east of the border with Pakistan, Ambala also houses two squadrons of the Anglo-French origin Jaguar deep penetration strike aircraft along with ancillary units and allied establishments.The Rafales to be based at Ambala would be inducted into No. 17 Squadron, the Golden Arrows, which earlier flew the MiG-21s and was resurrected last year after having remained “number plated” since 2011. Of the two Rafale squadrons being formed, the other would be based at Hasimara in the east.According to IAF officers, Ambala was chosen for housing Rafales in the western sector due to several factors such as depth from the border, base infrastructure and technical facilities, airspace availability for local flying and training as well as allocation of IAF assets at other airbases in the region. A team of IAF pilots and engineers have trained in France and the jets are being flown to Ambala in Haryana by the Indian pilots from Istres commune in southern France, with a stopover at Al Dhafra airbase in the UAE.HighlightsAmbala's tryst with military aviation dates back to 1919Served as HQs of the RAF India Command in 1922Spitfires and Harvards from Ambala took part in 1947-48 Kashmir OperationsFirst Indian officer to command a squadron was at AmbalaThe only IAF squadron to receive a Param Vir Chakra flew from AmbalaThe only Marshal of the Indian Air Force commanded the baseMirage 2000 aircraft operated from Ambala during Kargil conflict and Balakote strikesIAF’s first woman combat pilot made her maiden solo fighter flight from AmbalaAmbala also houses two squadrons of Jaguar attack aircraft
01-07-2020||Gurugram||Post tremors, Gurugram pushes for quake-resistant buildings||In the backdrop of 17 earthquakes hitting Delhi NCR in the past three months and Gurugram being cited as being the un-safest, the local administration and disaster management authority is emphasising on earthquake-resistant structures.City in Seismic zone IVGurugram DC is including footer notes on all sale and purchase deeds and registries warning the people about the city being in seismic zone IVDeputy Commissioner, Gurugram, is including footer notes on all sale and purchase deeds and registries warning the people about the city being in seismic zone IV.“We are in seismic zone IV and are highly vulnerable to earthquakes. Thus, while making houses, buying or selling properties, keep this in mind. We suggest that you consult a structural engineer,” reads the note.Not only the advisory but authorities like District Town Planning (DTP), Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and Municipal Corporation Gurugram (MCG) also have started putting stringent earthquake-resistant structural parameters in place before approving any buildings.Architects have been apprised to design keeping the same in mind and earthquake resistance has been made a key factor in the issuance of structural safety certificate to any building.“Forewarned is forearmed. The recent tremors, though of moderate or low magnitude, should make people alert. Those buying properties or making new ones should know that we are in high-risk zone. Similarly, the existing structures, the high-rises should do a quality check and take necessary steps,” said DC Amit Khatri.On facing regular tremors, Gurugram authorities, had in 2015-16, taken up earthquake safety on top priority and found a majority of high-rises risky. However, with no major tremors over the years, the efforts were shelved.Gurugram, along with Delhi, falls in zone IV which is second-most earthquake-threatened seismic zone. According to experts, Gurugram is at higher risk than Delhi. While Delhi sits on top of three active seismic fault lines, Gurugram sits on seven, making it the riskiest area in Delhi NCR. If any of these becomes active, it can cause an earthquake of up to 7.5 magnitude.In 1960, an earthquake with epicentre along the Delhi-Gurugram border of 6.2 magnitude had damaged nearly 200 structures.
01-07-2020||Faridabad||2 boys drown in Faridabad lakes||Two teenage boys got drowned in two water bodies in the Surajkund area of the district on Tuesday. The bodies of the victims have been handed over to the kin after the post-mortem.According to the police, the first incident took place near Khori village, where a 16-year-old boy identified as Yogesh Kumar from Badkhal village went to a lake. As he jumped into the lake, he failed to come up and drowned soon. One of his friends, who was accompanying him, informed the police, who took out the body.The second incident took place near Mohabatabad village in the area, when a 13-year-old boy identified as Adarsh had entered into a water body, but failed to come out.The police have already issued an appeal to the locals to not to go for a swim in such lakes. — TNS
01-07-2020||Faridabad||10 structures razed in Faridabad||The Unlock period that started on June 8 has also fuelled the drive against illegal constructions in the district. At least 10 unauthorised commercial constructions were brought down on Sohna road here on Tuesday.The team of officials of the DTP (District Town Planner) - Enforcement carried out the demolition of 10 illegal shops in the area near the Sohna-Ballabgarh road.These were newly built and were waiting to be sold or leased out. This was the 11th drive by the department since June 9 when the first demolition after the lockdown period was carried out.Claiming that a total of 90 structures (residential and commercial) have been brought down in the past 21 days, Naresh Kumar, DTP Enforcement, here said that these constructions had come up mainly in the past few months.He said nine FIRs have been filed against the property dealers engaged in carving out such colonies. “Staff has been deputed at each of the Tehsil offices here to check the registration of land done each week and report any discrepancy immediately. The villages where the demolition had been carried out recently include Bhopani, Kidawali, Sahupura, Sunped, Kadarpur, Nachauli and Saroorpur villages,” he said. — TNS
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Promotion for 2 IPS officers, 10 shifted in Haryana||The government has promoted two IPS officers from the Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) to the rank of Director General of Police (DGP). The officers are Muhammad Akil and Dr RC Mishra.Besides, the state government has issued the transfer and posting orders of 10 IPS officers and one HPS officer. PK Agrawal, DGP (Crime), has been posted as Director General, State Vigilance Bureau.Muhammad Akil, ADGP (Headquarters), with the additional charge of Commissioner of Police, Gurugram, has been posted as the DGP (Crime) with additional charge of Director, State Crime Record Bureau (SCRB), Madhuban.RC Mishra, ADGP, South Range, Rewari, has been posted as Managing Director, Haryana Police Housing Corporation, with the additional charge of Director, Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), Madhuban.Alok Kumar Roy, ADGP, Ambala Range, has been posted as ADGP (M&W PHQ). Shrikant Jadhav, ADGP (M&W PHQ), with the additional charge of ADGP, SCRB, has been posted as ADGP, Haryana Narcotics Control Bureau, Panchkula.KK Rao, Commissioner of Police, Faridabad, has been transferred as Commissioner of Police, Gurugram. OP Singh, SPL Officers (Community Policing and Outreach in CM’s Office), has been posted as Commissioner of Police, Faridabad. — TNS
01-07-2020||Kurukshetra/Kaithal||Spurious liquor factory  busted in Kaithal district||The district police on Monday claimed to have busted a factory, where spurious liquor was manufactured, in Kaithal’s Chanchak village after a raid was conducted in connection with the recovery of 144 boxes (1,728 bottles) of spurious liquor from a vend in Kurukshetra.The police seized 12 boxes of liquor, wrappers of country and English liquor, an RO system, hallmarks, empty bottles and other material. Liquor was being supplied in Kaithal, Kurukshetra and areas in Punjab, they said. However, no one was arrested.Sources said the Punjab Police had seized about 1,050 boxes of spurious liquor earlier this month, and the cops had also conducted raids in Guhla-Cheeka area. However, no recoveries were made.Devender Kumar, SHO, Pehowa police station, said: “On a tip-off, a raid was conducted in Chanchak village. Efforts are being made to nab the people involved in manufacturing spurious liquor. The kingpin of the racket belongs to Guhla. They had been supplying liquor in Punjab; the stock was seized in Sangrur.”Sunil Kumar, vice-president, Piccadily Agro Industries Limited, in his complaint to the Deputy Excise Taxation Commissioner (Excise), Kurukshetra, said spurious liquor in the name of his brand “Masti Malta” was being sold in Pehowa.Subsequently, a raid was conducted and a case was registered against liquor vend owners and partners Baljeet Singh, Palwinder, Gurjant, Sushil, and Sonu under the Copyright Act, Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Excise Act.
01-07-2020||Karnal||Karnal MP calls officials ‘thieves’, apologises later||Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia has come under attack for allegedly using “abusive language” against government employees during a ‘khula darbar’ in the Gharaunda grain market on SaturdayThe purported video of the incident has been posted on social media. In the video, he could be heard calling government employees “thieves”. Employees’ associations and the Opposition have demanded an apology from him.Malkit Sigh, district president, Sarv Karamchari Sangh, condemned the behaviour of the MP. “His behaviour was unacceptable and he must tender an apology immediately,” he said, adding members of the union would hold a meeting in a couple of days to decide their future course of action.Sushil Gurjar, secretary, All Haryana Power Corporation, Karnal, also criticised the MP’s statement and said he should apologise.Congress MLA from Assandh Shamsher Singh Gogi asked Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to clarify his party’s stand on Bhatia’s statement. — TNS
01-07-2020||The gaushala adjoining the Delhi-Firozpur Railway crossing is in bad shape. The cows here are kept in unhygienic conditions. The Railways and the highway authorities should have objected to its dangerous location. Funds worth crores had been spent for the establishment of the gaushala||Gaushala in bad shape||30-feet wide road reduced to 10 feetIN the revenue record, there are three rough paths/roads with a width of more than 30 feet to reach the fields situated between the New Grain Market, Bajida Road, and the railway line in Karnal, the hometown of the Chief Minister, but these have now been reduced to 10-12 feet wide as some people have cut these paths from both sides. Due to this, commuters and farmers face a lot of trouble as at some places, these paths have completely been destroyed. The Chief Minister must instruct the district administration to get the revenue authorities to mark these paths and also make these three routes paved with tiles to solve the problems of the farmers. Shakti Singh, KARNALOld industrial area in pathetic conditionBLOCKED sewerage system, broken roads and non-functional streetlights have become the identity of the old industrial area of Panipat - the textile city. The roads are in deplorable condition and sewerages are blocked. Though the state government had allotted Rs 31 crore for providing basic infrastructure in old industrial area in 2017, the work was yet not completed. The reason behind the delay can be cited as the lethargic attitude of the officials of the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation. Water logging during rain adds to the commuters' woes due to which industrialists as well as labourers have to face problems. Pot-holed roads too make transportation difficult in the area. Vinod Dhamija, PanipatWork at snail’s paceTHE earthwork for sewage at Ward No. 11 of Satrol Khurd village in Hisar has been in progress for more than a year and a half, and yet not completed. There is yet no hope of completion of the work in the near future. The residents are facing problems due to dust, dirt, filth, mud and erratic supply of drinking water which is highly infurious. The civic authorities should take hefty steps to complete the work otherwise the residents would be the victims of various mosquito-borne diseases as the monsoon is quite at hand. I hope that the authorities will take cognisance of the pitiable conditions and take some precautionary measures to improve the situation. Ram Chander Nehra and Satrol Khurd, HisarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
01-07-2020||Karnal||Webinar on importance of yoga||Discussion on mental healthKarnal: All India Association of Medical Social Work Professionals (AIAMSWP), North Zone, organised a panel discussion on “Mental health considerations in context of COVID-19 pandemic: Academic perspective”. Invited panellists included Dr Vanita Dhingra, Associate Professor, Department of Social Work, Kurukshetra University, Dr Amit Chandra, Policy Fellow, Centre for Civil Society, Noida, Vandana Vohra, Counsellor, St Theresa Convent School, Karnal. They discussed ways to effectively deal with the situation that arised due to Covid pandemic especially from academic perspective and also how to enhance and maintain mental health. BR Shekhar, President of AIAMSWP, from AIIMS, New Delhi, delivered the welcome address. Raghvendra Rai, Joint Secretary, AIAMSWP, was the convenor of the panel discussion programme and the whole programme was moderated by Dr Prashant Srivastava, Zonal Secretary, North Zone, AIAMSWP. More than 100 persons participated in the discussion.Talk on Ways to overcome stressKarnal: Government College for Women, here, organised an international webinar on the topic “How to thrive in a stressful situation: Practical tips and techniques”. Principal Dr Anuradha Punia congratulated the organising team and extended greetings to the participants. Hamesh Yadav, behaviour consultant from Australia, was the keynote speaker. Yadav gave a lecture on stress reducing tips and techniques. Dr Hemant Verma, Deputy Director, Higher Education Department, Haryana, delivered a lecture on stress management technique for higher education teachers and gave a number of tips to combat stress. More than 200 participants attended the webinar.
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||New Haryana BJP president soon||The new president of the state BJP is likely to be announced soon even as Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has summoned a meeting of the BJP Legislature Party tomorrow to deliberate on various issues, including Covid and government initiatives.Sources said the race had narrowed down to Union Minister of State Krishan Pal Gurjar and former Agriculture Minister Om Prakash Dhankar. Though Khattar, at a press conference in Karnal, maintained that the replacement for Subhash Barala was likely to be announced within a week, the sources said the announcement was expected in a day or two.An MP from Faridabad, Gurjar has been Union Minister of State for two consecutive terms and has been state president. Dhankar, a farmer leader, is also in the race. The names of former Finance Minister Capt Abhimanyu, considered close to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini are also doing the rounds.The sources said the announcement of the new president had been delayed on account of two marriage functions in Barala’s family. While one was held earlier this week, the other was held today.If Gurjar is chosen, it remains to be seen if he continues at the Centre, though there is such a precedent from Punjab. Gurjar’s colleague Vijay Sampla held both positions simultaneously though “one man, one post” was the accepted norm in the BJP.The sources added that Jat and non-Jat angle had been deliberated, as also the need to zero in on a consensus candidate who could take everybody along.Meanwhile, Khattar has summoned a meeting of the Legislature Party in the Capital tomorrow. This will be the first meeting of the Legislature Party since the lockdown.
01-07-2020||Panipat||Hours after murdering 2 cops, accused killed in encounter in Sonepat||Two police personnel were killed by unidentified persons near Butana in Gohana of Sonepat district in the wee hours on Tuesday while they were on patrol and by the evening, a police party shot dead one of the assailants in an encounter.Martyr status for slain cops: DGPDGP Manoj Yadava said Constable Ravinder andSPO Kaptan Singh lost their lives in the line of duty hence a martyr status would be accorded to themHe said eight teams had been formed to probe the matter and they were working on all possible angles related to the blind murder scaseHowever, four other policemen, including two inspectors, sustained injuries in the process.The bodies were found lying in a pool of blood on the road near a closed building of the Haryali centre, approximately 500 metres from the Butana police post.The deceased were identified as a Special Police Officer (SPO) Kaptan Singh (42) of Kalawati village and Constable Ravinder (25) of Budhakhera village in Jind district. The duo was posted at the Butana police post.They went on patrol duty on a motorcycle at midnight and their bodies were found at 5.30 am. Passersby found their bodies in the morning and informed the police following which a team immediately rushed to the spot and informed the higher-ups.Sandeep Khirwar, ADGP, Rohtak range, and SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa reached the spot to probe the incident.The ADGP said it was a very shocking incident and the department’s first priority was to nab the accused and provide justice to the bereaved family members.Director General of Police Manoj Yadava also visited the spot and reviewed the probe by the police teams. He directed the officers to solve the case at the earliest.Meanwhile, Randhawa said both policemen had stab wounds on their chest and neck.Soon, a joint team of the CIA-2 and the cyber cell of the district police, after getting some clues about the accused who reportedly murdered the police personnel in Butana, conducted raids on the Rohtak road in Jind in the evening, the SP said.As the team tried to nab the accused, identified as Amit of Bhiwani Chungi in Jind, he attacked the police team with a sharp-edged weapon and injured two Inspectors — Prashant, cyber cell incharge, and Anil, CIA-2 incharge — along with two other police officials, the SP added. They were admitted to the general hospital in Jind, he said.In retaliation, the police team opened fire in self-defence and neutralised the assailant, he added.The SP said, “We’ve received some vital clues about the rest of the accused and the teams are on the job to nab them at the earliest.”
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||4 more deaths, 338 fresh cases in Haryana||With four more deaths and 338 fresh cases including four doctors and five other health staff of a private hospital, the cumulative Covid-positive tally reached 14,548 today.The deaths were reported from Gurugram (1), Faridabad (2) and Palwal (1). So far, 236 people have lost their lives to Covid with fatality rate of 1.62 per cent.A 55-year old man from Rajiv Nagar and 78-year-old man from Sector 21-D were among the casualties in Faridabad. Covid infection combined with comorbidities was claimed to be the main reason behind their deaths.The fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (143), Gurugram (87), Rohtak (28), Karnal (20), Kaithal (11), Jhajjar (8), Kurukshetra (8), Palwal (7), Jind (6), Panipat (5), Hisar (4), Rewari (3), Sirsa (3), Mahendragarh (2), Nuh (1), Panchkula (1) and Yamunanagar (1). Faridabad and Gurugram alone contributed 68 per cent of the cases today.Four doctors, five staff nurses and health workers of a private hospital tested positive in Karnal. A 33-year-old woman in Sismore village who had returned from Samana in Punjab and a 50-year-old woman of Pundri who had returned from Patiala were among the positive cases in Kaithal. A 37-year-old man from Ladwa was among positive cases in Kurukshetra.Covid-19 cases
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to test 24K people having influenza-like illness||More than 24,000 people in Haryana have been found with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) in surveillance by Asha workers and the government has decided to conduct Covid tests on them. Health Minister Anil Vij said the government had decided to ramp up testing across the state.“ASHA workers have found over 24,000 people suffering from ILI. They are vulnerable and we have decided to test them. We are going to increase testing. We have received kits for rapid antigen tests and testing has been launched,” he said today. On the exponential spike in June, Vij said 80 per cent were in NCR districts.Meanwhile, after the surge in Gurugram for some days, Faridabad was becoming the new hotspot, with 3,733 cases in the district as of today.Faridabad witnessed an exponential spike in June and the district was fast catching up with Gurugram, which accounted for 5,260 cases and 90 deaths.Gurugram had more than double the number of cases in Faridabad on June 1, with the former having 774 and the latter 367.On June 8, Gurugram had nearly tripled the number of cases in Faridabad, with the two districts totalling 1,922 and 771 cases, respectively.Another week down the line, Gurugram jumped to 3,294 cases on June 15, while Faridabad had 1,277 cases by then.By June 29, with 3,456 cases and 73 deaths, Faridabad inched further closer to Gurugram, which had 5,158 cases and 88 deaths by then.A senior bureaucrat who has served in Faridabad said he was apprehensive that Faridabad could surpass Gurugram.Faridabad DC Yash Pal said the spike was attributed to better surveillance and tracing of contacts of patients. “When all activities restarted after unlocking, the spike was expected. To contain the spread, containment zones are being managed and those testing positive being isolated,” he said.
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||High Court denies bail to Gurugram boy||Less than three years after “Prince”, a seven-year-old schoolboy, was brutally killed in a Gurugram school, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today dismissed bail plea of the juvenile accused.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted that the court was not inclined to grant relief in view of the Supreme Court order dated February 28, 2019, that the petitioner was to be treated as an adult for deciding the bail application.Justice Sangwan noted that the arguments raised by senior counsel for the petitioner that he was not kept in a congenial atmosphere at the children’s home and was facing medical problem were not proved from the two reports of the medical board. — TNS
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||‘Notification on Hindi in Haryana courts not issued’||Just about a week after the use of Hindi in all subordinate civil and criminal courts and tribunals in Haryana came under the judicial scanner, Haryana has told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that the notification in this regard was yet to be issued, indicating that the entire process was likely to take some time.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh, Haryana Advocate General BR Mahajan pointed out the legislation has been enacted. But it had been laid down that “it would come into force on such date, as the state government may, by notification in the official gazette, appoint”. Mahajan further submitted that proper procedure would be followed “in the eventuality notification is to be issued”.“We find that the writ petition is premature. At this stage, counsel for the petitioner submits that he may be given liberty to file a fresh one in case notification is issued. Petition is disposed of with liberty,” the Bench added.The state had earlier this year amended Section 3 of “The Haryana Official Language (Amendment) Act, 1969”.
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Congress MLAs protest layoffs||Congress MLAs staged a protest at Haryana Vidhan Sabha over the sacking of employees by private companies in Faridabad.Faridabad NIT MLA Neeraj Sharma, along with his party colleagues Geeta Bhukkal, Shakuntla Khatak, Surender Panwar, Varun Chaudhary and Amit Sihag, held a march with placards in their hands.Sharma said that a big company that earned huge profits in the past was one of the culprits. He claimed that if a company had over 300 employees, it had to take permission of the state government before any retrenchment. But this big company had forced 350 people to give resignations, he alleged. — TNS
01-07-2020||Rewari||Locusts fly over 8 Rewari villages||Swarms of locusts covering 5 km in length and 2 km in width today entered Rewari district again, keeping officials on their toes. The insects came from Tapukara bordering Alwar district in Rajasthan and moved back after hovering over eight villages for two and a half hours.The authorities claimed it was the same swarm which settled in 12 villages three days ago. The swarm entered the district around 1 pm and flew over Khijuri, Jhabua, Pranpura, Dulhera Kalan, Subaseri, Nangal Teju, Anandpura and Keshopura.Officials alerted farmers, who rushed to the fields and started banging utensils and playing music systems installed in tractors to scare the insects away. Agriculture Department teams reached the villages and kept blowing sirens and horns of their vehicles. The officials heaved a sigh of relief around 3:30 pm when the insects moved away.
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||No paddy on over 1 lakh hectares this year in Haryana||Responding to the government call for conservation of water, owners of over 1 lakh hectares have not grown paddy this time.Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, said today that farmers on 1,02,237.07 hectares had diversified to other crops in response to the “Mera Pani, Meri Virasat” scheme.“Farmers on 10,189 hectares have opted for maize, 25,382.1 hectares for bajra, 52,560.3 hectares for cotton, 1,299.6 hectares for pulses and 12,806.7 hectares for horticultural crops,” he said.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had launched the scheme in May. Under the scheme, Rs 7,000 per acre will be paid to farmers in lieu of diversification. Free seeds, government procurement of alternative crops, 85 per cent subsidy for installation of drip irrigation and payment of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana premium are some other incentives. — TNS
01-07-2020||Sonepat||Man, 4 others booked for wife’s murder in Sonepat||
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Government fast-tracks layout approvals||
01-07-2020||Gurugram||14-day lockdown, aggressive testing in 8 Gurugram zones||In what is being cited as one of the biggest attempts by the Gurugram administration to curtail Covid, eight municipal zones identified as ‘large outbreak regions’ have been placed under “limited” lockdown starting today.Prohibiting the movement of people, cops have taken charge of the entry and exit points at the residential colonies in these large outbreak regions (LORs) and erected barracks.Battling it outWe have made a successful start and hope the stabilisation we have achieved in Covid numbers continues. The SOPs shall remain in force till July 14. — Amit Khatri, Deputy CommissionerThough shops selling essential commodities have been allowed to operate, all other commercial activities will remain suspended till July 14. The small-scale industries in these belts could not function as a majority had no arrangements to lodge their workers.What remained the highlight was aggressive tracing and testing by 11 health department teams headed by CMO Dr Virender Yadav. The teams checked all houses and thermo-scanned each resident. Those with symptoms or any contact or other vulnerability were tested in 11 camps erected today. Of the 977 samples, 68 have reported positive so far.“We will be scrounging each area thrice by July 14 to reach out to every patient. We are scanning each resident and testing is being done wherever required. The testing is free,” said Dr Yadav.There were reports of people trying to sneak out with families from the LORs or resist screening, but the health teams managed to get all abide by the standard operating procedures (SOPs). The Health Department has declared that it shall double the testing from tomorrow.“We have made a successful start and hope the stabilisation we have achieved in Covid numbers continues. The SOPs shall remain in force till July 14 and we will fight the spread in these areas through tracing and testing,” said DC Amit Khatri.
