02-05-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Covid-19: In virtual world, Haryana cops battle hate posts, rumours||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 2Besides enforcing Covid lockdown strictly, Haryana Police are fighting another battle against communal posts, rumours and fake news.In Nuh, a mob attacked a family in Bichhore village on April 18, after circulation of a communal post by one of its members. The police had booked 51 people for the clash where three people got injured.As the communal posts have the potential to spark riots or clashes, Haryana Police launched a special drive against such posts on social media like WhatsApp, Facebook, Tik Tok and Twitter.On April 3, a person of Siroli village under Punahana police station was booked for mobilising his community for standing for Tablighi Jamaat chief Mohammad Saad, who is absconding in a case of organising congregation at Nizamuddin Markaj in New Delhi. Once, Tablighi Jamaat people started turning Covid positive in large numbers in Haryana, communal poison started spreading on social media.  In Meham (Rohtak), Sunil Kumar’s family panicked after a news story was posted on Facebook that they were hiding 20 Tablighi Jamaat workers in their house. Fearing attacks, they got registered a FIR against the fake news on April 8.During the period of lockdown till May 1, Haryana Police have so far registered 91 cases against 116 people for circulation of communal posts and fake news. As many as 54 people have been arrested in these cases till now. The maximum cases have been registered from Kurukshetra and Rohtak, where 10 cases each have been registered. In Kurukshetra 12 people have been booked while four have been arrested. In Rohtak, eight people have been arrested so far.Nuh and Hisar follows them with eight cases each have been registered. In Sonepat, six cases have been registered against 21 people and four have been arrested.The police also encountered posts related to expulsion of minority community, comparison of Pulwama attack with spread of disease and also rumours about specific people being turning Covid positive or negative.“Regarding Bichhore incident, we have organised a peace meeting involving panchayats of nearby villages today. The village elders have warned youths against posting inflammatory posts,” said SP Nuh Narendra Bijarniya.  “We have technical means to track social media posts. People have also filed complaints about them. We are strict in taking action against all those posts which are intended to spread communal hatred,” said ADGP Law and Order Navdeep Singh Virk.  He advised the general public neither to post unverified information on their social media accounts nor forward it to others on messaging apps like WhatsApp or Facebook Messenger, as they could land in trouble.Earlier, the police have registered 21 FIRs against 92 persons with 28 arrests for attack on religious minorities. Cases registeredKurukshetra             10Rohtak                       10Hisar                            8Nuh                              8Sonepat                        6Charkhi Dadri               6In total 91 cases have been registered against 116 people while 54 have been arrested so far.
02-05-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram cops molest covid suspect woman admitted in govt polyclinic||Gurugram, May 2In what has left Gurugram police embarrassed, two cops on Covid duty allegedly in an inebriated state not just ransacked the polyclinic they were posted in but even molested a mentally unstable covid suspect women.Though the incident happened late Tuesday night it was only yesterday that an FIR was registered. The duo have been suspended and booked under various offences.  According to FIR, the incident happened in the government polyclinic in sector 31 where Gurugram police constables Rajesh and Bijender were deployed. Both allegedly started consuming liquor on duty. They then went to isolation ward and allegedly started misbehaving with a mentally unstable woman patient suspected of being a covid case. The two policemen tried to molest her but she fought back and shouted for help resulting in the staff gathering at the spot.  The cops also allegedly entered into a fracas with the doctors and medical staff and tried to damage the CCTVs installed there.Few other cops on duty rushed to the spot but the two cops fled the spot after threatening to fire at them. They even took away a rifle. On the complaint of senior medical officer of polyclinic an FIR has been registered against the policemen under various sections of IPC including section 354 (molestation), 34 (common intention), 427 (damage of property) at sector 40 police station. The FIR was registered on Friday."As per the complaint of lady doctor an FIR has been registered. We are verifying the facts and they will be arrested as earliest possible", said inspector Pawan Kumar, SHO of sector 40 police station.Meanwhile both were suspended and departmental inquiry has been initiated.
02-05-2020||---||Vij orders for opening all OPDs across Haryana||Chandigarh, May 2Health Minister Anil Vij on Saturday ordered for opening all kinds of OPDs in all government hospitals in the state. Earlier, due to Covid scare, the OPDs were closed.“I have ordered for opening all kinds of OPDs in government hospitals. A protocol is being prepared for it. The norm of social distancing has to be followed,” said Vij.“Earlier, we had started OPDs in Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and Community Health Centres (CHCs). We will open OPDs in a phased manner,” said Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General Health Services (DGHS).  Meanwhile, Vij clarified that there would be no relaxation in strictness along borders with Delhi and other states. There are 163 entry or exit points in Haryana with neighbouring states. “All the recent cases are due to infection spread from Delhi. If we continue to close borders for the next 15-16 days, situation will become normal in the state,” he said.Recently, the central government has issued orders for allowing migrants and those stranded to return to their native states. Haryana government is gathering details on migrants in the state and also on others who are stranded in other states. “But whosoever enters Haryana has to undergo test,” said Vij.On allowing the sale of liquor in green, orange and red zones, that is not under containment, Vij said taverns wouldn’t be allowed to operate. He added that the police caught 2 lakh bottles of illicit liquor in the state.  Vij has ordered a documentation of Covid pandemic under Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak. “A group of doctors would document what is the disease, expenditure, what kind of medicines are given, problems, challenges, successes so that it would be a guide to manage a similar situation in future,” he said.
02-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi proving a threat for Jhajjar||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, May 2The Azadpur Mandi in Delhi is proving to be a threat for Jhajjar. Of the six COVID-19 positive cases that were reported from the district on Saturday, five are directly linked to the market area.While one among the six is a staff nurse working at a Delhi hospital, the other five include vegetable sellers and labourers working at the main vegetable market in Bahadurgarh. All of them have been admitted to the PGIMS in Rohtak.Located near the national Capital, Jhajjar district has so far reported 40 cases, of which 33 are vegetable sellers and labourers working in Bahadurgarh and Jhajjar.All of them have direct connection with the Azadpur Mandi, which is one of the biggest vegetables and fruit markets in the nation from where supply is made to more than 10 districts of Haryana that fall in the Nation Capital Region, western Uttar Pradesh, some parts of Rajasthan and Punjab. “Random sampling of vegetable sellers at Bahadurgarh and Jhajjar towns has proved instrumental in tracing COVID-19 positive cases in the district. None of the 33 vegetable sellers/labourers was symptomatic when their samples were collected. On finding their reports to be positive, we immediately sent them to PGIMS, Rohtak, for treatment and isolated their family members and other prime contacts in order to prevent the community transmission,” said Randeep Singh Poonia, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar.Poonia informed that random sampling of 521 vegetable sellers in Bahadurgarh and 494 in Jhajjar had already been done and the process of taking samples of street vendors, small shopkeepers in residential colonies and people working on toll plazas had reached its last stage.“The health officials are carrying out door-to-door survey across the district to find out people with COVID like symptoms. A total of 1,33,084 houses were covered in the first phase, while another 50,693 houses were covered in second phase of the survey,” said Poonia.He further said, “Helpline numbers have been released to address the public issues regarding the COVID-19 pandemic.”A Health Department official said all those districts where vegetables/fruits were supplied from Azadpur Mandi “need to be alert”.“They should conduct mass sampling of vegetable sellers, labourers and transporters associated with the Azadpur Mandi so as to detect the COVID positive cases at the earliest,” the official said on condition of anonymity.
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 24 new coronavirus cases, one fatality||Haryana reported 24 new coronavirus cases and one death from the fatal illness on Saturday.The development takes the state’s coronavirus numbers of 396 if 14 foreign nations are counted and 382 without that count.A 63-year-old woman from Ambala City who diagnosed with coronavirus on Monday died at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Saturday, Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said.This was the second Covid death reported in the district.He said the woman was a chronic diabetic, and had kidney and liver problems patient for which she underwent dialysis thrice a week for the past 25 years.This takes Haryana’s coronavirus death toll to five.Panipat (11), Jhajjar (6), Gurugram (4), Faridabad (2), Sonepat (1), and Yamunanagar (1) all reported new cases.Jhajjar reported six more cases, all from Bahadurgarh town. Five of these were vegetable sellers and labourers linked to Delhi’s Azadpur Market---the place where officials said a large majority of Jhajjar cases might have got their infection from.The sixth is a nurse working at a hospital in Delhi.All six have been admitted to PGIMS in Rohtak.Some 33 of Jhajjar’s 40 cases are vegetable sellers or labourers in Bahadurgarh and Jhajjar who made frequent trips to or were connected with Delhi’s Azadpur Market.One of the biggest markets for vegetables and fruit in the country, the market caters to the needs of over 10 districts of Haryana that fall under the National Capital Region, as well as those of West Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Rajasthan and Punjab. In Yamunanagar, a 27-year-old man who recently returned from a pilgrimage to Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded tested positive. The development takes the number of cases in Yamunagar district to four, of which three have been declared cured.A 20-year-old woman from Panipat city’s Gokul Colony tested positive on Saturday morning. That number went up to 11 by evening after 10 more people, including 4 journalists, tested positive. Civil Surgeon Dr SL Verma said: “We received 40 reports in the evening, of which 10 persons including four journalists tested positive”.The development takes the district tally to 24.A-32-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 in Sonepat’s Gohana, taking the district tally to 27. Gurugram reported four new cases. In Faridabad, a 10-year-old boy from Sector- 88 whose father recently died of coronavirus and a 25-year- old woman from Milhard colony in the NIT area who is a contact of earlier positive case both tested positive.
02-05-2020||---||Second Covid death in Ambala district as 63-year-old woman dies at PGI||Ambala, May 2A 63-year-old woman of Rattangarh in Ambala City, who had on Monday tested positive for Covid, died at the PGI in Chandigarh on Saturday, Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said.This was the second Covid death reported in the district.He said the woman was a diabetes, kidney and liver patient for which she was undergoing dialysis thrice a week for the past 25 years.“Last week, she had tested negative here but on April 27 she had tested positive at Chandigarh GMCH-32, from where she was shifted to the PGI in a critical condition,” said the Civil Surgeon, adding that the residential area of the patient had been sealed and her contacts had already been home-quarantined even after they had tested negative.Meanwhile, the condition of a 42-year-old man of Tharva village in the district, who had tested positive on April 25, was stated to be stable at the PGI. He was the lone hospitalised Covid patient in the district. Earlier, 11 Covid patients from the district had been discharged after getting cured while one had died. TNS
02-05-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad family has a narrow escape as car rams into their house||A family living in Sector 8 of Faridabad had a narrow escape when a car rammed into a house late on Friday night.This resulted in damage to a wall and household goods. The police have registered a case."We panicked and ran for safety after we were woken by a sudden explosion-like sound as the car broke into the house around 1.30 am,’’ said Himanshu Kathuria.He said there was debris all over the house. Bricks, cement and broken glass flew into their bedrooms.Also read: Jalandhar ASI on Covid curfew duty dragged by youth on car's bonnet: Watch video"It could have killed us if it had struck the rear door of the bedroom directly," he said.He added that the car that rammed through the wall of their backyard had damaged an air-conditioner, washing machine and two scooters.The impact was such that it also damaged some windowpanes and doors of the house.The owner of the car, a Toyota Altis, sustained only minor injuries. He was taken away by the police, who arrived at the spot within minutes. According to a family member, the driver was in an inebriated state. The police took him to hospital for medical examination.Residents of the neighbourhood also gathered at the spot on hearing the sound.
02-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||SPO arrested in Haryana’s Bahadurgarh for smuggling liquor to Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, May 2A special police officer (SPO) engaged with traffic wing in Bahadurgarh and his friend have been arrested by the Badli police at a naaka on charges of smuggling liquor in a car. The police have also recovered 32 cartons of desi liquor from the car.The SPO, identified as Sandeep of Rewari Khera village, and his friend Suresh of Bajghera village in Gurugram, have been booked under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 61 of the Punjab Excise Act.“We got a tip-off that a car bearing registration number of Gurugram is being used to smuggle illicit liquor. It would go to Gurugram from the side of Bupania village on Friday night. Acting on the information, a naaka was set up near Bupania village. The car was intercepted when it reached the naaka,” said Chaman Lal, spokesman of Jhajjar police.Lal maintained that Sandeep donning the uniform of Haryana Police was driving the car while Suresh was sitting in the passenger seat. The cops on checking found 32 cartons of liquor kept in the car. They could not show any licence and permit for the transportation of the liquor, hence a case had been booked against them, he added.Ashok Kumar, Jhajjar SP, said the police personnel were on high alert to check the smuggling of liquor. Naakas have been installed at all border points of the district and a close vigil was being kept on the movement while those violating the lockdown have also been challaned.“A total penalty of around Rs 20 lakh has been imposed by issuing challans against 5,000 vehicles during the lockdown period. As many as 250 cases have been booked for violating the lockdown guidelines and 331 people have been arrested,” said the SP.
02-05-2020||New Delhi||3 Punjab, 2 Haryana districts in red zone||As the country entered the third spell of national lockdown to counter Covid-19 today, the Centre divided country’s 733 districts into red, orange and green zones for the purposes of containment and disease surveillance.Red zones in regionMinistry of Health advocated a “ruthless manner of containment” through contact tracing, testing and house-to-house surveys in the newly designated 130 red zone districts. The ministry told states through a letter that while they could add red districts to the list, they could not take them off the centrally designated hotspot list which would be revised weekly and earlier, if possible.As of today, there are 130 red, 284 orange and 319 green districts. The fresh segregation of districts came as India’s Covid count touched 35,365 with 9,064 persons cured and discharged and 1,152 deaths.In the past 24 hours, the country saw 1,755 new Covid cases and 77 deaths, the highest so far. The cure rate in the country, as of Friday, was 25.6 per cent. This has been steadily improving. The northern region is home to 10 red districts, 53 orange and 16 green districts with Chandigarh retained in the red zone.Punjab has three red districts Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana; 15 orange (SAS Nagar, Pathankot, Mansa, Taran Taran, Amritsar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Faridkot, Sangrur, SBS Nagar, Ferozepur, Muktsar, Moga, Gurdaspur, Barnala).In Haryana, the two red zone districts are Sonepat and Faridabad. Eighteen orange zone districts in the state are Gurugram, Nuh, Panipat, Panchkula, Palwal, Rohtak, Hisar, Ambala, Jhajjar, Bhiwani, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Jind, Sirsa, Yamunagar, Fatehabad, Charkhi Dadri.HP has no red zone district.In J&K, the four red districts are Bandipora, Shopian, Anantnag and Srinagar— TNS
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to help MSME units pay their staff||To facilitate industrial units in the state retain their employees, Haryana today notified its micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) revival scheme under which 100 per cent interest benefit on loans, availed for payment of employees’ wages and other expenses up to a maximum of Rs 20,000 per employee, will be provided by the government.A decision in this regard was taken by the Haryana Cabinet that met under Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar yesterday, but a notification of the scheme has been issued today.TVSN Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance Department, Haryana, said he was confident that the scheme would catalyse the revival of the industry in the state. The benefit will be limited to the interest paid by the industrial unit to the bank or financial institution up to a period of six months. The benefit will be calculated at maximum 8 per cent rate of interest or the actual rate charged by the bank.For eligibility, the industrial unit should have been in commercial production for at least 80 per cent of the days between February 1 and March 15 and it should have a running account of term loan or working capital loan from a commercial bank or financial institution. — TNSTo pay loan interest for employee wages
02-05-2020||The government on Friday decided that non-official chairpersons and vice-chairpersons of boards||Chiefs of boards relieved||
02-05-2020||---||Stay on counselling for  admission to PG courses in medical colleges||Chandigarh, May 1 Just three days before commencement of counselling for admission to postgraduate medical courses in medical colleges across the state, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the process. The order came after a Division Bench was told that open category seats had been reduced to 31 out of 156 because of over 80 per cent reservation. Issuing notice of motion for May 6, the Bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain and Justice Jaswant Singh asserted: “Till then, the process of counselling, which is stated to be scheduled for May 4 and 5, shall be kept in abeyance till further orders.” The order through video-conferencing came on a petition filed against Haryana and other respondents by Dr Vikram Pal and other petitioners through counsel Ashwani Talwar. The petitioners had approached the High Court challenging a notification dated April 15 regarding the procedure for admission to MD and MS courses. Appearing before the Bench, their counsel submitted that state quota for admission to postgraduate medical courses in various medical colleges in the state was more than the permissible 50 per cent. Elaborating, the counsel submitted that reservation was over 80 per cent, which was in violation of the dicta in the Supreme Court judgment in the case of “Indra Sawhney and others versus Union of India and others”. Taking up the matter, the Bench asserted that the respondents had already filed their short replies and their counsel had submitted that 25 per cent seats for institutional preference, 5 per cent seats for physically handicapped and 10 per cent for economically weaker section category would fall in “horizontal reservation” and “vertical reservation” would not exceed the 50 per cent cap. “At this stage, we are persuaded to accept the plea raised by counsel for the petitioners for the issuance of notice to the respondents, enabling them to file a detailed reply, if so advised, as the earlier short replies are inadequate,” the Bench added. The notice issued by the Bench was accepted by Haryana Additional Advocate General Deepak Balyan, who prayed for time to file a detailed reply.
02-05-2020||Nitish Sharma---||Farmers resist diversification, rue lack of assured procurement||Tribune News Service Ambala, May 1 While the state government has been asking farmers to adopt crop diversification and grow maize and pulses instead of paddy, the farmers claim that absence of assured procurement has been keeping them away from diversification. In Ambala, nearly 86,000 hectare land is covered under paddy crop. Last year, while maize was sown in 900 hectares, there was no urad cultivation.  For the Kharif season 2020, the Ambala district has set a target to cover 4,000 hectare under maize (1,000 hectare each in Naraingarh and Shahzadpur, 700 hectare each in Barara and Saha, while 300 hectare each in Ambala-I and Ambala-II) and 1,000 under urad (300 hectare each in Naraingarh and Shahzadpur, 150 hectares each in Barara and Saha, and 50 hectare each in Ambala-I and Ambala-II). A progressive farmer Puneet Thind said, “The major issue with crops, other than paddy and wheat, is that there is no assured procurement. The government has not been able to create a favourable scenario where the farmers can get remunerative prices for their produce. Minimum support price (MSP) has been announced but at the time of procurement, the government fixes quota for it. In the past, farmers had sold pulses at a throwaway price to wholesalers while the rate in retail market was very high.” Rajiv Sharma, a farmer from Naraingarh, said, “We are well aware of the ill-effects of the paddy cultivation but poor quality seeds and no assured procurement have been keeping the farmers away from other crops. The MSP and subsidy don’t attract farmers, if the government assures to purchase the entire stock only then the they will start cultivating and there will be no need of an incentive to attract farmers.”
02-05-2020||New Delhi||CBI books firm, directors for Rs173-cr Karnal bank fraud||The CBI has registered a case against a private company, its three directors and others — including unknown public servants — for cheating State Bank of India’s Karnal branch and causing it loss to the tune of Rs 173.11 crore. Officials of the CBI identified the company as Ram Dev International Ltd that has a registered office at Rohini in New Delhi and its three directors as Naresh Kumar, Suresh Kumar and Sangita. The agency, in an official statement, said, “The Central Bureau of Investigation has registered a case under sections 120-B r/w 420, 468, 471 and 406 of the IPC and Section 13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, on a complaint received from State Bank of India against a private company having registered office at Rohini, New Delhi, and its three directors and others, including unknown public servants.” It said the accused allegedly cheated the SBI, Karnal branch, and caused loss to the bank to the tune of Rs 173.11 crore (approx.). — TNS
02-05-2020||---||Haryana CM launches dashboard on drinking water||Chandigarh, May 1The Haryana Government on Friday launched ‘Jal Jeevan Mission’ (JJM) dashboard for the general public.While launching the dashboard, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said in order to monitor the progress under Jal Jeevan Mission various online dashboards, suitable for department officials, Deputy Commissioners and general public, have been developed.“The dashboard will prove useful as Haryana has fixed the target to achieve the objectives of Jal Jeevan Mission by the year 2022,” he added.4 IGs promoted as ADGPThe Haryana Government has issued orders for the promotion of four IPS officers to Additional Director General of Police with immediate effect.The officers who have been promoted from Inspector General of Police are Dr CS Rao (ADGP SCB Gurugram), Charu Bali (ADGP CAW), Sandeep Khirwar (ADGP Rohtak Range) and Subhash Yadav (ADGP SVB Gurugram).
02-05-2020||Panipat||Woman dies in Panipat, husband among 4 booked||A 28-year-old woman has died under mysterious circumstances in Nawada Par village of Panipat. Her in-laws buried her without informing her parents. The police booked her husband and three other members of his family. They exhumed the body today and sent it for postmortem examination. — TNS
02-05-2020||Parveen Arora||Double whammy for farmers||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 1After witnessing a fall in the yield of wheat due to rain and hailstorms, now the farmers are receiving a decline in dry fodder. Farmers are getting 12-17 quintal per acre dry fodder against 17-24 quintal last year. They consider the dairy farmers may face shortage of dry fodder in coming months.“We are already struggling hard amid the lockdown due to Covid pandemic. Rain, along with hailstorm, has added to our woes in terms of fall in the yield as well as in the production of dry fodder. I have received 12 quintal per acre of dry fodder against 16-17 quintal per acre last year,” said Dinesh Kumar, a farmer of Pabana Hasanpur village.Surinder Kumar, a farmer of Bhenikhurd village, said it was a difficult time for the farming community as earlier they received a decline of 4-5 quintal per acres in wheat yield due to rain and hailstorm, and now a fall of around 5 quintal in dry fodder. “On an average, I got 18 quintal per acre of dry fodder against 23 quintal last year,” he added.Sewa Singh Arya, former president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), also received almost the same production of dry fodder. He said it was a double loss to farmers due to rain and hailstorm and it also faded the colour of dry fodder.Yashbir Singh, a farmer of Uchani village, said in such circumstances there could be a shortage of dry fodder in coming days and the price could rise.Vijay Kapoor, general secretary, Kisan Welfare Club, said the labour shortage was also a major reason behind the less productivity of dry fodder as due to non-availability of labour, farmers preferred harvesting with the help of combine, instead of manual.
02-05-2020||---||Wheat arrival affected, slow lifting clogs grain markets||Panipat, May 1The Covid pandemic has affected the arrival of the crop in the grain markets this year. Though the procurement of wheat is on full pace, but it is approximately 62 per cent less in comparison to the previous year. Besides, the lifting of procured wheat is yet to gather pace.The government agencies procured approximately 1.20 metric tonne (MT) but lifted only 34 per cent of the grains. Heaps of procured wheat bags could be seen in all grain markets.The district administration has made arrangements of procurement of wheat produce in 12 grain markets and established 18 sub-centres in the district.As per details, all four government agencies have procured 1,20,256 MT wheat till April 30, while lifted only 4,0671 MT, which is only 34 per cent of the total wheat procured.Besides, the arrival of crop was also at a slow pace in compare of the previous years. The data says that 3,12,823 MT wheat had arrived in the grain markets till April 30 but this season only 1,20,256 MT wheat arrived which is only 38 per cent of the previous years’ arrival.Vijay Chhabra, president, Arhtiya association, Madlauda grain market, said the major problem was unloading of the vehicles at FCI centres. “The skilled labour who was expert in making sacks of wheat bags have departed amid the lockdown and the local labour does not possess the required expertise. Though, the procurement had started on April 23 but payment was yet to be made by the government,” he said.Dharambir Malik, state vice-president, Arhtiya association, said approximately 2.5 lakh wheat bags were lying in the grain market and only 30-35 per cent procured crop was lifted so far.
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||No traffic movement from Delhi to Haryana||With Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar and Sonepat becoming new hotspots and over 75% active Covid cases concentrated in four NCR districts, Haryana today stopped all movement to the state from Delhi.Even those coming for essential services would be allowed after testing. Of the 112 active cases, Jhajjar leads with 28 cases, followed by Sonepat (22), Gurugram (19) and Faridabad (18). The Delhi-Gurugram border was sealed today as people coming from Delhi were asked to go back.The police had already put up barricades on roads connecting Haryana with the national capital while locals had dug up stretches on some smaller link roads connecting Gurugram and Delhi.Several people claimed that despite having passes for essential services, the police did not allow them to cross the border.A hospital staffer said the police used to allow him to proceed after seeing his identity card, but he had to return home today. Anil Vij, Minister for Home and Health, justified the police action and said the state had to take these measures to contain the infection.“We can’t watch people from Delhi coming to Haryana and causing infection anymore. All cases which have come to Bahadurgarh in the past few days have Azadpur vegetable market connection. Infection is up in Sonepat because people go to the national capital for work. No one will be allowed to enter Haryana from Delhi. Those who have to come for essential services will have to undergo rapid test. Only persons testing negative will be allowed to enter,” he said. — TNS2,000 cars turned away from border
02-05-2020||Ravinder Saini---||7 docs, nurses given consent forms for BCG trials||Tribune News Service Rohtak, May 1 On the first of clinical trials on the tuberculosis vaccine BCG (Baccillus Calmette Guerin), Pt BD Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) authorities today handed over consent forms to seven doctors and nurses taking care of Covid patients. A team of experts conducted quality check of the BCG vaccine shots and found these fit for trials to be conducted on 175 attendants of Covid patients. The research aimed to explore whether BCG was effective in warding off Covid.  “The process of taking consent from doctors and nurses in the isolation ward started today. We contacted seven doctors and nurses. Their samples will be taken after getting their consent. They will be administered the vaccine on being found Covid negative,” said Dr Savita Verma, professor in the department of pharmacology and principal investigator for the research. She pointed out that norms did not allow them to take the consent of more than seven persons in a day.  She said the process would continue till the target was achieved and the vaccine would be administered immediately after Covid test. Dr Ramesh Verma, professor in the department of community medicine and co-investigator, said cold chain of the BCG vaccine and other mandatory conditions were examined during the quality check. “After vaccination, those involved in trials will be kept under observation for 180 days to find the effect. A mobile application has been developed for those taking part in the trials so they can fill in a questionnaire during this period. The follow-up will be done online, but they will be called in person for follow-up, if required,” he said. He said Covid was essentially infecting people with low immunity and the study would aim to find whether the BCG shot proved helpful in protection against Covid by raising immunity.
02-05-2020||---||Haryana to seal all borders, testing must to enter||Chandigarh, May 1Health Minister Anil Vij on Friday said all borders with Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Punjab will be sealed and rapid testing kits used at borders itself to prevent entry of infected persons into Haryana.“Booths will be set up at the borders. All Civil Surgeons have been issued orders and rapid testing kits have been provided. We have 25,000 such kits and 75,000 more would come soon,” he said. “No Covid-positive person will be allowed inside Haryana. We will not let  anyone inside our state without a Covid test.”On efficacy of rapid testing kits, Vij said he had issued instructions that these be tested before use. “Chhattisgarh has been successfully using these kits,” he added.Vij also ordered documentation of the Covid pandemic under the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak. “A group of doctors will document the disease, expenditure, what kind of medicines are given, problems, challenges and successes so that it would be a guide to manage a similar situation in future,” he said.Meanwhile, Anil Vij, who is also the Home Minister, said the state suffered a loss of Rs6,000 crore during the lockdown and a loan of Rs3,000 would be taken to tide over the crisis.
02-05-2020||---||Haryana sees major spike, 27 cases in a day||Chandigarh, May 1With 27 more positive cases being reported in the last 24 hours, Haryana’s tally reached 356 on Friday. With 14 Italian nationals, the figure would be 370.The fresh cases were reported from Jhajjar (9), Faridabad (8), Gurugram (6), Sirsa (2), Sonepat (1) and Kurukshetra (1).In Jhajjar, two patients are family members of a Covid patient, one is a labourer at a vegetable market and the rest are vegetable sellers.Rasin Village out of containment zoneKarnal: People of Rasin village, which saw the first Covid case of district, heaved a sigh of relief on Friday after 28 days as it was denotified as containment zone. Village farmer Gian Singh died at the PGI. His son also tested positive, but was cured. Farmers will now be able to take their produce to mandis for sale. TNSIn Faridabad, a 24-year-old pharmacist residing in Ankhir village, who used to travel to Delhi for work, tested positive. Three patients are contacts of a commission agent working at the Dabua vegetable market, who tested positive on Thursday.Three relatives of a commission agent working at the Sector 16 vegetable market, who was found positive last week, tested positive today. All of them are residents of Palwali village in the district.A 36-year-old auto-rickshaw driver residing in the NIT area tested positive. He had returned from Mathura in a truck about 10 days ago.Six tested positive in Gurugram, including four residents of Dundahera village. An ambulance driver in Delhi and a primary contact of a positive case in the national capital are the other fresh cases.A woman and man, both aged around 62 years, tested positive in Sirsa district today. They are among the 18 persons who had returned from Nanded in Maharashtra.Health officials said all persons, residents of the Dabwali area in Sirsa, had returned from Nanded by the same bus. Samples of all these persons were taken on Thursday, of which two tested positive.A 52-year-old man of Shahabad in Kurukshetra tested positive. He is a manufacturing chemist at the Shahabad sugar mill. A 30-year-old man, working as accountant at the Azadpur market in Delhi, tested positive in Sonepat.With today’s cases, the maximum cases are now in Gurugram (63), followed by Faridabad (61), Nuh (58), Palwal (34), Jhajjar (33) and Sonepat (27).Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said special medical teams would be deputed at every toll plaza at the four national highways connecting the state to ensure checking of every driver entering Haryana.
