02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 11 deaths, 568 new coronavirus cases; total count reaches 15,509||Haryana on Thursday reported 11 more coronavirus deaths as it recorded the highest single-day spike of 568 cases, taking the number of infections to 15,509.Gurgaon reported four coronavirus deaths, Faridabad three, Karnal two while a fatality each took place in Rohtak and Hisar, according to a state Health Department bulletin.So far, 251 people have died from the infection in the state.The earlier highest daily spike in cases was reported a fortnight ago with 560 infections.The worst-hit Gurgaon and Faridabad till now have reported 96 and 83 fatalities, respectively. These two districts put together account for 9,597 infections.Among the districts which reported fresh cases are Sonipat (131); Faridabad (130); Gurgaon (106); Rohtak (31), Karnal (34); Hisar and Rewari (18 each); and Jhajjar (35).Active cases in the state currently stand at 4,239, while 11,019 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery.The state’s recovery rate on Thursday was 71.05 per cent. PTI
02-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Hisar techies make Android app as alternative to TikTok||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 2Three IT professionals belonging to ordinary middle-class families of Hisar district in Haryana have developed an Android mobile app as an indigenous alternative to popular Chinese app TikTok which has been banned by the Central Government.The app, named ‘Desi Kalakar’, provides a video-sharing platform, and is available on Google Play Store. It has been given a ranking of 4.8 and has been downloaded by more than 5,000 persons in 10 days.The developers of the app, who are in their 20s, include Kishan and Rohit, both of whom belong to a family of tailors at Badwali Dhani village in Hisar district, and Anshul Garg, daughter of a department store owner.While Kishan and Rohit are B.Tech in Information Technology from Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar, Anshul holds an MCA degree from Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. All three of them work for an IT firm at Hisar.“We were planning to develop an app which could provide a viable indigenous alternative to the popular Chinese app TikTok. We began working on it last month and it was put on Google Play Store on June 23,” Rohit said while talking to The Tribune this evening.He maintained that the underlying idea behind developing the app was to ensure that our country’s money, which used to go to China through TikTok indirectly, is circulated within India.“We have ensured the data security, which was a major cause of concern amongst the users of TikTok. We are striving to add more useful and attractive features to the app,” stated Anshul.She said the response towards the app had registered an upswing after the ban imposed on tiktok by the Central Government.Kishan asserted that they would make their app a source of income for its users on the pattern of YouTube.
02-07-2020||Ambala||16 fresh cases take Ambala’s COVID-19 tally to 344||Sixteen fresh COVID-19 cases were reported here on Thursday, taking the district tally to 344.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said 13 fresh cases were from Ambala City, 11 of whom were contacts of Covid patients, while three were from Ambala Cantonment.Two patients were tested positive after being found with ILI symptoms during the ongoing survey, one was having travel history, and two, including a chemist in Ambala Cantonment, were tested positive during routine check-up.Meanwhile, 16 more patients were discharged after being cured on Thursday, taking the active cases to 32.
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Diagnostic centre with OPD facility to be set up in Mata Mansa Devi shrine premises||A diagnostic centre with OPD facility will be established in the premises of Shri Mata Mansa Devi shrine in Panchkula to provide treatment facilities to people on subsidised rates.The decision was taken at the 18th meeting of Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board (SMMDSB), Panchkula which was held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday.Various new works worth about Rs 45 crore, including establishment of a diagnostic centre with OPD facility, were approved in the meeting, an official release said.The chief minister also directed to explore the possibility of transferring additional 10 acres of adjoining and unutilised land of Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) to SMMDSB for providing amenities to the devotees in a planned manner.Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora were also present in the meeting.Khattar, who is also the chairman of the Shrine Board, directed the officers concerned to start the process for construction of the diagnostic centre at the earliest.He said that besides the retired doctors, services of medical practitioners associated with different NGOs should also be taken for providing medical facilities to those visiting the diagnostic centre which would come up on land measuring over half acre.The diagnostic centre, which would be built, managed and run by the Shrine Board, would be equipped with all modern and latest facilities. The treatment and test facilities would be provided on the subsidised rates, the release said.While reviewing the progress of work for the setting up of Sanskrit college in Shri Mata Mansa Devi shrine complex, Khattar directed the Higher Education Department to take possession of land at the earliest and initiate the process for the construction of the building.The Sanskrit college, which would be named as Shri Mata Mansa Devi Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, would come up over 2.10 acres of land. PTI
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Private buses to operate at 50% capacity in Haryana||Over three months after the bus service was stalled across Haryana to control the COVID-19 pandemic, the state government has allowed the private bus service to operate in four phases with 50 per cent capacity.“The private bus service has been allowed to operate for the convenience of the general public, who will follow standard operating procedures (SoPs) in view of ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,” Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma told The Tribune on Thursday.The state Transport Commissioner has already issued orders to the ADCs-cum-regional transport authorities to allow the operations of the buses under the stage carriage scheme and enforce SoPs in letter and spirit.In the first phase, 25% buses will be allowed between July 1 to 8 with another 25% buses allowed between July 9 to 16.Similarly, one-fourth of the buses would be allowed between July 17-24 and last lot of buses (25%) will ply between July 25 to August 1.The buses will operate at 50% capacity and will be sanitised at regular intervals.The passengers and the crew will have to maintain social distancing and cover their faces with face masks.There are over 1,000 private buses running under the stage carriage scheme and they are a major means of transport for thousands of commuters in villages and towns across the state.
02-07-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula registers first Covid death as 74-year-old woman passes away at Sector-21 hospital||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 2Panchkula on Thursday reported its first Covid death after a 74-year-old woman suffering from a kidney ailment died.She was receiving treatment at a private hospital in Sector 21 here.Meanwhile, 10 fresh cases of coronavirus surfaced in Panchkula on Thursday. Of these six are from Panchkula, three from Chandigarh and one from Punjab. With this, the total numaber of coronavirus cases in the district has reached 119. Of these 28 are active cases.Of the six new cases from the district, two are from Sector 17. They are a 25-year-old man and a 59-year-old man from the same family. One is a 29-year-old man from Housing Board Colony, Kalka, one a 63-year-old man from Vishvakarma Colony, Pinjore, one a 22-year-old man from Indra Colony and a 20-year-old woman from Marranwala village.
02-07-2020||AMBALA||Two arrested for robbery||The district police have arrested two persons - Sagar, alias Golu, and Sushil - for robbery at gunpoint, said the officials here on Wednesday. According to the police, Rinku of Kurukshetra, presently living in Kala Amb, reported that both the accused snatched cash and mobile phone from him at gunpoint on June 30. Both the accused were sent to one-day police custody by a local court. TNSSnatchers land in police netThe police have arrested two persons - Rahul, alias Shubham, and Rahul of Ambala Cantonment - in a case of snatching and claimed to have recovered a stolen mobile phone from their possession. Both the accused were remanded to 14-day judicial custody by a local court, the police added. TNSPedestrian killed in mishapAn unidentified pedestrian was killed in a hit-and-run case on Wednesday. According to the police, a recklessly driven unknown vehicle crushed an unidentified person to death, near Hari Palace in Ambala City. The police have registered a case said the officials. TNS
02-07-2020||A large number of people had suffered a lot due the lockdown imposed to the check the spread of the Covid pandemic. Many a people lost their jobs||Hike in fuel prices worrisome||Leakage in water pipeTHERE is a leakage in the water pipe of a domestic tank at a dairy at Shahabad Markanda. Despite repeated complaints by the commuters, no repair has been made till date. Due to the leakage, people suffer a lot of inconvenience as water falls on them while passing through the road. The concerned authorities must look into the issue and get the repair work done to the earliest. Shahabad Markanda residentsDamaged sewer lineDUE to damaged sewer line, water can be seen accumulated on the streets of the Indian Colony in Sonepat town. The residents of the colony are forced to live in pathetic situation and are not paid any heed to be provided an access to clean and hygienic surrounding. Foul smell and difficulty in crossing the streets adds to the commuters' woes. Though the problem persists for the last 10 days, the authorities have paid no attention towards improving the situation. Rajesh, Jagpal and Ramroop, Residents of Indian colony SonepatIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
02-07-2020||Karnal||Students shine in varsity exams||DCRUST authorised by AICTESonepat: The All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) authorised the Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology, Murthal, (DCRUST) to impart training to the teachers serving in various technical educations of North India. Under the Teachers Training Policy of the AICTE, a number of selected technical education institutes in the country have been authorised for conducting such training and the Murthal university was the lone university from Haryana. According to university's Vice-Chancellor Rajindra Kumar Anayath, the university would organise at least 10 faculty development programmes during the current academic year. He opined that technical superiority was necessary for taking the lead in the global competition.Online crafts workshopAmbala: Over 80 students and teachers, from six schools, and INTACH members attended a crafts workshop conducted by the INTACH, Ambala. It proved to be a big hit with children. Some children even produced what they were taught during and soon after the workshop. At the outset, Colonel RD Singh, convenor, welcomed the teachers and their students. It was so good that sister Shaily, head of BK Ashram, Vijay Sharma, HOD Hindi Department, SD college, and member INTACH, Teresa, architect, from the INTACH head office Delhi, Anusha Singh, a lawyer and corporate communication expert and an INTACH member, and Madhu Talwar from the APS also joined it. Reena, co-convenor, a resource person and crafts teacher, started the workshop and showed the students the art of making beautiful baskets with bangles. Madhu Singh shared with students some innovative ideas on making things such as invitation scrolls, hexagon shaped paper pot pourri, soap hangers etc at home. "We will keep in touch with students. More school students will be participating in our next workshop," said Col RD Singh.Online quiz on monumentsYamunanagar: Mukand Lal National College, Radaur, organised an online quiz competition on the theme “Monuments of the world”, in which 111 students and scholars belonging to the various parts of the nation participated. In the competition, Chakshu of JMIT Radaur bagged the first prize. Rishika, from University College of Law, Udaipur, and Manish Kansal, NAS PG Degree College, Meerut, jointly secured second rank. Pooja Kumari from Government College, Kalka, got third position and consolation prize went to Vidhi of MLN College, Radaur. The event was conducted by Dr Richa Sikri, Assistant Professor of History and supervised by Dr Deepak Kaushik, Officiating Principal of the college. The participants rated the quiz competition as absorbing, interesting and knowledge booster.SMO honoured on Doctors’ DayKurukshetra: On the occasion of Docters' Day, Ladwa SMO Dr Anjali Vaid was felicitated by Dhanora-Ladwa Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Senior Secondary Public School Principal Dherminder Khera and staff. The senior medical officer was honoured for her relentless service to the Covid-19 patients at the Government Hospital, Ladwa. Khera apprised the faculty about the commendable services during the Covid-19 pandemic. Dr Vaid apprised the teachers about the precautions to be taken as per the WHO guidelines, including social distancing, use of mask and hand sanitisers. Dr Vaid stressed that these precautions were the panacea for the virus so far. School Vice-Principal Narender Sharma, co-ordinator Sushil Dua, Kavita Laller, Poonam Sharma, Rajbir Sharma, Ajay Gupta and other teachers were also present on the occasion.
02-07-2020||---||Karnal administration indulges Covid patients with games, yoga||Karnal, July 1The district administration has found a novel way of keeping Covid patients busy at Covid care centre in Gurukul Nilokheri by involving them in games, yoga and other recreational activities.The centre, which was started on June 12, has so far received 72 patients. Of them, 10 have been discharged.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said they had started the centre for asymptomatic and patients with mild symptoms with an aim to boost their immunity. “We have deployed three AYUSH doctors and doctors from Nilokheri community health centre to take care of the patients,” said the DC, adding that health of the patients was being monitored twice a day, and people who tested negative in their following reports were discharged with a strict direction to home quarantine themselves for 7 days.The DC said cricket, basketball, football and badminton coaches, along with yoga instructors, were keeping the patients busy. “A dedicated diet chart for patients was being followed by the authorities. Initially, we had started with 150 beds, however, soon the capacity of the centre will be increased to 600 beds,” said the DC.Meanwhile, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) has been declared a Covid health centre for clinically moderate patients. Now, the patients who were earlier sent to a medical college, Mullana, will be treated here. As many as 125 beds with oxygen facility have been reserved for moderate patients, and if required, more beds will be added.“As per the guidelines issued by the Additional Chief Secretary, Health, a dedicated Covid health centre has been set up with 125 beds having oxygen facility in the KCGMC, where moderate Covid patients will be treated,” the DC added. He said from now on, only critically ill Covid patients would be sent to the medical college, Mullana.
02-07-2020||Panipat||No action on police plaint: Vice-Principal||The Vice-Principal of the Government College for Women at Madlauda in the district has accused the village sarpanch of misbehaving with and threatening him on June 11. “I filed a police complaint on June 12, but no action was initiated against sarpanch Ashok Deswal,” said Ram Niwas Jangam, Vice-Principal. He and his wife submitted another complaint to Superintendent of Police Manisha Chaudhary on June 15, but no action was initiated, he added. He stated that he belonged to a denotified tribe and had shifted with family to Panchkula after the incident. Deswal refuted the allegations, saying he had no issue with Jangam.  Madlauda SHO Mahender Dhanda said he had joined recently. The complaint was brought to his notice on Monday and he had ordered action into the matter immediately, he said. — TNS
02-07-2020||
||Work resumes on football stadium||Ambala, July 1 After remaining stalled for over two months due to the lockdown, work has resumed on the much-awaited international football stadium in Ambala Cantonment. A state-of-the-art gymnastic hall and sports hostel are also part of the ambitious Rs 108-crore project. Around 80 per cent of the work has been completed. An all-weather swimming pool is also being constructed. It will be the first all-weather 50-metre government swimming pool in Haryana. The international-standard poly-turf will be laid and the synthetic track of the stadium will be ready by the end of July. The stadium will be ready for use by October. The gymnastics hall will be completed by August 15 while the sports hostel will be constructed by next year. The stadium will cost Rs 85 crore, gymnastics hall Rs 10 crore and sports hostel Rs 12.96 crore, according to officials involved in the construction.
02-07-2020||---||Lord Krishna’s statue to come up at Jyotisar||Kurukshetra, July 1The tourists, who visit Jyotisar Tirtha, the birthplace of the Gita, in Kurukshetra, will be able to witness a 42-ft-tall bronze statue of Lord Krishna, which will be erected there at a cost of Rs 10 crore in December.Recently, the model of the ‘Virat Swaroop’ (universal form) was revealed and now, the Kurukshetra Development Board has planned to get the work completed by November-end so that it could be inaugurated in December.The idea of erecting Lord Krishna’s ‘Virat Swaroop’ was first conceived during the Congress regime, but it was in 2017 when its foundation stone was laid by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar during the Gita Mahotsav.Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary, Kurukshetra Development Board, said, “The ‘Virat Swaroop’ of Lord Krishna will be erected at Jyotisar. The statue will cost around Rs 9.5 crore. After the landscaping work and other work, the total cost of the project will be around Rs 10 crore.“The height of the statue is 42 ft and the height of the foundation will be 10 ft. The project was announced under the CM’s announcement. The statue is being sculpted by Ram Vanji Sutar’s unit in Noida who designed the Statue of Unity. We have asked them to get the statue ready by November-end so that it could be inaugurated during the Gita Mahotsav in December.”“Lakhs of devotees reach Kurukshetra every year and efforts are being made to give something new to them every time. Constant efforts are being made to develop Kurukshetra as an international tourist destination as well. Last year, a new light and sound show was introduced at Jyotisar,” he added.To a query, Chhabra said, “The Jyotisar is being developed at a cost around Rs 100 crore for which budgets are being provided through the Krishna circuit under the Swadesh Darshan scheme of the Centre and by the state government.”In 2016, the Centre had allocated Rs 97.34 crore to Kurukshetra to develop Krishna circuit under the Swadesh Darshan scheme. The budget was spent on development work at Jyotisar, Sannihit Sarovar, Brahma Sarovar, Narkatari, and in Thanesar city. The KDB had sought a budget of Rs 97.06 crore under the second phase of Swadesh Darshan scheme from the Centre for the development of religious sites in the state.
02-07-2020||Ambala||Over 3K trees to be axed for NH 4-laning||After the owners failed to voluntarily remove their structures coming in way of the Ambala-Saha National Highway 444-A four-laning, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has launched a drive to forcibly bring down the constructions obstructing the execution of the already delayed project.Most owners fail to comply with NHAI ordersThe NHAI had served the notices to the owners of all such structures in the first week of June and had given them 21-day time to remove the structures, but most of them failed to comply with the order, said an official of the NHAI.Under the drive, at least 139 concrete structures and more than 3,000 full grown trees will be removed to pave way for the four-laning of the highway.The NHAI had served the notices to the owners of all such structures in the first week of June and had given them 21-day time to remove the structures, but most of them failed to comply with the order, said an official of the NHAI. — TNS
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Singing feat||Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora today presented a certificate given by the India Book of Records and a gold medal to retired Indian Administrative Service officer Raj Rup Fuliya for singing more than 27,000 songs in 42 languages in the past two years on various apps. — TNS
02-07-2020||
||Youth held for firing||Bhiwani, July 1 The police have arrested Rakesh, alias Raku, of Rohtak on the charge of firing at his cousin sister at Dhana Ladanpur village in Bhiwani district on Monday. Police investigation indicated that the young woman’s brother was also involved in the murderous attack. A case was registered. A countrymade pistol was seized.
02-07-2020||Yamunanagar||141 women prisoners of five jails shifted to Karnal||As many as 141 women prisoners, including convicts and undertrials, have been shifted to district jail, Karnal, from five district jails to set up quarantine wards in the female wards of these jails for new prisoners with an aim to stop the spread of Covid among old prisoners. According to information, the women prisoners were sent to Karnal jail from district jails of Sonepat, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Yamunanagar from June 23 to June 27. “As many as 43 women prisoners were sent to our jail from Sonepat jail. Similarly, 31 women prisoners each from Panipat and Kurukshetra districts, 18 prisoners each from Kaithal and Yamunanagar districts were sent here,” said Amit Kumar Bhadu, Superintendent, District Jail, Karnal. He said they now had 169 women prisoners including 28 women prisoners of Karnal jail. The decision of shifting women prisoners from five districts to district jail, Karnal; women prisoners of district jails Bhiwani and Sirsa to Central Jail, Hisar-2; and women prisoners of district jail Narnaul to district jail, Jhajjar, was taken at a meeting of Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HALSA), Panchkula. The meeting of HALSA was held under the chairmanship of Executive Chairman of the authority, Justice Rajiv Sharma, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, through video conferencing. Ratan Singh, Superintendent, district jail, Yamunanagar, said a number of difficulties were being faced by the authorities due to insufficient infrastructure for effective isolation of prisoners. — TNS
02-07-2020||---||Virus claims four more lives in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 1With 393 fresh cases, including five doctors, Haryana’s Covid tally reached 14,941 today. Four deaths pushed the toll to 240.Meanwhile, 527 people recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recoveries to 10,499, with a recovery rate of 70.27 per cent.The deaths were reported from Faridabad (3) and Gurugram (1). A total of 240 deaths had taken place so far, with a fatality rate of 1.61 per cent.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (165), Gurugram (116), Bhiwani (26), Rohtak (22), Karnal (14), Palwal (10), Ambala (9), Nuh (8), Panipat (6), Mahendragarh (5), Kurukshetra and Fatehabad (4 each), Yamunanagar (2) and Kaithal and Jhajjar (1 each).In Jhajjar, three doctors deputed at the casualty ward of the Civil Hospital tested positive. Two MBBS interns and a Class IV employee also confirmed for Covid. The cases were yet to be included in the state health bulletin.Two doctors, five other staff members and two patients of a private hospital and a nursing sister of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College were among the fresh cases in Karnal.Covid-19 Cases DiSTRICT-WISE COUNT
02-07-2020||Panipat||‘Drinking session’ cut short, accused murdered two cops||Annoyed with their interruption, the miscreants had murdered two police personnel in Butana of Sonepat in the wee hours of Tuesday.In all, six miscreants were allegedly involved in the murder case, of which one has been arrested and four, including two girls, are still at large. They were allegedly drinking in the night.Two accused had criminal recordThe four main accused belong to Jind, of which Amit of Ajmeri Basti was shot down by the police, while Sandeep was arrested on Wednesday. The police produced Sandeep in a court, which sent him to seven-day police remand.As per sources, it was revealed in the preliminary investigation that there were four boys and two girls at the crime spot. The four miscreants were allegedly drinking along with two girls in the closed Haryali centre building after parking their vehicle near its gate.Constable Ravinder and SPO Kaptan Singh saw the vehicle while patrolling in the night and stopped there. Ravinder noted the vehicle number on his left hand and Kaptan frisked the vehicle using a stick in his hand, the sources added.Meanwhile, the miscreants came out from the centre and started an argument with the police personnel and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons.SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said a Sub-Inspector noticed the vehicle number on Ravinder’s left hand through which our teams succeeded in nabbing the accused.After murdering the police personnel, the accused changed their routes and reached Jind via Panipat and Sonepat, Randhawa added.Refusing to comment about the girls, the SP said a probe was underway and the police were verifying the facts.
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mafias having a free run, alleges Abhay||Several mafias, including liquor, mining and drug, are having a free run in the state with the BJP-JJP government looking the other way, Ellenabad MLA Abhay Chautala alleged here on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference, Abhay asserted that the BJP and JJP came to power on the promise of providing a transparent and corruption-free administration. “However, the land mafia of the Congress has been replaced with others, which are having a field day in the state,” he alleged. The MLA alleged that while the land mafia during the Congress rule plundered the land of the farmers, especially in the NCR, the other mafias had made life difficult for the common man in the BJP-JJP regime. — TNS
02-07-2020||Saurabh Malik
||High Court : Misused property control unproven, can’t proceed||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 1 The High Court has made it clear that work-allocating authorities cannot be proceeded against in corruption cases for use of substandard material in construction work without establishing that the misappropriated property was either entrusted to them or under their control. The prosecution was required to prove that the deficiency was in the knowledge of the functionary and had been dishonestly misappropriated by him or someone else within his knowledge. The ruling by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came on an appeal by former sarpanch Babli Devi against Haryana, challenging her conviction of criminal breach of trust and other offences by the Kurukshetra Additional Sessions Judge. She was accused of falsely projecting engagement of labour for digging a dug-up  drain, using in construction of her house more than 50 per cent of 1 lakh bricks bought for a boundary wall and use of substandard material, resulting in siphoning of money. Justice Kshetarpal asserted that it was required to be established that property entrusted had been fraudulently misappropriated, converted for own use or allowed to be done so. Justice Kshetarpal observed that the panchayat received an amount for development. The construction of the wall would have been carried out by a building contractor under a Junior Engineer’s supervision. Justice Kshetarpal added: “The allegations, although not proved, are that the required ratio of cement was not used in the cement mortar while constructing the wall. The sarpanch cannot be expected to use the cement mortar. Such work would be required to be carried out by the mason or labourers or at the most, on the contractor’s instructions.” Setting aside the judgement, Justice Kshetarpal added that it was inappropriate for the court below to presume that the cement bags had been misappropriated by the sarpanch.
02-07-2020||Ambala||Ambala doc duped of Rs 4L , three arrested||A Home Guards volunteer was among three persons arrested on the charge extorting Rs 4 lakh from a doctor after threatening to implicate him in a rape case, the police have said. The accused — Home Guards volunteer Ram Parkash of Ambala City, Mohinder Pal of Patiala, and Sudesh, alias Meenu — were remanded in two-day police custody. In his complaint, Dr Gurmail Singh of the district’s Saunda village said a woman visited his clinic a few days ago and consulted him for not bearing a child. On June 23, Dr Singh said, the woman called him up and asked him to visit her home in Ambala City. Unsuspecting of her intentions, he went to her house. He said besides the woman, a girl was present there. “The girl removed her clothes and started making a video with me. A few minutes later, some persons, including one in police uniform, arrived there. They demanded Rs 10 lakh to settle the matter. The deal was clinched at Rs 4 lakh, which Dr Singh paid later. — TNS
02-07-2020||
||Trader booked for Rs 2.49 cr GST fraud||Ambala, July 1 A trader has been booked in connection with a GST fraud of Rs 2.49 crore after he allegedly registered a firm on a fake address in Ambala City, the police have said. The accused has been identified as Sandeep Kumar. He had registered as a scrap dealer under the GST Act, 2017, and obtained a GST number. In the course of investigation, the Excise and Taxation Department found that the address and the mobile number given by Kumar at the time of registration were fake. As per information available on the GST portal, Kumar had issued sales bills and e-way bills worth Rs 13.85 crore from April 2019 to December 2019 to several traders in Haryana and other states.  The purchasers had claimed input tax credit of Rs 2.49 crore, but Kumar’s firm did not deposit the tax, thus causing a loss of Rs 2.49 crore to the state exchequer. Jaspal Singh, Inspector (Taxation), said: “Kumar’s firm did not deposit any tax. When excise officials visited the address given by him, no firm found was there. When the matter was investigated further, the department learnt that his actual address was at Mandi Gobindgarh, Punjab.” The case has been registered on the complaint by former Excise and Taxation Officer, state tax ward no 10, Dhanpati Bhardwaj. The department has sought legal action and recovery of loss from the accused. A case has been registered under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of IPC at the Ambala City police station.
02-07-2020||---||Schools to reopen for staff on July 27, colleges shut till 31st||Chandigarh, July 1Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar on Wednesday said government and private schools would reopen for teachers and non-teaching staff and not for students from July 27 after the summer vacation.The state government ordered summer vacation in schools from July 1 to 26, after which it planned to reopen the institutions.During the vacation, there is no need for teachers and non-academic staff to be present in the schools.However, the Union Home Ministry will issue guidelines regarding the decision to permit students to attend the schools after their reopening as per the circumstances prevailing at that time.Meanwhile, the Haryana Government on Wednesday ordered the closure of all colleges and universities in the state till July 31 as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).Online classes of college and university students will, however, continue. The administrative and ministerial staff of the colleges and universities will also continue to attend office, an order of the Principal Secretary (Higher Education) stated.Moreover, the Vice Chancellors of state universities will hold consultations regarding the reopening of the higher educational institutions and submit a report to the state government within 10 days.
02-07-2020||Karnal||Karnal hospital gets notice for negligence||After six doctors, 10 paramedical staff members of a private hospital and two patients tested positive for Covid, the district authorities have asked private hospitals not to admit patients having Covid symptoms. Otherwise, action would be initiated against them. They have been asked to refer such patients to Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC). “We have issued a show-cause notice to the hospital as negligence has caused danger to the lives of the doctors, other staff and patients,” said DC Nishant Kumar Yadav. — TNS
02-07-2020||
||PGIMS to conduct human trials of vaccine||Rohtak, July 1 Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, is all set to conduct clinical human trials to evaluate the safety and efficacy of an indigenous Covid vaccine. As per official sources, the safety of the candidate vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, a Hyderabad-based company, has already been proven in animal studies. “Rohtak PGIMS is among the 12 institutes across the country and the only one in Haryana selected for conducting human trials. We have obtained the requisite permissions for the purpose and will begin these as soon as we receive the vaccine,” Dr Savita Verma, Professor at the Department of Pharmacology at Rohtak PGIMS and Principal Investigator of the study, told The Tribune. Professor Verma said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV) had provided the strain of Coronavirus for developing the vaccine to the said company.  Prof (Dr) Dhruva Chaudhry, State Nodal Officer for Covid, and Dr Ramesh Verma, Professor at the Department of Community Medicine at Rohtak PGIMS, are the co-investigators. The team of researchers has requested residents to come forward as volunteers for the study. Interested persons may call on the PGIMS Covid Helpline number 9416447071.  “The volunteers participating in this endeavour will be looked after well to manage any mild or serious side effects,” said Dr Verma, adding the trials would be conducted in two phases — on 375 volunteers in the first phase and 750 in the second.
02-07-2020||Gurugram||Infectivity rate down 50% in Gurugram||Gurugram has registered a dip of almost 50 per cent in its infectivity rate since June 15. Struggling with infectivity rate of between 30 per cent and 34 per cent since May, the district has been getting the situation under control for the past two weeks.Changing its strategy and plugging loopholes, the district has been recording infectivity rate of 10% to 15% for the past 15 days. — TNS
02-07-2020||Parveen Arora
||From classroom to e-lessons, Covid turns teachers tech-savvy||Tribune News Service Karnal, July 1 The Covid pandemic has helped teachers become tech-savvy by shifting from classroom lessons to online learning. A majority of teachers were not familiar with gadgets or online classes, but now they have learnt a lot about e-learning techniques and strategies to keep their students engaged. Some of them have learnt from their children, while a few have gained knowledge from their colleagues. Rashmi Chaudhary, an English teacher of Dyal Singh Public School, main branch, said she was not familiar with gadgets and it was a bit challenging. “Covid has taught us a lot. We became tech-savvy, while earlier we were limited to receiving calls or dialing the number,” she added.   Randhir Singh (48), a commerce teacher of Tagore Bal Niketan, said he had little knowledge of technology, but now he learnt a lot more from his children and was using all apps for online teaching. “It was a Herculean task for me to get updated, but I tried my best and now I can operate the gadgets being used in online classes,” he added. Madhu Grover, an English teacher of Dyal Singh School, Sector 7, said: “Virtual classroom is totally different from the actual one, for which we have to prepare a lot.” The technical teams of the schools are also contributing a lot to educate their teachers about the new techniques. “We apprise our colleagues about new technologies and the handling of gadgets. Besides, we have to check the security features of all the apps being used by the students and staff members for online classes. We have also learnt a lot during online classes,” said Khushali and Teena, IT experts of Dyal Singh School, main branch.
02-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||State women in late 40s have 2nd highest child-bearing rate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 1Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Haryana have reported the highest child-bearing rate of women in the age group of 45-49 years.As per the Sample Registration System Statistical Report 2018, released recently, UP reported a fertility rate of 10.4 and Haryana 7.0 while the national rate was 4.8. Fertility rate is defined as the number of live births per 1,000 women.In Haryana, women educated below the primary level led with 10.2, followed by graduates and above at 8.3 and primary educated at 8.2 while illiterate women were at 7.4.Haryana had the highest fertility rate in the age group of 25-29 years at 169.1 in 2018, followed by the age group of 20-24 years at 118.3 and 30-34 years at 91.4. In the age group of 40-44 years, Haryana reported a fertility rate of 10.6.Women in J&K had a fertility rate of 6.5, Himachal Pradesh (HP) 1.5, Punjab and Uttarakhand 3.5 and Delhi 1.7 in the 45-49 year bracket.“High fertility rate is due to widely available treatment for infertility and son preference. Socio-economic transition has led women to compress child-bearing period. It starts late and ends early,” said Prof Aswini Kumar Nanda, health economist at Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development in Chandigarh.Infant mortality rate, defined as infant deaths per thousand live births, in Haryana was more than in neighbouring states in 2018.It was 30 in Haryana, 13 in Delhi, 19 in HP, 20 in Punjab and 22 in J&K while it was 32 at the national level. The neonatal (less than 29 days of age) mortality rate in Haryana was the highest in the region.
02-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Man shot dead in Yamunanagar||A 45-year-old man was allegedly shot dead by three motorcycle-borne unidentified persons in Mandhar village of Yamunanagar district on Tuesday night. The reason behind the murder is yet to be known. SP Kamaldeep Goyal has handed over the probe of the case to CIA-I and Chhappar police of the district. The deceased has been identified as Gurvinder Singh of Mandhar village, but these days, he was living in a rented house in Jagadhri. On the complaint of Jasvinder Singh of Mandhar village, brother-in-law of the deceased, a case was registered against three unidentified persons under Sections 302 of the IPC and 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act at Chhappar police station on Wednesday. In his complaint to the police, the complainant said that his sister was married to Gurvinder Singh. He was living in a rented accommodation in Jagadhri. He said his brother-in-law used to come to his village and he came there around 7.30 pm on Tuesday too. He said Gurvinder along with Jasvinder’s son (7) went to a grocery shop in the village.  “While returning, the attackers fired 3-4 bullets at my brother-in-law and fled the spot,” the complainant told the police. He said the victim sustained bullet injures in the head and was rushed to a private hospital of Yamunanagar, where he was declared brought dead.  After the post-mortem, the body was handed over to the kin on Wednesday. — TNS
02-07-2020||Rohtak||Two markets in Rohtak shut for violating SOPs||District Magistrate-cum-Disaster Management Officer RS Verma has ordered the closure of Old Sabzi Mandi and Malgodam Road markets in Rohtak for three days for non-compliance of orders issued to check the Covid spread. In the orders passed today,  local SP, Duty Magistrate and Incident Commander have been directed to ensure the implementation of the said orders. It stated that the local authorities and officials concerned had reported that the shopkeepers of those markets were not following the directions and standard operating procedures (SOPs), which could trigger the community transmission of Covid. — TNS
02-07-2020||Rohtak||70% taxis lying idle in Rohtak, for months, owners on edge||The Covid pandemic has hit the taxi business hard in the district with more than 70 per cent taxis continuing to remain stationed for the past three months.Though taxis have been allowed to operate conditionally but people are not hiring the vehicles, forcing several owners to work with industrial units at much cheaper rates for ferrying their employees.No takers this peak season"There are more than 600 taxis, including tourist buses, in the city and tourism contributes over 60% to this business. June is considered as the peak season as people used to travel by taxis to hill stations and holy places during the summer vacation, but not a single person came to hire one this time." Krishan Punia, TransporterKrishan Punia, a transporter, said the business was unlikely to come back on track this year hence, the thought of selling the taxis and exploring the possibility of starting a new business came to my mind but there were no buyers at a time when every business was badly hit by Covid.“The state should waive passenger tax on buses for bailing us out of this crisis.”“Taxis are being hired by people only for urgent visits hence, most of the owners have been without work for more than three months. Worst-affected are those who have taken loans to buy taxis. They are now finding it difficult to pay the instalment without any income. Some of them had to sell the taxis to be freed from financial liabilities. They are now searching for other work to sustain livelihood,” said Deepender Singh Dahiya, another transporter.Deepak, a taxi owner, said people used to book taxis in advance well before the summer vacation to travel to Shimla, Kullu, Manali, Dalhousie, Nainital and other hill stations to get some respite from the scorching heat in June. “Many even used to visit religious places like Mata Vaishno Devi in Jammu and Golden Temple in Amritsar (Punjab), but the Covid scare has forced people to stay at home this time. Drivers have been spending their time by playing cards at the taxi stand and smoking hookah.”Manish, another taxi driver, said curbs on gathering at weddings and other social functions in view of Covid was also another vital reason responsible for the situation.
02-07-2020||---||Reduce fuel rates in Punjab, Rajasthan, Khattar dares Congress||Karnal, July 1Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday asked the Congress to reduce the fuel rates in its ruling states like Punjab and Rajasthan.The CM said while taking a dig at the protest by the Congress on Monday.He was in the city on Tuesday to attend the wedding of party president Subhash Barala’s son. While talking to mediapersons at the PWD Rest House, he welcomed the Centre’s decision to ban 59 Chinese apps and said Haryana had earlier cancelled two projects with China.“People have resentment against China over its steps and they are opposing its goods. We will not allow China to intrude into India, but the option of dialogue is open as India is a peace-loving nation,” he added.On being asked about the speculations of Krishan Pal Gurjar been elected as Haryana BJP’s new chief, the CM said he wishes well to anyone who would be nominated. He said the announcement may be made in a week.About locust swarm, Khattar said they had made all arrangements to tackle the menace.The CM also offered condolences on the death of two police personnel and said their sacrifice would be honoured as they laid their lives in the line of service.In a reply to a question related to hike the bus fair, the CM said they had deferred the decision till July 15 and they would review it in the next meeting. He said the roadways was under losses as 850 buses of 4,500 were plying at this time.Takes stock of Covid initiatives Chandigarh, July 1The BJP legislature party, which met under the chairmanship of CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday, discussed the state’s initiatives during the Covid-induced lockdown even as legislators provided their feedback on the ground realities.It was the first meeting since the lockdown began. The meeting also discussed procurement of wheat, sunflower and mustard. Some of the MLAs appreciated the government’s efforts, while others said farmers’ organisations and the Opposition protested only in the initial days of procurement.A legislator said, “It was a routine meeting during which the CM took feedback on the difficulties faced by the public during the lockdown, the impact of government initiatives and the message that went out regarding the government’s performance.”The Baroda bypoll also came up for discussion. It was stated that the JJP would support the BJP. — TNS
02-07-2020||Rohtak||Dhaba worker murdered||A dhaba worker was battered to death allegedly by his colleague on the Kharkhoda road in Sampla on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Udaybhan, alias Munna,  of Dewariya in Uttar Pradesh. Accused Jahir Khan of Barpeta in Assam fled the spot. A scuffle on Tuesday night is believed to the reason behind the crime. The police started a probe after registering a case of murder on the complaint of dhaba owner Ajesh. — TNS
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||HSSC ex-chairman, members booked in recruitment scam||The State Vigilance Bureau in Haryana has registered a case against former chairman, members and officials of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) for fraudulent recruitment of 1,983 physical training instructors (PTIs) during the BS Hooda-led Congress regime.Bias alleged in selection of PTIsThe selection procedure to recruit 1,983 physical training instructors was held without the written test in 2008.The HSSC chairman and members allegedly resorted to favouritism while giving marks in interview.The Supreme Court had on April 8 upheld an order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court striking down the HSSC recruitments.The HSSC had invited applications for 1,983 posts of the instructors in 2006 and had appointed them in 2010. As per the notification, candidates equal to three times the number of vacancies were to be called for the interview based on their performance in the written test.However, later a notice was issued by the commission that due to several complaints of cheating, the written exam would be cancelled. Another notice was issued re-notifying the written examination.However, before the fresh written exam could take place on July 20, 2008, a third notice was issued by the commission cancelling the test.Then the selection panel decided to shortlist the candidates for the interview based on the academic qualification and employed 1,983 candidates, leading to the litigation. — TNS
