02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Man killed in Haryana over intercaste marriage||A 23-year-old man who married a woman belonging to a different caste was stabbed to death allegedly by his brother-in-law in Panipat, police said on Saturday, the second suspected case of honour killing in Haryana in the past three days.Neeraj had married in November, but the brother of the woman was unhappy over the marriage, according to police.The suspect and his relative attacked Neeraj in the market area of the city on Friday night. The youth was taken to the hospital where he was declared brought dead, police said.Neeraj's body bore multiple stab injuries. A case has been registered and efforts are on to nab the suspects, a police official said.On Wednesday, a couple who planned to marry were shot dead in broad daylight in Rohtak. --- PTI
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 4 new COVID-19 deaths, 239 cases||Haryana on Saturday reported four more coronavirus-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 2,915, while 239 fresh cases pushed the state's infection count to 2,62,850.One each fatality was recorded in Bhiwani, Yamunanagar, Panchkula and Panipat districts, according to the Health Department's daily bulletin.Of the fresh COVID-19 cases, Gurugram reported 64, Ambala 24, Faridabad and Panchkula 20 each, it stated.The number of active cases in the state stands at 3,124.As many as 2,56,811 patients have so far been discharged after recuperating from the disease, pushing the recovery rate to 97.70 per cent, the bulletin said. PTI
02-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||BKU (Ugrahan) launches ‘Chetna Yatra’ on tractors to muster local support||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 2Without waiting for the outcome of the proposed meeting with the Centre on January 4, a large number of farmers belonging to Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) on Saturday launched ‘Chetna Yatra’ on hundreds of tractors-trailers from Rohad toll plaza located on the Rohtak-Delhi to Shahjahanpur-Khera border in Rajasthan.Farmers reached Gangachai Jat toll plaza on the Jhajjar-Rewari highway, 10 km away from Rewari city at 7 pm after passing through Sampla (Rohtak) and Aasanda, Bhapdauda, Chhara and Jhajjar city. They camped there instead of moving ahead at night in the bone-chilling cold.Significantly, the toll barrier started providing free passage to commuters as soon as the cavalcade of farmers reached there. The barrier had been charging tax from commuters despite the farmers’ call for toll free passage. The place is about 40 km away from the Shahjahanpur border.“The Chetna Yatra is aimed at enhancing local participation in the ongoing agitation to pressurise the Centre for repealing three black laws. Since we had announced to carry out the yatra between January 2 to 4 before the last meeting between the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and the Centre held on December 30 hence it was launched today as per schedule,” Shingara Singh Mann, state president of the BKU (Ugrahan), told The Tribune.Mann maintained they interacted with local farmers in every village on the way and urged them to support the agitation with more strength after describing the adverse effects of three farm laws on agriculture.“The villagers accorded a warm welcome to the yatra and also organised a langar near Silana village in Jhajjar district hence we are confident about a huge participation of locals in the protest in coming days. We will move towards Shahjahanpur border on Sunday morning and return to Tikri next day,” he added.Hakkam Singh Walia, another protester from Punjab, said the police personnel fully supported them during the yatra while Jaspal Singh, another farmer from Fazilka claimed that the yatra would play a vital role in making local farmers aware of three black laws and further strengthening the protest.Ashok Arya, a leader of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, said a special arrangement was being made at Shahjahanpur border to welcome the Chetna Yatra here.
02-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Ravinder Jakhar: A 3rd generation soldier who laid down his life in the line of duty||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, January 2Naib Subedar Ravinder Jakhar (40), who was killed in Pak shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Nowshera sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district was a third generation soldier. His father Meer Singh Jakhar and grandfather Sheo Chand Jakhar also served in the Army.Jitendra Jakhar, the elder brother of Ravinder, is serving in the Army as Subedar, while his son Nitin recently cleared the physical test and is looking forward to join the Army and maintain the family tradition of serving the nation.      The mortal remains of the martyr will be brought to his native village of Salhavaas here on Sunday for last rites.A pall of gloom descended on the village as soon as the news of Ravinder’s martyrdom reached his family last evening.Ravinder had visited his home three months ago and went back to Rajouri a day before Diwali on November 13 after spending over a month in the village.“Ravinder was so passionate towards joining the Army that he started preparations for it soon after the completion of his Class 12th exams,” revealed Jitendra.“He joined the Army in 1998 and participated in the Kargil war in 1999. Our entire family has served the Indian Army and we want our next generation too to join the Army.“We have built a house in Ambala so that our children can get good education and crack the requisite exam for getting into the Army,” Jitendra added.   Jitendra also informed that Ravinder’s son Nitin was preparing for the medical exam – a prerequisite for joining the Army.“We are shocked but also proud of Ravinder. He made the supreme sacrifice for the nation,” Jitendra added.Ravinder’s cousin Ramesh said he was a brave, highly motivated and sincere man who always encouraged youth of the village to join the Army.“He (Ravinder) would be known for his devotion to duty. A large number of people from nearby villages are likely to attend his last rites,” said Ramesh.Ravinder’s last rites will be performed at Shaheed Park in the village and a statue of his will also be installed in his remembrance, said the villagers.
02-01-2021||Jhajjar||Jhajjar police file charge-sheet within 8 days in rape, murder of 5-year-old girl case||The local police filed a charge-sheet into the abduction, rape and murder of the five-year-old daughter of a Madhya Pradesh migrant labourer on December 29.The case was registered with the City Police Station, here, on December 21. The charge-sheet was filed within eight days while 25 people were made witnesses in the case.A 27-year-old man—Vinod, also known as Munna—first kidnapped the girl from their rented accommodation, and took her to his place on the intervening night of December 20-21 where he allegedly raped and then murdered her.The victim's father informed the police, which rushed to the spot, and broke open the main door of the accused's house. The police found the girl dead while the accused was found an inebriated state.A case under section 376AB (committing rape of a girl under twelve years of age), 302 (murder), 365 (kidnapping any person with the intent to cause that person to be secretly and wrongfully confined) of the IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act was booked against the accused on the complaint of the victim's father.Next day, the fellow-labourers, not only took out a candle march in Jhajjar city, but also blocked the road for over an hour demanding capital punishment to the accused.They lifted the blockade following the assurance by the police that the charge sheet into the case would be filed at the earliest to ensure maximum punishment to the accused.The accused is a history-sheeter and eight criminal cases are booked against him in various police stations of Jhajjar and Rajasthan.As per the charge sheet, the police later added more sections of the IPC to the FIR based on the postmortem report and findings of the investigation.Section 377 (unnatural offence), 367 (kidnapping or abducting to subject a person to grievous hurt, slavery, etc), and 451 (house-trespass to commit offence) were the sections added to the case.“Our investigation team worked hard and made the probe swiftly to file the charge sheet in the court at the earliest. We will get maximum punishment done to the accused to ensure justice to the victim's family,” said Rajesh Duggal, Superintendent of Police, Jhajjar.
02-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||2 held in Jhajjar with 244-kg ganja, was being smuggled from Andhra Pradesh to Rajasthan||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, January 2The district police have seized 244-kg ganja (cannabis), estimated to be more than Rs 25 lakh, from a pick-up in Beri town here on Friday night and arrested two persons in this connection.The consignment was being taken to Rajasthan from a place located on the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border. Those arrested have been identified as Ajit of Balkara village in Charkhi Dadri (Haryana) and Basant of Uttar Pradesh.  Rajesh Duggal, Jhajjar Superintendent of Police, said the ganja was packed in six bags so that no one could suspect them.“On a tip-off about smuggling of narcotics, a team of Beri police jointly led by Inspector Manoj Kumar and ASI Amit Kumar put up a naka on the Jhajjar road in Beri town and started checking vehicles. The pick-up was intercepted and on checking, the police seized the ganja,” said Duggal, adding the duo were rounded up and a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against them.  ASP Vikrant Bhushan claimed it was the biggest consignment of narcotics seized by the Jhajjar police over the past some time.“The accused will be produced in the court today to take them on police remand. Some vital information about the racket and those involved is likely to come out,” said Bhushan.
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||Light rain in many parts of Punjab, Haryana; Hisar shivers at 2 degrees Celsius||The ongoing cold weather conditions continued to sweep Punjab and Haryana on Saturday, with Hisar in Haryana recording a low of 2 degrees Celsius.Many parts of both states also witnessed overnight rains.The areas that witnessed rainfall included Chandigarh (0.6 mm), Ambala (2 mm), Karnal (2.8 mm), Sirsa (0.6 mm), Ludhiana (0.4 mm), Patiala (2.2 mm) and Halwara (5 mm).Hisar’s low of 2 degrees Celsius was five notches below normal, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said here.Ambala, Karnal and Narnaul recorded their respective minimum temperatures at 5.7, 5.8 and 8 degrees Celsius, respectively, while the minimum temperatures of Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa were 7.8, 4.7 and 7.7 degrees Celsius, respectively.In Punjab, Amritsar experienced cold weather conditions at 2.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, while Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective lows at 3.9 and 6.4 degrees Celsius.Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur recorded their respective lows at 3.7, 6.4, 6.1, 4.2, 5.2 and 3 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh recorded a minimum temperature of 6.1 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal. PTI
02-01-2021||ONCE a bus queue shelter for commuters||Bus shelter lying dismantled||SK Gupta, PanchkulaDemand for basic facilitiesTHE photograph shows the area from Ambala City towards Moti Nagar Lyallpur basti and Ranjit Nagar connecting to the state's western part. Despite the fact that some progressive families living here have turned their houses into schools and private clinics, the area lacks all civic amenities like cleanliness, repair of roads and special drives for mosquitoes and clearance of stagnant water. It is visible that the drain has not been cleared for the last many months and as a result it has started stinking. It has also become a breeding place for mosquitoes. Since the new civic body has come into being, it is hoped that attention will be paid to resolve the problems in the area.Gian P Kansal, Ambala cityNew bike scheme a good moveIT is pleasing to hear that the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority has proposed to set up wide public bike sharing system to ease last mile connectivity. Roads more than 24-m wide will have 2.5 m to 5 m wide cycle track based on availability while the narrower roads will have a track with a minimum space.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramMinor canal in bad shapeA minor canal passing through a thickly populated area on outskirts of Narwana is full of garbage. Having no dumping site, initially people residing nearby and the then municipal authorities too started dumping garbage in this minor. The water flow has stopped. In the interest of the people, it must be filled up with earth and a metalled road should be constructed over it.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaAll that glitters is not goldTHE TRIBUNE recently highlighted the plight of a 55-year-old differently abled woman who was forced to crawl in the absence of a wheelchair at the Sector 17 Government Model Primary School polling booth in Panchkula to cast her vote for the MC poll. But sadly when she was gasping for air after vigorous physical activity, the poll officials stared at each other as there was no drinking water available too. Shouldn't some heads roll for displaying such a pathetic show at the ground zero despite ‘all is well’ claims being so proudly made by the top-ranking bureaucrats concerned?Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
02-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University releases training manual||NDRI director lauds services of staffKarnal: National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) Director Dr Manmohan Singh Chauhan and NDRI Deemed University Vice-Chancellor at the event of a New Year interacted with scientists and staff at Dr D Sundaresan auditorium and conveyed their best wishes for New Year. Dr Chauhan said although the whole world was under the stress of Covid pandemic but NDRI workers and scientists had maintained their momentum and worked actively to shape the future of the institute. He added that during the past 12 months, NDRI had been working on the “Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan” concept and had strictly followed all Covid guidelines. Speaking on the occasion, he said, “NDRI maintained its top rank among all agricultural universities. NDRI had won several prestigious awards and is now working to improve its ranking among various international universities across the world. During the last year, NDRI also contributed by providing instruments for Covid testing, funds were donated under the Prime Minister Relief Fund and distributed masks.”Art integrated learning programmeKurukshetra: Gita Niketan Awasiya Vidyalaya here organised a programme ‘Art integration-based teaching learning methodology’ on the premises of the school to meet the challenges of fast changing expectations of the society from teachers. Principal Narayan Singh was the chief guest. Teachers were assigned various tasks to perform. Vineet Aggarwal, head of the English Department, cited about the inevitability of recalling the subject/topic repeatedly to have a thorough understanding. In the second session, Dr Neelu Dhall and Surender Kaur acquainted the spectators with art integration. According to them, sincere use of any of the art forms such as music, painting, role play and chart making etc as icebreaking activity by a teacher to make his/her teaching more joyful, interesting and comfortable for kids is the sole purpose of art integration. The Principal encouraged all teachers to implement innovations in their teaching process.Innovation awards for schoolsAmbala: Micro Innovation Awards was organised under the aegis of the National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA). Under the programme, several schools, which had initiated major reforms in the field of education by doing small innovations, from across the nation were awarded. Two panel-discussions were organised during the event. These were attended by Dr Amit Chandra, Dr Dilip Modi, Sushil Dhankhar, Dr Kuldeep Anand, Seema Dutt, Principal, Saraswati Vidya Niketan, Ambala, and Dr NISA president Kulbhushan Sharma. ‘Education in Crisis’ and ‘Blended Teaching and Learning’ were the topics discussed by the panellists. Dr Sushil Gupta, chairman, NISA Education Care Fund, highlighted the efforts being made by NISA Care Fund during the programme. More than 50 schools from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Punjab were felicitated at the award ceremony. The first five spots were captured by Colonel's Brightland Public School, Hari Vidya Bhawan, Saraswati Vidya Niketan, Mata Harki Devi Senior Secondary School and BRDM Public School. During the event, Dr Kulbhushan distributed mobile phones to needy children. He also discussed various programmes being run by NISA. Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar congratulated all schools at the programme.Training centre inauguratedYamunanagar: Jamna Skills and Employment Training Centre was inaugurated on the premises of Guru Nanak Khalsa Educational Institutions by Palwal Sri Vishwakarma Kaushal University Vice-Chancellor and noted skill scientist Raj Nehru. Speaking on the occasion, Raj Nehru said the Haryana Government had started a multipurpose skill university in Palwal. Expressing happiness, he said Guru Nanak Khalsa Group of Educational Institutions of Yamunanagar was the first such educational institute in the state where the Skill and Employment Training Centre by CSR of Jamna Auto Industries Limited was being started. On the occasion, General Secretary of the Managing Committee Balwant Singh Banga, head of the Corporate Social Responsibility Cell of Jamna Auto Industries Limited Sanyam Maratha, Guru Nanak Khalsa College Principal Dr Harinder Singh Kang, Director of the Institutes Dr Amit Joshi and Chief Administrative Officer of the institutions Amit Sinha were present.
02-01-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Admn charges up, buying property becomes costlier||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 1Buying property amid Covid pandemic has become costlier in Haryana.With the Haryana Shehari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) effecting a sharp increase in the administrative charges to be paid at the time of the transfer of property, buyers will have to shell out more for the purchase of the residential and commercial property across the state. From the administrative charges ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000, the new charges have gone up to Rs 1 lakh.Earlier, an amount of Rs 5,000 was charged by way of administrative charges for commercial and residential property, while Rs 10,000 was charged floor wise for any residential property measuring 8 marlas and above.Now, a maximum of Rs 1 lakh administrative charges would be charged for the shop-cum-office (SCO) in the “hyper potential zone”. While the charges ranged from Rs 4,000 to Rs 10,000 in case of kiosk, for the small booth the charges would be between Rs 6,000 to 25,000.For medium booth, charges would range between Rs 10,000 and Rs 50,000, while for the service booth/double-storey shop, the administrative charges would be between Rs 15,000 and Rs 75,000, depending on the zone they fall in — Low-II, Low-I, Medium, High-II, High-I and Hyper. For SCOs, the charges would be between Rs 25,000 and Rs 1 lakh.For the residential plots up to 8 marlas, the charges ranged from Rs 2,000 to Rs 10,500. For 10 marla and above, the price ranged from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000.In case of floor-wise purchase, buyers will have to shell out anything from Rs 8,000 to Rs 20,000 for plots measuring 8 marlas to 14 marlas. For 1-2 kanal plots, the rates are pegged between Rs 20,000 and Rs 90,000.The administrative charges for nursing homes ranged from Rs 10,000-Rs 15,000. The new charges for schools also ranged from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000.Meanwhile, 20 per cent of the applicable rates would be charged as administrative charges in death cases as against Rs 1,000.
02-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Farmers ring in New Year with special langar, anti-govt songs||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 1Farmers camping at the Tikri (Delhi) and Shahjahanpur (Rajasthan) borders welcomed New Year in a different style.High time centre should actIssues pertaining to the public are paramount for democracy. The Centre should leave its stubbornness and repeal these ‘black’ laws with immediate effect and give guarantee on MSP. -  Kumari Selja, State Congress ChiefA special langar for all was today organised by farmers at Tikri in which halwa, jalebi and other dishes were prepared for residents of Delhi and Haryana, who were specially invited, while young protesters danced on the DJ installed at tractor-trailers by playing anti-government songs at Shahjahanpur late on Thursday night.The celebration forced the police personnel of both states — Haryana and Rajasthan — deployed at the border to swing into action following the sudden movement of protesters late at night.“Some minutes before the new year, a group of young protesters suddenly took out a tractor march at the border to celebrate the occasion and started raising anti-government slogans. Thereafter, several youths danced on the DJ fitted on tractors by playing Haryanvi songs Modi ji thaari taup kadai sa hum Delhi aage and Punjabi song Pinda-pinda vich paro trolley kaam nahi chalna canter naal,” said Ashok Arya, a leader of the All India Kisan Sabha.Arya said since over 100 farmers broke the barricades during the day, the cops were put on high alert.“We are upset as over 40 of us have died during the ongoing protest but still a special langar was organised on the first day of new year for which people of Delhi and nearby areas of Haryana were invited,” said Pargat Singh, a farmer leader, adding that the battle had reached a decisive stage and they were quite confident of their victory.Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda today reached Tikri border. He also drove a tractor and announced that he would not celebrate his birthday on January 4 in view of the ongoing farmers’ protest.
02-01-2021||Sonepat||Kumari Selja joins farmers for celebrations at Singhu||Standing firm on their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws, the protesting farmers welcomed New Year at the Singhu border on Friday.Shabad kirtan was organised on the occasion. Besides, youngsters cut a cake near the central stage in the night and burst firecrackers.State Congress chief Kumari Selja along with MLAs Pradeep Chaudhary, Shamsher Singh Gogi, Shelly Chaudhary and Congress national general secretary Shamsher Singh Surjwala arrived at the Singhu border in the night.Selja interacted with farmers and also served langar. She shared their grief and pain and extended New Year greetings. Selja said: “May God give wisdom to the Centre and it adopts a positive attitude and takes immediate decision on the farmers’ demands. It should also provide compensation and jobs to the families of the farmers.” — TNS
02-01-2021||Palwal||Toll collection at 3 plazas suspended||Toll tax collection at three toll plazas in the district was suspended from today after a protest and a representation by farmer bodies.  It is likely to remain suspended till the farmers’ agitation, it is learnt. This comes after a protest by hundreds of farmers who reached one of the toll plazas located near the protest site at Antoha village in the district this evening. Rattan Singh Sorot, a BKU leader, said that authorities of all the three toll plazas functional in the vicinity of the protest site have agreed to halt the collection of toll from vehicles till the agitation is on.  He said the plazas where the toll collection has been stopped after the intervention of farmers include the plazas located adjacent to the Interchange point of the KGP and KMP expressways. The third toll plaza is situated at Tumsara village on NH-19 passing from here. He said farmers marched to the KGP and KMP plazas this evening and asked the officials concerned to stop the collection of toll in the interest of the farmer agitation. He claimed that officials of all the three plazas have agreed to the request. He said while all other toll plazas in the state are already allowing free passage, these had been collecting the toll till Friday. A minimum of Rs 100 is charged from vehicles passing through these points, it is revealed. — TNS
02-01-2021||Gurugram||Security up at Rewari borders||With protesters camping just 20 km from the city, the police have stepped up security at the Rewari borders.The police have sounded a high alert and declared three spots, including the Kapriwas border and Pachgaon chowk, as sensitive. More security has been deployed and ACPs have been provided reserve force.“Following intelligence inputs about farmers’ plan to enter the Capital via the Gurugram borders, the Sohna, Bilaspur and Manesar police have been put on alert,” said a senior police official.Yesterday, a group of farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway removed the two-layer barricading at the Shahjahanpur (Rajasthan)-Khera (Rewari) border to enter the Capital. — OC
02-01-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Rejected by boyfriend, UP woman ends life||Gurugram, January 1 A 24-year-old woman committed suicide by consuming poison after her boyfriend allegedly refused to get married to her. The deceased has been identified Poonam, a native of Uttar Pradesh. She used to work at a local beauty salon. The family of the woman alleged that she had been murdered by poisoning by her boyfriend. An FIR has been registered against the accused, Kuldeep, at the Sector 29 police station.  According to the complaint filed by the victim’s father, his daughter was working in a salon and used to live in the Chakkarpur area. Around six months ago, she got in touch with Kuldeep, who promised to get married to her. “It was on Diwali when she visited home, she told us that Kuldeep refused to get married to her. She was depressed. On December 23, Kuldeep called her at his home and killed her by poisoning,” the father of the deceased said in his complaint. The police, however, said the preliminary investigation hinted that she had committed suicide after consuming some poisonous substance.  “She was in relationship with the accused and we will call him for questioning soon. An FIR of abatement to suicide has been registered against Kuldeep,” said Inspector Aman Kumar, SHO of Sector 29 police station.
02-01-2021||---||6 deaths, 286 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, January 1With 286 fresh Covid cases, the overall tally in the state reached 2,62,611 on Friday.Meanwhile, the death toll reached 2,911 with addition of six more deaths.Gurugram reported a maximum of 64 cases followed by Faridabad (28), Sonepat (23) and Panchkula (22).A maximum of two deaths were reported from Rewari followed by Karnal, Panchkula, Jhajjar and Fatehabad which reported one death each.
02-01-2021||Nitish Sharma||Dense fog makes commuting tough on NH-44||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, January 1Dense fog coupled with faded or missing white markings, stray cattle, unauthorised entries and ongoing repairs on the national highway are giving some tough time to commuters on the National Highway-44.Hisar wakes up to coldest New Year morningHisar: Hisar recorded the coldest-ever New Year morning at -1.2 degree Celsius. It was 8°C below normal. The freezing temperature came as a shocker for local residents as Hisar was colder than Manali, Himachal Pradesh- which recorded 1.8°C -according to a report by Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD data indicated that while the plains are in the severe grip of winter, the hilly areas witnessed warmer weather. TNSAmit Goel, travelling on Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway, said, “Though the NH was repaired and carpeting work was done on several locations near it but the white markings are still missing. White markings are very important especially during foggy conditions. Things get difficult at night as visibility gets poor. The administration is getting the white markings made here while the work should have been completed before the onset of fog.”Another commuter Balwant Singh, travelling on NH-44, said, “Trucks parked along the road and stray cattle during the foggy weather make things difficult for the drivers. There are several unauthorised entries on the national highway and sometimes vehicles and stray animals from these entries come on the highway all of a sudden and it makes difficult for commuters to move smoothly. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) must get all unauthorised entries closed.”Kurukshetra RTA Urmil Sheokand said, “We have been holding meetings regarding road safety with the traffic police and NHAI officials. Efforts are being made to provide safe journey to the commuters travelling on national and state highways. One such meeting was held on December 29 and we have instructed the NHAI officials to ensure that white markings are in place soon. The concerned officials have been instructed that the new markings be made so that the commuters don’t face any inconvenience.”The RTA said, “Reflectors are being installed regularly on heavy vehicles so that the vehicles could be spotted from a distance. Besides, we have also issued challans worth Rs 65.65 lakh to 272 overloaded vehicles in December.”Rajkumar Walia, DSP Traffic, Kurukshetra, said, “We have raised the issue of illegal entries on the national highway with the NHAI authorities and have asked them to get the entries closed. There are four assistant booths and two police vans on the NH-44 to ensure smooth traffic flow.”Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur said, “We have asked the NHAI officials to get the markings and signage in place at the earliest and also to ensure that the commuters don’t face any inconvenience especially during fog.”
02-01-2021||---||CCTV cameras compulsory in Haryana colleges||Chandigarh, January 1The state government has directed to install CCTV cameras for surveillance in all colleges. The colleges that have not installed CCTVs so far have been asked to install them at the earliest.Giving information about this, an official spokesperson said on behalf of the Director General, Department of Higher Education, Haryana, the principals of aided colleges and self-financed colleges have been directed to install CCTV cameras for effective monitoring and surveillance of college campuses.If CCTV cameras have not been installed in any college-campus so far, then these should be installed as soon as possible. He said principals of all such colleges had been directed to send details of CCTV cameras to the Department’s headquarters by January 14.
02-01-2021||Ambala||Money used to woo voters: HDF||Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) founder Nirmal Singh today alleged that money was used to woo voters in the recent elections to municipal bodies in the state. He said,“The voters were misled and offered money. Though the section of the Mayor and councillors has been done, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor are yet to be elected.”  “Five of our candidates lost the elections by a narrow margin. We will contest the upcoming Ambala Municipal Council (Sadar Zone) elections and the zila parishad and panchayat elections, and give a tough fight to the Haryana Jan Chetna Party,” he added. — TNS
02-01-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad bus project in limbo, Gurugram comes to aid||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, January 1With the local smart city bus service project still to come out of the files, it is the neighbouring Gurugram which has come to the rescue.The Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) will give 50 buses to the city. This arrangement will work till Faridabad comes out with its own facility, it is learnt.The Rs 463 crore PPP mode project under the Smart City project here is yet to take shape. It was announced way back in 2018.Though some of the buses of the GMCBL have already started plying on the route connecting Faridabad and Gurugram, the move comes in the wake of the unusual delay and inability of the Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL) to launch the service that was announced three years ago, according to sources in the department concerned.As many as 50 buses are proposed to be provided by the GMCBL this year for Faridabad, it is learnt. “We have already started four buses to connect Faridabad and Gurugram and one bus on the local route in Faridabad under the project of sharing smart city buses with Faridabad,” says Anju Chaudhary, CEO, GMCBL. “The number of buses to be provided will depend on the requirement in Faridabad,” she says, adding that GMCBL has already acquired 200 buses in its fleet.The FSCL had announced to launch at least 90 buses under PPP mode in the first phase from January 2019. But, according to sources, hurdles connected with the implementation of BS-VI norms and failure to elicit response from the bidders led to putting the Rs 463 crore PPP mode project on hold till date.“The tender process came to an halt after the Supreme Court in October 2019 ordered that vehicles only with emission norms of BS-VI will be registered in the NCR after April 1, 2020,” says an official on condition of anonymity, who adds that tenders floated in 2018-19 failed to get required bidders. Starting from January 2019, a total of 595 buses were proposed to be made operational by 2031.
02-01-2021||---||Husband among four booked for woman’s death in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, January 1Four members of a family, including her husband, were booked for murder after a woman was found hanging from a ceiling fan at her rented accommodation in Kurukshetra on Thursday.The deceased has been identified as Gurpreet (25), a resident of New Model Town here. The accused have been identified as Gurpreet’s husband Sheetal Kumar, mother-in-law Bala, sister-in-law Roopa and Roopa’s husband.In a complaint to the police, Gurpreet’s mother Balvinder Kaur alleged that her daughter had married Sheetal, a resident of Kaithal, eight years ago and Sheetal had gone abroad two months ago. They have a one-year-old boy.“She had been living in a rented accommodation for the past five months. Yesterday, she had gone to register a complaint against her mother-in-law, sister-in-law and her husband at the SP office as they had been harassing her. Later, she came to my house to take her son but I asked her to leave him with me and bring his clothes. Around 7 pm, I received a call from her landlords, saying that somebody was scuffling with my daughter. When I reached there, I found my daughter hanging from a ceiling fan. They murdered my daughter and hanged her,” she alleged.SHO Sunil Dutt said: “A case has been registered on the complaint of the deceased’s mother. According to the preliminary investigation, it appears to be a case of suicide. The post-mortem has been conducted and the body has been handed over to the family members. The matter is being probed further.”
02-01-2021||Gurugram||Case against jail official for dowry harassment||An assistant superintendent of Bhondsi jail was booked along with his family members for allegedly harassing his wife for dowry. The accused was booked under Section 498A, 406, 323 and 34 of the IPC after his wife lodged a complaint against him at Bhondsi police station. The complainant alleged that they had got married five years ago and she was being tortured for dowry since then. She even accused her husband of forcing her to make physical relations with his seniors to get promotion. An FIR has been registered against the accused at the Bhondsi police station and the police are probing the case. — OC
02-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||Hisar freezing, but raen basera shut||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 1Mercury has reached freezing levels in Hisar, but the government night shelter (raen basera) for the needy in the city is non-functional.Set up nearly 2 km from the bus stand in Nav Jiwan Nagar, it is also extremely difficult to locate at night. Most shelter homes, incidentally, are usually found near the main bus stand. When this correspondent visited the raen basera during a bitingly cold evening recently, he found the shelter locked. When he contacted the mobile number put up at the gate, a staff member at the other end said he was on leave for the last 2-3 days but another staffer had been deployed at the home. He also wrongly claimed that the shelter was shut during morning hours but remained open in the evening.Arun Sihag, a social activist in the city, alleged that there were no arrangements for the homeless. He said he found people sleeping in the red square market area every day. A farmer from Kitlana village, Naresh, claimed that he could not locate the raen basera and had to take shelter at the railway station. The Chief Engineer of the MC, Ramji Lal, said: “We have deployed a team which takes care of the needy and have sufficient space.”At 1.1°C, Delhi temp hits 15-yr lowOn January 8, 2006, Delhi had recorded a minimum temperature of 0.2°C
