02-06-2020||Pradeep Sharma||New houses on 4 marla must have mandatory car parking for each floor in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2The Haryana government has effected major changes in the Haryana Building Code-2017 to tackle parking problems in residential colonies. Now, it will be mandatory for 100 square metre (4 marla) plot owners to have a car parking space for each floor in their new constructions.While the plot owners between 100 to 250 square metres (4 to 10 marlas) will have to leave one equivalent car space (ECS) for each floor within their premises, those undertaking construction on plots between 250 to 500 square metres (10 marlas to 1 kanal) will have to leave 1.5 ECS.An ECS consists of a total area of 12.5 square metres with dimensions of 5 metres × 2.5 metres.A recent order of the Additional Chief Secretary, Town and Country Planning, amending the building code said those constructing new buildings on plot measuring 500 square metres and above will leave 2 ECS of parking space. However, the plots below 100 square metres (below 4 marla) will only leave 0.5 ECS.According to new building code, the stilt parking would be mandatory for owners going in for construction of third and fourth floor in the hyper potential category (Gurugram-Manesar Urban Complex). For other towns, stilt parking will be must for owners constructing fourth floor.Meanwhile, BK Sanghi, Panchkula-based developer, termed the amendments as too stringent. “At a time when there is pressure on land in major towns, parking norms need to relaxed at least till the time coronavirus crisis persists,” he asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-houses-on-4-marla%C2%A0must-have-mandatory-car-parking-for-each-floor-in-haryana-93494
02-06-2020||---||BDS intern at PGIDS commits suicide||Rohtak, June 2A BDS intern at PGIDS, Rohtak, allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself at her hostel room this evening.A team of police investigators and forensic experts reached the spot and sent the body for a postmortem examination.The deceased has been identified as Kunika. She was a resident of Panipat.The girl has reportedly left a suicide note but it does not mention the reason behind the extreme step.A case has been registered and investigation was on at the time of filing this report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bds-intern-at-pgids-commits-suicide-93491
02-06-2020||---||Covid 19: Haryana issue guidelines for taxi, cab aggregators||Chandigarh, June 2The Haryana government has issued guidelines regarding taxi, cab aggregators, maxi cab and auto rickshaw drivers for convenience of public transport.Giving details, an official spokesperson of the Transport Department said taxi and cab aggregator will be allowed to ply with a maximum of two passengers in addition to the driver. This means that there will be a maximum of three persons in the vehicle.The Maxi Cabs can ply with a maximum of half of their seating capacity. Auto Rickshaws and E-Richshaws are allowed to ply with two persons in addition to the driver. Likewise, the one pillion rider will be allowed on the Two Wheelers and it shall be mandatory for both the persons to wear helmets, masks and gloves. The manually driven rickshaws shall carry not more than two passengers.He said that only essential activities are allowed in the Containment Zones. Therefore the movement within Containment Zone shall be strictly regulated and allowed only for emergency and essential goods or service vehicles. All drivers and passengers are advised to install the Aarogya Setu application on compatible mobile phones and regularly update their health status on the app.He said that the movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited between 9 pm to 5 am except for essential activities. He said that persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and the children below the age of 10 years, shall stay at home, except for essential and health services. All drivers and passengers should cover their face with mask or cloth at all times. Motor vehicles should be regularly sanitized and the drivers and passengers should regularly use sanitizers.Social distancing shall be followed by all persons at all times. Provisions of hand wash and sanitiser will be made at all taxi or auto stands. Drivers at taxi or auto stands shall maintain safe social distance from each other.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-issue-guidelines-for-taxi-cab-aggregators-93482
02-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab & Haryana High Court directs Haryana to supply ration to migrant labourers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court, on Tuesday, suo motu directed the state of Haryana to supply food and ration to the migrant labourers, in case it had not been provided so far.The state was also asked to comply with all interim directions issued by the Supreme Court in the matter.The directions by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came during the hearing of a petition filed in public interest by the National Campaign Committee for Eradication of Bonded Labour against the state of Haryana and other respondents.The petitioner was seeking directions to provide food and ration to 2500 “stranded migrant labourers” in Faridabad district. It is stated that the persons referred to in a document were provided with ration only once and were at the verge of starvation. As such, necessary directions were required to be issued to the respondent-authorities.The Bench, on a specific query, was informed that the petitioner-committee was not registered. It asserted the petition had apparently been filed by a society having no legal status or entity in the eyes of law. As such, the writ petition was not maintainable.The Bench, at the same time, observed the issue raised by the petitioner was importance. As such, the Court was inclined to take up the issue on its own. Appearing before the Bench, Haryana Additional Advocate-General submitted that the State of Haryana had taken all possible steps to provide necessary facilities of food, ration and transport to all migrant labourers.He further undertook that the authorities would look into the issue raised in the petition and take into consideration the details and the averments mentioned by the petitioner.The Bench was also told that the Supreme Court had already taken up the issue of migrant labourers and issued interim directions, including ones on providing free food and ration to the migrant labourers. It was submitted that the state of Haryana was duly complying with the directions issued by the Supreme Court and would submit a report in this regard before it.“In such circumstances as the Supreme Court is already seized of the matter and necessary interim directions have already been issued, we think it appropriate to dispose of the present petition directing the State of Haryana to look into the issue raised in the petition and in case the food and ration etc. have not been provided to the migrant labourers mentioned therein, the same be provided...,” The Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-high-court-directs-haryana-to-supply-ration-to-migrant-labourers-93469
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 2 deaths, 106 new cases; tally rises to 2,462||Haryana on Tuesday reported two deaths and 106 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's death toll to 23 and case tally to 2,462. The new cases were reported from Gurugram (58), Sonepat (21), Palwal (9), Jind (2), Karnal (4), Fatehbad (5), Bhiwani (6) and Narnaul (1).Besides, Faridabad reported 24 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 440. The death toll in the district rose to 10, after two more people succumbed to the contagion. The district has discharged 169 patients so far. These developments are yet to be added to the official tally.Four people have also tested positive for the contagion in Sirsa. On Monday, Haryana recorded 265 Covid cases, the highest in a day so far. About 64.5 per cent cases were from Gurugram (129), Faridabad (25), Sonepat (13) and Jhajjar (4).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-haryana-reports-2-deaths-106-new-cases-tally-rises-to-2-462-93402
02-06-2020||Rohtak||Hepatitis B prevalence in Haryana higher than national average||Haryana has reported a 5.28 per cent prevalence rate of hepatitis B, much higher than the national average of 4 per cent, according to data analysed by the PGIMS-Rohtak Department of Gastroenterology, in collaboration with the Department of Microbiology.The analysis is based on over 2 lakh samples collected from various districts of the state over the past five years, of which 10,571 were found positive. Significantly, six districts—Kaithal, Jind, Fatehabad, Sonepat, Karnal, and Panipat—have been identified as hotspots for the infection, accounting for 65 per cent of the total cases.“Hepatitis B is more prevalent in rural areas, with 70 per cent patients belonging to poor socio-economic strata. As many as 54 per cent youngsters aged between 20 and 40 years have been found suffering from this disease, while the number of patients below the age of 10 years is 1 per cent, while vertical transmission of disease among children from mothers is around half of it. Men are more vulnerable than women as they constitute 72 per cent of total cases,” states the report.Like hepatitis C, the hepatitis B virus is transmitted by contact with blood or body fluids of an infected person. The most common reason is the use of recycled syringes/ needles and dental procedures by unqualified health practitioners, repeated blood transfusion in thalassemic and dialysis patients, tattooing, said Dr Praveen Malhotra, Senior Professor and Head, Department of Gastroenterology, and in charge of Model Treatment Centre (MTC) at PGIMS.“It’s an initial finding based on 2,00,218 samples, but extensive screening will bring out the exact prevalence. To control the growing burden of hepatitis B, the state government recently launched a programme against hepatitis B under the National Viral Hepatitis Control Programme which ensures free facility for diagnostic tests and treatment at all district hospitals and the MTC,” he added.Dr Malhotra pointed out that uncomplicated cases were dealt with at district hospitals, whereas complicated cases are treated at the MTC, which provides free and round-the-clock availability of all diagnostic and therapeutic endoscopic procedures, capsule endoscopy, fibroscan and indoor admission. Over 34,000 endoscopic procedures and 16,000 fibroscan have been conducted free of cost at the MTC, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hepatitis-b-prevalence-in-haryana-higher-than-national-average-93397
02-06-2020||Sushil Manav---||Curbs eased, industry hopes for revival||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 1 With the first phase of unlocking beginning today, the industry is looking forward to a return to the old good days. Except those dealing in essential items, most units are running on 25 per cent to 40 per cent of capacity. Migrants who left for home have started calling up employers, expressing the intent to return. They are mostly being told to wait till operations are in full swing. “Almost all industries have begun operations. Orders have started coming, though demand is around 33 per cent of what it was in February,” said Rakesh Chhabra, president of Rai Industrial Association in Sonepat district. In Gurugram, Animesh Saxena, president of the Udyog Vihar Industrial Association, said of the 400-odd garment units, only around 20 per cent were able to restart operations in full swing. He said the information technology industry was yet to open offices, though most were operating from home. He said all 30,000 to 40,000 industries had been permitted to restart operations. Rajiv Chawla, president of the Faridabad Small Industries Association and chairman of the Integrated Association of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises of India, said actual results of the unlocking would be seen after a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/curbs-eased-industry-hopes-for-revival-93303
02-06-2020||---||Private schools can only charge tuition fee:  Administration||Chandigarh, June 1 Setting aside an order of the Fee and Fund Regulatory Committee, Rohtak, the Education Department today ruled that private schools were entitled to charge “tuition fee as per academic year 2019-20” from the students on account of the Covid-19 crisis. In his order issued here, Mahavir Singh, Additional Chief Secretary (School Education), said, “The order passed by the chairman of the committee is set aside as being inconsistent with the rules and directions of the state government.” On May 31, the Abhibhavak Ekta Manch, Haryana, had moved the state government against the order. The manch had alleged that the chairman of the committee had “illegally” allowed private schools to charge tuition fee as per Form VI which was against the state government’s order dated April 23 and May 22, 2020. “The private schools are directed for strict compliance of the directions dated April 23 and May 22, 2020, since they were issued in view of abnormal circumstances and financial hardships being faced by residents due to the lockdown,” the order said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-schools-can-only-charge-tuition-fee-administration-93304
02-06-2020||---||265 new cases, Vij slams Kejri for sealing border||Chandigarh, June 1With Haryana recording 265 Covid cases today, the highest in a day so far, it crossed Punjab in the total number of cases. Haryana now has 2,356 cases while Punjab has 2,301.Previously, the maximum cases in a day were recorded on May 29, when 217 patients were confirmed. Today, 64.5 per cent cases were from Gurugram (129), Faridabad (25), Sonepat (13) and Jhajjar (4).As Delhi closed its borders with Haryana, Health Minister Anil Vij said, “When we closed the borders, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said India was one. But now, they have closed the borders. I would like to say that every state has the right to take a decision for its safety. It is wrong to say that Delhi hospitals are only for residents of the national capital.” Cases were also recorded from Sirsa (28), Rohtak (14), Hisar (13), Kaithal (11), Palwal (11), Bhiwani (5), Fatehabad and Kurukshetra (4 each) and Jind and Nuh (2 each). Seven patients were cured in the past 24 hours, taking the tally of discharged cases to 1,055, with the recovery rate falling from 50.12 per cent to 44.78 per cent in a day. The doubling rate fell from nine days to eight days in the past 24 hours.A 62-year-old man, who was a cardiac patient, succumbed to Covid in Gurugram, taking the tally of casualties to 21, with a fatality rate of 0.89 per cent.In Rohtak, five PGIMS staffers, three connected to a local NGO, a woman-son duo in Rithal village, a resident employed at a veterinary hospital in Delhi and a youth working at an automobile unit in Manesar were among the fresh cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/265-new-cases-vij-slams-kejri-for-sealing-border-93305
02-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||Inter-state police nakas removed||Sonepat, June 1  There has been no relief for people in 83 active containment zones, including 45 in rural areas of the district, with the extension of lockdown till June 30. Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Poonia listed relaxations given in Unlock 1 and said more could follow on June 8 after a reviewing of the ground reality.  He also stressed the need for setting up of a coordination centre to combat Covid. In its orders issued yesterday, the MHA had also notified re-opening of prohibited activities in a phased manner in areas outside containment zones, he said. In the meeting, Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said that besides removing all inter-state and inter-district nakas, intra-district ones were also being reduced.  He, however, said the police will concentrate on ensuring social distancing at various places, including banks, shops and areas of commercial activity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inter-state-police-nakas-removed-93306
02-06-2020||Tribune Reporters||No written orders, chaos reigns at Gurugram-Delhi border||Gurugram, June 1Day 1 of Unlock 1.0 was marked with utter confusion at the Delhi-Gurugram border, with the police of both states confused over sealing.Following the MHA norms, the Haryana Government unsealed all state borders with Delhi, but the Gurugram police continued to allow only commuters with e-passes or those engaged in essential services as they awaited written directions.The expressway was blocked as checking of passes was cumbersome on the flyover. Vehicles were allowed to enter Delhi through commercial toll gates. However, with word spreading about opening of borders, the police allowed vehicles free movement.Commuters, however, were in for another shock as Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal soon after announced sealing of borders, except for essential service providers. Though it had no written orders, the Delhi Police at Rajokri and Kapasera borders barred entry and exit from the city for all, except those in essential services or pass holders. This led to major traffic snarls for about two hours. The police had received no written orders on sealing the border till late evening. It then decided to follow MHA norms and allowed vehicle movement.The day-long drama and confusion left travellers harried and they voiced their concerns on social media.A senior police official from Gurugram, not wanting to be named, said, “Confusion still persists. Neither the Delhi Police nor the Gurugram police have any written orders from the respective states.”In Faridabad, despite the Centre’s orders to open inter-state borders from Monday, the movement of vehicles remained restricted and only commuters with e-passes or those in essential services were allowed to move.Claiming that no change had come into effect, DC Yashpal Yadav said movement from the Faridabad side was being regulated as usual and no one without pass or official nod was allowed to enter the district. He said any change in regulation would take place only after issuance of fresh orders by the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-written-orders-chaos-reigns-at-gurugram-delhi-border-93307
02-06-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Court: Husband recording phone call privacy breach||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 1 The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday made it clear that a spouse did not part ways with his or her right to privacy after tying the knot and marriage would not bestow the right on a husband to record the private conversation with his wife. The act of clandestinely recording conversation would, rather, amount to infringement of privacy rights, the High Court asserted. “An undercover conduct of the husband to record private spousal conversation without knowledge of the other is an infringement of privacy and can hardly be appreciated,” Justice Arun Monga of the HC ruled. The ruling came on a habeas corpus petition filed by a mother for custody of her four-year-old daughter, allegedly taken away by her father in a clandestine manner. Her counsel Divyajot Sandhu submitted during the hearing that the minor’s custody with her father was “most certainly unlawful, given her tender age”. The father, on the other hand, laid emphasis on the mother’s reported past misconduct, while placing on record the manuscript of a telephonic conversation recorded by him on his cell phone. Justice Monga asserted that the conversation was “sneakily recorded”. Without going into personal details of the conversation or commenting on its merits, Justice Monga observed that prima facie, the husband contrived a situation to instigate the wife. Justice Monga noted that the attempt, on the face of it, was to elicit the desired response, which could later be used as evidence not only to belittle her, but also to buttress his allegations that she was stubborn and short-tempered. Justice Monga further observed: “It is rather unfair that the husband, who would otherwise claim to be a law-abiding citizen and interested not to deprive her minor daughter of the special care and attention, which she so deserves, would deprive the child of her mother by indulging in such guileful means so as to record conversation arising out of matrimonial discord.” Justice Monga stated that such “stealthy conduct” did not support his case that the child’s welfare and interest was being better looked after by him by divesting the mother of her daughter’s custody and by depriving the child of her biological and natural needs, which only a mother could provide, given that daughter was aged less than five. Directing the father to hand over the minor’s custody to her mother by Tuesday while giving him access to her, Justice Monga added that the observations were “mere obiter dictum” in nature and would not affect the merits of the custody petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-husband-recording-phone-call-privacy-breach-93308
02-06-2020||Rohtak||Summons against Meham MLA in defamation case||A Rohtak court today summoned Balraj Kundu, Independent MLA from the Meham Assembly constituency, in a defamation case filed by BJP leader and former Haryana Minister of State for Cooperatives Manish Grover. The court of CJM Ashish Kumar Sharma summoned Kundu on August 4 to face a trial in respect of offence under Sections 499 and 500 IPC. At a news conference convened on January 3, 2020, Kundu had accused Grover of indulging in rampant corruption during his tenure as a minister and instigating violence during the Jat agitation in February, 2016.  Maintaining that the allegations levelled by the MLA were baseless and derogatory which had defamed him in public, Grover had got a legal notice served to Kundu to withdraw his defamatory and malicious remarks, but he did not apologise despite having got the notice, following which the complaint was filed before the court. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/summons-against-meham-mla-in-defamation-case-93309
02-06-2020||ibune News Service---||Hooda wants central agency or High Court Judge to probe liquor scam||Kurukshetra, June 1 Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday said the liquor scam should be probed by a central agency or a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.  Talking to the media here, Hooda said: “There have been reports of scams in liquor and purchase of mustard and gram in Haryana…. Contractors are still selling liquor at arbitrary rates. The state has increased the rate by Rs10 to Rs50 per bottle but contractors are still charging Rs200 to Rs400 instead. Also, there are no lists on display at vends.” “Moreover, the government had been taking anti-farmers’ decision. The order to restrict paddy cultivation in several blocks was wrong and it has beeb withdrawn after a sustained campaign by farmers and the opposition parties. Now, it should withdraw the ban on paddy cultivation on panchayat land too. Instead of imposing curbs, the government should resume projects like Dadupur-Nalvi to improve groundwater. This time, the monsoon is also expected to last longer, so arrangements should be made to store rainwater in advance,” he added. The ex-CM said: “The contractual employees are being sacked and the selection of new candidates is also being cancelled. No relief has been given to small and medium scale industries to ensure that they are able to provide some support to their staff. The unemployment rate has jumped to 43%.” Hooda also raised questions over poor wheat lifting and delayed payments. He said: “This isn’t the time to test the bonding between commission agents and farmers. The government should clear the pending payment of wheat and sugarcane immediately and compensation should also be paid soon for losses suffered due to hailstorm and unseasonal rains. There must be a probe into poor lifting.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-wants-central-agency-or-high-court-judge-to-probe-liquor-scam-93310
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Over 60% wheat farmers yet to get dues: Abhay||Senior INLD leader and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Chautala on Monday alleged that over 60 per cent of farmers, whose wheat was procured by the government agencies, were yet to get their payment.Addressing a press meet here, he alleged that despite the BJP-JJP government’s claims of making payments to farmers within 72 hours, a majority of them were running from pillar to post to get dues for the procured wheat.He claimed that of the total payment for wheat procurement amounting to about Rs16,000 crore, only about Rs1,600 crore had been paid to farmers to date. “Besides, an amount of Rs700 crore of the total payment of Rs3,600 crore was still pending for mustard procurement,” he added.Abhay claimed that the state had only been able to procure about 75 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of wheat as against 95 lakh MT during the corresponding period last year.To make up for shortfall in the state, the government was encouraging its favourite agents to buy wheat from UP and Rajasthan. These agents made undue profit by buying wheat at cheaper rates from neighbouring states and selling it at MSP in Haryana, he alleged. Abhay also demanded an inquiry into the charging of Rs5 per bag as loading charges by certain contractors of the procurement agencies.He said the INLD would hold a protest at Sirsa on June 2 against the delay in payment to farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-60-wheat-farmers-yet-to-get-dues-abhay-93311
02-06-2020||Sonepat||Newlyweds end life||Newlyweds Manjit (26) of Mayur Vihar and his wife Arti (25) committed suicide today.Arti was found hanging from a fan in her room in the house this morning. When the police were completing the probe into the suspected suicide, they received information from the Railways authorities that Manjit ended his life by jumping before a train between Sonepat and Rajlu Garhi station.Notably, Manjit, who was serving as a clerk in the Delhi High Court, and Arti of district’s Pinana village got married on May 27 with the consent of their family members.According to Sub-Inspector Bijender Singh, incharge of the police post at the local court complex, family members of the deceased informed the police that the couple used to remain upset after their wedding. A case has been registered under Section 174 IPC.He said their bodies had been handed over to their families after the autopsy in the Civil Hospital. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/newlyweds-end-life-93312
02-06-2020||Jhajjar||2 cops booked for negligence||An AS) and an SPO posted at the women’s police station in Bahadurgarh have been booked for negligence.  The case has been filed on the complaint of Devender Kumar, incharge of the Dulina police post. A rape accused had reportedly died in a road mishap when he was being taken to the district jail by the police.  The accused, identified as Baljeet of Sangwan village, Bhiwani, was booked under Sections 376, 120B and 506 of the IPC on May 26 but was arrested by the Bahadurgarh police on Sunday. After producing him in the court, ASI Sunita and the SPO Kulbeer were taking him to the Dulina jail for judicial custody. On the way, Baljeet got down from the vehicle on the pretext of answering the nature’s call. A canter hit him and he died on the spot.  “The ASI and SPO were negligent and violated rules by taking the accused to the district jail in a private vehicle and by letting him alight from the vehicle without taking precautions,” the Dulina police post incharge said in his complaint. Meanwhile, a board of doctors performed the postmortem of the body at the Civil Hospital in Jhajjar. The kin have blamed the police for the death and demanded a high-level probe into the matter. Ajaib Singh, DSP, Bahadurgarh, said an investigation was underway to ascertain facts of the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-cops-booked-for-negligence-93313
02-06-2020||---||Four travel agents arrested for duping Karnal youths||Karnal, June 1The Karnal police have arrested four travel agents for allegedly duping youths on the pretext of sending them to the US. The police registered 25 FIRs against 26 agents for cheating 26 of around Rs3 crore. In all 28 youths of the district are among the 76 persons of the state, who were deported by the US government recently. They had entered the US illegally, prompting the US government to send them back. Of them eight youths tested Covid positive.“We got a list of the deported youths from the State Crime Branch, following which we got registered 25 FIRs against 26 agents under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC. Of the accused, four have been arrested on Sunday,” said Superintendent of Police Surinder Singh Bhoria. “I have constituted five teams to investigate all cases. The remaining accused will be arrested soon,” said Bhoria.The arrested accused have been identified as Raj Kumar of Kurukshetra, Deepak of Joshi village in Panipat, Hardeep of Kabulpur Khera village in Assandh block and Ravinder of Jundla village in the district. They were produced in the court, from where they were taken on police remand till Wednesday, said the SP adding that they have to inquire the modus-operandi of the accused and involvement of others if any.SP Bhoria appealed people to refrain from such fraudsters and always check the registration of the immigration agent first.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-travel-agents-arrested-for-duping-karnal-youths-93314
02-06-2020||Parveen Arora---||Deported from US, immigrants worst-hit||Tribune News Service Karnal, June 1 In all, 28 Karnal residents had returned to India after being deported allegedly either for violating visa norms or  for illegal entry the United States (US). Dreams of a 32-year-old man of Nigdhu village for earning quick bucks by going to the US turned sour as he returned empty handed and also tested Covid-positive on his return. He was sent to the US by his family through an agent in Kaithal, promising high salary job, but was cheated of around Rs18 lakh. To fulfill his dreams, he had borrowed money from friends and relatives on interest. “I was assured by the agent that my son would be legally sent to the US and I had given him Rs18 lakh. My son left for the US on May 14 last year and when we could not contact him for almost two months, we came to know that he was in the custody of the US government for illegal entry via the Mexico border,” said 58-year-old mother of the victim. “I came to know that my son had been deported. He was among 76 persons who had been deported from there. He tested positive for Covid and is undergoing treatment at Mullana Medical College,” she said. “I want justice and action against the agent, who had lured us,” she demanded. Same is the story with around 60-year-old Ishwar Singh Mann and his wife Birja Devi (58) of Ghoghripur village. They are waiting for their son, Manjeet Mann (29), who is also among the deported migrants. They had sent him to USA by selling their land, but were ‘duped’ of Rs18.5 lakh by an agent. “I sent my son to the US by selling my land. I was promised good job for him, but he was sent there illegally,” said Ishwar. Kuldeep Mann, brother of Manjeet, said they were duped by a local resident with the connivance of an agent. I had filed a complaint against them to the Karnal SP as well as at the CM window, but no action was taken so far,” he said. A 20-year-old youth, Rinkal, of Karsa village was also sent to the US by an agent and ‘cheated’ of almost Rs10 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deported-from-us-immigrants-worst-hit-93315
02-06-2020||---||Loco pilot dies in road mishap||Panipat, June 1 A-40-year-old loco pilot posted in the Indian Railways was killed in an accident on the NH-44 near PVR Cinemas in the city late Sunday night.  The deceased has been identified as Mahesh Kumar of Karan Vihar in Karnal.   In his police complaint, Mukesh, deceased’s brother, said he along with Mahesh was on their way to Panipat on two separate motorcycles. As his brother reached near PVR Cinemas, a speedily driven car hit Mahesh's motorcycle, following which he fell on the road and sustained serious head injury. Mukesh took him to the General Hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead.  SI Harnarayan Singh, incharge, Tehsil Camp, said a case had been registered  under various sections of the IPC against the car driver, who managed to fled the spot after the accident.  The police handed over the body to the victim’s kin after a post-mortem examination on Monday morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/loco-pilot-dies-in-road-mishap-93339
02-06-2020||---||2 Cong MLAs oppose shifting of institute||Jhajjar, June 1Two Congress MLAs — Geeta Bhukkal from Jhajjar and Kuldeep Vatsa from Badli — have resisted the move of shifting Prarambh, a state institute of advanced studies in teachers’ education, being run at a rented building on the premises of Model School in Jhajjar city even after seven years of its establishment.Threaten agitationBoth the MLAs have threatened to launch agitation campaign if the institute is shifted to DIET/SCERT Haryana in Gurugram. A delegation of advocates also submitted a memorandum to the DC against the move on Monday.“The institute was established by the then Congress government in 2013. Thereafter, the BJP government came into power in the state in 2014. Hence, it was the responsibility of the BJP government to construct buildings and provide other infrastructure to the institute but it did nothing in the past six years,” said Bhukkal.Notably, the Directorate of School Education has recently constituted a six-member committee to check the feasibility with regard to the infrastructure viz class rooms, office rooms and hostel etc for shifting of Prarambh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-cong-mlas-oppose-shifting-of-institute-93342
