02-04-2020||New Delhi||Haryana govt bans sale of chewing gum till June 30 to check spread of coronavirus||To prevent the transmission of coronavirus through spitting, the Haryana Government has prohibited the sale of chewing gum in the state till June 30 and asked authorities to effectively implement the ban on gutkha and pan masala.“COVID-19 transmits through droplets. There may be a possibility of transmitting COVID-19 by spitting of chewing gum/bubble gum towards another person,” the state government’s Food and Drug Administration department said in the order.Around 13,000 people are under surveillance due to COVID-19 and this step was taken to check the spread of the virus further.                               The department has also asked authorities across the state to effectively implement for a year the ban on gutkha (chewing tobacco) and pan masala, which was announced in September last year.                                             In wake of COVID-19, the department has directed officials to check the sale and distribution of scented or flavoured tobacco, gutkha, pan masala, and kharra (a powdered combination of tobacco), areca nut, lime (chuna) and katechu.The Uttar Pradesh Government has also banned manufacture and sale of pan masala, saying the move will help stop the spread of coronavirus. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-bans-sale-of-chewing-gum-till-june-30-to-check-spread-of-coronavirus-64630
02-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Lockdown reduces pollution across Haryana, air quality turns good from moderate, satisfactory levels||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 2The lockdown to curtail the spread of covid pandemic has resulted in fall in pollution level and improvement in air quality across Haryana.The air quality index (AQI) has dropped to good from satisfactory levels in majority of the cities of the state, while to satisfactory level from moderate and poor quality levels in remaining cities.A Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) report, compiled between March 21 (day before “Janta Curfew”) and March 28 (fourth day after lockdown), indicates pollution levels have plummeted due to reduction in vehicular traffic, shutdown of industries across the state and people are breathing relatively cleaner air.In the wake of Covid pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had urged people for “Janta Curfew” for March 22, and declared a lockdown of 21 days from midnight of March 24/25.As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI has six categories. The AQI between 0 and 50 falls in good category, 51-100 in satisfactory, 101-200 in moderate, 201-300 in poor, 301-400 in very poor and 401-500 in severe category.Karnal and Panipat cities witnessed a drastic change in the improvement of air quality from poor to good and satisfactory, respectively. The AQIs of Karnal and Panipat were 230 and 223, respectively, which have now reduced to 39 and 54, said Dr Jai Bhagwan, Senior Scientist, HSPCB, Panchkula.Ambala saw AQI fall from moderate to good (128 to 36) while Bhadurgarh has witnessed a considerable improvement in AQI from 179 on March 21 to 39 now. The AQI of Ballabgarh was 56 on March 21 and has now dropped to 46. Bhiwani has also witnessed an improvement in air quality, which was 102 on March 21 and is 55 at present. The AQI of Dharuhera has touched 36 from 174, while of Fatehabad 47 from 81. Hisar and Jind also saw significant changes in air quality as it reduced to 24 and 49 from 113 and 133, respectively.The AQI of Kaithal has reached 32 from 116, Kurukshetra 34 from 148, Mewat 80 from 120, Manesar 43 from 105, Narnaul 23 from 59 and of Palwal 56 from 115, said Dr Jai Bhagwan.The AQI of Sirsa has reached 43 from 76, Sonepat 62 from 180, Yamunanagar 32 from 176, Gurugram 54 from 126, Rohtak 26 from 146, Panchkula 46 from 73 and Faridabad 64 from 174, Dr Jai Bhagwan maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-reduces-pollution-across-haryana-air-quality-turns-good-from-moderate-satisfactory-levels-64589
02-04-2020||Ambala||66-year-old man from Ambala is Haryana's first case of coronavirus death||Ambala reported its first death from coronavirus, as a 66-year-old man who was under treatment at PGIMER in Chandigarh, passed away on Thursday.Civil Surgeon, Dr Kuldeep Singh, confirmed the development.The 66-yead-old patient, who was a diabetic and suffered from other ailments as well, had reported to a local hospital on Tuesday. He was treated here before referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh in a critical condition.A resident of Timber Market in Ambala Cantonment, the patient died at the PGIMER in Chandigarh on Thursday morning.“It was after his death that his nasopharyngeal swab sample report was positive for COVID,” added the Civil Surgeon.Till Wednesday evening, a total of 51 suspected COVID patients had reported in Ambala district, of which 44 suspected patients had tested negative and a Patiala patient was found positive in the district while the reports of 6 patients were awaited.The condition of the positive patient was stable and he was showing no symptoms as of now but was kept under observation,  said the Civil Surgeon.He revealed that the reports of four persons, who had returned to Ambala Cantonment on Tuesday evening, after attending a religious gathering at a mosque in the Nizamuddin area in New Delhi, and were isolated at the local hospital, was still awaited. The search was on to trace other such persons, if any, across the district.Three people, who reached here after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi, tested positive for coronavirus in Palwal on Thursday.These three were among the 12 people who arrived in Palwal.It is reported that while all the three are Bangladeshi nationals, the report of seven others is negative. The report of two others is awaited. All people have been admitted in civil hospital under an isolated condition.The total number of positive cases here has gone up to four. One of the people has already been discharged after recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/66-year-old-man-from-ambala-is-haryanas-first-case-of-coronavirus-death-64567
02-04-2020||Ambala||Cop among 2 being tested||Animal diagnosis is OnlineChandigarh: Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Haryana, launched e-Pashuchikitsa for providing online veterinary advice to benefit 20 lakh state farmers. Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Om Prakash Yadav launched the link epashuchikitsa.csc-services.in . A spokesperson said time and money was wasted in bringing a sick animal to hospital. Advice from specialists about animal breed improvement, livestock management and animal nutrition will be available. TNSOne held for selling liquorAmbala: The district police has arrested Rashpal of Kangra in HP for selling illicit liquor in the district during the lockdown in violation of the District Magistrate’s prohibitory order. As per the police, Virender Kumar of Shahzadpur near here reported the sale by Rashpal and his accomplice Ranjit Singh in the area. While Rashpal was arrested and later released on bail, his accomplice was yet to be nabbed, the officials said. TNSPanchayat to bear treatment costRohtak: The panchayat of Garnavathi village in Rohtak district has offered to bear the cost of treatment of Covid patients admitted to the Rohtak PGIMS. In a letter to the Rohtak DC, village sarpanch Vedpal Barak said, “The village panchayat is capable of bearing the expenditure — even if it is to the tune of Rs10 crore — and will also like to honour the doctors and other staffers of the PGIMS after the prevailing phase is over. TNSMasks, nebulisers distributedAMBALA : As many as 125 PPE kits, 2,000 N95 masks and 20 nebulisers were donated by the CEO of Chandigarh International Airport Authority Limited, Mohali, to the Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantt to help the needy. “In spite of lockdown and shortage of material, they arranged everything to help the needy,” said Civil Hospital SMO Dr Sheelkant Pajni. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-among-2-being-tested-64501
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Docs in pvt hospitals to also get raised ex gratia: CM||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/docs-in-pvt-hospitals-to-also-get-raised-ex-gratia-cm-64498
02-04-2020||---||Pick-and-drop facility for blood donors in Karnal||Karnal, April 1To overcome the shortage of blood units in the Regional Blood Transfusion Centre (RBTC) at the Civil Hospital, the Health Department has started the pick-and-drop facility for volunteers who want to donate blood. The Red Cross Society is assisting the department in this initiative. The shortage of the blood units arose after the cancellation of six blood donation camps due to lockdown. All the six camps were scheduled in March.The district blood bank has 200-225 units of blood, but now it has almost half at 107 units comprising 5 units of A+, 1 unit of A-, 47 units of B+, 3 units of B-, 36 units of O+, 6 units of O-, 8 units of AB+ and 1 units of AB-.The situation is alarming as about 15-17 units are required for patients on a daily basis. “In the coming days, we will not able to hold blood donation camps so we have approached volunteers and NGOs to start a pick-and-drop facility for voluntarily donors. Initially, we received a poor response, but now 10-12 persons are coming forward to donate blood,” said Dr Sanjay Verma, Regional Blood Transfusion Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pick-and-drop-facility-for-blood-donors-in-karnal-64497
02-04-2020||---||Now, dentists demand Rs10K risk allowance||Chandigarh, April 1As dental surgeons in the state are handling Covid samples and managing helpline, the Haryana Civil Dental Surgeons Association on Wednesday demanded risk allowance for them.“Dental surgeons are working as frontline warriors too,” said association president Dr Inderjeet Yadav.He said in every district, dentists had been giving duties ranging from sample collection for Covid, emergency, flu OPD, handling helpline, rapid response team, fever OPD, shelter home, disaster management district nodal officer and screening of Covid suspects.He said dentists were at greater risk as they were also collecting samples from isolation wards for Covid testing and screening of suspects. “In return, we should be paid risk allowance. Even while dealing with dental OPD, we face the risk of HIV, TB, Hepatitis B and C. We should be paid Rs10,000 as risk allowance. We should not be discriminated,” Yadav added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-dentists-demand-rs10k-risk-allowance-64496
02-04-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Wedding plans go awry||Gurugram, April 1The 21-day lockdown across the country has led to the indefinite postponement of a majority of weddings planned in April and May.“My daughter’s lavish wedding was scheduled for April 11. We had done all bookings and sent invitations, but now postponed it indefinitely. We will lose a lot of money, but what can be done?” said LR Yadav.This was not a lone case. According to wedding planners, a majority of marriage functions slated for April and the first week of May had been cancelled, pushing the industry into major losses.Sunil Thareja, who planned to go to the bride’s house in Rewari with his family of four and have a small ceremony on April 25, too was affected with the sealing of borders.“The wedding industry had a lean season in December and January. We were looking forward to a rush this April, but Covid left many in the lurch. I shut my resort and sent the staff on indefinite leave. Small-time band owners and florists have been thrown out of work and have gone home,” said Suresh Yadav, a marriage resort owner.Babloo Kumar, owner of a marriage resort, said he had more than 20 bookings for April and May, but all had been cancelled and many patrons were seeking refund.Card designers, dress designers and caterers had also been hit by the global pandemic. Those planning court marriage and registration of marriage had been left waiting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wedding-plans-go-awry-64495
02-04-2020||---||Amid shortage, distilleries to make sanitisers||Chandigarh, April 1To meet acute shortage of hand sanitisers following the spread of Covid, the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), Haryana, has now roped in distilleries.It is cheap politics by the CM and Deputy CM. Even during the Covid pandemic, they can’t see beyond publicity.— Randeep Surjewala, AICC communication in-chargeOne of the major ingredients in sanitisers is alcohol which is readily available with distilleries. So far, 10 distilleries have been given licenceto produce hand sanitisers, as per World Health Organization (WHO) norms. These include Global Distillery Pvt Ltd at Karnal, NV Distillery Pvt Ltd at Ambala, Global Spirits Limited at Panipat, ADS Spirits Pvt Ltd at Rohtak, Oasis Commercial Pvt Ltd at Ambala, Piccadilly Distillery at Rewari and Panipat Co-op Sugar Mill Pvt Ltd Distillery.“Besides distilleries, the department has given 30 fresh licences or product approvals for hand sanitisers. So, there are now 40 units which would produce sanitisers,” said State Drugs Controller Narender Ahooja Vivek.The Government of India has declared hand sanitisers an essential commodity under the Essential Commodities Act. It fixed the rate at Rs 100 per 200 ml or Rs 50 per 100 ml. “After fixing the rates, the Department of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution wrote to all chief secretaries on March 24 for asking distilleries to manufacture sanitisers. We also exhorted distilleries in Haryana to take licences. In future, more distilleries could also join,” he said.In consultation with the Excise Department, the FDA also approved the demand of manufacturers in state for enhanced quota of enthanol required for sanitisers. Besides new licences, most of the factories manufacturing hand sanitisers are in Ambala and Sonepat.“With the emergence of multiple players there will be no hoarding. The price of hand sanitisers, in fact, has now come down to Rs 30 per 100 ml whereas the Central Government has fixed it at Rs 50,” said Ahooja Vivek.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-shortage-distilleries-to-make-sanitisers-64494
02-04-2020||Sushil Manav||Private doctors shut clinics, OPDs; patients feel helpless||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 1Treatment of routine patients and even medical emergencies is bearing the brunt of the Covid lockdown in small towns of the state, with majority of private doctors shutting clinics and hospital OPDs almost completely.Just a call away, says IMA chiefIMA state president Dr Prabhakar Sharma said OPDs were functional and only routine patients were being advised to stay home lest they contact the deadly virus in a crowd. “Our member-doctors are looking after all emergencies by taking due precautions. For others, the doctors are always available on phone and WhatsApp,” he said.Sukhwant, a youth from Sirsa, found this out the hard way. His father, who suffers from several ailments, suddenly developed acute pain on Sunday evening. “I somehow took my father to our family doctor during the lockdown, but a hospital staffer told us he was not examining patients and made me speak to him over the phone. The doctor told me to continue the medicines being given to my father and also told me to buy another tablet for the acute pain. My father spent the entire night tossing in bed,” Sukhwant said.The situation is almost similar across the state, as most doctors have stopped examining patients in their hospitals for the fear of being infected. In Fatehabad, doctors posted videos of office bearers of the local chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on social media explaining to their patients why they had to shut OPDs during the lockdown.IMA office-bearers Dr Dinesh Sanduja, Dr Satish Bansal and Dr Virender Siwach explained it was important to maintain social distancing for a few days to defeat the coronavirus. The doctors, however, assured people that members of their staff will be available on phone for medical consultation.“We are staying home on the call given by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. We have appealed to regular patients to not visit the hospital for routine checks. If someone comes even after this, our employees make them speak to us over the phone and we prescribe medicines accordingly. In case of an emergency, we guide them to the nearest super specialty hospital or medical college,” said a doctor on the condition of anonymity.“We want personal protection equipment (PPE) and we are ready to pay for these. But the Health Department doesn’t have enough safety gear even for their staff. We are also worried about our children and elderly parents,” he added.In Karnal, doctors claimed physicians and gynaecologists were extending services in the OPD and Emergency, but very few patients were venturing out. Karnal IMA ex-president Dr Sanjay Khanna said most doctors of the IMA were advising patients through telemedicine and over WhatsApp.IMA state president Dr Prabhakar Sharma said OPDs were functional and only routine patients were being advised to stay home lest they contact the deadly virus in a crowd. “Our members are looking after all emergencies by taking due precautions. For others, the doctors are always available on phone and WhatsApp,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-doctors-shut-clinics-opds-patients-feel-helpless-64493
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Dry ration at doorstep for mid-day meal kids||The Education Department of Haryana has issued instructions to all District Elementary Education Officers to provide mid-day meal in form of dry ration to students for 21 working days of April.To get flour, riceAs per the Supreme Court orders, besides dry ration, the cooking cost is to be deposited in the bank accounts of students. The mid-day meal is given to primary and upper primary students.The ration has to be distributed by April 7 at the doorstep of students. The teachers have to wear masks and gloves and use sanitisers while delivering the ration in a sealed packet. For March too, the mid-day meal was provided.Admissions postponedThe Education Department has postponed the admissions under Rule 134A, under which students from BPL and EWS families get admitted to government schools in Classes II to XII. Earlier, the last date for applying online was March 31. But with the lockdown till April 14, a letter issued to all DEOs and DEEOs said the last date had been extended till further orders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dry-ration-at-doorstep-for-mid-day-meal-kids-64492
02-04-2020||---||Farmer bodies to start home delivery of vegetables, fruits||Kurukshetra, April 1In order to provide farm produce at controlled rates, the farmer producer organisations (FPOs) have been allowed to start home delivery of vegetables and fruits.The Horticulture Department has allowed 81 farmer producer organisations to procure produce from the farmers and provide door-to-door delivery to consumers.As per the information, three farmer producer organisations in Ambala and two in Kurukshetra have been allowed to start the delivery.Kulbir Singh, nodal officer for an FPO in Kurukshetra, said “We will be selling our own produce and of other farmers, who will show interest in getting their products sold through the FPOs. We will be covering Sector 13 and the surrounding areas of the new bus stand. If we get a good response then we will be covering more areas. The farmers in wholesale are not getting fair prices while the retailers are charging a good amount from consumers.”“For instance, in wholesale, the tomato was sold at Rs8 to Rs10 per kg while it is being sold at Rs40 per kg in retail. We will be selling at the prices set by the administration. The farmers are not able to take the produce to markets and even labourers are not reaching farms due to the Covid scare, we will collect produce from farms and sell it from door to door,” he added.Similarly, in Ambala, the FPOs will be soon selling the farm produce. District Horticulture Officer Ajesh Kumar said: “The department has issued a list of 81 FPOs in the state. The district administration will provide all permissions and passes so that they could move freely and provide produce to people at controlled rates. Besides vegetable and fruits, some FPOs will be selling milk products too. They will be selling as per the jurisdictions set by the district administration.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-bodies-to-start-home-delivery-of-vegetables-fruits-64491
02-04-2020||---||As harvest nears, farmers want spare parts shops to be opened||Ambala, April 1As wheat harvesting is about to begin, farmers are seeking immediate relaxation for mechanic and spare parts shops so that the machinery, including combine harvester, reaper and tractors could be repaired.Sukhvinder Singh, a farmer from Sapera village, who also owns a combine harvester, said, “The harvesting season is about to begin and before starting the harvesting with the machine, it needs to be repaired. But spare parts are not available.“Farmers have started calling me for bookings but the combine is not ready. We have the staff for the machine and they can get it repaired but there is no shop available from where we could get the spare parts.”“For the past three days, I have talked to many dealers but they have been saying that there is no supply due to the lockdown. I have also sown wheat on 45 acres and there is already crop loss due to unwanted rainfall. Now, the machine is not getting repaired. Besides Ambala and Shahabad, I go to Punjab too with my combine for harvesting. Last year, the charge for one acre was Rs 1,200 per acre. For this year, the charges are yet to be finalised,” he added.Rajiv Kumar, another farmer, said, “I need to get my tractor repaired but the mechanic shops are closed. The administration must allow the mechanics to run their shops so that the machines could be repaired.”Malkiyat Singh, district chief of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni), said, “The farmers are worried as there is already a shortage of labourers. The machines are also not ready as the mechanic and spare parts shops are closed due to the lockdown. We have requested the administration to give relaxation to spare parts shops from the lockdown.”Rajinder Sethi, junior engineer of engineering wing of the Agriculture Department, said, “There are nearly 350 combine harvesters in Ambala. The combines arrive from Punjab too and similarly, combine owners from Ambala go to Punjab. We are well aware of the situation and a proposal has already been forwarded to the district authorities seeking relaxation from the lockdown for custom hiring centres, mechanic shops, other shops related to farming equipment and their movement. We are hopeful that the orders will be issued within a day or two.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/as-harvest-nears-farmers-want-spare-parts-shops-to-be-opened-64490
02-04-2020||Kurukshetra||29 present at Surat meet isolated too||As many as 29 people belonging to the Muslim community, who attended a gathering in Surat, were sent to the quarantine centre in Ladwa for 14 days on Wednesday.As per the information available, they had spent a month in Surat. They are the followers of a Mumbai-based cleric and did not attend the event at Nizamuddin in Delhi.SP Astha Modi said, “So far, 29 people have been shifted to the quarantine centre. They had spent a month in Surat and had returned on March 20. All these people have been screened and no one has shown any symptoms so far. But as per the protocol, they have been quarantined. All are Kurukshetra residents. They didn’t attend the event in Delhi. Further verification is on. So far, no person who had attended the Nizamuddin meet has come to light.”Meanwhile in Kurukshetra, the remaining six samples have also tested negative for Covid. So far, 12 samples had been sent and all have tested negative. Six samples of hotel staff, where the Patialayouth who was found Covid positive in Ambala had stopped to have food, were sent and the samples have tested negative. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/29-present-at-surat-meet-isolated-too-64489
02-04-2020||Faridabad||40 teams to ensure food for all in Faridabad||The district administration has set up 40 teams to ensure supply of food and ration at the doorstep of the needy in all wards of the city. The Administrator, HSVP, is the nodal officer of the relief operations.892 under watchWhile the number of persons under Covid surveillance reached 892 in Faridabad on Wednesday, the positive cases in the district remained at six. As per the Health Department, 136 persons have completed the surveillance period, while 756 were still under close watch. Report of 16 samples is awaited.A spokesperson said besides the supply of cooked food packets, teams have been asked to supply ration items such as flour, sugar and cooking oil on a weekly basis to EWS families in all 40 wards to enforce the lockdown and social distancing. He said over 20,000 food packets were distributed in the past 24 hours and asked residents who may have got left out to dial the helpline.A central kitchen has been set up in the Sector 15 gurdwara here, where food is prepared for 25,000 persons daily.Poor response to campsThe response to the relief camps set up for the needy and migrant labourers is poor, with only about 220 persons lodged in 21 camps across the district.“Besides regular medical checks, two meals a day and snacks with tea is provided to all camp inmates,” said Sanjay Joon, Commissioner, Faridabad division.Likewise, in Palwal district, 133 persons are lodged in 26 camps. A spokesperson said ration has been provided to as many as 4,000 families and food and medicines to around 90,000 persons so far. A helpline number 1950 has been made operational. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/40-teams-to-ensure-food-for-all-in-faridabad-64488
02-04-2020||Ambala||150  Ambala prisoners to be released||To prevent any community transmission of Covid, 150 prisoners will soon walk out of the Ambala Central Jail. The move follows the SC suggestion to release inmates on bail, sending them home for quarantine. Central Jail Superintendent Lakhwinder Singh said a list of 150 prisoners, who were undergoing up to seven-year term, had been sent to the top officials of the Prisons Department for approval. As per the directions and procedures in place, some will be released on bail and convicts will go out on parole. The undertrials would go on automatic bail, the official said. At present, there were over 1,300 prisoners in the Central Jail here against the capacity of 1,200, making it a crowded place and increasing risk of Covid spread. The release of 150 inmates will enable the remaining prisoners to maintain proper distance.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/150-ambala-prisoners-to-be-released-64487
02-04-2020||Karnal||Karnal admn making 300 personal safety kits daily||Aiming at meeting the increasing demand of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits for the safety of the doctors as well as paramedical staff, the district administration has started manufacturing kits in the city with the help of local industrialists working in the field of textile.10 women groups to make 1 lakh masksThe Karnal administration has roped in 10 women self-help groups working under the Haryana State Rural Livelihoods Mission to supply 1 lakh masks in the district. In all, 80 women are on the job and making 5,000 masks daily, which are being sold at a counter at the Mini-Secretariat. DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the price of masks has been fixed at Rs7 each.The authorities have roped in three industrialists in this task and the quality of the kits is being monitored by doctors of the KCGMC. These industrialists have started production of 300 kits daily.With the rising Covid cases in the state, the demand of these kits has increased manifold. Along with doctors and paramedical staff, the sanitation workers are also exposed to the risk of contamination.“The production started a week back. Initially, around 100 kits were being produced every day, but the number has increased to 300 now,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC. These kits are being supplied to the KCGMC, Civil Hospital, and 200-bed quarantine facility centre at Sainik School Kunjpura, he added.The administration is providing the material required for kits, besides bearing the labour and other costs.ADC Anish Kumar Yadav is the nodal officer for the production of these kits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-admn-making-300-personal-safety-kits-daily-64486
02-04-2020||---||503 who attended Nizamuddin event traced||Chandigarh, April 1With over 500 people who attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin traced to various districts of the state, the health authorities in Haryana have swung into action to contain the damage as many of them could be infected with Covid.No new case in state in 24 hoursChief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who addressed the people on the current Covid situation in the state today, confirmed that on the basis of information from the IB and the state police, more than 500 people have been traced in the state and described this as “painful”.“We have quarantined them all. None of those people will be able to mix up with people for the next 14 days,” Khattar said.Haryana’s Home Minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday that 503 people, including 72 foreigners, who attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area earlier this month,have been traced in the state. He said that health teams are at the job after the Haryana Police traced the congregation attendees in various districts.On the purpose of this group entering Haryana, the minister said that after attending the congregation, they are assigned duties and sent to different places across India to preach. “They stay in mosques, go to people’s homes and hold meetings.” Vij, who also holds the Health portfolio, said.At Palwal, as many as 12 persons who reportedly attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in New Delhi last month have been kept in the isolation ward of the civil hospital.In Panipat, the district police have identified 68 such persons of which two are foreigners. They had returned after participating in the Jamaat in other states. The Health Department’s teams screened them and admitted them to the general hospital. Besides, 20 persons of Adhami village in Sanoli Khurd had returned from Godhra in Gujarat. All have been quarantined at their homes for 14 days.As many as 25 persons from Sonepat who came in contact with the persons from Maharashtra who visited Sonepat after attending the Nizamuddin congregation have been put under quarantine at different places.In Kaithal, as many as 10 new patients have been admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital. Their blood samples had been taken and sent for testing.Reports from Karnal said that as many as 15 persons of the district went to Nizamuddin to attend the religious congregation few days back. Of them, 14 are yet to come back. As per the information available, eight personsare admitted in the LNJP Hospital in Delhi, while six of them went abroad.In Ambala, the health authorities have hospitalised four persons who returned from Nizamuddin and have quarantined 40 others who did not have any symptoms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/503-who-attended-nizamuddin-event-traced-64485
02-04-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||129 evacuated from Mewat mosques||Amid the furore over Covid transmission at the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Nizamuddin, the Mewat administration today conducted raids across the district, evacuating over 129 persons residing in mosques located in Punhana and Hathin blocks. They claimed to be Jamaat members hailing from Bangladesh and Assam.All evacuees have been shifted to 10 shelter homes and placed under quarantine. Their samples have been collected for testing. For the past three months, hundreds of members of Tablighi Jamaat arriving from Sri Lanka, Malaysia Indonesia, Thailand and Bangladesh have been residing in Mewat mosques. Many have been unable to return owing to the nationwide lockdown in India.“They came sometime in January. Both district administration and Health Department were duly informed. They have been under self-quarantine,” explained a local maulana. On Tuesday, 26 persons were evacuated from a house in Todapur near Pataudi. They had arrived there just two days ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/129-evacuated-from-mewat-mosques-64273
