02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 15 more COVID-19 deaths, highest single-day spike of 1,792 new cases||Haryana reported 15 more COVID-19 fatalities on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 721 as the state recorded its highest single-day spike of 1,792 new cases, the health department’s daily bulletin said.With this, the infection tally in the state rises to 68,218.While Panipat, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Fatehabad reported two fatalities each, one death each was reported in Sirsa, Hisar, Rohtak, Ambala and Faridabad.Districts that reported fresh cases include Panchkula (216), Gurgaon (184), Faridabad (152), Panipat (142), Karnal (130), Kurukshetra (126), Hisar (114), Ambala (96), Yamunanagar (95), Rohtak (90) and Kaithal (89), as per the bulletin.The number of active cases in the state stands at 12,622, while 54,875 patients have been discharged after recovery.On Wednesday, the state’s recovery rate was at 80.44 per cent, down from 81.05 per cent a day earlier. The fatality rate was at 1.06 per cent, while the rate at which infections are doubling is 34 days. PTI
02-09-2020||Mahendragarh||Mason axes wife, three kids to death in Mahendragarh; booked||A mason reportedly axed his wife and three children aged below seven years to death at their tin-shed hut on the Singhania road in Narnaul town here on Tuesday night.The man fled the spot after bolting the gate of the hut.The deceased have been identified as Aarti (29), his two sons—Arun (7) and Arvind (6), daughter Sandhya (4) -- while the City police station has registered a case of murder against the mason, identified as Tulsidas of Chhatarpur district (Madhya Pradesh).The exact reason behind the killings is yet to be ascertained while the accused is stated to be habitual drunk.The crime came to the fore today when the neighbour found the door closed by noon.Suspecting something fishy, they opened the door and found the four dead lying in a pool of blood on the floor of the hut.They immediately informed the police which rushed to the spot and sent the bodies to civil hospital for post-mortem. The axe used in the crime was also recovered from the spot, said the sources.Manoj Kumar, SHO, City Police Station, said efforts were underway to arrest the accused who was absconding. “Kin of the deceased woman have been informed about the incident. They will arrive in Narnaul tomorrow to receive the bodies after post-mortem,” he added.
02-09-2020||New Delhi||SC dismisses bail plea of boy accused of murdering 7-year-old at pvt school in Gurugram||The Supreme Court Wednesday junked the bail plea of a boy accused of killing a 7-year-old boy at a private school in Gururgam.A three judge bench headed by Justice R F Nariman dismissed the plea which had challenged the Punjab and Haryana High Court order.“We have heard counsel for all parties exhaustively, including learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Complainant.“Since the petitioner is now being tried for the purposes of bail only as an adult, we see no reason to interfere with the impugned judgment of the High Court at this stage. Accordingly, the Special Leave Petition is dismissed,” said the bench also comprising Justices Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee.The CBI opposed the bail plea saying the accused does not deserve any leniency and contended that juvenile justice act cannot be used as a ploy to dupe course of justice.The accused had argued before the top court that the high court had erroneously observed that there is possibility of tampering of witnesses in the case.He said due to the coronavirus pandemic there is very less possibility of trial to commence in near future.Advocate Sushil Tekriwal, appearing for the victim’s father, had also opposed the bail plea saying the accused be a serious threat if enlarged on bail and there is likelihood of tampering of evidence.The Punjab and Haryana high court in June had dismissed the bail plea filed by the boy.“This court is not inclined to grant any relief to the petitioner, in view of the order dated February 28, 2019, passed by Supreme Court (SC), directing that for deciding the bail application, the petitioner be treated as an “adult”; therefore, there is little scope for this court to find out whether the petitioner can be granted the relief under Section 12 of Juvenie Justice Act,” the high court had said in its order.The CBI, in a charge sheet, had alleged that the teenager had murdered the student on September 8, 2017 in a bid to get the examinations postponed and a scheduled parent-teacher meeting cancelled.The victim’s body, with the throat slit, was found in the washroom of the school at the Bhondsi area in Gurugram.Earlier, the court had barred the media from using the name of the 16-year-old juvenile accused in the case and asked it to use fictitious names instead.While the seven-year-old victim was named “Prince” by the court, the juvenile accused was named “Bholu” and the school was referred to as “Vidyalaya”.The probe agency had earlier given a clean chit to school bus conductor Ashok Kumar, who was arrested by the Gurugram Police, saying there was no evidence to prove his involvement in the crime.The CBI had taken up the case from the Gurugram police on September 22, 2017 following a nationwide uproar over the gruesome killing. — PTI
02-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 135 COVID-19 cases; tally at 2,544||Panchkula reports 135 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the district total to 2,544.Coronavirus cases:About 990 cases are active, and 1,531 patients have been cured and discharged.Till date, Panchkula has conducted 38,784 COVID tests.
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Health team prevented from taking samples in Haryana, kits burnt||Health officials were allegedly stopped and medical kits burnt when they went to take samples of contacts of a coronavirus patient in Haryana's Fatehabad district, police said on Wednesday.The Health Department team had gone to Nakta village on Tuesday to take samples of a family after a member had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), police said.They were prevented and the samples were not given. Some more people gathered there and they also did not let the team perform its duty, according to a complaint by the health officials.Some of the equipments like rapid antigen kits were burnt during the incident, Sadar police station incharge Sukhdev Singh said.A case has been registered under relevant provisions and an investigation is underway, Singh said. PTI
02-09-2020||Ambala||Miscreants loot over Rs 9 lakh from ATM near Ambala||Some miscreants Wednesday looted Rs 9.13 lakh from a bank ATM on the Ambala-Delhi National Highway near the Army cantonment here after disabling the CCTV cameras and using a gas-cutter to break the machine, police said Wednesday.They said the ATM kiosk was located at Shahpur village, around 5 kms from the Ambala Cantt, police said.The thieves entered the ATM kiosk during the early hours and used a gas cutter for cutting the machine, police said, adding they also damaged the CCTV cameras of the chamber.The cash had been loaded Tuesday evening, police said.Deputy Superintendent of Police Ram Kumar, who visited the site along with the Station House Officer of the area, said an FIR has been registered against unknown miscreants and efforts were on to trace them.He said police have collected CCTV footage from the adjoining areas in which two men wearing masks can be seen near the bank.A forensic team was also summoned to collect fingerprints from the crime spot. The police have questioned some of the residents of the nearby area in a bid to gather any clue about the miscreants.Police said the bank had deployed a security guard at the ATM, but he was not present at the time of the incident. PTI
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||87 addicts committed suicide in Haryana in 2019, 13 died due to drug overdose: NCRB||As many as 87 people committed suicide due to drugs or liquor addiction, while 13 died due to drug overdose in Haryana in 2019, according to the National Crime Record Bureau’s report on ‘Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India-2019’.In 2018, 137 people had committed suicide due to drugs or alcohol addiction while 86 had died due to drug overdose in Haryana.In neighbouring Punjab, 45 people had died due to drug overdose and 102 had committed suicide due to their drugs or liquor addiction in 2019, while in the previous year 78 had died due to drug overdose while 55 had committed suicide due to addiction.Haryana and Punjab There were 4,191 suicides in Haryana in 2019—a jump of 18.2 per cent from 2018 when 3,547 people had taken their lives. In Punjab, there was a rise of 37.5 per cent in suicides as 2,357 had committed suicide in 2019 as compared to 1,714 in 2018.The highest number of suicides in Haryana in 2019 had taken place due to illness (753), followed by family problems (649), marriage-related issues (317), professional or career problems (63) and in 587 cases the causes are not known.Among the marriage-related issues, 60 had committed suicide due to “non-settlement” of their marriage. It included 43 men and 17 women. Also, 20 suicides were due to extra-marital affairs which included 15 men and five women.Mental illness was the reason behind 302 suicides in Haryana which included 242 men and 60 women while 422 cases were of prolonged illness.Seventeen committed suicide due to issues in love affairs, which included 10 men and seven women.In the distribution of suicides profession-wise, 402 housewives had committed suicide in Haryana. It comprised 45 per cent of total suicides among women in the state.While 179 cases were among the students which included 123 males and 56 females. Also, 503 suicides by unemployed included 464 males and 39 women in 2019.Farmers’ SuicidesThough there were no farmers’ suicides, as per the report 219 agricultural labourers had committed suicide in 2019—with the suicides nearly doubling as 2018 had reported 104 such cases.Punjab witnessed a rise in farmers’ suicides. In 2019, 239 farmers had committed suicide, including 203 who cultivate their land while 36 were those who cultivated on leased land. Besides, there were 63 suicides by agricultural labourers. In 2018, there were 229 suicides by farmers including 202 by those who cultivate their land and 27 by those who work on leased land. There were 94 suicides by agricultural labourers in 2018.Mode of committing suicideHanging is most common way of ending a life in Haryana as 1,177 (28.1 per cent) used it to end their lives, while 686 people took poison (16.4 per cent), which included 336 consuming pesticide. There were 172 suicides by touching electrical wire and 16 by self-inflicting injury in Haryana.The majority of suicides took place in low-income groups in Haryana. There were 2,336 suicides (55.7 per cent) among people whose earning was less than Rs 1 lakh per annum and 1,391 suicides (33.2 per cent) among those having income between Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh per annum.
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Final-year exams by September-end in Haryana||The examinations of the final-year students of all universities and colleges in Haryana will be conducted by September-end and the results will be declared before October 31. This decision was taken at a meeting organised by the Haryana State Higher Education Council through video-conferencing here today.Can take exams online or offlineCouncil Chairman Brij Kishore Kuthiala chaired the meeting while Principal Secretary, Higher Education Department, Ankur Gupta, and Director General Ajit Balaji Joshi, besides the Vice-Chancellors and the Controllers of Examinations of all government-aided universities attended it.A spokesman for the education council said that new admissions would also take place this month and from October, depending on the circumstances, normal classes would start. The students, who are not able to take the exams due to valid reasons, would be given one more chance, he added.He said that there are around two lakh final-year students in various colleges and universities of the state and adequate arrangements would be madefor all those who appear in the examinations.He added that the Vice-Chancellors of all universities assured the meeting that all directions of the Central and state governments regarding the standard operating procedure (SOP) for Covid-19 would be followed meticulously. A provision would also been made for the re-appear examinations of the final-year students in all universities.The spokesman said that the students had been permitted to take the examinations either online or offline. He added that for students coming from far-off places, accommodation would also be arranged in hostels. Social distancing norms would be followed in the examination centres.He said the papers would comprise multiple-choice, short answer and explanatory answer questions. Some universities, which had started taking the examinations, had also declared the results, he added.He said that the work to hold the online classes of the final-year students was going on at a rapid pace. He said as per the recommendation of the Union Ministry of Education and the University Grants Commission, the state government had also given consent to holding the examinations. The Supreme Court had also made it mandatory to conduct the final year examinations.
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||College session to start from October 6 in Haryana||The Education Department has announced the admission schedule for the 2020-21 academic session for undergraduate classes. The new session will start on October 6.Admission scheduleSept 7-21: Date for applying for admissionSept 22-25: Verification of documentsSept 26: Display of merit listSept 26-29: Fee paymentOct 6: Start of new sessionProspective students will be able to apply for admission online from September 7 to 21, the document verification will take place between September 22 and 25. The merit list will be displayed on September 26.The provisionally admitted students will be able to submit their fees from September 26 to 29. Besides, an open counselling is scheduled for October 6 to fill vacant seats.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said, “The Education Department is geared up for the online admission. The final call on opening colleges or conducting online classes will be taken keeping in mind the Centre’s guidelines.”The colleges and universities in the state are closed since March following the nationwide lockdown to arrest the spread of the Covid pandemic. The state has already decided to promote the first- and second-year undergraduate students on the basis of internal assessment. However, the examinations of final-year students are slated this month as per the UGC guidelines.
02-09-2020||Rohtak||Two teachers die in car-bus collision||Two primary teachers, identified as Pankaj and Anita, were killed when a Haryana Roadways bus hit their car on the Gohana road, near the Makrauli Toll Plaza, here today. The bus driver and the conductor managed to flee after the mishap.The mishap took place in the evening when both teachers were returning from Panipat in the car after discharging their duties in their school. The bus reportedly climbed the divider and hit the car on the other side. The collision was so fierce that the car was damaged completely and the teachers were killed on the spot. Later, the police sent the bodies to the PGIMS for a postmortem examination.Shamsher Singh, SHO, said that the bus on its way to Panipat was being driven at a high speed, leading to the accident. — TNS
02-09-2020||Faridabad||Illegal casino busted, 12 held in Faridabad||The police busted an illegal casino and arrested 12 persons, including two women from Delhi, for gambling at a hotel in the NIT area here. The hotel was raided following a tip-off. The police seized 101 casino play cards valued at Rs 1.03 lakh and 1,470 gambling chips worth Rs 7.35 lakh from the accused. The main accused said he had been running the casino at different spots. — TNS
02-09-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram ‘hi-tech’ headmaster to get national award||Credited with developing many in-house apps involving his students, Gurugram’s “hi-tech” teacher Manoj Kumar Lakra has been chosen for a national award on Teacher’s Day.The only teacher from the state to have been selected among 47 from across the country, Lakra is elementary headmaster of Government Senior Secondary School, Bajghera.“As a teacher, we put in efforts to make positive difference in the life of every student we teach. The award for me is a recognition of this endeavor. The credit goes to my students who not just accepted me as a teacher but also trusted me,” Lakra said.He had hit headlines when he along with his students developed a software and allotted QR codes to all trees on the campus. This app allowed students to scan them on smart phone and get details like their scientific names, generic names and medicinal value.“I was shocked to see that many students could not differentiate banyan from peepal. If we want children to be sensitive towards environmental needs and threats, they first need to know their environment. The first step is knowing plants and trees near houses and school,” he said.Though a Hindi teacher, Lakra sees cyber world as his true calling. He along with his four students of Class IX developed and designed Mid-Day-Meal Haryana app. The state Education Department adopted this app and applied in all schools to keep tab on quality and distribution of mid-day meals. Soon they created Smagra mulayankan app, fee register app, fund and stock register app, scout and guide app and Pragati app. He had also made a solar helmet that got the first prize at a state-level science exhibition.
02-09-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Girl alleges rape by Gurugram Facebook friend||A 19-year-old Assamese girl has complained to the police alleging rape by one of her Facebook (FB) friends. The victim stated that her friend called her to Gurugram from Hyderabad on the promise of marrying her and then raped her and dumped her. The police have registered an FIR and are conducting raids to nab the accused.A native of Assam, she worked in a restaurant in Hyderabad. Around four years ago, she got in touch with Gurugram resident Krishan Kumar Jangid through Facebook. “We fell in love online. He called me to Gurugram and got physical with me. He said it was OK, as we were going to get married. This is the second time he called me and raped me but refused to marry me and fled,” she said in her complaint.A case of rape was registered at Bhondsi police station on Monday night. “The accused is absconding and we are investigating his mobile phone call details. He will be arrested soon,” said SHO Neeraj Kumar.
02-09-2020||THE renovation work of the centrally-located Hali Park was approved two years ago. An investment of Rs 24 crore was made to revive the park and the lake. However||Park renovation stopped||Gas cylinders delivery workers not trainedTHE workers, who deliver LPG cylinders at homes, put them down on the road carelessly while unloading. The cylinder makes a loud noise as it bangs against the ground. It can burst due to the force with which it is placed on the ground, and also damage the road, underlying pipes and wires. The authorities concerned should address the issue and take action accordingly. The personnel handling the deliveries should be taught how to unload cylinders properly. — Nikita Goyal, AmbalaStray animal meance in PanchkulaTHERE is no end in sight to the menace of stray dogs, oxen and bulls in Sector 16, Panchkula. Courts have directed the authorities concerned to find a solution to the problem, but no concrete steps have been taken. The erring officials should be held responsible and the cost of damages should be recovered from their salaries. — Gopal Mittal, PanchkulaNo social distancing in public placesTHOUGH Covid-19 cases are increasing every day, citizens are not abiding by the instructions issued by the government. One can see people roaming in public places without wearing masks or maintaining social distancing. Those who violate the rules should be challaned on the spot. In parks, people should walk in the clockwise direction only, maintaining 'do gaz ki doori'. The government should appoint volunteers in mandis and congested markets to ensure social distancing is maintained. The surroundings should be sanitised. The implementation of night curfew will discourage people from venturing out of their homes. — Col KJ Singh (retd), PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
02-09-2020||Ambala||Notification issued for delimitation of Ambala wards||After clearing the objections raised by residents, the state government has issued the notification for the delimitation of all 20 wards of the Ambala Municipal Corporation.Seven objections were raised that were resolved by a committee headed by Ambala Additional Deputy Commissioner. After the final notification, the administration will now start the process for the reservation of wards.Of all 20 wards, seven will be reserved for women, including two for candidates from Scheduled Caste, five for SC candidates, two for Backward Class candidates and six in open (general) category.The tenure of the previous house got completed in July 2018 and last year, the corporation was bifurcated into the Ambala Municipal Corporation and Ambala Sadar Municipal Council. In the last tenure, there were 20 wards under the corporation — 11 in Ambala City and the remaining nine in Ambala Sadar (Cantonment).Punjab and Haryana High Court advocate Hemant Kumar said: “Though the final notification has been issued and the process of the reservation of wards may also be completed in a month, the elections are unlikely to be held before February next year. A minimum population of 3 lakh was necessary for the status of Municipal Corporation and 11 gram panchayats were included to retain it for Ambala City. But the tenure of those 11 gram panchayats will be completed in February next year. Holding the elections before the completion of the tenure of gram panchayats can be challenged.”
02-09-2020||Ambala||Air Marshal takes up bird-strike threat to Rafale with Chief Secretary||Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, Director General (Inspection and safety), has raised the issue of the safety of Rafale jets from bird strikes in Ambala, with Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora.In a letter, the Air Marshal stated: “The Ambala Air Force Station has a high concentration of birds and this has the potential to cause serious damage to aircraft in case of collision. Bird activity over the airfield is related to the presence of garbage in the surrounding area. The Air Officer Commanding, Ambala Air Force Station, has met the Joint Commissioner and Additional Municipal Commissioner through the Aerodrome Environment Management Committee meetings conducted thrice this year.”“To reduce the activity of large birds around Ambala airfield, the IAF has sought the immediate implementation of solid waste management,” the letter read.The Ambala MC has started serving notices on people involved in pigeon breeding in the area. — TNS
02-09-2020||Karnal||Rs31-cr budget not used for Maharana Pratap Horticulture University at Anjanthali||The budget of around Rs 31 crore meant for the construction of Maharana Pratap Horticulture University at Anjanthali could not be utilised in the last financial year and was returned to the Finance Department. The university authorities have now sought permission from the Finance Department for the revalidation of the budget.Sources said, “The authorities have failed to utilise the funds and the process of re-validation will further delay the construction work”.“The construction agency was not finalised, and there was a shortage of staff due to the lockdown,” said Prof Samar Singh, Vice-Chancellor.He said that a meeting of the board would be held on September 3, in which the construction agency would be finalised. The drawing of the project had been approved. “We are hopeful that the work will start in two months,” he added.The project of the university has been hanging fire. In the name of construction, only the boundary wall and the entry gate have been constructed after the foundation stone was laid by former Union Agriculture Minister Radha Mohan Singh and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on April 6, 2016.The VC said that the university would be constructed on 125 acres at a cost of Rs 486 crore, with three regional centres at Raiya in Jhajjar, Chandsoli in Ambala and Badhana in Jind. The government has sanctioned Rs 150 for the project, so far.
02-09-2020||Ambala||One arrested for assault||The district police have arrested Tarun Kumar, a resident of Panjokhra, near here, in a case of assault, officials said here on Tuesday. Anil Kumar, also a resident of Panjokhra, had reported that the accused along with his accomplices had assaulted him and his brothers with weapons and batons on June 25. The accused would be produced before a local court on Wednesday. TNSProclaimed offender heldThe district police have arrested Sinder Singh, a proclaimed offender in a criminal case registered against him at Baldev Nagar police station, officials said here on Tuesday. The accused, a resident of Kaithal, had been evading arrest ever since he was booked. A local court had declared him a proclaimed offender. TNSMan nabbed for rapeThe district police have arrested Rohit Singh in a case of rape and criminal intimidation of a minor girl, officials said here on Tuesday. The victim had complained to the police that the accused had raped her and threatened her with dire consequences on July 30. He would be produced before a local court on Wednesday. TNSScooterist hurt in mishapAmbala: Jatinder Pal, a resident of Parao near here, was injured when a vehicle hit his scooter near the Jandli bridge in Ambala Cantt, the police said on Tuesday. He was rushed to the PGI, Chandigarh, where he is struggling for life. — TNS
02-09-2020||Ambala||Fine up to Rs5,000  if Ambala eateries use plastic bags||The district administration has asked hotels, restaurants, shopkeepers and vendors to give an undertaking that they will not use single-use plastic. Not only those found using single-use plastic but also those from whose premises or outside the banned product is recovered will be taken to task, a senior officer said here.Special driveto be launchedHe said initially, the owners of hotels, restaurants, commercial establishments and vendors had been asked to submit an undertaking on no use of plastic and later, a drive would be launched to check, seize and challan the violators.He said the drive was part of the initiative to make Ambala the first plastic-free district in the state.Earlier, the district administration had launched campaigns like rice-for-plastic and free distribution of cloth and jute bags, besides roping in college students to take forward the drive against single-use plastic in the district.Last year, DC Ashok Kumar Sharma had launched a drive to distribute 1-kg rice against 1-kg plastic waste. The drive evoked a good response from and over 20 tonnes of single-use plastic was collected before the lockdown. The plastic was used to produce electricity.
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana has highest number of convicts from other states||The Prison Statistics India 2019 report has highlighted that Haryana has the highest number of convicts from other states. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) releases the report annually.Caste combinationSCs constitute 21.2% of the total convicts; their population in Haryana is 20.17%There is no Scheduled Tribe population in the state, but close to 2 per cent convicts are tribalsAs per the data compiled till December 31, 2019, Haryana has 7,236 convicts lodged in 19 jails. Of them, 1,353 (18.7 per cent) belong to other states. Delhi has 855 convicts from other states, while Maharashtra has 800. The neighbouring Punjab has 787 convicts from other states and Himachal Pradesh 190.Of the 13,160 undertrials lodged in Haryana jails, 2,627 (20 per cent) are from other states. Haryana is at the fourth place. At 4,675, Maharashtra has the highest number of undertrials from other states followed by Uttar Pradesh (3,470) and Delhi (3,453).Jails in Haryana can accommodate 19,306 inmates, but 20,423 inmates are housed in 19 jails of the state. Of them, 7,236 are convicts (35.4 per cent), 13,160 undertrials (64.4 per cent) and 27 detenues (0.1 per cent). The occupancy rate is 107.5 per cent.Among the convicts, only 6.5 per cent either hold a graduate or a technical degree, 20 per cent are illiterate, 39 per cent have not cleared Class X and 34.5 per cent have either passed Class X or Class XII.Religion and caste profileOf the 7,236 convicts, seven per cent are Muslims and 5.6 per cent Sikhs. Among the undertrials, Muslims constitute 10.1 per cent and Sikhs 6.3 per cent.To put these figures into perspective, Muslims constitute 7.03 per cent of the state’s population and Sikhs constitute 4.91 per cent (2011 Census).Scheduled Castes constitute 21.2 per cent of the total convicts. Their population in the state is 20.17 per cent. There is no Scheduled Tribe population in the state, but close to 2 per cent convicts are tribals. The OBCs in jails are 23.9 per cent, while 53 per cent belong to upper-castes.The 27 detenues in Haryana jails are Muslims, the report states.OffencesHaryana has reported the highest number of convicts (90) for rioting, followed by Madhya Pradesh (54) and Tamil Nadu (53).Of the total convicts, 3,052 have been convicted for murder (42.2 per cent), 551 for rape (7.6 per cent), 365 for thefts (5 per cent), 456 for drug peddling (6.3 per cent) and 290 for robbery (4 per cent).There are 282 convicts for dacoity, which is the second highest in the country after Madhya Pradesh (387).In all, 13 convicts are facing capital punishment and 3,302 life imprisonment.There were nine cases of unnatural death in Haryana jails in 2019 — seven committed suicide and two were murdered by fellow inmates. Also, 68 inmates died a natural death, 60 due to illness and eight due to ageing.
02-09-2020||Faridabad||Hospital land unused, Faridabad resident files RTI plea||A four-acre prime land worth over Rs 193 crore allotted to a private hospital here has been lying unused. A local resident has filed the second appeal under the RTI Act before the State Information Commission (SIC) but the HSVP, which had leased out the land, has not been provided him information about its current status.The land was allotted in 1991 to a private welfare trust in Sector 16-A here for running a hospital on lease for 99 years at Rs 15.09 lakh per acre, totaling Rs 60.36 lakh. A letter dated March 19, 1991, was issued by the HSVP (then HUDA) office here to the New Delhi-based allottee.While according to the rules, the plot was to be used for hospital on the condition that 25 per cent of the beds will be free and reserved for the weaker sections, it is revealed that a private hospital stopped functioning about five years ago.Kailash Sharma, a local resident, alleged the plot was on the target of the land mafia.“Though the land already stands resumed, any decision regarding its use will be taken by the state government,” said an HSVP official.
02-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram gears up for surge in cases||As Unlock 4.0 guidelines are implemented, the district health authorities apprehend a surge in Covid cases. Chief Medical Officer Dr Virender Yadav has asked all hospitals to reserve 30 per cent of their beds for Covid patients. Earlier, 25 per cent of beds were reserved.The entire city has been divided into five zones for antigen testing. The Health Department plans to double the testing of samples from 2,000 to 4,000. For almost 22 days, the district recorded less than 100 cases every day. But for the past one week, the district has seen a surge. On Tuesday, it reported 196 cases.Dr Yadav said, “All that we can do is test and treat patients. It is up to citizens to take preventive measures. We are preparing for the surge in cases.” The district health authorities have written to the police to launch a campaign to make people wear masks.Commissioner of Police KK Rao said, “The police have launched special drive ‘No tolerance to unmasked people’.” — TNS
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||BJP leader among 17 die of Covid in Haryana||With 1,694 new cases reported on Tuesday, the highest in a day so far, the Covid tally in the state reached 66,426.Besides, 17 persons died of the virus, taking the toll to 706. Three deaths were reported from Panchkula, two each from Karnal, Kurukshetra, Faridabad and Sirsa, and one each from Rewari, Ambala, Panipat, Hisar, Palwal and Yamunanagar.In Karnal, five persons died of the virus on Tuesday, but only two deaths were recorded in the state health bulletin.The new fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (196) Panipat (161), Karnal (141), Faridabad (132), Sonepat (130), Hisar (98) and Panchkula (98).A former vice-president of Fatehabad BJP unit, Ramesh Singla, died of Covid at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram.The state added 29,767 patients to its tally in August alone, while the number of fatalities rose from 421 to 689.
02-09-2020||Karnal||Six times rise in demand for medical oxygen in Karnal||The outbreak of Covid has led to a sharp increase in the demand for medical oxygen, which is crucial in saving the lives of patients who develop acute respiratory distress because of the virus.The demand has increased by five to six times at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC), a dedicated Covid Care Hospital in the district. Every day, 600 to 1,000 litres of oxygen is used in comparison to 100 to 200 litres before the outbreak of the pandemic.Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director, KCGMC, said: “Our 150 beds in the Covid ward are almost full. Most of the patients are above 50 years. Many of them have co-morbidities. They require oxygen support, due to which the hospital’s oxygen demand has increased.”Besides Covid patients, there are several patients in non-Covid wards and ICU requiring oxygen and ventilator support, he said.Meanwhile, the demand for rented oxygen cylinders for personal use has also increased manifold. “Before the outbreak of the deadly virus, 30 to 50 oxygen cylinders were rented out every month. Now, the demand has shot up to 150 to 175,” a supplier of oxygen cylinders said, adding there was no rise in the rent of cylinders, but the rate of oxygen had increased from Rs 15 per kg to Rs 17.Dharmendra Sachdeva, another oxygen supplier, said the supply of cylinders could not keep pace with the rising demand.The demand for oxygen has increased in private hospitals, which are experiencing rise in non-Covid activities. As per owners of private hospitals, patients having respiratory problems come to them. They have purchased cylinders in advance.A Director of a local private hospital said, “Earlier, we were dependent on our oxygen-making unit. Now that doesn’t suffice. We have to take seven to nine cylinders on rent every day to meet the demand.”
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Petitioner: Allow me to surrender liquor licence sans costs||The High Court today issued a notice of motion on a petition filed by a liquor licensee seeking directions to the state of Haryana to treat him on a par with other licensees allowed to surrender their licences without any cost or risk. Directions were also sought to allow the petitioner to surrender his licence for excise zones without any cost or risk.In his petition placed before the Division Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu, Garg Wine submitted through senior advocate Sanjay Kaushal that a new excise year was to commence from April, as per the excise policy. But unfortunately in the last week of March, the government imposed the lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak.The petitioner, aged 62, finding it difficult to run the liquor vends in the given scenario, made a request to the respondents to cancel his bid for the allotted zones by an email dated March 23. The petitioner also highlighted his bonafide difficulties and requested the respondents to cancel his licence by invoking special powers, as envisaged in the excise policy. But the respondent started putting pressure on the petitioner to withdraw his email. He was threatened with the rigours of the excise policy, which said in case of surrender or cancellation, the re-allotment of zones will be done at the risk and cost of the original allottee.At the same time, he was also told that the government had taken a conscious decision not to charge licence fee for the lockdown period. Faced with the situation whereby he would have to bear the immediate forfeiture of more than Rs 4 crore, he withdrew his email.
02-09-2020||Ambala||UHBVN final notice to defaulters in Ambala over Rs50-crore dues||Several government departments and thousands of domestic, commercial and industrial electricity consumers owe around Rs 50 crore in dues to the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) in the twin towns of Ambala. Though they have been issued repeated notices in the past couple of months, most of the defaulters have not cleared their pending bills, the officials said here on Tuesday.Bills were exempted till June Acting tough against the defaulters, the UHBVN has decided to snap the power connections of the major defaulters, whose arrears run into several lakhs of rupees.While the defaulting government departments account for almost Rs 45-crore arrears, private consumers have not paid around Rs 5 crore bill dues since the lockdown was imposed in March. “While the government had exempted the payment of power bills till June, the defaulters had not paid their dues even two months after that,” the officials said.The UHBVN officials said the defaulters had been issued the final notices and had been asked to clear their dues immediately, failing which their connections would be snapped. “In case of failure to clear the dues, the department will take punitive action to recover the amount,” they added.Officials of most of the defaulting departments said that a demand had been sent to the head offices and they would clear the dues as soon as they get the financial sanction. “Due to the lockdown, the financial sanction from the headquarters could not be received and the dues could not be cleared,” they said.As far as the Public Health Department and civic bodies are concerned, their power supply disconnection could lead to a major crisis, as they supply water to the residents and light the streets.To generate revenue at its own level, the Municipal Corporations (MCs) have tightened the noose around property tax defaulters and sealed their land after they did not clear the arrears despite repeated notices. Even as several properties of the defaulters have been sealed, the MCs are struggling to recover the tax arrears of Rs 30 crore.Similarly, most of the defaulting departments are awaiting the financial sanction from their head offices to clear the power dues. The UHBVN notices warn the defaulting departments of punitive action in case of further failure to clear the arrears.
02-09-2020||Palwal||Man found murdered in Palwal||A 46-year-old man has been found murdered in Baghola village of the district.As per the police, the body of the victim, Jeetmal, a labourer, was found lying on the side of a passage leading to fields in the village. “As the body was found with injury marks around the neck, he is suspected to have been strangled before being dumped here,” said a police officer.A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered and a probe launched. — TNS
02-09-2020||Gurugram||Medanta Hospital doctor ends life||A doctor of Medanta Hospital reportedly committed suicide by jumping off the balcony of his flat on the eight floor here in the wee hours of Tuesday.Dr Sujit Kumar Shah (41), a native of Nepal, had been living alone in Sector 47 here for the past two years.No suicide note was recovered, but the police suspect a matrimonial dispute behind the extreme step. The police informed his wife, who lives in West Bengal along with her six-year-old daughter. She is a doctor there.The police are investigating the matter. — OC
02-09-2020||Karnal||Cops seek court nod for voice samples||The Karnal police on Tuesday filed a plea in a district court to take samples of voice and signature of the woman teacher, who was arrested on August 21 for allegedly taking Rs 7.25 lakh for withdrawing her complaints of gangrape against a private school owner and a tehsildar.After one-day police remand, she was produced in the court that sent her to judicial custody. “We have filed a plea in the court to obtain the voice and signature samples of the woman teacher, the hearing for which is tomorrow,” said Surinder Singh Bhoria, SP.The woman teacher had lodged a complaint against a private school owner and a tehsildar alleging that they raped her. While the school owner had filed a complaint against the teacher and the police had booked her for blackmailing him. Two SITs are probing both cases.— TNS
02-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Promised US visa, 2 Yamunanagar men duped of Rs34L||Three travel agents duped two persons of Rs 34 lakh at Radaur on the pretext of sending them to the US.On the complaint of Malkeet Singh of Topra Kalan village, a case was registered against Arun Kumar and Nitesh Kumar of the same village and Vishal Kumar of Bakana village under Sections 406, 420 and 506 of the IPC and Section 10 of the Immigration Act at Radaur police station on August 30.The complainant said Arun and Nitesh had sent his brother Surjeet Singh to Italy in 2009. “In 2016, Arun met me and said his brother-in-law Vishal could send Surjeet to the US from Italy.”He said later, Nitesh told him that they could send more persons to the US. “We spoke to our relative Bayant Singh of Gidarpur village of Kurukshetra district and he got ready to go to the US,” the complainant said.Malkeet said they gave Rs 40 lakh to Arun, Nitesh and Vishal for sending Surjeet and Bayant to the US in June 2017. When they didn’t send them to the US, we demanded our money back, he added.“However, the agents returned only Rs 6 lakh out of Rs 40 lakh. When we demanded the rest of the amount, they threatened us with dire consequences,” the complainant alleged. — TNS
02-09-2020||Rohtak||Farmers protest for tubewell connections in Rohtak||Farmers from various villages under the aegis of the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) today staged a daylong dharna at the local office of the power corporation, demanding the release of connections for tubewells.Led by ABKS district chief Preet Singh, the protesters raised slogans against the government and the power corporation for their ‘insensitivity’ towards farmers.Inderjit Singh, ABKS state vice-president, accused the state and Centre of pursuing anti-farmer policies under the cover of the coronavirus epidemic. He termed the amendment to the Electricity Bill proposed on April 17 as obnoxious. — TNS
02-09-2020||New Delhi||Region’s share in cases less than 5%||The northern region is putting up a good fight against Covid-19 with Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Chandigarh’s burden in the national disease load standing at less than 5 per cent as of Tuesday.Eight months into the pandemic, these five states together make up 4.52 per cent of India’s 36,91,166 Covid cases and 4.50 per cent of the national toll, which is 65,288 as of today.“States in the northern region are holding up good. Once new recoveries outstrip new infections the disease graph will start to slide,” said a Health Ministry source. — TNS
02-09-2020||Ravinder Saini||Haryana farmers forced to pay for crop loss claim||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, September 1A survey agency allegedly duped farmers of Salhavaas and Majra D villages of thousands of rupees on the pretext of providing them higher compensation under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana.The Department of Agriculture has filed a complaint against the agency.Crops, mainly bajra and cotton, spread over 3,000 acres were damaged due to rain last month. The department had formed a panel last week following complaints that the surveyors demanded Rs 1,000 per acre from farmers promising higher compensation. In case of non-payment, the surveyors threatened to understate the loss.Inder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), said: “Since the inquiry has established the fraud, we have sought an FIR against the agency."
