02-11-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Baroda bypoll: Jind SP campaigning for BJP; Sonepat DC, DFSC distributing LPG cylinders: Congress||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 2The Congress leadership has alleged that the BJP government in Haryana is distributing free LPG cylinders to the voters of Baroda Assembly constituency through the Sonepat Deputy Commissioner (DC), the District Food Supplies Controller (DFSC) and the AFSC in order to influence the voters to vote for the ruling BJP nominee in the by-election.The party has further alleged that the Jind Superintendent of Police (SP) was campaigning for the ruling party’s candidate. The Congress has accused the BJP government of openly bribing the voters with cash and liquor as well.Addressing a news conference here today, former Haryana chief minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said complaints in these regards had been lodged with the Chief Election Commissioner of India as well as the other authorities concerned.“The BJP leadership has stooped so low that it is openly bribing the voters in view of its definite defeat in the bypoll. But the voters of the constituency cannot be influenced with such cheap tactics,” Hooda maintained.Rohtak MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra, who accompanied Hooda, stated that the BJP nominee had himself admitted that LPG cylinders were being distributed.“The party had also brought the matter to the notice of the Returning Officer but no action was taken, owing to which we had to approach the Chief Election Commissioner,” he said.Firebrand Congress leader Karan Singh Dalal, who was also present on the occasion, quipped that the party had lodged their complaint with the topmost authorities, and they could employ other methods to treat the said officers, if so required.BJP has violated code of conduct: Haryana in charge of Congress affairsIn-charge of Congress affairs in Haryana Vivek Bansal has also accused the BJP government in Haryana of violating the model code of conduct in the run-up for the Baroda bypoll.“The BJP leadership is openly distributing cash, liquor and LPG cylinders amongst the voters in an attempt to influence them to vote for the ruling party,” Bansal said in a statement issued today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/baroda-bypoll-jind-sp-campaigning-for-bjp-sonepat-dc-dfsc-distributing-lpg-cylinders-congress-164899
02-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||Govt to open academy at every district to train PRI representatives: Dy CM Chautala||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 2The state government would open an academy at every district headquarter to impart training to the elected representatives of the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Singh Chautala said on Sunday evening.“The representatives will not only be trained in the functioning of the PRIs but also be made aware about social welfare schemes of the government so that they could ensure the benefit of the scheme to the last person,” he added.The Deputy Chief Minister disclosed this while interacting with mediapersons after inaugurating and laying the foundation stone of various development projects in Dattaur village here late on Sunday evening.“The PRI representatives need special training to be aquatint about the functioning of the PRIs and knowledge about the utilisation of funds for the development of their village concerned. Hence, the academy will train them about all aspects of the PRIs so that they do not have to face any problem in discharging their duties,” said Dushyant.He claimed the government was making efforts to ensure 50 per cent reservation to women and one to eight per cent reservation to other backward classes in the PRIs.The chief executive officer at the zila parishad level had been deputed in all 22 districts of the state for rural development. An executive engineer had also been appointed in every district so that villagers didn’t face any trouble in getting their problem resolved, he added.“The website of every gram panchayat has been designed and villagers can put their demands about the village development on an online portal. We are in process to provide computers and books for competitive exams to the village libraries so that the students can avail these facilities for making their career bright,” said the Deputy Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-to-open-academy-at-every-district-to-train-pri-representatives-dy-cm-chautala-164848
02-11-2020||---||Six days on, no clue to three abducted sisters||Panchkula, November 1Six days have passed but the police have failed to get any clue to the abduction of three sisters, aged two, four and six, from a park in Sector 6 on October 26 here.The local police today made an appeal to the media to help them find the girls.In CCTV footage, an unidentified woman is seen walking while carrying the youngest of the three girls, identified as Saroj, and Saloni (4) and Sonakshi (6) were following them.The PRO to Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), in a press note, said, “If anybody has information related to the three girls abducted from a park in Sector 6, then they should immediately contact on following numbers – 8146630014, 8146630063, 0172-2569200 or 100.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-days-on-no-clue-to-three-abducted-sisters-164491
02-11-2020||---||Punjab’s air quality ‘better’ than neighbours Delhi, Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1Punjab fares much better in terms of the air quality index (AQI) than neighbouring Haryana and Delhi and can’t be squarely blamed for the poor air quality, said a state government functionary.Pollution in Delhi, especially from October to December, has been increasingly blamed on the fires put to the paddy residue in the fields of northern states, specifically Punjab.The spokesperson said there were six continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations in Punjab — one each at Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Khanna, Mandi Gobindgarh and Patiala.A comparison of data (on average basis) of these stations with those in Haryana’s cities bordering the national capital, including Gurugram, Panipat, Sonepat, Faridabad and Rohtak, and in Delhi, suggested in August and September (2018-2020), the average AQI of Punjab remained within 50 to 87.The average AQI in Delhi during the same period ranged between 63 and 118. In Haryana’s cities (2019-2020) and Faridabad (2020), the average AQI ranged from 67 to 115.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjabs-air-quality-better-than-neighbours-delhi-haryana-164738
02-11-2020||CHANGE in season has set in and the administration must actively take up fogging to curb mosquito menace in Panchkula urban estate. Fatehpur and Kundi in Sector 20||Actively take up fogging to curb mosquito menace||Govt websites must be updated with latest dataTO write an article on development in Kurukshetra on the occasion of Haryana Day, since it came into existence as a district in 1973, I checked website https://kurukshetra.gov.in/ which conceals more than it reveals. Sadly, the email id of the Deputy Commissioner and the ADC mentioned therein is out dated. The claim of the state as ahead of others in-terms of e-governance stands falsified as there is no data available on the performance indicators of the economy which deserves attention. To ensure transparency, we need updated websites with latest data. Prof MM Goel, KurukshetraSpurious desi ghee ups health riskTHERE must be around hundreds of illegal factories near Delhi in districts such as Faridabad, Rohtak, Sonepat and Bahadurgarh which manufacture spurious desi ghee, to fulfill the increasing demand of ghee, during the ongoing festive season. They use packing material of reputed brands and sell the stuff at half the rate as compared to genuine product. It smells and looks similar to the real product but is made with harmful oils mixed with artificial essence and colours which is harmful to health. The administration too is aware of the practice and must act immediately for a healthier society. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaNo end to stray animal menaceSTRAY animals have become a major problem, causing traffic snarls and accidents in the town. Cow is worshipped as mother according to the Hindu faith, but there is not any street where cows can't be found scrounging garbage. It also hurts our sacred feelings. Authorities should make proper arrangements for cowsheds, especially in winters. Stray dogs too can be seen roaming in streets and causing inconvenience to residents. Many incidents of dog bite had been reported but no steps had been made to check such instances. The municipal authorities should take a note of this and get the needful done immediately. Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The TRIBUNE invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/actively-take-up-fogging-to-curb-mosquito-menace-164777
02-11-2020||Kurukshetra||National Unity Day observed||YMCA exam results outFaridabad: : JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here announced the results of all final year students of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes which were conducted by the university in online and offline mode in August and September. While giving information, Controller of Examination Dr Rajiv Singh said the university had already declared the results of all students, having no backlog, in even semesters for the year 2020 under the promotion scheme announced by the state government. He said the university had also conducted the supplementary exams in October in offline mode for all those students passing out or passed out in May 2020 examination for their pre-final odd semester reappear. The result of the same has already been declared. The students can download the statement of marks/scorecard through the link provided on the official website www.jcboseust.ac.in. However, the result of final semester students of Echelon Institute of Technology had not been declared due to some technical issues and it will be updated soon.Talk on wealth creationYamunanagar: The Training and Placement Cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College here organised an expert talk on "Start creating your wealth from today- A step towards success in life". Training and Placement Cell coordinator Rajinder Singh Vohra introduced the speaker and presented the theme of the talk. Guru Nanak Khalsa Institute of Technology and Management director Dr Amit Joshi was the expert speaker. He explained in detail the appropriate time to start planning for creation of wealth, various strategies of wealth creation and importance of financial planning. Principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang welcomed the speaker and Dr Alok Goyal, dean of commerce faculty extended a vote of thanks.KU VC extends Haryana Day greetingsKurukshetra: On the occasion of Haryana Day, Kurukshetra University VC Dr Nita Khanna in her online video message on Sunday greeted the residents of the state, teachers, staff and students of KU. She said the contribution of farmers of Haryana in the entire agriculture sector, including the green revolution, cannot be forgotten. "Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan" has an important contribution in Haryana's culture. "Haryana is a land of heroes with a history of sacrifices and valour. Our soldiers are always at the front foot in the service to the nation," she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-unity-day-observed-164775
02-11-2020||Karnal||3 docs honoured for Covid duty||Army official loses battle to cancerHisar: Lieutenant Colonel Satyadeep Dhanda, a resident of Bhagana village in Hisar district, died last week after battling cancer for one year. His mortal remains were consigned to flames at the cremation ground in his native village. Lieutenant Colonel Dhanda got commissioned in the Army after passing out NDA at the age of 19. His family members said he had bagged a gold medal during his training at the NDA, and had got promoted to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel in 13 years of service. He was posted at Anantnag in Jammu and Kashmir when he was diagnosed with cancer.‘Selfie with cloth bag’ campaignRewari: Having distributed over 10,000 cloth bags among people, Nandini Yadav (17), a student of Class XII, along with her cousin Harsh (12), on Sunday introduced ‘Selfie with cloth bag’ campaign to motivate the people to preserve the environment by shunning single-use plastic. The campaign was launched by Cooperative Minister Banwari Lal during a event held to celebrate Haryana Day at Rao Tularam Stadium. Nandini took a selfie with the minister, Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh and Rewari SDM Ravinder Yadav, and presented them cloth bags. She informed that cloth bags would be gifted to at least 100 persons, who would send selfies with cloth bags on a Whatsapp number released by them.On road to fight pandemicFaridabad: Activists of the Jazba Foundation and the district administration have started a painting drive to make people aware of the guidelines issued in the view of Covid-19. Himanshu Bhatt, president of the foundation, said a painting has been made at the road near BK Chowk with the message ‘Go Covid go; follow the rules’. Images sensiting people to wear masks, maintain social distance and wash hands, have also been painted at the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-docs-honoured-for-covid-duty-164774
02-11-2020||New Delhi||Active cases 6.9 pc; Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh on track||The active cases dropped to a record low of 6.97 per cent of the total Covid cases (81,84,082) today even as toll surged to 1,22,111 with 470 more deaths over the past 24 hours.The number of active cases stood at 5,70,458 with cases per million in India being among lowest in the world at 5,930, against a high of 26,745 in the US. Seventeen states and UTs have cases per million lower than the national average of 5,930. These include Himachal Pradesh (2,960), Punjab (4,434) and Haryana (5,928).With 18,71,498 cases, October registered a decline of 28.6 per cent over the figure for September (26,21,418). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/active-cases-6-9-pc-punjab-haryana-himachal-pradesh-on-track-164773
02-11-2020||
||Karnal industrial units to get PNG supply||Karnal, November 1 The Karnal industrial area is all set to get the supply of the piped natural gas (PNG), an eco-friendly gas, in the first week of November. The work to lay pipelines from Panipat to Karnal city and further to the industrial area has been completed. Besides, the testing work of the lines has also been done.  In 2019, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed the industries to switch to PNG instead of using existing fuel in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) by August 2019.  Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL), a gas distribution company, has been assigned the work by the government to lay pipeline for PNG supply in Sector 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13 and a part of Sector 13 extension along with industrial area in Sector 3. Apart from this, 10 CNG filing stations were also to be established. The company had started the work in March 2019 and the deadline was fixed as March 2020, but the work was delayed due to Covid-induced lockdown, said an official of the IGL. Manoj Arora, president, HSIIDC Welfare Association Karnal unit, said the NGT had already issued direction to the industries to switch to PNG and almost all major industrialists had made agreement with the gas providing company. Supply to benefit 1.5L Ambala Cantt LPG consumers Ambala: After Ambala City, Ambala Cantonment has also got piped natural gas (PNG) supply project, which will benefit over 1.5 lakh liquefied petroleum gas consumers. While work to lay underground pipeline in some sectors has already been completed, it is in progress in other areas. Approval has been granted to lay the pipeline from Ambala Cantonment to Saha. As per the project report, Ambala will be covered within the next six months and the entire district within eight years under the GAIL project. “A service regulator and meter valve will be installed for every consumer, who will be charged as per consumption,” said an official, adding that one-time installation charges, security deposit and PNG price would be declared at the time of launch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-industrial-units-to-get-png-supply-164614
02-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||First elevated rail track to be operational from Dec 5||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 1Having missed several deadlines in the past year, the Railways have now fixed December 5 as the final deadline to complete the entire work of the nation’s first elevated railway track in Rohtak city.Sources said the electrification work was underway and it was likely to be completed by November 20. Thereafter, the final trial of the electric train on the 4.8-km track would be conducted, while the track would be ready for operation by December 5.Local residents have eagerly been waiting for completion of the work since the first trial run of goods train with diesel engine on the track was successfully conducted on August 19 in order to examine safety of the structure. The authorities found the safety parameter and movement of the train on the track good.The foundation stone of this Rs 350 crore project was laid by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and was formally launched in March 2018 and a deadline of 18 months was fixed to complete it.The project missed the first deadline in November 2019 due to encroachment on one side of the track. The work could not be completed before the second deadline also on April 30 and third on June 30. The deadline was further extended twice.“We wanted the work to be completed by November 1 but it did not happen due to some unavoidable reasons. A meeting of officials of civil and electric wings of the railways along with nodal agency of the project was convened some days ago wherein the officers assured me of completing the entire work by December 5,” said Deputy Commissioner Manoj Kumar.Pradeep Ranjan, technical adviser of the project, said the work pertaining to the structure had been completed and pillars of the track were being coloured. The electrification work was in progress.“The safety parameters will be examined again after the completion of electrification to give clearance for starting the operation over the track. The track will do away with five-level crossings in the city, reducing traffic jams,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/first-elevated-rail-track-to-be-operational-from-dec-5-164615
02-11-2020||Our Correspondent
||Six vehicles collide, motorcyclist killed||Gurugram, November 1 Alleged driving on the wrong side by a bike driver at Hero Honda Chowk cost him his life and led to major accident involving six vehicles. The wife and minor son of the bike driver have been injured critically and are being treated in a hospital. An FIR has been registered at Sector 37 police station. The police have nabbed the driver of a truck that first hit the bike.  According to the police, the incident happened around noon today when 56-year-old Rajiv Kumar, a resident of Shanti Nagar, was going with his wife and child on a motorcycle. He was riding on the wrong side when the truck coming from Jaipur side hit his bike.  Thereafter, the truck collided with two SUVs, an auto-rickshaw and a car. The nearby shopkeepers and commuters caught the truck driver. Some of them thrashed the driver. The police reached the spot and took the driver into custody. “We have registered a case and arrested the truck driver identified as Heera Lal,” said inspector Shailender Singh, SHO of Sector 37 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-vehicles-collide-motorcyclist-killed-164616
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana attracted $73 billion FDI: Chief Secy||The Haryana Government is committed to creating a progressive business environment in the state and it has formulated an investor-friendly industrial and business promotion policy.  This information was shared by Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan during the first meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Forum of Heads of Regions. The Chief Secretary was representing India at this meeting which was hosted by Russia. Owing to the consistent efforts of the state government, Haryana has attracted foreign direct investment (FDI) of $73 billion during 2019-20. Haryana thus is the fifth largest economy in the country. In his address, Vardhan welcomed the initiative to organise this dialogue between the Area Heads of the member countries by SCO. This forum would pave the way for better cooperation and coordination between member countries and regions, he added. He said there was immense potential for cooperation  between Haryana and SCO member countries in the fields of trade and  business, auto manufacturing, skill development, IT and ITES,  agriculture and agro-based industries like food processing, health and  animal science.  He said the state was surrounded by New Delhi from three sides and three industrially developed cities of Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak fall within the radius of 70 km from New Delhi International Airport. He further added that a new airport was being developed in Hisar district. Besides, the state has a rail network of more than 1,700 km and after the approval of the new Haryana Orbital Rail Corridor (HORC) project by the Government of India in September, the transport network in the state will be enhanced further. The state has a very well laid out road network, including more than 30 national highways, 11 expressways and state highways. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-attracted-73-billion-fdi-chief-secy-164617
02-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Four Gurugram areas emerge as toxic hotspots||Gurugram, November 1The slight improvement in the air quality index (AQI) of the city was short-lived as four residential areas have emerged as toxic hotspots in the National Capital Region (NCR), with Sector 51 being the worst affected.Unchecked construction and illegal dumping of debris have been cited as reasons for the deteriorating air quality.Unchecked construction behind poor air qualitySources say the Municipal Corporation is to be blamed for loosening the leash on violators and not issuing enough challans to persons violating the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), under which institutionalised measures are to be taken when air quality deteriorates.As a result, there are plumes of dust and smog in the city.On Tuesday, the district’s AQI was recorded at 306 (hazardous, according to an AQI table). It was 258 (very unhealthy) a day before. In the monitoring area of Sector 51, the AQI was recorded at 327, while that of Vikas Sadan and Terri village crossed 300. The AQI in Manesar reached 277. Construction sites are mostly concentrated in these areas.With the MC going easy on violators, the situation is worsening and it may lead to complete ban on construction like last year.Meanwhile, in a meeting of traffic officials, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Sanjeev Balhara, directed cops to check violations of the GRAP.“Traffic officials have been told that their job is to not only mange traffic, but also issue challans to violators. Since the implementation of the GRAP this year, the traffic police have issued challans of around Rs 10 lakh,” said Balhara, who is also the nodal officer, GRAP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-gurugram-areas-emerge-as-toxic-hotspots-164618
02-11-2020||Karnal||Man ‘kills’ wife,  consumes poison||Around 36-year-old woman was allegedly stabbed to death by her husband, who later tried to commit suicide by consuming some poisonous substance in Suraj Nagar Colony here on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Sangeeta.  The police have registered a case against the accused, Vikram (40), under Section 302 and 309 of the IPC, said Surinder Singh, incharge of Sector-32/33 police post. Vikram is hospitalised and his condition is said to be critical. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-kills-wife-consumes-poison-164619
02-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Baroda bypoll: Close contest on the cards||Tribune News ServiceBaroda (Gohana), November 1The high-voltage campaigning for Baroda byelection, scheduled for November 3, ended on Sunday at 6 pm.The campaign was marked by aggressive blitzkrieg between BJP-JJP and Congress. The INLD too left no stone unturned to make the contest triangular.At the end of the campaigning, the election battle reached an interesting stage and the villagers expect a tough contest.Election on everyone’s mindPeople whose houses are along the village roads offered chairs and cots to the visitors and offered hookah and drinking water to everyone whether they knew them or not.The only topic of discussion was the bypoll. Some are praising the Congress while others are backing the BJP-JJP. Some could be seen talking about the INLD too.As The Tribune team reached Madina village on Meham road, some youths –- Shyam Lal and Pradeep Malik of Madina and Kuldeep of Kathura village — were standing at a tea stall on a road and talking about the election.They said that in the beginning, the Congress had an edge but in the past three-four days, the campaign of the BJP was boosted and now, the contest has reached an interesting point.After that, the team reached Bhanderi village on Meham road where a group of people were sitting and discussing the election at Satyawan’s home. Meanwhile, some people reached there in a SUV and they immediately offered them hookah and drinking water. Satyawan said that people have made up their mind whom to vote for but they are keeping their cards close to their chest.Hira Lal (82) said that a good contest between the BJP and Congress candidates was expected.In Kathura village, the village of Kapoor Singh Narwal who withdrew his nomination in support of Congress candidate Induraj Narwal, people were sitting at Mahavir’s house and discussing the electoral battle.Mahavir said that villagers are with Kapoor Singh Narwal. Induraj’s surname is also Narwal. So, most voters in the village would go with the Congress candidate.In Baroda village, a group of villagers were seen discussing the campaign and the policies of the Congress and the BJP government. Subhash and Rampat of the village said that there was a keen contest between BJP-JJP coalition candidate Yogeshwar Dutt and Congress candidate Induraj Narwal.“We won’t give a clean sweep to any candidate. We are expecting a good contest,” said Subhash. “Besides, if INLD candidate Jogender Malik does well, it will hurt the Congress candidate,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/baroda-bypoll-close-contest-on-the-cards-164620
02-11-2020||Gohana||‘People will vote for development’||Extending Haryana Day greeting, BJP-JJP coalition candidate Yogeshwar Dutt on Sunday said the people would vote for the development of the Baroda constituency this time.  Interacting with mediapersons at the BJP office, he said others enter politics for power but I wanted to serve people.  His main aim was to provide a chance of better education and sports to the youth of the constituency and for that he would always work hard, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/people-will-vote-for-development-164621
02-11-2020||---||Dushyant Chautala exudes confidence||Rohtak, November 1Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday claimed that BJP-JJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt would win the Baroda bypoll with a comfortable margin.He, however, said the constituency remained neglected in terms of development during the previous Congress regime while the BJP-JJP government had taken several steps in this direction.Dushyant was interacting with mediapersons after inaugurating a sports meet at Rajeev Gandhi Stadium here on Sunday.“Workers of both the parties — BJP and JJP — are enthusiastically carrying out canvassing in the Baroda segment to ensure Yogeshwar’s victory.The people of Barodawant development and the state government toohas vowed to ensure it. Hence, the people have made up their mind to vote for Dutt in the elections,” Dushyant added.Dhankar takes dig at Cong candidateGohana: At a ‘Mahila Sammelan’ in Mundlana village on Sunday, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar urged the people to vote for Yogeshwar Dutt. He said Yogeshwar had brought laurels to the nation and now he wants to develop the constituency. Taking a dig at the Congress candidate, Dhankar said he did not stand a chance against our candidate. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dushyant-chautala-exudes-confidence-164622
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||1,670 fresh cases, 6 fatalities||With 1,670 fresh cases, the Covid-positive tally in Haryana was pegged at 1,68,880 on Sunday. Six more deaths took the death toll to 1,795.Gurugram reported a maximum of 529 cases followed by Faridabad (296), Hisar (192), Sonepat (88) and Rohtak (76).Gurugram and Faridabad reported two deaths each while Panchkula and Bhiwani reported one death each.Vij lauds Covid warriorsAmbala: The state has conducted 1.04 lakh per million Covid tests and testing in Haryana is better than other states. This was stated by Home and Health Minister Anil Vij on Sunday at an event organised by the Haryana Medical Council at Kingfisher tourist resort to honour Covid warriors.Vij said, “I salute the doctors for their efforts. Eleven doctors have died during the pandemic in the state. With the collective efforts of all, we will be able to defeat Covid. Initially, we did not have specific arrangements to deal with the disease, but now we are equipped with modern medical facilities. Earlier, PPE kits had to be imported, but now the country is exporting them.”“The recovery rate in our state is 91.45 per cent and the death rate is 1.04 per cent. Over 1.52 lakh patients have recovered,” he addedVij asked the civil surgeons to prepare a list of doctors, who had lost their lives while treating patients in their respective districts, and send it to the headquarters of the Health Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-670-fresh-cases-6-fatalities-164623
02-11-2020||---||Stay alert till voting ends: Hooda to workers||Panipat, November 1Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday held a road show in various villages in support of Induraj Narwal on the last day of campaigning.He called on workers to stay awake and stay focused to stop any malpractices in the last 48 hours of the poll.“Till the last vote is polled on November 3, all the workers have to stay alert. The real election will start after the end of the campaign. Our workers have to ensure that no person can do anything immoral during this period. When people go out to vote on Tuesday, they should only focus on the issues before them and no other consideration should cloud their judgement,” he said.Taking a dig at the state government, former CM Hooda said that the government has not done any welfare in the past six years. Therefore, every community wants to get rid ofthis government. The farmers have been hit by the three farm laws, women due to inflation, small traders due to GST, youths due to unemployment and all common men due to rising crime, he added.Meanwhile, Deepender Hooda, Rajya Sabha member, also held a tractor road show in various villages and sought votes for Congress candidate Induraj Narwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stay-alert-till-voting-ends-hooda-to-workers-164624
02-11-2020||Panipat||Panipat borders sealed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-borders-sealed-164625
02-11-2020||---||Haryana emerging as sports hub: CM||Karnal, November 1Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar launched ‘Khelo Haryana’ mobile app on the occasion of Haryana Day and inauguration of sports meet.This app will provide information about all games by sitting at home, said the CM, adding that the sportspersons would also get information about the games to be held in coming days also. The app was developed by the Sports Department of the state.Earlier, chairing the function organised to mark Haryana Day and the sports event at Karan Stadium here, Khattar said the state was growing as a sports hub and its sports policy was connecting youth with games.The CM also kick started the preparation for the national games under ‘Khelo India’ programme and said this time the games would be held in November 2021 in Panchkula. The CM said the youth should work hard to improve their position from second to first in the national games.Congratulating locals on Haryana Day and paying tribute to nation’s first Home Minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Khattar administered the oath of national unity to the gathering.Highlighting the efforts of the state government in the fields of sports, he said: “We have started 525 sports nurseries across the state to connect the youth with sports.”He said: “We are committed to providing all facilities to our sportspersons so that they shine on the international platform.”He said they were going to establish four injury centres for the treatment of sportspersons. The work on a centre in Rohtak has been started and will soon begin on the remaining centres.Meanwhile, the CM also honoured players Atul Kumar, Sandeep Kumar and Gaurav Kumar, who stood first, second and third, respectively, in the 400-metre race organised on the occasion. He also honoured five players —- Muskan, Reena Rani, Sujata, Govind Kumar, Sanju Devi and Sultan —- who brought laurels for the country and the state in international games. The CM also inaugurated ‘wi-fi chaupal’ project through video conferencing and flagged off 40 new tippers and 2 JCBs for cleanliness. These vehicles were purchased under the smart city project by the authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-emerging-as-sports-hub-cm-164626
02-11-2020||Faridabad||Two arrested for demanding Rs3L ransom from doc||Two persons have been arrested for demanding Rs 3 lakh as ransom from a doctor and threatening to kill him for not meeting the demand. A cop said the accused were identified as Avinash of Vishwakarma Colony and Vicky of Ambedkar Nagar in New Delhi. They were nabbed on the basis of a phone call made to the doctor who ran a clinic in Dayalbagh Colony here. Vicky told the police that he made the call as he had a debt of Rs 65,000. “Being a family doctor, the victim was an easy target as he would have been able to shell out this amount of money,” it is claimed. The accused were sent to judicial custody after the recovery of the phone from which the call was made. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-arrested-for-demanding-rs3l-ransom-from-doc-164627
02-11-2020||
||200 farmers to get Rs 9L for not burning paddy||Ambala, November 1 Over 200 farmers in Ambala are set to receive an incentive of Rs 9 lakh from the state government for not burning paddy residue over 900 acres. Their claims were approved at the first meeting of district-level executive committee (DLEC) that was held by Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma here on Wednesday.  As per a government order, an incentive of Rs 1,000 per acre is to be given on ex-situ measures. The incentive will be released on furnishing the proof of sale of bales to industry.  Farmers will also be provided with the incentive if they store stubble bales in the space provided by the gram panchayat. Deputy Director, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Girish Nagpal said, “Over 200 farmers, who had managed the paddy on the community level in Ugara and Bara villages, are set to get an incentive of Rs 9 lakh. The farmers will get the incentive in their accounts within a week. The state has allocated Rs 1 crore to Ambala for this purpose.”  The farmers who will raise claims will get Rs 1,000 per acre on production of sale bill of bales to industry or end user. Director General, Agriculture Department, Vijay Singh Dahiya had visited both the villages on October 22. He had instructed for the completion of the verification process for the farmers whose paddy residues have been converted into bales and provide incentive to them without delay. The state has allotted Rs 12.7 crore under the state scheme for management of crop residue for utilisation during this financial year. Districts including Kurukshetra, Karnal, Jind, Kaithal, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Ambala, Sonepat, Yamunanagar, and Hisar have been allocated Rs 1 crore each. Rohtak, Panipat, Palwal, and Jhajjar have been allocated Rs 50 lakh each. Charkhi Dadri, Bhiwani, Mewat, Rewari, Faridabad, Gurugram and Panchkula have been allocated Rs 10 lakh each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/200-farmers-to-get-rs-9l-for-not-burning-paddy-164628
02-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Assaulting public servant a serious offence, says High court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that assault on a public servant is a serious offence and can’t be taken in a light and casual manner. Otherwise, public servants would not be able to perform their duties in a proper and fearless atmosphere, it said.The assertion came as Justice HS Madaan dismissed pre-arrest bail filed by an accused in a case registered on September 30 for causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty and other offences under sections 186, 332, 353 and 427 of the IPC at the Nigdhu police station in Karnal. Bail plea dismissedThe assertion came as Justice HS Madaan dismissed pre-arrest bail filed by an accused in a case registered on September 30 for causing hurt to deter a public servant from his dutyThe Bench was told that a team of officials from Uttar Haryana Bijili Vitaran Nigam, sent for finding out cases of electricity pilfering, had started video-recording theft when the petitioner arrived at the spot. The Bench was further told that he abused a junior engineer, started beating him up, snatched and damaged his mobile phone and threatened to kill him. The matter was reported to the police and a formal FIR was registered.Apprehending his arrest in the case, the petitioner approached the Court of Sessions in Karnal for pre-arrest bail. Taking up the matter, an additional sessions judge, vide order dated October 8, dismissed the same. Feeling aggrieved, he moved the High Court praying for the relief.Justice Madaan asserted the petitioner was specifically named in the FIR and there were “very grave and serious allegations of his assaulting a public servant on duty, snatching his mobile phone and damaging the same, besides giving threats of killing him”.Justice Madaan added such act and conduct was required to be viewed with all seriousness. The petitioner’s custodial interrogation was found to be necessary for complete and effective investigation. In case the same was denied to the investigating agency, it would leave many gaps and loopholes, adversely affecting the investigation, which was uncalled for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/assaulting-public-servant-a-serious-offence-says-high-court-164629
02-11-2020||Nitish Sharma||Farmers sow wheat on crop residue||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 1While stubble burning continues to be a major issue, nearly 2,000 hectares in Ambala will be covered under wheat crop without removing and burning the paddy residue this year.Scientists at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Tepla, have managed to persuade farmers to sow wheat in nearly 10 villages, including Kardhan, Ghelri, Samlehri, Rampur, Tepla, Rancheri, Rattanehri, Sapeda, and Khuda Kalan, without removing and burning the paddy residue. Farmers prefer to burn the residue as it interferes with tillage and seeding operations for the next crop.Earlier trialsThe first trial was done two years ago on 250 acres and after its success, the area was increased to 500 hectares last year. This year, it has been increased to 2,000 hectares.The first trial was done two years ago on just 250 acres and after success the area was increased to 500 hectares last year and this year it has been increased to 2,000 hectares.Guru Prem, subject specialist at KVK, said: “We have been persuading farmers to sow wheat without removing the residue as it will provide the land with adequate moisture and also a cover to the seeds. Burning it results in the loss of plant nutrients and organic carbon of the soil and thus deteriorates the soil health. Some changes were made in the happy seeder (new-generation planters) to sow the wheat in residue. During study, the scientists found that the weed density was less and crop lodging did not occur in the crop residue management plots during the last irrigation.”He said: “About 70 per cent quantity of the fertiliser remains in the residue and by mixing the residue back into the soil would decrease the requirement of fertiliser. The paddy residue will get decomposed within one-and-a-half month. Some farmers have their own perceptions and they make different excuses and don’t want to change their conventional methods of farming.”“Some farmers have been opposing the new techniques just to show their resentment against the three farm Bills, but we have been making efforts to persuade them. They are being told that the cost of cultivation can be reduced by adopting the new methods and it can also save water by 20-25 per cent,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-sow-wheat-on-crop-residue-164630
02-11-2020||Yamunanagar||5 booked for harvesting paddy illegally||The police have booked five persons, who allegedly harvested paddy crop from 10 acres of panchayat land in Basatiyawala village.  A case was registered against Satbir of Malikpur Khaddar village, Ran Singh, Jaswinder Singh, Jaspreet Singh and Jaggi, residents of Basatiyawala village, under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC at the Bilaspur police station on October 30. The gram panchayat of the village, with the help of local administration, got 76 acres freed from illegal possession of encroachers on September 14, 2020. They had sown crops on that land, and had that they would not harvest standing crop from that land. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-booked-for-harvesting-paddy-illegally-164631
02-11-2020||Panipat||Panipat MC chief suspended over slow revenue recovery process||Following ULB Minister Anil Vij’s recommendation, the state government on Saturday suspended Panipat Municipal Corporation Sushil Kumar, HCS, with immediate effect.  As per the order issued by Chief Secretary Vijay Vardhan, Sushil will be paid subsistence allowance and other allowances as are admissible to him under Rule 83 of Chapter-VII of Haryana Civil Services (General) Rules -2016 during the period of his suspension. Moreover, his headquarter will be in the office of the Chief Secretary (in Service-1 Branch) at Chandigarh, the order reads.  A few days ago, Vij had had reviewed the financial situation and revenue collection reports of all 10 MCs in the state and the MC was at the last spot in recovery of property tax. As per sources, the MC General House has proposed a total income of Rs 131 crore in 2020-21, including Rs 40 crore from property tax, but only Rs 9.74 crore has been collected so far. Vij had recommended the Commissioner’s suspension reportedly for his lethargic attitude towards revenue collection, including the property tax. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-mc-chief-suspended-over-slow-revenue-recovery-process-164632
02-11-2020||
||After five years, Karnal MC starts  stray dog sterilisation||Karnal, November 1 Finally, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has started the sterilisation of stray dogs to control the canine population. Members of Daksh Foundation, an NGO of Aligarh, with the help of the Animal Husbandry Department have started the sterilisation process. Earlier, the KMC had started the same campaign in 2015 to curb the stray dog menace but thereafter, no such drive has been carried out. The KMC had been promising to start the campaign but could not initiate it, resulting in the increasing number of stray dogs and several incidences of attacks during the period. In June, the KMC had allotted the tender for sterilisation, the work for which was to be started in July, but the process couldn’t commence, said sources in the KMC. On an average, around 600 dog bite cases are reported every month in the Civil Hospital.  A sterilisation centre has also been earmarked on Ranwar Road, where the castration process will be conducted under the supervision of the experts of the Animal Husbandry Department, said Vikram Singh, KMC Commissioner. He said the KMC team would bring stray dogs to the sterilisation centre, where they would be operated upon and anti-rabies vaccine would be given to them before releasing them at the same place where they were caught. “The videography of the whole process will also be done along with the proper tagging of dogs,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-five-years-karnal-mc-starts-stray-dog-sterilisation-164633
02-11-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Chaos at mahapanchayat in Ballabgarh, 10 cops hurt||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 1A mahapanchayat organised by various social organisations in Ballabgarh today to seek justice for 21-year-old college student Nikita ended abruptly without making any concrete statement though the various speakers condemned the incident in one voice.It ended in a chaos as members of two opposing groups got into an altercation while some youth, disillusioned with the proceedings, walked out and tried to block the national highway only to be dispersed by the police. Nikita was shot dead outside her college in the town on Monday.The situation turned volatile after over 200 youths left the mahapanchayat to protest against the incident. They tried to block the nearby national highway. On the way, they took to stone-throwing and vandalised shops of a particular community. The police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the protesters, who blocked the national highway for over 30 minutes.Nearly 30 persons were detained for the violence and stone-throwing and over 200 were booked for disrupting traffic on the national highway, said ACP (HQ) Adarshdeep Singh. As many as 10 cops were injured in the incident, he added. The role of anti-social elements from outside the district could not be ruled out, the police said.Haryana mulling law against ‘love jihad’Chandigarh: A day after UP CM announced he would bring a law against “love jihad”, his Haryana counterpart ML Khattar said his government too was considering legal provisions against it. Speaking in Karnal, the CM said, “This (Ballabgarh) incident needs to be condemned strongly.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chaos-at-mahapanchayat-in-ballabgarh-10-cops-hurt-164748
02-11-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||BJP-JJP’s Dutt, Cong’s Narwal in direct fight||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1The Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party (BJP-JJP) alliance and the Congress are locked in a direct contest in the Baroda bypoll for which the campaigning ended today. The voting for the Assembly seat will be held on November 3 while the counting is scheduled for November 10.While the BJP-JJP combine made all its leaders aggressively campaign for wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt, the father-son duo of Congress Legislature Party leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda and MP son Deepender Hooda were seen in a combative mode in a constituency that lies in their pocket borough as they canvassed for Induraj Narwal.With Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar out in the field, Deputy CM and JJP leader Dushyant Chautala making it to the constituency towards the end of the campaigning and all top leaders practically camping in Baroda, the BJP’s strategy was exhaustive and revolved around man-to-man marking to target votes and attack the CLP leader.The Congress, which has tried its best to use the anti-farmer sentiment to its advantage, too went right down to the booth level to reach out to the voters. The Hoodas took charge while other senior leaders, including state Congress chief Selja and party MLAs, raised the pitch against the ruling alliance on the lack of agenda for development in the area. While the two parties tried to outdo each other over micro-planning, using various digital platforms to target the voters, this election, just like the state politics, is divided along the Jat versus non-Jat lines with a couple of “spoilers” thrown in to keep the contest alive.The Indian National Lok Dal, a shadow of its previous self after the JJP broke away and formed a new independent outfit, fielded a Jat candidate. The more votes the party will secure, the greater damage it will do to the Congress, which has also fielded a Jat. The dent in the BJP vote bank will come from the votes the Loktantra Suraksha Party candidate Raj Kumar Saini can pull. Though these parties are nowhere in the contest between the BJP-JJP and the Congress, they can spoil the party for the two top contenders in the election.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-jjps-dutt-congs-narwal-in-direct-fight-164739
