02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to include yoga as separate subject in all government schools from next session||The Haryana government on Wednesday announced that yoga will be included as a separate subject in all government schools from the next academic session.The decision, which the government said is aimed at inculcating the habit of practising yoga among students, was taken at a meeting of the Haryana Yog Parishad chaired by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The government also decided to set up 1,000 more ‘yogshalas’ in the state, according to an official statement.“Yoga will be included in the school curriculum as a separate subject in all government schools across the state from the next academic session commencing April 1, 2021,” the statement said.During the meeting, officials informed that apart from moral education, yoga is already being taught to students since academic session 2016-17, it said.“But, taking a step ahead now, it has been decided that yoga will be a compulsory or optional subject in the school curriculum and the Department of School Education has constituted a committee for this purpose,” it said.According to the statement, the subject curriculum would be designed in such a way that it would have both theoretical and practical content on the pattern of physical education so that besides education students could get training in yoga.With this, Haryana will perhaps become the first state in the country to include yoga as a subject in schools, the statement said.Speaking at the meeting, Khattar said the aim of the state government is to take yoga to the grassroots level and encourage people to make it a part of their lifestyle, it said.“For this, yoga, ‘vyayamshalas’ and other adequate infrastructure are being made available at the village level,” he said.The meeting was also attended by Health and Home Minister Anil Vij and yoga guru Ramdev, who is also the state brand ambassador for the promotion of yoga and ayurveda.Khattar also directed the Development and Panchayats Department to submit a proposal within a week for setting up 1,000 more ‘yogshalas’ in the state.Speaking at the meeting, Vij said more and more ‘vyayamshalas’ should be set up in the state so that the maximum number of people can practice yoga at these centres and stay healthy.It was also decided in the meeting that to further encourage people to make yoga an integral part of their life, ‘Yog Prashikshan Diwas’ would be organised on the first Sunday of every month under the aegis of Haryana Yog Parishad.Under this initiative, programmes would be organised at district, block and tehsil levels wherein trained instructors would impart yoga training to people. — PTI
02-12-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Haryana Police bust fake call centre operation set up to dupe US citizens||Haryana Police said on Wednesday that they arrested 28 people for running a fake call centre scam that duped hundreds of foreigners---mainly US citizens. The call centre was run from a rented house in Gurugram’s Sector 27, police said.Among those who were arrested were two of three people who ran the entire operation. Deputy Superintendent of Police Inderjeet Yadav who is part of the chief minister’s flying squad, identified the two as Anurag Tiwari and Kirti Kumar Keshav, both from Jind.  The officer said the third person, whom he identified only as Lokender, is on the run.    Employees at the fake call centre would call US citizens about a fake technical problem with their social security number and charge $100-500 for “resolving” it. Police said the call centre made Rs 2 crore this way in the last two months.Yadav said police conducted a raid at the house after having been tipped off about the operation and found many employees still on calls.The employees did not possess any valid papers of employment, Yadav said.    “The accused first collected the data like names, mobile numbers, e-mails and addresses and then sent them voice mail. They trapped foreigners to a clear social security number (SNS) related problem, and later charged $100-500 for resolving it. They have defrauded more than 500 foreigners of over Rs 2 crore in the last two months,” he said. The suspects will be brought before a city court on Thursday.
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Water cannons used to stop Congress workers from marching to Haryana CM Khattar's home||Police used water cannons on Wednesday as Punjab Youth Congress workers jumped barricades trying to march to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s home here, protesting over the new farm laws.Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon and several others were taken into custody by the Chandigarh Police.The activists wanted to ‘gherao’ Khattar’s home to protest against the use of water cannons and teargas against Punjab farmers last week, when the Haryana Police had tried to stop them from entering the state to continue their “Delhi Chalo” march.“We came here to wake up the Khattar government,” Dhillon told reporters.“We will continue to fight till the farmers get justice,” he said, appealing to all sections of society to support the agitation.The Chandigarh Police first used water cannons against the Congress workers at barricades set up about three kilometers ahead of Khattar’s official residence.But some activists managed to reach closer to the CM’s home after jumping over police barricades. Again, water cannons were used to stop them.Police took several of them in custody. Some activists claimed police used canes to disperse them.Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Chahal was present on the spot.The roads leading to Khattar’s home were sealed and there was heavy police deployment near it.The protesters had earlier gathered near the Chandigarh headquarter of the Punjab Congress. They raised slogans against the BJP government at the Centre and in Haryana, calling them “anti-farmer”.Thousands of farmers, most of them from Punjab, are now gathered at Delhi’s borders protesting against the three new laws enacted at the Centre in September.Farmer unions claim the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving farmers to the mercy of corporate houses. But the government says the system will continue and the laws will give farmers more options to sell their crops.Farm leaders met Union ministers on Tuesday, but the two sides failed to break the deadlock. PTI
02-12-2020||Vibha Sharma||All eyes on Dec 3 meeting as farmers harden stance, demand special Parliament session to repeal farm laws||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 2As agitating farmers hardened stance, demanding a special Parliament session and warning of a countrywide protest on December 5, all eyes are on the next round of their meeting with Union ministers on the three contentious farm Acts on Thursday.While Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar again spoke on merits of the three laws and hoped for an early solution through talks, farmers appeared to find support from the RSS, the ruling BJP’s ideological fountainhead.Sangh-affiliate Swadesh Jagran Manch (SJM) said farmers needed “assurance on price”, “an alternate ATM mechanism” if middlemen/arthiyas were to be removed and a "better redressal system" for disputes.Talking to The Tribune Ashwani Mahajan of the SJM said while the three laws were “good” and “intentions of the government cannot be questioned”,  “any good thing also has scope for further improvement”.“Earlier ‘arthiyas’ used to form cartels, now big players can do the same. Farmers need assurance on MSP, either through amendment in the existing Acts or a new law,” he said.Regarding the government’s argument that MSP was never a part of the legal system, Mahajan said even the three Acts were not part of the legal system.“It needs to be made obligatory for buyers to pay the floor price, which can be the cost of production plus more. Farmers are the weaker lot, the government can fix the floor price of crops, make it a legal provision either through amendment or separate law.“Besides, the dispute settlement also needs to be improved. SDM courts may not be in reach of ordinary farmers and there should be farmers’ courts on lines of consumer courts. Farmers should be assured of income right from the time of sowing. Why should they wait for harvesting?” Mahajan asked.“Arthiyas are something like an ATM machine, the new players have to behave like ATMs. There should be a provision for giving money to farmers in installments right from the beginning. What farmers need is assurance of a payment mechanism similar to that in the ‘arthiyas’ system,” he added.Meanwhile, Agriculture Minister Tomar who apprised Home Minister Amit Shah of Tuesday's “inconclusive meeting”, said he was hopeful of a breakthrough via talks.During the deliberations, the ministers are believed to have discussed the issues raised by farmers and how the government could dispel the concerns and break the deadlock.Sources indicate the possibility of an official group of ministers/committee, “some middle path” which may be agreeable to farmers Unions, who rejected any middle path and demanded complete roll-back and also accused the government of “trying to divide farmers”.“The BKU (Tikait) and all unions across the country are with us,” said Darshan Pal, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union, as he called for special session of Parliament to repeal the new farm laws and threatened to block major roads of the National Capital if their demands were not met.“If government does not fulfill our demands, we will have to take harder steps, it is 'aar-paar ki ladai' (do or die),” said Gurnam Singh Charuni while announcing December 5 as the day when they will burn effigies of corporates. “The government should think this as warning bell. Other countries like Canada are showing solidarity. The protests have started in other parts of the country and the government should ensure that there is no further ‘badnami’ of the country,” said Shiv Kumar 'Kakkaji' on a day the agitation against the three Central laws entered the seventh day.With vehicular movement already blocked at Singhu and Tikri borders, farmers also gathered at the Chilla border between Delhi and Noida.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed that the BJP-ruled Centre was angry with him for not permitting stadiums to be used as temporary jails for farmers protesting against the farm laws. He also hit out at Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, accusing him of speaking “BJP’s language”.
02-12-2020||Rohtak||Punjabi singers enliven atmosphere at farmers' protest in Haryana's Bahadurgarh||The atmosphere got charged up when popular Punjabi singer and actor Harbhajan Mann reached Bahadurgarh town on Tuesday to express his solidarity with the farmers. He encouraged them to continue dharna with the same spirit by singing a Punjabi song “Nio kaafile tufana walu chale honde ne.”Also read:Farmers block key Delhi-Noida route as BJP top brass meets to plan strategy for next round of talksUK-based Khalsa Aid offers free food, essential supplies to protesting farmers'Khalistani elements' hijacking farmers’ agitation, Amit Shah must act fast: Ravneet BittuYoung men started raising the slogans of ‘Kisan ekta zindabad’ and 'Inquilaab zindabad’ as soon as he held the mike to address the gathering at a new dharna spot near Sector-9 in Bahadurgarh town. Hundreds of farmers, including a considerable number of women, assembled there to hear Mann.Great enthusiasm was seen among the youngsters who remained busy in capturing the moment on their cell phones. Many of them also took selfies with him. Mann struck a chord with the farmers by addressing them in Punjabi.“We will win the battle; even have reached near the victory but what is required is that to stay put with the same spirit and devotion. Not only I but entire Punjab stands with you and is eagerly waiting for your victory. You will be called for meeting repeatedly over the issue. You should not break the communication as it is needed to resolve the issue,” said Mann. Later, he went to Tikri-Bahadurgrh border where hundreds of farmers were staging dharna for the past five days.Another Punjabi Singer Kanwar Grewal who also came with Mann and boosted the morale of farmers by singing some lines of popular songs ‘Pecha’. Earlier, he appreciated the farmers for carrying on in chilly conditions. Other Punjabi artists—Karamjeet Anmol and Malkeet Rauni— were also here today to support the farmers."Punjab and Haryana artistes have doubled our spirit and enthusiasm by joining us at dharna and giving us motivational addresses," said Amit Nain, a young farmer from Punjab.The farmers continued to get the support of Punjab and Haryana artistes for the past two days. On Monday, popular Haryanvi artistes- KD and Veer Sahu- and Punjabi artistes- Siddhu Musewala and Rupinder Handa- had also joined the dharna by reaching Tikri-Bahadurgarh border.Rupinder had appealed to the protesters to keep their spirit and enthusiasm high till then their demands were not met.“Our youths are always targeted for the wrong reasons. It’s a time to prove our ability and capability and I am confident that our youths will present an example before the entire nation by getting their demands met,” she added.
02-12-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Govt should settle farmers' problems soon||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comGovt should settle farmers' problems soonAll major highways have been blocked by agitating farmers in the capital. The government has been found in utter haste to bring in the Bills, now Acts, in the name of promotion, facilitation, empowerment and protection. There is lot of ambiguity in the Bill such as MSP, contract provision and government failures, which is a boon for rivals. The government should have used its information communication &technology (ICT) resources and come forward and taken into confidence all stakeholders of farming community. Keeping in view the Covid pandemic, the government should come forward to settle their issue at the earliest. Gian P Kansal, AmbalaWar of words between Hry & Pb CMS is bad politicsThe war of words between the CMs of Haryana and Punjab on the agitation of farmers is unfortunate and bad politics. Both of them are greeting people on the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev without imbibing his values of sharing with others. Both of them should sit together and resolve the issue, lest things go out of control. We should learn to behave as CMs and not leaders of political parties to settle score and understand the plight of the people in distress caused by fears which have to be removed as soon as possible. After coming to power, they should behave as the representative of the people and work for the their well-being. Prof MM Goel, KURUKSHETRADon't drive in high-beam modeIt is normally observed in many cities that people drive their vehicles with lights in the high-beam mode leading to accidents. To inculcate the habit, authorities must enforce the traffic rules and challan the wrongdoers. Ganesh Nagpal, Ambala CityResolve farmers' issue through dialogueIt is not right for state governments to stop farmers from going to Delhi to protest or to provoke them to protest there. No party or politicians should give political colour to the issue, rather everyone should cooperate with the farmers. The BJP government at the Centre should resolve the issue through mutual interaction with the farmers. No issue is so big that it cannot be resolved through dialogue. Not all of us want the grain providers of our country to have any problem. Shakti Singh, Karnal
02-12-2020||Kurukshetra||Technical festival 'Altius 2020' concludes in Kurukshetra||News & info literacy programmeKarnal: A three-day online course on news and information literacy programme in India was organised by 'Factshala India media literacy network', an initiative launched by Internews in collaboration with Data leads and supported by google.org and Google News initiative. Rashmi Singh, assistant professor in Mass Communication at Government College, Karnal, was selected for the programme and is now a certified trainer who can train people assess and critically evaluate the content online. The trainings will be conducted in tier II and III cities and villages across India. The aim is to debunk fake news and make people aware about fact checking and misinformation. A very few were shortlisted for the said training out of thousands of applications from across India.Students bring laurels to collegeKarnal: Students of the department of political science, RKSD College, Kaithal, brought laurels to the college by securing good marks in the recently declared results of Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. Tamanna secured first place with 78 per cent marks while Gagandeep with 75.5 per cent marks got second place in the overall result of the university and later also cleared his UGC NET exam this year. Out of a total of 39 political science students, nine students secured more than 80 per cent marks this semester while 18 students secured more than 75 per cent marks. The chairman of the College, Saket Mangal, advocate and principal Sanjay Goyal congratulated Prof CB Saini, head of the department of Political Science, and his team for the outstanding performance of students.Bust of JC Bose unveiledFaridabad: The chairman of All-India Council for Technical Education Prof Anil D Sahasrabudhe today unveiled the bust of Jagdish Chandra Bose at JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, on his 162nd birth anniversary and inaugurated the newly built multi-storeyed building of Community College Of Skill Development (CCSD) on the university premises. Prof Sahasrabudhe also inaugurated skill and personality development centre and planted a sapling on the campus. The brass metal bust of Jagadish Chandra Bose with inscription of his scientific contribution has been installed in front of the Vice-Chancellor's Secretariat.Training for facultyYamunanagar: Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, organised one-day training for faculty members on the functioning of learning management system (LMS). Keeping in view the evolving demand of virtual teaching due to the emergence of ongoing circumstances Bhupinder Singh Jauhar from managing committee and Randeep Singh Jauhar, president, governing body, Guru Nanak Khalsa College took the decision of introducing a dedicated licensed online learning platform. Principal of the college, Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang, highlighted the importance of LMS training.
02-12-2020||---||Covid-19: 1,871 cases; 28 deaths in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 1With 1,871 cases, the Covid-positive tally was pegged at 2,35,997 in Haryana on Monday. Meanwhile, the state reported 28 more deaths taking the death tally to 2,456.Gurugram reported a maximum of 495 cases followed by Faridabad (392), Rohtak (90), Panchkula (89) and Sonepat (74). A maximum of five deaths each were reported from Gurugram and Faridabad followed by Hisar (4), Karnal (3), Ambala, Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri (2 each) and Rewari, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar, Mahendragarh and Nuh (1 each).
02-12-2020||Hisar||Man ends life in Hisar village||A 28-year-old man committed suicide after being harassed reportedly by his wife and in-laws in Muklan village of the district. The police said the victim identified as Shakti Singh consumed sulphos tablet who died during treatment at Agroha hospital.The police spokesperson said they had registered a case against the victim’s wife, Ritu, her mother, brother and another person, Madan, under Section 306 and 34 of the IPC. The complainant, Darvesh, Shakti’s father, alleged that his son’s wife was having an affair with another person and her family too supported her despite knowing the fact. — TNS
02-12-2020||---||Scheme for solar energy launched in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 1To promote solar energy in Haryana, the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) has implemented a plan to install solar systems on houses under the Phase-2 Scheme as per the guidelines of the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy.Under this scheme, consumers will be given 40 per cent subsidy up to 3 kW and 20 per cent for more than 3 kW and up to 10 kW for installing solar systems on their rooftops from empanelled solar firms.An official spokesperson said that by installing a 1 kW solar system, the consumer could save up to Rs 6,000 during the year and the expenditure on installing this solar system could be compensated in 5-6 years.He said the rates had been set by the UHBVN to install solar systems on the roofs of houses. He said this scheme would generate electricity from solar energy in a new and renewable form on a large scale which will reduce pollution along with saving on the electricity bill. The details of this scheme are available on the website of the Electricity Department at www.uhbvn.org.in.
02-12-2020|| Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar Municipal Corporation’s complaint centre opens||Taking the initiative in Haryana, Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, has launched a complaint centre based on call centre methodology.The centre was inaugurated by Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar in the presence of Yamunanagar MLA Ghanshyam Dass Arora, Mayor Madan Chauhan and Municipal Commissioner Dharmveer Singh on Monday, but it was made functional on Tuesday. As many as 165 complaints were received on the first day. “All type of complaints such as by telephone, website, email and in person will be registered on the single system and those will be resolved by the respective branches,” said MC Commissioner Dharmveer Singh. He said that the toll free number of this complaint centre is 95-95-130-130. He added that this facility would be provided from 6 am to 10 pm from Monday to Saturday. “This facility will not be provided on Sunday and government holidays,” said the MC Commissioner. He further said that the complainant would receive the complaint number by SMS on the mobile phone so that he could track his complaints.“This complaint management system is an initiative in Haryana taken by Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri. The system will work on call-centre methodology,” said Dharmveer Singh.— TNS
02-12-2020||---||3 IAS officers shifted in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 1The Haryana Government has issued transfer and posting orders of three IAS officers.PC Meena, Additional Resident Commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, New Delhi, and Director, Information, Public Relations & Languages, has been posted as the Director, Information, Public Relations & Languages.Mani Ram Sharma, Director, Sainik & Ardh Sainik Welfare, and Secretary, Rajya Sainik Board, Haryana, has been posted as the Managing Director, Haryana Backward Classes & Economically Weaker Sections, Kalyan Nigam, in addition to his present duties.Vinay Partap Singh, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Gurugram, Chief Administrator, Shri Mata Sheetla Devi Shrine Board, Gurugram, District Municipal Commissioner, Gurugram, Additional CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and Additional Resident Commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, New Delhi, will retain all charges except the Additional Resident Commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, New Delhi.
02-12-2020||---||Saraswati tirtha to come up at Sanghor||Kurukshetra, December 1The Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board has decided to develop a Saraswati tirtha at Sanghor village of Babain block.Dhuman Singh Kirmach, deputy chairman of the board, said “A large number of tirthas have become extinct over a period of time. The board has decided to identify and develop important tirthas situated on the banks of Saraswati river in Haryana. In this process, one such tritha is at Sanghor village of Kurukshetra. There was an ashram of Sage Shringa and his Samadhi was still there in the village. There is a temple of lord Shiva and a pond too. The site is undeveloped so far. We have decided to develop the site for which directions have been issued to the board officials.”“A proposal is being prepared by the board. Besides developing the ghats, beautification work will also be carried out at the site. We also appeal to the gram panchayats to come forward and inform if there are any important tirthas in their villages, situated on the banks of Saraswati”, he added.
02-12-2020||Sanjay Yadav||GMDA to build model road in Gurugram||Gurugram, December 1Out to revamp the city’s road infrastructure, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will build a model road between Bakhtawar Chowk and Mayfield Garden. The road will serve template for new roads and revamping of old roads taking a cue from the world’s best roads. It will be having all facilities from a cycle track to pedestrian lanes. The GMDA also plans about 800 km of cycle tracks in the city, which will be built on the model road by 2041.Key revampIn addition to the bicycle track, the pavement and service road will also be constructed on this two-and-a-half kilometer route. According to officials, if the current model proves successful, people will be able to travel safely.Currently, there are four red lights on the road from Bakhtawar Chowk towards Mayfield Gardens.The road faces major congestion issues and the new road will eliminate the need of red lights. The road will have separate lanes for vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians. It will also be one of the greenest roads in the city. The model road will be ready only when all these parameters are rejuvenated.“The tender for the model road has been issued. There will be arrangements for everyone to walk on the road. Other roads of the city will also be modelled on the same road”, said Maqsood Ahmed, DCP, Traffic and Additional Chief Executive Mobility.
02-12-2020||---||Youth dies in road accident on NH-44 in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, December 1A 32-year-old Punjab resident was killed while another man got injured when the motorcycle they were travelling on was hit by an unknown vehicle on National Highway-44, near Pratapgarh village here today.The deceased has been identified as Baljinder Singh, while the injured has been identified as Gurmeet Singh, both residents of Ludhiana. The victims were reportedly returning after participating in the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Delhi border on a motorcycle when their mobike was hit by an unknown vehicle around 4 pm on the national highway. They were rushed to the LNJP Hospital where Baljinder was declared brought dead while Gurmeet was undergoing treatment.The Medical Officer of LNJP Hospital, Dr Arvind Kumar, said, “Baljinder Singh, who suffered head injury, died on the spot and we have informed the police for further action.”The SHO, Ambala Sadar police station, Rajpal, said “One man died while the other is undergoing treatment. They were riding a motorcycle without helmet. It is yet to be confirmed whether they were returning from Delhi or somewhere else. Their family members have been informed. The statement is yet to be recorded and the case will be registered accordingly after a probe is conducted.”
02-12-2020||Nitin Jain||HIV/AIDS prevalent among drug addicts||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 1The incidence of HIV/AIDS is the most among drug addicts, sex workers and eunuchs, a recent survey has revealed.At least 70 patients — 59 drug addicts, nine sex workers and two transgenders — were found during a recent survey conducted by the Health Department, a senior officer said here on Tuesday.Special drive launched in cityThe results of the survey sent shock waves in the district as the infected persons were reportedly in touch with several other persons, whose details were being traced and tested, the officer disclosed.Taking a cue from the survey conducted by the District AIDS Control Society, the district administration on Tuesday launched a special drive to motivate high-risk persons to get themselves tested to trace and treat infected patients. The drive launch coincided with World AIDS Day.“Initially, high-risk persons resisted testing, but after constant counselling and educating them about the disease and how to prevent it, they finally agreed to get themselves tested,” the officer revealed.The 70 HIV-positive persons were put under anti-retroviral therapy, which involved giving them a combination of HIV medicines every day.“It is recommended for everyone who has HIV,” said an expert, while adding that the therapy could not cure HIV, but help people with HIV to live longer and lead healthier lives.The survey also revealed that most of the drug addicts, who were tested positive for HIV, used to take drugs through injections.Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil SurgeonThose who tested positive were given treatment and their contacts traced and tested to check further spread of the disease“They used to inject themselves with drugs and in some cases, used a single syringe and needle for multiple injections,” shared the officer, adding that some patients admitted sharing syringes and needles.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma directed health officials to test, trace and treat all infected persons after covering all high-risk sections of society under the awareness and testing drive.Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the Health Department had been spreading awareness about HIV/AIDS and high-risk persons were kept under observation.“Those who tested positive were given treatment and their contacts traced and tested to check further spread of the disease,” he added.
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Detainees freed, Haryana tells Punjab and Haryana High Court||Just about a week after Haryana was put on notice over midnight raids and custody of farmers, the Punjab and Haryana High Court was told the persons detained were released after three or four days in custody. Appearing before the Bench of Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri, counsel for the petitioner submitted that there was no justification for indiscriminate arrests. The Bench adjourned the case for December 18. — TNS
02-12-2020||Karnal||Gender test racket busted, 4 arrested in Panipat||After a chase of around 70 km, a team of the Health Department arrested four members, including two women, of a sex determination racket from Panipat late on Monday.They used to get the sex determination test done from Gangoh in UP with the help of a man who uses a portable ultrasound machine. However, the man from Gangoh managed to escape with the machine.Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil SurgeonLONG CHASE We have arrested four members of a gang involved in doing gender tests from Panipat. We had to chase them for 70 km from Gangoh to Panipat.The accused have been identified as Rajwanti of Samalkha in Panipat, Suman of Gharaunda, Manoj of Rana Majra village and Sumit of Samalkha. A case has been registered against them under various Sections of the PCPNDT Act in Panipat, he added.Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, said that Rs 22,000 which was given to the decoy customer has been recovered from them.“There was a tip-off that a sex determination gang is active here. A team led by Dr Naresh Kardwal, who is also a nodal officer of PCPNDT programme, was constituted. The team members arranged a woman as decoy customer and approached the middleman in Panipat. Accompanied by other gang members, he took the decoy to Gangoh where another person got the sex determined,” said the Civil Surgeon. — TNS
02-12-2020||---||Key accused’s kin fail to join probe||Faridabad, December 1The parents and uncle of Tausif, the key accused in the murder of 21-year-old Nikita Tomar who was shot outside her college in Ballabgarh on October 26, have failed to join the investigation in connection with the 2018 kidnapping case.Tausif had allegedly kidnapped Nikita two years. A case was registered, but the matter was settled following a compromise between the families of the boy and the girl.The SIT reopened the kidnapping case after Tausif allegedly murdered Nikita.It had, last week, issued a notice to Tausif’s father Zakir, uncle Javed and mother to join the investigation, but they had failed to respond, police officials said. When a police team went to their house in Gurugram, no one was found there. They were absconding, the police have said.“The SIT has already issued two notices to Tausif’s family on the basis of the statement given by Nikita under Section 164 of the CrPC in 2018. She had said Tausif’s parents and uncle had been mounting pressure on her to marry him in spite of her opposition. Members of Tausif’s family have not responded to the notices. Besides, they are on the run. Their arrest cannot be ruled out,” said ACP Anil Kumar, who is heading the SIT.
02-12-2020||---||Over Rs 16 crore fine on 4 firms for missing liquor stock||Karnal, December 1The Excise and Taxation Department has imposed a fine of Rs 16.69 crore on four liquor wholesalers in the district after 1.70 lakh cases were found missing from their warehouses during an inspection when the Covid-induced lockdown was in force.The step has been taken on the basis of a report of a committee constituted by the DC.The committee found a stock of 1.7 lakh cases of liquor missing from the godowns, hinting that the four firms having seven wholesale shops had allegedly sold the liquor during the lockdown.The Centre had imposed a ban on the sale of liquor between March 26 and May 9.“We have imposed a fine of Rs 16.69 crore on four firms as their stock did not match with their records. We found 1.70 lakh cases of liquor missing from the stock which was checked online on March 25 and May 9,” said RK Nain, DETC (Excise).
02-12-2020||---||Body of child thrown into canal found in Karnal||Karnal, December 1Search teams have managed to fish out the body of one of three children who were allegedly thrown into the augmentation canal by their father on November 23, while two children are still missing.Teams of the NDRF, police and divers had been searching for them in the canal, said Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police.Accused Sunil Kumar, who was arrested hours after the incident, had allegedly thrown his three children into the augmentation canal near Kulvehri village after he had a petty fight with his wife.Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan visited the residence of the bereaved family. He assured the family members on recovery of the bodies.
02-12-2020||Sushil Manav||JJP toughens stance, seeks early resolution||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1With the imbroglio between farmers and the Central government continuing in the Capital, the Jannayak Janta Party, the BJP’s alliance partner in Haryana, has toughened its stand for an early resolution of the issue, giving jitters to the one-year-old Khattar government.The BJP’s alliance partner in Haryana, the JJP today said that the party was waiting for the outcome of meeting between farmers’ organisations and the Centre.Even as the leaders of farmers’ organisations were holding talks with the Central leaders, Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala’s younger brother and JJP leader Digvijay Chautala said the party’s future course would depend on the outcome of the meeting.The 90-member Haryana Assembly has 40 BJP MLAs and 10 from the ally JJP. The Congress has 31 legislators.With Meham Independent MLA Balraj Kundu already openly against the government and another Independent Sombir Sangwan withdrawing his support today, the JJP’s support is crucial for Khattar government to remain in power.Claiming to be a party of farmers, the JJP is under tremendous pressure from its support base ever since the farmers began their agitation against the new farm laws.The party’s MLA from Barwala Jogi Ram Sihag, who had earlier refused the offer of chairmanship of Haryana Housing Board, has already the criticised the Khattar government.Earlier, JJP national president Ajay Chautala suggested that the Centre shouldn’t have any problem in giving a written assurance to the protesting farmers on the minimum support price (MSP) when senior BJP leaders, including the Prime Minister, were giving this assurance verbally.“When Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Agriculture Minister are repeatedly assuring that the MSP will continue, there is no harm in adding that line in the laws,” Ajay Chautala said.When asked that did his statement mean that the JJP could have a rethink on its alliance with the BJP in Haryana in case there was no positive outcome of the talks, Digvijay said he was not saying this, but certainly the senior leadership of the party was watching the developments with political aspects in mind.
02-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Court orders framing of charges against Hooda in Manesar scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1The CBI Special Court, Haryana, today ordered framing of charges against former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and 32 others, including former IAS officers ML Tayal, Chattar Singh and SS Dhillon, in the multi-crore Manesar land scam.The scam pertains to purchase of land from farmers at meagre rates and then earning huge profits by getting it released in connivance with bureaucrats and politicians.CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh also summoned present Home Secretary Rajeev Arora, along with former IAS officer DR Dhingra, former Chief Town Planner (CTP) of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) Surjit Singh, former CTP in Town and Country Planning (TCP) Department Dhare Singh, and former Deputy Superintendent of TCP Department Kulwant Singh Lamba, as additional accused in the case.There is prima facie evidence of their involvement in a criminal conspiracy and cheating, ruled the court.“For Arora, who was the HSIIDC Managing Director at the time of the alleged scam, the CBI has been instructed to submit prosecution sanction obtained from the state government. Dhingra was the Director, Industries, when scam dealings were being conducted,” said SPS Parmar, counsel for Hooda.The court also dismissed discharge applications of Dhillon, Tayal and Jaswant Singh, former Chief Town Planner of the TCP Department, for being devoid of merit.Builder Atul Bansal, who allegedly earned maximum profits in the scam, has been declared a proclaimed offender.“The court has ruled that Hooda and other accused would face trial in the case. The actual charges to be framed for trial would be decided during the next hearing,” said Amit Dudeja, one of the defence counsels.Tayal, Chattar Singh and Dhillon served as Principal Secretary to the CM during the Hooda regime.The next date of hearing in the case is December 17.4 more Addl accused
02-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||13 honour killing cases pending in eight districts in Haryana: DGP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1A total of 13 criminal cases involving honour killing are pending in eight district of Haryana. Information to this effect is expected to be given to the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday, when the case on honour killings comes up for hearing.In an affidavit to be placed before the Bench during resumed hearing of the case, DGP Manoj Yadava has stated that investigation or trial is pending in these cases. In one case, judgement convicting the accused was pronounced by the trial court on September 9. One of the accused had been declared proclaimed offender and supplementary charge sheet would be submitted after his arrest.According to the affidavit, five cases are fixed for prosecution evidence, challan or final investigation report has been submitted in five others with charges yet to be framed and two are under investigation.The affidavit has pointed out that Haryana has framed a scheme for placing heinous crimes in the category of “chinhit apradh”, in which investigation and progress of trial is closely supervised by a district-level committee headed by the Deputy Commissioner, with the Superintendent of Police (SP), district attorney and Superintendent of Jail as its members.So far, four of the 12 remaining cases have already been included in the list of “chinhit apradh”. Recommendations for including two more cases have been made by the Sonepat and Hisar SPs to the district committees. Kaithal, Rohtak, Karnal and Fatehabad police chiefs have been requested to consider recommending the remaining six cases to the district committees for inclusion in the list.All field units had been told that every case related to honour killing in the future would be investigated by a special investigation team headed by a DSP-rank officer and should be considered for inclusion in the list to ensure speedy investigation and trial.
02-12-2020||Hisar||Ind MLA withdraws support to BJP-JJP govt||Independent MLA Sombir Sangwan withdrew support from the BJP-JJP government on Tuesday in light of the farmers’ agitation against the three controversial farm laws.He had resigned from the post of the chairman of the Haryana Livestock Development Board on Monday.Sombir Sangwan, IND MLA from DadriAnother joltI can no longer remain associated with the government in the present circumstances. So, I decided to part with it.In a statement, Sangwan said, “I can no longer remain associated with the government in the present circumstances. So, I decided to part with it.”He is among seven Independent MLAs elected in the Assembly elections held last year. Dadri MLA Sangwan had backed the minority government of BJP.One of the Independents, Ranjit Singh Chautala, was made a Cabinet Minister, while four other Independent MLAs, including Sangwan, were appointed chairmen of boards and corporations. — TNS
02-12-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||At 70%, Palwal records sharpest fall in farm fires||Tribune News ServicePalwal, December 1Krishan Kumar, a 40-year-old farmer from the district’s Janoli village, has shown that stubble burning can be put to an end if there is an institutional support.Not very long ago, he, like other farmers, used to burn stubble. When the authorities got strict and started registering cases against farmers burning crop residue, he started hiring laboureres to get the stubble cut. This, however, cost him much.This time, Kumar sold off paddy stubble to a manufacturer of organic fertilisers — a move that proved not only environment-friendly, but also economically viable.“I used to spend Rs 5,000 per acre on hiring labour for cutting the crop residue. Thanks to the manufacturer of organic fertilisers, I saved Rs 3,000 per acre,” he said, adding he was mulling selling off the residue as fodder next season.Kumar is among more than 500 farmers, who did not burn paddy stubble this time. Instead, they sold it off to fertiliser manufacturers or as fodder. Their decision has led to 70 per cent decrease in the farm fire incidents in the district this year compared with last year’s figures — the sharpest fall among five districts that have recorded fewer number of incidents.According to the bulletin released by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), Pusa, New Delhi, 56 incidents of residue burning were recorded by the satellite remote sensing technique in the district between October 1 and November 23, when the paddy harvesting was at its peak. It had recorded 188 incidents last year.Karnal took the second spot with 47 per cent reduction in the number of incidents. It recorded 572 incidents this year against 1,081 last year.Kurukshetra with 460 stubble burning incidents as compared with 738 last year took the third position, recording a reduction of 38 per cent.Kaithal and Yamunanagar occupy the fourth and fifth positions, respectively.However, according to the IARI report, Sonepat, Rohtak, Panipat, Sirsa, Jind, Hisar, Fatehabad and Ambala reported a rise in incidents.Sonepat and Rohtak recorded an increase of 244 and 210 per cent, respectively, between October 1 and November 23. Sonepat recorded 110 incidents this time compared with only 32 last year. Fatehabad district recorded 1,194 farm fire incidents, the highest in the state. It had recorded 1,191 incidents last year.Palwal DC Naresh Narwal attributed the change in attitude of farmers to the strict implementation of the crop residue management scheme. “Incentives worth Rs 5.9 crore were given to farmers under the crop residue management scheme,” he said.
02-12-2020||Gurugram||26 farmers headed to Delhi detained||The police today detained 26 farmers marching from Nuh to Delhi to join the farmer agitation at Singhu border. The farmers were trying to reach Delhi via Tauru but were intercepted and detained.According to the police, the farmers from Nuh were going to Delhi in 10 vehicles via Tauru in the morning but the Sohna police sent the farmers back to Nuh.Farmers again made an attempt and reached near Raipur village in the evening. The police tried to reason out with them but they started protesting there.The police took 26 farmers into custody and took them to Sohna Sadar police station. They were there till the filing of this report.“This is a violation of our rights. We were headed peacefully to Delhi but were stopped,” said Azad Khan, district president, farmer union, Nuh.Meanwhile, more than 1,000 police personnel have been deployed on three city borders. People are being allowed entry to Delhi only after verification. — OC
02-12-2020||Ravinder Saini & Mukesh Tandon||Support for agitating farmers swells||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 1Farmers continued their dharna on the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Tuesday. They were disappointed at not getting any fruitful result from a meeting with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar in Delhi.“Farmers are not satisfied with the meeting as it remained inconclusive. Our top leaders will decide further course of action. Till then, the dharna will continue,” said a farmer leader.Harbhajan Mann, Punjabi singerStand firmWe will win the battle. Stay put with the same spirit. Not only I, but all of Punjab stands with you and wait for your victory. You will be called for meetings repeatedly. You should not break communication as it is needed to resolve the issue.Inderjit Singh, vice-president of the All India Kisan Sabha, said they had decided to double their strength as the Centre was on the defensive.The Janvadi Mahila Samiti, led by national vice-president Jagmati Sangwan, took out a march from Bahadurgarh to the Tikri border and joined the dharna.A group of arhtiyas from Rohtak led by Harsh Girdhar reached the dharna spot and distributed vegetables among farmers. He said grain markets across the state remained shut in support of farmers.Gurmeet Singh, a local factory owner, and his team distributed free medicines and provided dressing to those suffering from minor injuries. Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan and Meham MLA Balraj Kundu reached the dharna spot.The protesters blocked the main road outside the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh for over two hours to exert pressure for giving status of martyr to Gajjan Singh of Ludhiana, who died on Sunday night.Punjabi singer Harbhajan Mann reached Bahadurgarh to express solidarity with farmers. “We will win the battle. Stay put with the same spirit and devotion. Not only I, but Punjab stands with you and eagerly wait for your victory. You will be called for meetings repeatedly. You should not break communication as it is needed to resolve the issue,” he said.Another singer Kanwar Grewal, who accompanied Mann, sang some lines of popular songs. He appreciated the farmers for holding firm in chilly conditions. Punjabi artistes Karamjeet Anmol and Malkeet Rauni also came to support farmers.Sonepat: Farmers continued their protest at the Singhu border on the NH-44 for the fifth consecutive day on Tuesday amid the biting cold. They remained adamant, saying it was a do-or-die situation for them.The Singhu border resembled a big village, with thousands of farmers staying put in their tractor-trolleys. Around 30,000 farmers were staging a dharna. They had been cooking food and washing clothes on the roadside and sleeping in their covered trolleys.“The cold wave cannot harm us because we are used to it. We have irrigated our fields in chilly January nights. The government has planned to finish our livelihood with the three farm laws,” said Gurnam Singh of Faridkot.“Farming is not our business, but our livelihood. We have left our houses to save our livelihood and our land. We will not go back to our villages till our demands are met,” said Amanjot Singh of Gurdaspur.Farmers were getting the support of local residents and farmers. They were providing milk, vegetables, rice and flour to the protesters. Scores of vehicles from Punjab laden with food and dry ration reached the Singhu border.Students of colleges, Delhi University and the JNU reached the Singhu border to support the farmers. Theatre artistes and trade union members also reached the dharna spot.The police sealed the Ochandi border and Safiabad border — alternative routes to enter the Capital. There was a 6-km-long jam at the Kundli border on the NH-44 due to the protest.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said traffic had been diverted through the NH-71A in Panipat, and through the KGP and KMP expressways in Rai.Employees to protestChandigarh: Close on the heels of 130 Haryana khaps throwing their lot with the agitating farmers, the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), a representative body of three lakh state government employees, announced their decision of state-wide protests in solidarity with the farmers on December 3. TNS
02-12-2020||---||Union Minister, Ambala MP shown black flags at function||Ambala, December 1Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti and Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria and Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel faced opposition from a group of protesters, who are residents of Kola village, today.The BJP leaders had gone to lay the foundation stone for a railway under-bridge (RUB) project near Jandli level crossing in Ambala City on Tuesday. The railway under-bridge will be constructed at a cost of Rs 7 crore.The protesters raised slogans ‘Kisan ekta zindabad’, showed black flags to the BJP leaders and raised slogans against them.The protesters said they are farmers and the farm laws introduced by the BJP were the only reason behind their protest.Reacting angrily, Kataria said, “A seven-decade-old demand for an RUB is being fulfilled. Some people are raising slogans and showing us black flags. If nothing else, these people should at least think about the development of their area. They should have protested somewhere else as we are here for developmental work. I request God to give some sense to these people. The new laws are farmer-friendly. The Opposition is trying to mislead the farmers.”City MLA Goel said, “The farmers have the right to protest. If a politician can hear the slogans raised in his favour, he should also be ready to hear the slogans raised against him. But they should have welcomed the work being done here with a big heart. I am grateful to the Railway Minister for giving approval to the project.”
