03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four more COVID-19 deaths in Haryana, 494 fresh cases||Haryana on Friday reported four more COVID-19 deaths, taking the toll to 255 as 494 fresh cases took the total number of infections in the state to 16,003.All the four deaths were reported from Faridabad, taking the number of fatalities in the district to 87, according to the state Health department’s daily bulletin.The number of active cases in the state stands at 4,057, while 11,691 patients have been discharged after recovery, it said.The recovery rate on Friday was at 73.06 per cent.Of the fresh cases, 156 are in Faridabad, 130 in Gurgaon, 46 in Sonipat, 38 in Rewari and 20 are in Nuh. PTI
03-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||August 15 deadline for Covid vaccine impractical: Experts||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 3Medical experts feel that the August 15 deadline fixed for the launch of the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is impracticable as the human trials would take at least three to six months.“The urgency to develop a Covid-19 vaccine cannot be overemphasised in the circumstances prevailing across the globe, and we also wish that it is made at the earliest. Nonetheless, the presumption that it will be launched in a month or two seems to be more of wishful thinking,” observes Prof (Dr) Dhruva Chaudhry, Head of the Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine at PGIMS, Rohtak.He points out that the process involved in the development of a vaccine takes at least one to two years and developing a Covid-19 vaccine by the given deadline appeared unlikely.Professor Chaudhry, who is also the State Nodal Officer (Covid-19), Haryana, and co-investigator of the project involving human trials of the candidate vaccine, asserts that the safety of the volunteers and patients is the first and foremost concern and it should not be compromised.Dr V.K.Katyal, Senior Professor and Head of the Department of Medicine at University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, also maintains that the human trials for the development of Covid-19 vaccine would take at least three months.Other medical specialists, not willing to be named, also note that the different stages of human trials of the Covid-19 vaccine would take three to six months and the August 15 deadline fixed for its launch seems unrealistic.It may be pertinent to mention that the ICMR envisages the launch of the Covid-19 vaccine, which is a top-priority project of the Central Government, by August 15.Meanwhile, Dr Varun Arora, in-charge of the Covid Control Room at Rohtak PGIMS, said volunteers had started approaching the PGIMS administration for human trials, adding that six persons had expressed willingness to volunteer themselves for the trials so far.
03-07-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||SJF head Gurpatwant Pannu booked for ridiculing Haryana government||Designated terrorist Gurpatwant Singh Pannu of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) was booked by Gurugram police for allegedly instigating pro-Khalistani calls by the Haryana Government.The complaint in this regard was made at Bhondsi police station. Pannu was declared a terrorist by Home Ministry a day before yesterday and he has been overtly active and pushing pro-Khalistani movement in both Punjab and Haryana.According to the complaint filed by Anand Kumar, in-charge of technical division of STF headquarters, Bhondsi, a pre-recorded audio-video message was made by US numbers by Pannu that blames the government of Haryana and the people of Haryana for being inimical to the interests of Sikhs and Punjabis.SFJ is a pro-Khalistan organisation, based in the USA that has been declared to be an ‘unlawful association’ under the provisions of Sections 3(1)(3) of the unlawful activities act 1967 by the MHA, India, on July 10 last year.The SFJ has been found to be indulging in activities that are prejudicial to public order and the internal security of India and that have the potential of disrupting peace, unity and integrity of the country.SFJ is carving out a sovereign Khalistan out of the territory of India. Gurpatwant Singh Pannu is a self-styled ideologist and activist of SJF and a US national. He is presently residing in white street, New York.“In his message Pannu claims that Haryana will be a part of Punjab when it becomes an independent country. The people who Haryana will then have the option of either siding with Punjab as an independent country or of leaving the state and moving to other parts of India. He extorts the Sikhs from Haryana to take part in voting registration for a so-called referendum to be held on July 4. Pannu has thus indulged in an ‘unlawful activity’ and he and his unknown associates are threatening the sovereignity, unity and territorial integrity of India. They are also inciting ill-will and hatred against the people of Haryana,” read the complaint.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against Pannu and his associates under Sections 10(a), 13 of the Unlawful Activities Act 1967, Section 153-A, 124-A of IPC at Bhondsi police station.Local police said they are start investigation while a senior officer of STF said that red corner notice will be issued against the accused soon.
03-07-2020||New Delhi||4.7-magnitude earthquake hits Alwar in Rajsthan; tremors jolt Delhi-NCR||A medium-intensity earthquake of magnitude 4.7 jolted Alwar district in Rajasthan on Friday, tremors of which were felt in parts of north India, including Delhi-NCR, the National Centre for Seismology said.   According to the NCS, the quake occurred at 7 p.m. at a depth of 35 kilometres.The tremors of the quake were also felt in Delhi-NCR, triggering panic among people.There were no immediate reports of loss of life or property.Since April, 20 earthquakes have been recorded in and around Delhi. Of the 20, two were above magnitude 4.                 The historical earthquake catalogue shows that there were strong earthquakes in the Delhi-NCR—of 6.5 magnitude at Delhi in 1720; 6.8 at Mathura in 1803; 5.5 near Mathura in 1842; 6.7 near Bulandshahar in 1956; 6 near Faridabad in 1960 and 5.8 near Moradabad in 1966.The Delhi-NCR has been identified as the second highest seismic hazard zone (Zone IV). PTIकुछ देर पहले दिल्ली में भूकंप के हल्के झटके महसूस किए गए। उम्मीद है आप सभी सुरक्षित है, अपना ख़्याल रखें।
03-07-2020|| Chandigarh||Ambala reports 4 COVID-19 cases; district tally rises to 348||Ambala reported four COVID-19 positive cases on Friday, taking the district's tally to 348. Civil Surgeon, Dr Kuldeep Singh, said the fresh cases, included a 57-year-old woman, a health staffer, posted in Barara, a 13-year-old girl from Ambala City—who has a travel history of Delhi—a 20-year-old youth in Ambala Cantonment, and a 49-year-old man in Naraingarh, both cases have Influenza-like showed (ILI) symptoms. After being cured, two more patients were discharged. At present, Ambala has 34 active cases.
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||In Haryana's five NCR districts, 14-fold rise in deaths, 7-fold jump in infections in June||Haryana's five NCR districts together have registered a 14-fold rise in COVID-19 fatalities and seven-fold jump in cases of infection in June alone, prompting the state government to pay special attention to check the spread of the pandemic in these districts.The five districts under Haryana government's closer scrutiny are Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat, Jhajjar and Rohtak, said officials.As per the state's Health Department data, coronavirus-related fatalities in these five districts were 14 as on June 1 but rose to 197 by June 30.The cumulative cases in these districts at the beginning of June were 1,653, which rose to 11,122 by June 30.As on July 2, these five Haryana districts accounted for nearly 12,000 of the total 15,509 cases and 209 of the 251 fatalities.For entire Haryana, the cases of coronavirus infection rose six-fold in June while the fatalities due to it registered an 11-fold increase.Haryana's NCR districts of Gurgaon and Faridabad have emerged as the worst-hit districts in the state.As on June 1, Gurgaon had 903 cases with four deaths, which increased to 5,347 infections and 91 fatalities by June 30.Similarly, Faridabad had 392 cases with eight fatalities on June 1 which rose to 3,733 cases with 77 fatalities by June 30.At the beginning of the month, Sonipat had 212 cases, Jhajjar 101 and Rohtak 45, which rose to 1,208, 261 and 573, respectively by June end.Fatalities recorded on June 1 in Sonipat, Jhajjar and Rohtak were one, nil and one respectively, which increased to 18, four and seven respectively on June 30, as per the health department data.Overall, total cases in entire Haryana, which has 22 districts, were 2,356 on June 1 with 21 deaths which increased to 14,548 cases with 236 deaths.The positive sign was that recovery rate went up from 44.78 per cent at the beginning of the last month for the entire Haryana to nearly 70 per cent at the end of the month. The rate at which cases double also saw improvement going up from eight days to 15 days.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said the government will increase testing, hospital beds and ventilators to tackle coronavirus infection in these five NCR districts which have been worst-hit by the pandemic.Special attention will be paid to the districts of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak and Jhajjar, Chautala had told reporters after a meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and attended by chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi.To deal with the cases of coronavirus infection in the entire National Capital Region, the Union government and the governments of Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh are now working together, Chautala had said.Increasing sampling, better contact-tracing, tracking those with travel history and house-to-house surveys by health workers, especially among the vulnerable sections of society, were some of the measures which the health department was taking to check the spread of infection, officials said.Earlier, as cases continued to rise in Haryana NCR districts, Health Minister Anil Vij had cited movement of people from Delhi into these districts as the reason behind the surge in cases. PTI
03-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||21 FIRs, 766 challans issued for overpricing of masks, sanitisers in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2The Food and Supplies Department of Haryana has so far registered 21 FIRs and challaned 766 chemists and wholesale drug dealers for overpricing of masks and hand sanitisers.Masks and hand sanitisers were included in the Essential Commodities Act by the Central Government on March 13, empowering all the states and UTs to regulate production, quality and distribution of the two items along with other things.Since the matter of fake sanitisers and their over pricing has reached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh need to submit action taken reports by July 6.While the Food and Supplies Department has been checking overpricing of masks and hand sanitisers, the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has also been looking into cases of fake hand sanitisers and their over pricing under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, Disaster Management Act and Essential Commodities Act.The FDA is also evaluating the cases for cheating under the Indian Penal Code.The Food and Supplies Department has carried out 1,762 inspections at drug wholesale dealers across the state, and has also checked 12,810 chemist shops so far.Seven FIRs have been lodged at Mewat, five each at Faridabad and Rewari, and two each at Panipat and Gurugram.As far as challans are concerned, the maximum of 176 have been issued at Faridabad, followed by Rohtak (143), Gurugram (79), Panipat (56) and Rewari (52).“We have found that drug wholesale dealers and retailers have been opening shops regularly. There is no shortage. We have issued challans for minor offences, while for major offences we have registered FIRs," said Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, PK Das. Besides masks and hand sanitisers, nine other items – drugs, fertilisers, foodstuff - including edible oilseeds and oils, hank yarn made wholly from cotton, petroleum and petroleum products, raw jute and jute textiles, seeds of food crops and of fruits and vegetables, seed of cattle fodder, and jute seeds – are also covered under the Essential Commodities Act. “The department has issued 6,371 challans for checking price rise of other essential commodities like vegetables, milk etc.,” said Das.  The maximum challans have been issued in Bhiwani (1,864), followed by Fatehabad (952), Charkhi Dadri (791), Jhajjar (519) and Panipat (410).There were no challans in Kaithal and just four in Yamunanagar.The Food and Supplies Department has also found adequate supply of LPG cylinders and soaps or detergent in the markets. On the other hand, the FDA has registered eight FIRs – two each in Gurugram, Faridabad and Hisar and one each in Ambala and Kaithal – for fake hand sanitisers and their overpricing.In June alone, the department busted three units of fake sanitisers.
03-07-2020||---||Karnal reports nine fresh COVID-19 cases||Karnal, July 3As many as nine persons have tested positive for COID-19 in Karnal, taking the number of positive cases to 368 in the district.The fresh cases include a 60-year-old woman of Sector 14, 22-year-old man of Badarpur, a 32-year-old man of Sector 13, a 40-year-old man from Sector 13 extension, a 28-year-old woman of Taprna, 60-year-old woman of Jalala Viran, a 24-year-old man of Munak, a 28-year-old man of NDRI and a 22-year-old man of Gharaunda.
03-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||COVID effect: 6,000 Rohtak auto-drivers not behind wheel now, switch to other fields||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 3Wazir Sindhu, who along with his family, had shifted to rented accommodation in Rohtak from Kheri Sadh village here over four years ago to earn a livelihood by driving an auto-rickshaw but he had to return to his village due to the COVID-19 conditions as he had no money to pay his house rent and feed his family.Like Wazir, prevailing COVID-19 conditions have forced around 6,000 other auto-rickshaw drivers in the district to switch over to other fields to sustain their livelihood as Unlock 2.0, too, could not bring any relief to them.Auto-rickshaws were allowed to ply with the condition of maximum two passengers in May but more than 60 per cent autos still remain off-road following this ‘unsuitable’ condition and the closure of educational institutes, which contribute to their business significantly.A majority of drivers are ready to sell their autos but there is no buyer in the market. Rohtak has over 10,000 auto-rickshaws.“I waited for a month for the situation to get normal but it did not happen, forcing me to come back to the village. Now, I have taken to farming to make both ends meet. My auto-rickshaw has remained off-road for four months now and I want to sell it even at a cheaper rate when I find a buyer,” said Sindhu, adding that the auto-drivers had no option except to switch over to other fields to make both ends meet.Raju, another auto-driver, has started working as a denter-painter near Jhajjar Chungi here after finding the remote possibility of plying of the autos with full seating capacity by the end of this year.“I began driving an auto-rickshaw after quitting the work of denting-painting around seven years ago but the circumstances have compelled me to switch over to my previous job to arrange two square meals for my family,” he added.Similarly, Jitender of Khokhrakot locality here has opened a juice-corner outside the new bus stand and is now in no mood to drive an auto-rickshaw again. Ram Chander of Kiloi village switched over to a job in the vegetable market and Rohtash became a salesman at a private company while Dinesh and Rampal are doing manual labour.Rajender Dahiya, president of the New Rohtak Auto-Rickshaw Kalyan Samiti, said the financial condition of auto-drivers had gone from bad to worse, forcing them to change their fields to make both ends meet.“We had demanded the state government to provide some monetary relief to the auto drivers but to no avail,” he added.
03-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Parents marrying off minors, 15 complaints in Rohtak in a year||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 2Apprehensive of love marriages, residents of rural and semi-urban areas in Rohtak and nearby districts of Haryana try to marry off their minor daughters.According to sociologists, girls are associated with family honour in Haryana’s patriarchal society and most of the local residents do not approve of love marriages.“A majority of parents consider girls as their responsibility and try to marry them as soon as possible lest they have a love affair, elope with or marry a boy of their choice,” says Karminder Kaur, Protection-cum-Child Marriage Prohibition Officer, Rohtak.The officer points out that they have received at least 15 complaints regarding child marriages in the district since April 1, 2019, of which 12 were found true and the marriages were prevented with timely intervention.While most of the complaints were against parents trying to marry off their minor daughters, a few of them pertained to proposed marriages of underage boys.“Owing to the skewed gender ratio in the region, residents of rural areas try to marry their sons even before they attain the marriageable age, fearing that they may not get suitable brides after a few years,” notes Dr Neerja Ahlawat, a noted sociologist.Dr Ahlawat observes that the disintegration of joint families in villages has led to underage marriages, adding that in many cases the girls’ parents want to save money on their marriages, taking advantage of the restrictions imposed in view of the Covid-19 lockdown.“Earlier, when the joint family culture was prevalent in villages, unmarried men were looked after by their families. However, with the advent of nuclear families, there is nobody to look after such bachelors and hence parents want to ensure that all their sons get married,” adds the sociologist.
03-07-2020||---||Diagnostic centre to come up at Mansa Devi complex||Chandigarh, July 2The 18th meeting of Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, Panchkula, held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday, approved various new works worth Rs 45 crore, including a diagnostic centre with OPD facility on the shrine premises to provide treatment at subsidised rates.The CM also directed to explore the possibility of transferring additional 10 acres of adjoining and unutilised land of the HSVP to the Board for providing amenities to the devotees in a planned manner. Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Chief Secretary Keshni Arora were also present at the meeting.The CM directed the officers concerned to start the process for the construction of building of the diagnostic centre, which will come up on land measuring 4 kanals and 6 marla. It will be built, managed and run by the Board and have all modern and latest facilities.Reviewing the progress of the work for the setting up of a sanskrit college at the shrine complex, Khattar directed the Higher Education Department to take possession of the land to initiate the process for the construction of the building. It was informed that the admission process would be started from the coming session and till the time the building of was constructed, classes would be started from vacant hall at upper ground floor of the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Dharmarth Bhandara Committee.He also issued directions for taking up the matter with the Ministry of Ayush, Government of India, for setting up a National Institute of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy at the complex. The Shrine Board has provided 20 acres of land in its complex for setting up the institute to the Ministry of Ayush.It was also decided in the meeting that a second entry would also be opened in Shri Mata Mansa Devi temple for open view and darshan.It was informed at the meeting that the construction work of the new corridor connecting the passage of the main Mansa Devi and Patiala temples would be completed by October this year at an estimated cost of Rs 1.20 crore. Similarly, the work for the construction of an old age home near Laxmi Bhawan premises would be completed by September 2021 with an estimated cost of Rs 10.49 crore.Will have all modern facilities
03-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Demolition drive in two Yamunanagar colonies||A demolition drive was carried out in two newly carved out unauthorised colonies in the revenue estate of Todarpur and Mandauli villages of Yamunanagar district. The demolition drive was carried out by a team comprising district town planner Amit Madholia, assistant town planner Dinesh Singh, field investigator Mohit Sharma, junior engineers Mohit Kumar and Ravinder of the District Town Planner Department on June 30. Madholia said that the total area of the colony in Todarpur village was one acre wherein six damp-proof courses (DPCs) and one boundary wall along with one unauthorised industrial shed was demolished partly. He added that another demolition drive was carried out in the revenue estate of Mandauli village wherein five industrial sheds were demolished, including 16 labour quarters along with 200m boundary wall of tin sheets.  “Further, the owners of these industries agreed to dismantle the rest of the structures and apply for change of land use within a month. Similar action will also be taken against all the industrial sheds that have not taken permission from the department,” said Madholia. He added that they had carried out demolition drive in nine newly carved out unauthorised colonies in Yamunanagar district in the past two weeks. — TNS
03-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon||‘Graft’ probe against Panipat civic body  begins||Tribune News ServicePanipat, July 2The Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO), Urban Local Bodies (ULB), has begun a probe into the alleged corruption by the municipal corporation (MC) in the name of sanitisation of the city during the lockdown period.The CVO summoned two MC officials and sought a detail record of the payment made by the MC for sanitisation work done in the city during the lockdown period.The MC officials had made a proposal to sanitise the entire city due to the ongoing Covid pandemic after the announcement of the lockdown. The proposal prepared by the MC officials was of approximate Rs 72 lakh, under which Rs 7.91 lakh was for 46 beldars as per the DC rate of Rs 17,197 for 30 days; Rs 41,000 for PA system at the rate of Rs 600 per day for 30 days; and Rs 49.68 lakh for tractor-trailer along with drivers, spray machine at the rate Rs 900 per hours for 8 hours for 30 days.All officials, including the MC engineering wing, had finalised the proposal for sanitisation and also got the administrative nod, but BJP councillor Dushyant Bhatt raised questions over it, saying that it was made for corrupt practices.Besides, Vaibhav Deswal, a local, also filed a complaint to the ULB Minister and said the MC officials had made a proposal to encash lakhs of rupees in the name of sanitisation.Following the complaint, the ULB Minister ordered a probe into the matter.
03-07-2020||
||Alok Mittal is OSD in CID||Chandigarh, July 2 The Haryana Government on Thursday posted 1993-batch IPS officer Alok Mittal as Officer on Special Duty (OSD) in the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), the state’s intelligence wing, on his repatriation from the Central Government.  Sources said Mittal would take over as ADGP (CID) from Anil Kumar Rao, current ADGP (CID), after his superannuation on July 31.
03-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Woman raped on pretext of marriage||A woman was allegedly raped on the pretext of marriage in the district in May. She is married with two children.In her police complaint, she said: “One day, I met Rohit Kumar of Barsan village at a dera in Yamunanagar. We became friends and started talking on social media.”She further alleged, “My in-laws suspected me of having an affair. In the first week of May, Rohit took me to a room at camp area in Yamunanagar and raped me on the pretext of marriage.”She accused Rohit of withdrawing money from her bank account. On her complaint, the three men were booked here on June 30. — TNS
03-07-2020||---||Private labs seek nod to start antigen test||Gurugram, July 2Losing a majority of their consumer base to antigen testing being done for negligible charges or free by government health authorities, seven empanelled private labs and hospitals have sought permission to carry out the same.To ensure that patients are not fleeced, the private players have been asked to submit a proposed price. The Health Department has moved Director (Health Services) seeking a cap on the test prices.“There was a huge gap in Covid testing prices in government and private sectors. We have got requests to allow antigen testing, but we want the private sector to specify the charges first. We have also sought a rationalised price declaration from the state’s health authorities,” said CMO Virender Yadav.
03-07-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Private  buses to take 50% passengers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2Over three months after the bus service was stalled across Haryana to control Covid spread, the state government has allowed private buses to run in four phases with 50 per cent seating capacity.“The private bus services have been allowed to operate for the convenience of the public, but they need to follow standard operating procedures (SoPs) in view of the Covid pandemic,” Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma told The Tribune on Thursday.The State Transport Commissioner has already issued orders to the ADCs-cum-regional transport authorities to allow the bus services under the Stage Carriage Scheme and enforce SoPs in letter and spirit.In the first phase, 25 per cent buses will be allowed between July 1 and 8 with another 25 per cent between July 9 and 16. Similarly, one-fourth of the buses will be allowed between July 17 and 24 while the last lot of buses (25 per cent) will ply between July 25 and August 1.The buses will be sanitised at regular intervals. Passengers and the staff will have to maintain social distancing.
03-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Greedy should be ready for consequences: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2In a significant judgment that may change the way courts proceed against those receiving investments on promises of giving unbelievably high returns, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that investors, perhaps, are not all that gullible and greed is the driving force as they are happy as long as they get high returns, but term the recipients as criminals if they collapse under debt burden.Justice Arun Monga made it clear that another question required to be considered was whether the recipient alone could be held responsible for intention to commit offences if things went wrong for him. It was for the appropriate court to address the questions if these arose or were raised during trial.In his detailed order, Justice Monga asserted: “Are these investors as gullible as they project in their complaints or FIRs? May be not! After all, what drives them to invest their money by giving unsecured loans at unbelievable return or interest of 1.5 per cent to 2 per cent per month or 18 per cent to 24 per cent per annum? Sure, it is greed!”Justice Monga pointed out that it was time for them to realise the harsh reality that if they had the ability to take such a risk, they were required to be equally prepared for consequences too as any claim of unrealistic returns on investment was required to ring alarm bells in their mind.Going into the genesis of the problem in case of a recipient investing in land, Justice Monga noted that he, in his zeal to expand his business, could overexpand it or go in liquidation for non-service of debt. It could be triggered by excessive land purchase disproportionate to development funds, coupled with failure of the allottees defaulting in their payment. Could he, under the circumstances, alone be held blameworthy of mens rea or intention to commit offences as complained?As long the accused was giving the investors high return of 18 per cent per annum, he was not a criminal. But once he collapsed under debt burden, he became a criminal, notwithstanding his claims of spending all the money to create group or company assets for future use.“Are in some way these investors also not culpable to accept such tall claims of interest on their speculative investment? A genuine end-user allottee stands definitely on different and better footing than an investor,” Justice Monga asserted.
03-07-2020||Mahendragarh||Locusts in Mahendragarh again, no damage||Swarms of locusts on Thursday were spotted in the district for the third time in the past one week. There was, however, no damage. The pests came from bordering Nimbi and Chindalia villages in Mahendragarh district and Dancholi village in Rajasthan.Sources say swarms came around 1.30 pm. As officials were already on high alert, they rushed to villages and encouraged farmers to bang utensils and play music to scare the insects away. The locusts flew over 75 villages before flying towards Rajasthan.“The first swarm returned to Rajasthan after passing over villages in Narnaul, Nangal Choudhary and Nizampur blocks, while the second swarm continued to fly over Pavera, Sareli and surrounding villages. It also moved towards Rajasthan by the evening,” said Jaswinder Singh Saini, Deputy Director (Agriculture). — TNS
03-07-2020||---||11 more die in Haryana, cases cross 15K||Chandigarh, July 2With 568 fresh cases, Haryana’s Covid tally crossed the 15,000 mark, reaching 15,509 today. With 11 deaths, the number of casualties reached 251, with a fatality rate of 1.62 per cent.The deaths were reported from Gurugram (4), Faridabad (3), Karnal (2) and Rohtak and Hisar (1 each). In Faridabad, a 61-year-old man from Mujesar and two 70-year-old men, one from Sector 18 and the other from Sector 23, succumbed to the virus.In Karnal, a 67-year-old man from Sector 14 and a 65-year-old woman from Sector 7 died at the Mullana medical college.Fresh cases were reported from Sonepat (131), Faridabad (130), Gurugram (106), Jhajjar (35), Karnal (34), Rohtak (31), Hisar and Rewari (18 each), Ambala (16), Mahendragarh (10), Nuh and Panchkula (seven each), Panipat (six), Kurukshetra and Palwal (four each), Fatehabad and Charkhi Dadri (three each), Yamunanagar and Jind (two each) and Sirsa (one).Fresh cases in Palwal included three from Islamabad village. In Ambala, 11 fresh cases were contacts of Covid patients. In Rewari, fresh cases included 13 from Dhaaruhera.1,500 pulse-oximeters distributed, says CMChief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said the state government had distributed 1,500 pulse-oximeters to asymptomatic patients in NCR districts of the state for the regular monitoring of oxygen levels during home isolation.
03-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan
||Hisar techies make TikTok alternative||Tribune News Service Hisar, July 2 Three IT professionals belonging to ordinary middle-class families of Hisar district have developed an Android mobile app as an indigenous alternative to popular Chinese app TikTok which has been banned by the Centre. The app, named ‘Desi Kalakar’, provides a video-sharing platform and is available at Google Play Store. It has been given a ranking of 4.8 and has been downloaded by more than 5,000 persons in 10 days.  The developers of the app, who are in their 20s, include Kishan and Rohit, both of whom belong to a family of tailors at Badwali Dhani village in Hisar district, and Anshul Garg, daughter of a departmental store-owner. While Kishan and Rohit are B.Tech in Information Technology from Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar, Anshul holds an MCA degree from Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. All three of them work for an IT firm at Hisar. “We began working on developing an app which could provide a viable indigenous alternative to the popular Chinese app TikTok last month. It was put on Google Play Store on June 23,” Rohit told The Tribune this evening. He maintained that the underlying idea behind developing the app was to ensure that our country’s money, which used to go to China through TikTok indirectly, is circulated within India. “We have ensured data security which was a major cause for concern among the users of TikTok. We are striving to add useful and attractive features to the app,” stated Anshul.
03-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon
||Now, Sonepat cops on night patrol to carry arms||Tribune News Service Panipat, July 2 After the murder of two police personnel in Butana village of Sonepat on Tuesday, SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa has directed the cops in the district to carry weapons with them during night patrolling, especially in high-risk areas.  Meanwhile, on the disclosure of one of the accused Sandeep, the police have recovered the vehicle used by him and his friends to flee the crime spot after murdering the two cops. The SP said: “It has been made mandatory for the police personnel to carry weapons on patrol duty, especially at night and in the rural belt and high-risk areas.” “I have also directed ASP Udai Singh Meena to prepare the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for checking and patrolling at night in rural and urban belts,” the SP said.  Meanwhile, the police have said all accused had been identified and would be nabbed soon. The teams are on the job and collecting details of accused Vikas and his accomplice, who are on the run, and they also got vital clues about the two girls, who were reportedly with the accused when they committed the crime, he added. As per sources, Sandeep told the police that the cops wanted to take him and his friends to the police post, but they tried to settle the matter by offering the cops bribe. The cops, however, refused the offer and were firm in taking the youths to the police post. Enraged, the youths attacked the cops, Sandeep reportedly told the police.
03-07-2020||Nowadays||Don't sweep roads during peak hours||Ganesh Nagpal, Ambala CityDHBVN must upgrade infraWith summer at its peak, many districts of South Haryana are facing power shortage. Even cities are getting the supply for hardly 10 hours a day, let alone the villages. Amid this pandemic, when schools are shifting to online mode and home is workplace for many, issues like irregular electricity supply and low voltage are aggravating the existing problems. It's high time DHBVN and other authorities concerned took strict actions to upgrade the infrastructure to avoid overloading and tripping of transformers.Kalyani Tehri, Tohana, FatehabadStray cattle roam on NH-65THE stray cattle menace is the root cause of major accidents throughout the year on National Highway- 65 from Hisar to Chandigarh, an important road which runs through Narwana. The staff of NHAI can be seen often patrolling but surprisingly, they do very little to solve the problem. In the interest of the public, the authorities must see that stray cattle do not come on the highway.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
03-07-2020||Karnal||Online teaching workshop||Webinar on machine learningHisar: The training and placement cell and the department of computer science & engineering, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, conducted a webinar on the topic "Overview & future of machine learning". Prof Dharminder Kumar, chairperson of the department was the chief guest. Vivek Mittal, MTech in machine learning from BITS, Pliani, and currently working in Synopsys India Pvt Ltd was the speaker of the webinar. Partap Malik, director, placement, presided over the function and said 150 students attended the webinar. Prof Kumar said all intelligent systems in almost all sectors were based on ML algorithms and therefore, the scope of ML was sure to increase in future. Vivek Mittal started with defining commonly popular terms of artificial intelligence, machine learning and deep learning. Citing examples of Sofia robot and automatic cars, he said artificial intelligence was science of enabling computers to mimic human intelligence and behaviour.Python programming courseHisar: The training & placement cell of GJUS&T has started a three weeks free "Python programming" course for students staying at home during the pandemic. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, inaugurated the programme. Prof Saroj, Dean, FET, was the guest of honour at the inauguration event. Partap Singh, director, placement, presided over the event. Mr. Sandeep Kumar, Director, Prletex Solutions Private Limited is the trainer for the course. The VC said python is a very important language, which may be used for multiple purposes, including web development, computations activities and gui development and many more.
03-07-2020||Ambala||Pedestrian dies in mishap||A 35-year-old pedestrian was killed in a hit-and-run mishap on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Rann Singh of Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. A speeding unidentified vehicle crushed him to death at Saha. The police registered a case and launched investigation. TNS4 in jail with cell phonesFour jail inmates were held with mobile phones on Wednesday. Central Jail Deputy Superintendent Bhupinder Singh said Naveen, Ankur, Kapil and Vikas were found possessing mobile phones. The police registered a case . TNS1 held for molestationThe police have arrested Papinder Singh, alias Pindi, for molesting and threatening a 25-year-old woman on March 27. The police released him on bail and launched a probe. TNS2 persons go missingA 25-year-old woman left home on June 25, but did not return. Baljinder Singh (32) of Shahzadpur went missing on June 29. The police have launched a manhunt. TNS
