03-04-2020||Gurugram||Man kills wife, then himself over growing marital discord due to lockdown||A 31-year-old man first killed his wife and then himself in Garhi Harsaru over growing marital discord since lockdown began, sources said on Friday.Pramod, a skilled labourer who lost his livelihood to the lockdown, had been fighting increasingly with his wife Sarita, sources quoted his daughter as having said.After a fight on Friday, he hit his wife with a pestle, and then locked up his daughter before he hanged himself with a bedsheet.Police sources said it was his daughter who placed the call to the police control room. Policemen who came to the location found Pramod hanging from the grill on his bathroom window.  Station House Officer Sanjay Kumar said that police were investigating the case and an autopsy would be conducted soon.Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 in an attempt to halt the spread of the deadly coronavirus.
03-04-2020||---||Tablighi Jamaat members entered Haryana before lockdown: DGP||Chandigarh, April 3The Haryana police Chief Manoj Yadava today said that the people who returned after attending Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation in Delhi entered the state before the lockdown was announced.The DGP said this at a press conference attended also by Additional Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan and Additional Chief Secretary Rajiv Arora for sharing information on government steps to contain Covid pandemic in the state.So far,  FIRs have been registered against 107 foreigners, related to Tablighi Jamaat, under the Foreigners’ Act.  They are on tourist visa but participated in religious activity at Delhi. A total of 1,277 people have been identified in Nuh, Palwal, Fardabad, Panipat and Ambala, who have returned from Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation. “The investigations are in progress,” said Yadava.Yadava further informed that a total of 4,539 violations of lockdown in Haryana have been noticed against which 948 cases were registered and 1,374 people were arrested.“All 182 entry points in the state have been sealed. The police personnel who are deployed at these check points or who are guarding quarantine and isolation facilities undergo medical checkup every week. They have been provided with masks and hand sanitisers too,” he said. On shortage of protective equipment for health professionals, Arora said that the state has 19,000 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), 90,000 N-95 masks and 10 lakh triple ply masks. About 2.5 lakh PPE kits and 1.45 lakh N-95 masks have been ordered. “At present, we have 1,282 ventilators and 210 more have been ordered,” added Arora.At present, PGIMS Rohtak and BPS Government Medical College for Women are carrying out testing for Covid. Five private labs in Gurugram are added. “Soon, testing will start at Panchkula, Karnal, Rohtak, Hisar and Nuh. The testing will be carried out as per the protocol. We are yet to ender community transmission stage,” added Arora.As harvesting season is starting, Yadava informed that farmers would be allowed in agriculture fields but social distancing has to be maintained. On migrants, Vardhan informed that 573 relief camps across the state have been set up where 15, 850 workers are staying.
03-04-2020||---||5 test coronavirus positive in Haryana’s Gurugram||Gurugram, April 3After nine days of lull Gurugram on Friday reported five new Covid cases.One of them is a Tablighi Jamaati rounded up in the city.A man and his son, residents of Suncity, who had travelled back from Mumbai, have tested positive.Two women currently in Medanta also have tested positive. The two women hail from Jharsa village; there is panic in the village.  One of the women is a private hospital nurse.
03-04-2020||The JC Bose University of Science and Technology||Faridabad varsity to host tech fest online||Y'NAGAR Donations made to relief fundThe management of Saraswati Sugar Mills and Indian Sugar and General Engineering Corporation has donated Rs50 lakh to the CM's Covid Relief Fund. They had also provided masks and gloves to farmers and 1,000 packets of ration to the District Red Cross Society. Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee donated Rs5 lakh while Shri Hanuman Sewa Samiti, Jagadhri gave Rs1 lakh. Similarly, Sanatan Dharam Mandir Sabha, Model Town, has handed over a cheque of Rs1.11 lakh to the CM's relief fund. TNSCHANDIGARH ‘Pay 50% more to cops, docs’All India Congress Committee communication incharge Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday demanded 50% more salary for the Haryana Police personnel and sanitation workers, employed in cities and rural areas, as they face higher risk of Covid infection. At a press meet on Tuesday, Surjewala said police personnel should be provided N95 masks and gloves. "For the next three months, they should be given 50% more salary," he added. Surjewala said the government had failed to stop black marketing and hoarding. He said liquor mafia had been minting money in the state. TNSF’bad JC Bose varsity goes digitalThe JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has developed a Digital Learning Management System (DLMS) to provide its students a platform to access their study material and e-resources and enable them to interact with faculty members through live chat. Vice-Chancellor Dr Dinesh Kumar said the DLMS had been developed by the team of Digital India Cell of the university under the supervision of the chairperson of the Computer Engineering Department. He said while the pandemic has posed a big challenge, it has also given an opportunity to think out of box and create solutions to overcome this situation. TNSPalwal 3 booked for running factoryThe district authorities have registered a case under Section 188, 201 and 34 of the IPC against three persons including director of RBS Engineering Pvt Ltd located at Patli Khurd village for violation of the lockdown order. “The company was found to be functioning during a raid carried out by the Tehsildar and Duty Magistrate of the area on Thursday,” said an official. He said a notice had also been issued to the company. TNSKAITHAL 3 booked for violating quarantineThree youths of Dhunderheri village in the district have been booked for violating home quarantine orders issued by the authorities. SP Shashank Kumar said that SMO, CHC, Siwan, Sunil Kumar lodged a complaint that Ajay, Rahul and Sunil, all sons of Krishan Kumar of Dhunderheri, were advised to remain inside their house by the health authorities. However, they were found outside their homes during a visit by the health staff. They were booked under Section 188, 269 and 270 IPC at Sadar police station here. OCKarnal Waive property tax: Hotel industryDue to the enforcement of 21-day-long lockdown, the hotel industry of the state has been hit. The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Haryana (HRAH) has demanded that the government should waive the fixed electricity charges and property tax for one year. Col Manbeer Choudhary (retd), president, HRAH, said, “We also demand that the government should reduce commercial electricity rate to residential rate and also exempt VAT on sale of liquor for one year.” TNSKaithal 1 booked for false infoThe Cheeka police have registered a case under Section 188 and 505(1) B of the IPC against Rajesh Kumar, a mobile user who posted a message on WhatsApp that a Covid patient had been found in Harigarhkingan village under Cheeka police station. The police investigated the matter and found no such patient. OCAMBALA FIR for spreading rumoursThe district police have registered an FIR against persons (yet to be identified) for spreading rumours and fake news in a WhatsApp group, officials said here on Thursday. According to the police, it was brought to the notice of the Ambala City police station that some persons were spreading fake news and rumours in a Whatsapp group, leading to panic and fear among the residents. The police have begun investigation to identify and nab the persons involved in the wrongdoing, the officials added. Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma has directed SP Abhishek Jorwal to deal sternly all such elements. TNSKAITHAL Case registered for fake newsThe City police have registered a case under Section 188 and 505 (1) B of IPC against one Vijay Sharma of Kaithal for sharing a misleading and fake video in which it had been claimed that the medicine for Covid had been invented in India 27 years ago. OC
03-04-2020||
||Movement restricted along canal banks||Yamunanagar, April 2 The Irrigation and Water Resources Department has restricted public movement on service roads or banks of irrigation channels in the state. The action comes after reports of migrant workers and residents using these pathways during the lockdown, as the areas were left unguarded. It was mentioned in a letter issued by Birender Singh, Engineer-in-Chief, Irrigation and Water Resources Department, Haryana on March 30, “It has been brought to notice that some people and migrant workers are using service roads/banks of irrigation channels to move from one place to another and even cross the district and the state border, as no police force is patrolling the irrigation channels.”  The Engineer-in-Chief has directed the authorities concerned to immediately depute beldars, canal guards, mates and other patrolling staff for continuous monitoring of irrigation channels. “We have deputed staff on service roads or banks of Western Jamuna Canal in Yamunanagar district,” said Haridev Kamboj, Executive Engineer, Water Services Division, Dadupur.
03-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Accused facing less than 7-yr term not to be arrested||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 2In an attempt to decongest jails following the Covid outbreak, the State of Haryana guided by the Haryana State Legal Services Authority has taken a slew of resolutions, including the decision against arresting the accused booked for offences carrying less than seven years imprisonment and accepting consent of sureties through WhatsApp or SMS.The meeting, held under the chairmanship of Justice Rajiv Sharma, was attended through videoconferencing by State Additional Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan, Director-General of Prisons K Selvaraj and Legal Services Authority member-secretary Parmod Goyal.A senior Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Sharma, is also the authority’s executive chairman.Among other things, it was decided that the investigating officers may be advised to avoid arresting first offenders booked for any offence punishable for imprisonment up to seven years, unless it was of utmost necessity for investigation. The Commissioner Police and the district Superintendent of Police were directed to be asked to monitor such cases.It was also decided that the consent of those standing surety in cases where convicts successfully availed regular parole may be taken through WhatsApp, SMS or call. Confirmation would be recorded in writing by the executive magistrate. Also, a personal bond would be executed by the convict.The meeting took note of the fact that district magistrates and divisional commissioner were involved in other important administrative work. As such, they would appoint “empowered executive magistrates” in each district to accept personal bond and sureties once parole was granted to a convict. It would be accepted through video conferencing or at the jail gate. In case, the sureties were from outside the district, they would appear before the executive magistrate appointed in district where they were residing. The surety bonds would then be accepted through videoconferencing between the two executive magistrates.Persons in judicial custody, awaiting the filing of challan, in cases carrying sentence up to seven years, and not involved in any other case, may be released on interim bail for six weeks, extendable up till eight weeks.It was also decided that convict prisoners undergoing sentence up to 7 years, but convicted in multiple cases, may be released on parole for 45 days extendable up to 60 days.
03-04-2020||---||Khattar: State to roll out telemedicine services||Chandigarh, April 2Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the state government decided to roll out telemedicine services in the state from Thursday to provide access to healthcare services to people who were unable to visit hospitals. Apart from this, Covid-19 hospitals with 3,000 beds were set up at 14 places.Khattar said this during a video conference of chief ministers addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from New Delhi.The Tribune highlighted the plight of patients in the wake of shutting of OPDs in a report published in these columns on Thursday.The Chief Minister said though there was adequate stock of PPE kits in the state and orders for additional 2.5 lakh such kits were placed, yet options for import of more such kits should be considered. Emphasising the need of rapid testing, he also suggested that the Indian Council of Medical Research should augment the testing facilities to effectively combat Covid-19.While thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for announcing Special Relief Package of Rs 1.7 lakh crore for the poor, farmers and those engaged in medical profession, he requested the government to defer repayment of Rs 4,000 crore of CCL.The Haryana Government ensured continuity in supply of essential commodities, including medicines, he said, adding that the state was successful in controlling the community transmission of the disease.The CM said about 13,500 persons in the state were kept under surveillance. The samples of 817 persons who came in contact with Covid positive patients were taken, out of which 546 samples tested negative. He said at present there were 20 positive cases under treatment, as out of 33 Covid positive patients, 13 were discharged. He added that about 13,000 migrant labourers took shelter in relief camps, wherein counselling facility was also arranged.While expressing concern over the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi, Khattar said 1,277 Nizamuddin-returnees, including 107 foreign-returned persons were identified in five districts of the state. He said passports of persons who returned from other countries were confiscated.
03-04-2020||
||Selja: Evacuate Hry residents stranded abroad||Chandigarh, April 2 Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee President and Rajya Sabha MP Kumari Selja on Thursday requested the Haryana Government to help the people stranded abroad. She said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar should immediately take up the matter with the government and ensure that the people returned to the country. Selja said many people belonging to Haryana worked abroad. A large number of students of the state also studied in foreign countries. Many of them faced crisis during the Covid pandemic.
03-04-2020||---||1,277 Jamaat attendees traced, five test positive||Chandigarh, April 2With five persons who came to the state after Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation in Delhi’s Nizamudddin testing positive and the total number of such people traced in the state shooting up to 1,277, the health authorities in Haryana face an uphill task in their efforts to contain the spread of Covid.Two of the infected patients were traced to Ambala while three in Palwal tested positive for coronavirus, Home and Health Minister Anil Vij told ‘The Tribune’.During Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s videoconferencing with CMs on Covid, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar told him that the count of those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation and came to Haryana afterwards has shot up to 1,277. He said the number also included 107 foreigners and the jamaat returnees were traced to five districts.About the foreigners, Khattar said their passports have been confiscated and FIRs registered for various violations. He said samples of all 107 foreigners have been sent for testing and reports were awaited.The foreigners are said to be from Bangladesh, Malaysia, South Africa, Nepal and Sri Lanka. All had concealed information regarding their travel details within the country and action as per law is being contemplated against them, said Vij. “There is a possibility that some of them may have infected others who in turn unknowingly may be carriers,” he said.All 107 foreigners had been kept in isolation while samples of several others suspected cases have been sent for testing and all are being quarantined, Vij said. When asked about the purpose of this group entering Haryana, Vij said after attending the congregation.54 from delhi event isolated in Jhajjar
03-04-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram CA beats Covid, battles social stigma||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, April 2“Please don’t write my name or share my picture... I battled the Covid monster which has terrified the world and was eager to tell my story, but I didn’t realise the disease will change my life around,” says a 29-year-old resident of Sector 83 Gurugram who was discharged from hospital on Wednesday after testing negative.The last 15 days have been a life-altering experience for this chartered accountant, who returned on March 18 from an official trip to the UK. “Many people have already stopped talking to us and some even run away on seeing me, making me feel like a walking bomb. India needs to change. People are celebrating Covid warriors, I hope we could instill same feelings in them for survivors like me…” he says.He says he came back on March 18 and was fit as per airport screening, but started feeling a bit uneasy the same night and called up his doctor. “I was asked to get myself screened and to my and my family’s utter shock, my test report was positive. We immediately swung into action and I rushed to hospital. I did not show many symptoms and this gave doctors and us hope. My wife was tested too and her reports were negative. Her result gave me a bit of strength too,” he says.Calling life in the isolation ward the toughest part of his Covid battle, he says remaining positive.
03-04-2020||Sushil Manav||After Rs 2,500 cr loss, poultry industry looks to recovery||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 2Almost on the verge of collapse due to Covid outbreak, Haryana’s poultry industry in hoping for a partial revival with the end of Navratras.The state government’s go-ahead to the sale of eggs, poultry, meat and fish during the lockdown is also expected to breathe life into the poultry industry, which has suffered losses to the tune of over Rs 2,500 crore in the past one month.During Navratras, chicken prices in the wholesale market went down to Rs 35 per kg. Already, there were no takers for it due to Covid scare. Not long ago, chicken fetched a price of Rs 120 per kg. Rumours to blame?Raja Sekhar Vundru, Principal Secretary, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department, Haryana, had issued an order that all municipal and rural bodies should not only allow sale of eggs, poultry meat, meat and fish as an essential commodity, but also spread awareness on consumption of these in their respective areas.“The Government of India, in its letter dated March 30, has already clarified that chicken and eggs are a cheap source of protein and boost immunity. It added that the Covid virus is not spread through poultry and poultry products,” Vundru had said in his letter.Surinder Bhutani, general secretary of the Central Haryana Poultry Farmers Association, said sales had improved ever since the government allowed sale of poultry products, though the number of customers was still less, which could be due to Navratras.“We expect sales to pick up once Navratras end, though there is no scope of our business regaining its lost glory since hotels, restaurants and dhabas from where the maximum demand came are still closed,” said Bhutani.He said many poultry farmers culled their birds to save expenditure on feed and medicines. “But then there are a few who are hoping against hope and expecting sales to get better from tomorrow,”he explained.
03-04-2020||---||Cops scale up relief measures||Chandigarh, April 2The Haryana Police have scaled up the ongoing relief measures by providing free ration packets and cooked food to more than 5 lakh persons, including migrant labourers, daily wage earners and the needy.This has been done with the help of NGOs, philanthropists and other organisations across the state. The police, including women officers, are at the forefront in the fight against Covid-19.Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk here on Thursday said all field units were lending a helping hand to the sick and senior citizens living alone by providing them medicines and other items of daily need.Virk said the police enforced strict lockdown in the state and took cognisance of 3,545 cases of violation. In all, 839 FIRs were registered and 1,233 persons arrested for flouting lockdown orders. The police imposed a total fine of Rs 5.93 crore and 5,040 vehicles were seized across the state.Labourers’ plight
03-04-2020||Kurukshetra||KU Registrar  gets addl charge of VC||Dr Nita Khanna, Registrar of Kurukshetra University (KU), has been given additional charge of Vice Chancellor (VC). As per orders issued by Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya, also the Chancellor of the KU, Dr Nita Khanna will perform the duties of VC of KU till further orders. Dr Kailash Chandra Sharma has completed his term as VC. It was during his tenure that the KU got the A+ grade by the NAAC. — TNS
03-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC for re-arrest of three in 16-year-old drugs case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 2Nearly 16 years after four persons were sentenced to 10-year rigorous imprisonment in a drugs case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed initiation of steps to re-arrest three of them after dismissal of their appeal. The fourth convict in the case died during pendency.Convicts Nasib Singh, Darshan Singh, Balwinder Singh and Gurpreet Singh had moved the High Court after they were convicted and sentenced in July 2004 under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Gurpreet died and the appeal with regard to him stood abated in terms of an order in April 2014.“Accused Nasib, Darshan and Balwinder are on bail and necessary steps be initiated for effecting their re-arrest so that they may undergo the sentence imposed upon them,” Justice Vivek Puri ruled.The delay in the matter may sound exceptional, but is not extraordinary. National Judicial Data Grid figures reveal that the High Court, as of now, has more than 5.6 lakh pending cases. It is suspected that many of the petitioners are no more there to pursue their grievances. When some of these cases are suddenly listed, the counsel are often at a loss in the absence of complete record or instructions.Though the High Court has been making concerted efforts to bring down pendency, the number of old pending cases has been piling up progressively. With the Covid lockdown and shortage of Judges, the piles are unlikely to shrink easily. The High Court, as of now, has 55 Judges against the sanctioned strength of 85.The case has its genesis in secret information received in April 2001 by the then officer in-charge of the Shahabad police station that some unidentified persons were present on a link road from GT Road to a village between Pipli and Shahabad. Some persons were shifting goods from one truck to another.Upon seeing the police party, they tried to flee, but were apprehended. Two persons in one truck disclosed their names as Gurpreet and Balwinder and two in the other truck disclosed their names as Darshan and Nasib.The gunny bags lying there were checked after Kurukshetra’s then Deputy Superintendent of Police Anil Kumar Dhawan arrived at the spot. These were found to be containing poppy husk.Taking up the matter, Justice Puri ruled that all witnesses gave a detailed and satisfactory account of recovery of incriminating articles and sequence of events leading to it. “The judgment of conviction, as recorded by the trial court, is on the basis of satisfactory and reliable evidence and the same does not suffer from any illegality, irregularity or infirmity which may call for any interference by this court,” Justice Puri asserted.
03-04-2020||Panipat||Five more arrested in Panipat for helping migrants cross river||The police have nabbed five persons of Tamshabad village in the district for helping migrant labourers cross the Yamuna by using rubber tubes. Earlier, the police had nabbed two persons in this connection on Tuesday. Sanoli SHO Surender Dahiya said acting on a tip-off, a team raided a ghat near Tamshabad village on Wednesday and nabbed five persons for helping migrants cross the Yamuna by using rubber tubes after charging a hefty amount. — TNS
03-04-2020||
||4 suspected cases at Karnal hospital||Karnal, April 2 Four more suspected cases of Covid have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) here since last night.  Of them, three are male and one is female. All have symptoms of severe respiratory infection. They have no travel history from abroad, said the authorities of the KCGMC.  Meanwhile, the reports of two samples have come out negative. So far, the department has taken 57 samples. Of those, the reports of 53 had been declared negative. Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Civil Surgeon, said that they have screened 658 passengers with history of travelling abroad and their immediate close contacts. Out of them, as many as 293 persons have completed the 28-day quarantine and remained asymptomatic. As many as 315 persons are still under surveillance. Of these 315 persons, 81 people are on 14-day home quarantine and 234 people are on 14-28 day home quarantine. “At present, we have four suspected cases whose samples have been sent today to BPS Medical College Khanpur. As many as 53 suspected cases have already been declared negative. 25 notices of home quarantine have been pasted outside the houses of those violating the norms of home quarantine,” he added.
03-04-2020||---||Pehowa victim tests negative||Kurukshetra, April 2A Pehowa resident (in 60s), who died at the LNJP Hospital in Kurukshetra on Thursday, tested negative for Covid-19.The man, suffering from tuberculosis, was undergoing treatment at the LNJP Hospital. On Thursday morning, rumours about his death due to Covid started to spread on social media. The health department also sent his sample for testing on Wednesday evening as it was a suspected Covid case. The report arrived on Thursday evening, according to which, the sample tested negative.Following the rumours, the district administration acted promptly and a statement was issued that the deceased was an old TB patient and suffered from breathing ailments. His lungs were severely infected.Chief Medical Officer Sukhbir Singh said, “Sample of the deceased tested negative. So far, 13 samples were taken and all tested negative.”On the other hand, two more persons belonging to the Muslim community, who attended a gathering in Surat, were sent to the quarantine centre for 14 days on Thursday. As per the information available, they spent a month in Surat. They are the followers of a Mumbai-based cleric and did not attend the event at Nizamuddin in Delhi. As many as 29 persons were quarantined on Wednesday.SP Astha Modi said, “The number of quarantined people who attended a gathering in Surat increased to 31. No person, who attended the Nizamuddin meet, has come to light.”
03-04-2020||---||Suspected Covid death in Panipat, samples taken||Panipat, April 2A 28-year-old youth of Sector 13/17 died under mysterious circumstances at his home on Thursday. He returned from Gurugram five days ago and complained of cough and cold. It is suspected that he died of Covid-19.The Health Department collected samples and cremated the body as per the World Health Organisation protocol, in the presence of police and doctors. The department has put the family of the victim under home quarantine. The father of the youth is employed at the Panipat Thermal Power Station.Entry, exit points sealedDistrict Magistrate Hema Sharma on Thursday imposed restrictions on people living in the area where the death of the youth was reported. Sharma also directed the police to lay nakas at major entry and exit points of the locality. No vendors or suppliers from outside are allowed entry in the area. Dalbir Singh, SDM, Panipat, has been appointed the overall in-charge of the area.Civil Surgeon SL Verma said after receiving information from the victim’s neighbour, a team of doctors visited his home. “Following the WHO guidelines, the sample was collected and the body was handed over to the victim’s kin without postmortem,” said Dr Verma. The sample was sent to a laboratory at the Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women at Khanpur Kalan, he added. There were only three persons at the victim’s home including his father, brother and a maid.In his statement to the SHO, the victim’s father said his son worked as a salesman in Gurugram. On March 27, he went to a general hospital in Sector 10 at Gurugram after suffering from cough, cold and mild fever. The doctor suggested him to remain under home quarantine. After returning home, his father also took him to a general hospital at Panipat on March 30 for check-up.“I also talked to the Gurugram Civil Surgeon, but his samples were not collected by the health authorities there,” said Dr Verma.
03-04-2020||---||Six more test positive||Palwal, April 2With six fresh cases being reported on Thursday, Haryana’s tally reached 35. Of these, 10 were in Gurugram, six in Faridabad, four each in Panipat and Palwal, three each in Ambala and Sirsa, two in Panchkula and one each in Hisar, Sonepat and Rohtak.Three more persons have been found to be Covid positive in Palwal district in the past 24 hours. That has taken the total number of positive cases here to four. All the new positive cases are of those who took part in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi last month.The health authorities have collected samples of 44 persons for testing.A spokesperson of the Health Department said three of the 12 samples collected on Tuesday have been found positive. The report of seven others is negative. The report of two others is awaited.Ten of the 12 persons, who took part in the Tablighi programme, are Bangladesh nationals and two others are from Bihar and Assam.“While a total of 57 persons have been confined to isolation wards of the civil hospital here, three positive cases have been put on treatment as per the protocol,” said Dr Brahmdeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, here.He said the 44 persons who came into their contact have also been quarantined till their sample report is revealed.The travel history of 12 persons who reached here on March 17 from Delhi has been traced. They have come into contact with 226 persons in 201 houses in five villages of the Hathin subdivision.Of them, 113 persons were brought here last night and have been isolated at NGF college here.“We have quarantined all the houses and have notified five villages of Hunchpuri, Mahlooka, Durenchi, Mathepur and Chhainsa villages as containment zone for the next two weeks. No movement in and out of these villages will be allowed. Six other villages in their neighbourhood have been declared as buffer zone in which a door-to-door survey will be done by 25 teams to trace suspected cases,” he said.Ambala: Two more patients tested positive for Covid in Ambala on Thursday, taking the tally to three, including a 21-year-old Patiala man admitted at Ambala City Civil Hospital.Both of Thursday’s positive cases had returned after attending a religious congregation in Nizamuddin. They have been isolated at the local hospital, confirmed the Civil Surgeon.Both victims are males — a 66-year-old from Nepal and a 55-year-old from Bhiwandi in Maharashtra.The Nepal man had accompanied 10 others to the congregation, it is learnt.However, two others, who had returned from Nizamuddin and had been isolated at the local hospital since Tuesday evening, tested negative for Covid.Rohtak: A 72-year-old woman of Rohtak, who is undergoing treatment for kidney ailment and admitted to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in New Delhi, has tested positive for Covid. She is the first resident of Rohtak who has tested positive for the disease.Confirming this here today, Rohtak Civil Surgeon, Dr Anil Birla, maintained that the woman’s son is also in Delhi and his samples have also been sent for testing for Covid.“The woman’s daughter lives in Rohtak. She has been quarantined at her home. We are monitoring the situation,” he stated.
03-04-2020||Nitin Jain||State reports first casualty||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 2Haryana reported its first Covid death today with a 67-year-old resident of Ambala Cantonment succumbing to the deadly virus at the PGI in Chandigarh last night.The deceased was suffering from severe acute respiratory illness and died before his sample report confirming the infection was received at 11:45 pm, said Dr Kuldeep Singh, Ambala Civil Surgeon.He said the patient reported at the Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantonment on Tuesday with acute respiratory illness and pneumatic symptoms. He said the patient was given medical aid before being shifted to the PGI in a critical condition.The patient had undergone cardiac bypass surgery and was also suffering from diabetes and chronic kidney ailment, stated Dr Singh.He said since the patient’s condition continued to deteriorate, the PGI took his sample for Covid testing at 1:15 pm yesterday and the report was received at 11:45 pm, before which he had died.Official information revealed that the patient used to visit a gurdwara daily even during the lockdown. He had organised a religious congregation at his house in a congested locality on March 20 on the death anniversary of his mother, which was attended by a number of people.He had held another religious congregation at his house on February 21, in which several persons from the United Kingdom, Hong Kong and Australia, besides locals, participated. His daughter-in-law, working with a bank in Patiala, dealt with NRI accounts and used to commute daily between Ambala and Patiala.Following the death, the area housing his residence was sealed. Health officials took samples of eight contacts, including four family members and the maid, while four or five contacts were being traced.State tracker
