03-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Police, farmers clash on Delhi-Jaipur highway||Tribune News ServiceRewari, January 3A clash between protesting farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway near Bhudla-Sangwari village for the past three days and police was witnessed on Sunday when the former reached Masani barrage near Dharuhera town after covering 4 km from their previous halt.The police lobbed teargas shells to stop farmers. A tractor caught fire during the clash but the blaze was doused by farmers. The protesters were adamant on going ahead while the police had blocked the service lane. The farmers were trying to remove the blockade till the filing of this report.Read more: Will burn copies of new farm laws on Lohri: Farmer leadersSources said many farmers from the Tikri border today joined the camp of another group of farmers at Bhudla-Sangwari village and decided to go ahead. In the evening, they removed police barricades near their camp and moved ahead. The police resisted them initially, but let them go later. The protesters were, thereafter, stopped at Masani barrage as police used teargas shells, sources added.Happy Singh, a farmer from Rajasthan, told The Tribune that a tractor-trailer caught fire due to teargas shells. Some blankets and quilts also got burnt while some farmers who were sitting inside saved their life by jumping off the trailer. They also managed to take out an LPG cylinder, he claimed.“We wanted to go to Delhi peacefully, but the police lobbed teargas shells and used force on us to stop us from moving ahead,” said a protesting farmer, adding that they are vowed to go to Delhi and would do it come what may.Read also: 4 more protesting farmers die at Tikri border; count rises to over 50Heavy rain adds to woes of farmers protesting at Delhi bordersOn eve of talks with farmers, Tomar meets Rajnath to discuss govt strategy to end deadlockThe sudden clash resulted in the blockade at the highway. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed, causing inconvenience to commuters who had to use alternative routes to reach their respective destinations.Meanwhile, ‘Chetna Yatra’ being taken out by the farmers belonging to Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) reached the Shahjahanpur-Khera border in Rajasthan in the evening. They spent Saturday night at Gangaicha Jat toll plaza near Rewari city in the open amid bone-chilling cold. Locals provided them food and tea. The yatra would return to Tikri on Monday.Kavita Arya, a farmer leader, said they welcomed the Chetna Yatra at the Shahjahanpur border and made special arrangements for food and stay for farmers.
03-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmer agitation to continue till rollback of farm laws: Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait who reached the protest site in Gurugram on Sunday to support the ongoing farmers' stir in the national capital, while addressing the people at the protest site, said that the agitation will not end till the government rolls back the new agricultural laws.Tikait alleged that the new farm laws have been made for the benefit of capitalists. He said that till the demands of the farmers are not accepted, the farmers will stay in Delhi and keep protesting against these laws.He said that soon Rajasthan farmers will also reach the Delhi border. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Gurugram should help them in all possible ways, he said.President of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Chaudhary Santokh Singh, assured that all possible help will be given to all the farmers who come from Rajasthan.Bharatiya Kisan Union General Secretary, Yudhveer Singh, who was also present at the protest site, alleged that the government is misleading the farmers. He said that the government should abolish the three farm laws.In a joint statement, Santokh Singh said that despite the bitter cold, hundreds of workers from several workers' organisations have also been sitting on dharna in support of the demands of the farmers.He said their support to the farmers will continue till the rollback of the three farm laws.--IANS
03-01-2021||New Delhi||Intense wet spell to continue over north India till January 5: IMD||North India is likely to witness an intense wet spell till Tuesday, with a fairly widespread precipitation accompanied with thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at isolated places, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.The activities will peak on Sunday and Monday over the plains (Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan) and on Monday over the western Himalayan region (Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand), it added.After the wet spell, fresh northerly-northwesterly winds are likely to set in over the plains of northwest India, causing "cold wave to severe cold wave conditions" at isolated places in Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan from January 7 onwards, the IMD said.An active western disturbance lies as a middle-and-upper-level cyclonic circulation over central Pakistan and neighbourhood, with its induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood at lower levels.A north-south zone of wind confluence was also observed on Sunday from north Punjab to northeast Arabian Sea, with a strong interaction between southwesterly in association with the western disturbance and lower-level moist southeasterlies."All these favourable meteorological features are likely to persist till January 5 and continue to cause a moderate to intense wet spell with a fairly widespread to widespread precipitation accompanied with thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at isolated places over northwest India till the night of January 5, with peak activities on January 3 and 4 over the plains (Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan)."And on January 4 and 5 over the western Himalayan region (Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand)," the IMD said.Rains lashed the national capital in the morning. According to a MeT department official, heavy rainfall was reported in areas across Delhi and the minimum temperatures have increased due to clouds and easterly winds."The Safdarjung observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 9.9 degrees Celsius, an increase of 6.7 degrees with 25 mm rain. The Palam observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius with 18 mm rain. Rain with hailstorm is expected until January 6," the official said. --- PTI
03-01-2021||Bathinda||Braving all odds, women at forefront of farmers' protest||Women in large numbers have emerged at the forefront of the farmer's protests against the farm laws in Delhi.This has led to the new awakening of gender equality amongst the male-the dominated mindset in the state amid the farmers protest.Women of all ages are out are staging a protest demanding the repeal of the farm laws.In the past few weeks, they have braved all odds and stayed put despite Delhi’s bone-chilling winter amid lack of toilets, privacy or hygiene. Many are staying in the tractors in the cold.These women have given a new fillip to the protests as some can be seen singing revolutionary songs, while others are giving fiery speeches. They have been occupying front rows and are shouting slogans against the anti-government.Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary BKU Ekta Ugrahan said “We have always believed that women should be given equal respect and chances as they are no less than men in any aspect, due to which our union has mobilized women in large numbers to participate in this protest.”Harjinder Kaur Bindu, BKU Ekta Ugrahan women wing president said: “More than 2,000 women are staging a protest at Tikri border only and we have known that this fight against three farm laws would be big, so we planned that farmers along with their families would participate in this protest and mobilize the farmers accordingly.”She stated that young girls, college-going women, newly married women and the elderly were all are participating in the protest.80-year-old Mohinder Kaur of Bahadurgarh Jandian in Bathinda, who hit the national headlines after Kangana Ranaut tweeted her photo, said: “I went to Delhi to participate in protest because the union government want to give their lands to the big corporate houses, to save my land, I went to Delhi.”Paramjit Kaur of Bathinda district, who along with his 10-year-old daughter is in protest at Tikri border said: “They have sacrificed everything and has come here along with her family in protest to save our land, because if we will not have land, then how we will survive. It is a fight for our survival, so she will be staying along with her family till these laws are not repealed”.
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana experience widespread rain||The minimum temperature rose on Sunday in most parts of Punjab and Haryana following widespread  rain in both the states.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its minimum at 11.4 degrees Celsius, six degrees above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective lows at 11.3, 11.1 and 11 degrees Celsius, up to eight degrees above normal.The minimum temperature in Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 12, 9.1, 11.3, 5.4, 8.5 and 3.3 degrees Celsius respectively.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their respective minimums at 9.4, 7.2 and 10 degrees Celsius, up to three notches above normal.Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa recorded their minimums at 9.5, 9.4, 5.9 and 8.3 degrees Celsius respectively, up to five degrees above normal.Among places which witnessed rain in the past 24 hours are Chandigarh (0.8 mm), Ambala (8.4mm), Karnal (2 mm), Rohtak (8.4mm), Amritsar (2.4 mm), Ludhiana (0.6 mm), Patiala (0.2 mm), Pathankot (2.6 mm), Adampur (5.4 mm) and Gurdaspur (4.1mm).A few places including Hisar, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Ludhiana also witnessed fog.The MeT Department said heavy rain is likely at isolated places in Punjab and Haryana in the next 24 hours. PTI
03-01-2021||---||4 more protesting farmers die at Tikri border; count rises to over 50||Jhajjar/Sonepat, January 3Two farmers protesting against the Centre’s three agri laws reportedly died at Tikri border on Saturday night.The two farmers were from Bathinda (Punjab) and Jind (Haryana).Meanwhile, two more farmers died at Kundli (Singhu) border today.The deceased have been identified as 45-year-old Kulbeer of Gangana village (Sonepat) and 45-year-old Shamsher Singh of Lidhra village of Sangrur district (Punjab).The cause of death for all four is reported to be a cardiac arrest.The dead bodies of the farmers have been sent to a mortuary at Sonepat.As many as 13 protesters have, so far, have lost their lives during the ongoing farmers’ protest at Tikri. Of those 13, a total of 11 have died due to cardiac arrest.So far, a total of 50 farmers have died while protesting against the farm laws on the Delhi borders.In the first 15 days the protest at Delhi, as many as 15 farmers died either owing to the cold weather conditions or accidents.Since then, the number of casualties has been continuously increasing.As per a list released by the Sanjyutka Kisan Morcha on December 16, a total of 30 farmers have died during the protest against the three farm laws. Since then, as many as 20 more succumbed to either accidents or health issues.The 32 farmer organisations had given the ‘Delhi Chalo’ call for November 26 and 27. Following a massive response from Punjab, a large number of farmers from other parts of the country also reached the capital borders.
03-01-2021||---||Cellphones found in Ambala Central jail||Ambala, January 2The Ambala Central Jail authorities yesterday recovered four cellphones, three sim cards and a charger during a search operation.DSP, Jail, Rakesh Kumar, in his complaint, said one cellphone each was recovered from Biraspal and Akshay, while two mobile phones were recovered from Randeep Rana. A sim card was found from Jai Kumar and a charger from Vikramjeet. A case has been registered in this regard.Meanwhile, a case was registered at the Baldev Nagar police station after a cellphone was recovered from another inmate, Digambar, on Saturday.
03-01-2021||At least five students of a private school were injured when their bus overturned near Garhi village on NH-9 in Hansi subdivision of Hisar district on Saturday.||5 students hurt as bus overturns||The bus was on its way to the school when it collided with a Haryana Roadways bus. As many as 10 students escaped unhurt.Block education officer Subhash Varma said dense fog could have led to the accident. Baas police station in-charge Narender Pal said the driver had been booked for rash & negligent driving. TNS
03-01-2021||Ambala||Venod Sharma hits back at rival’s remark over cash-for-votes||Hitting back at Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) founder Nirmal Singh, Haryana Jan Chetna Party chief Venod Sharma today said, “Victory and defeat are a part of election, but it hurts more when you lose your security deposit too.” He said, “We should accept the public’s mandate.” — TNS
03-01-2021||Yamunanagar||Man held for bid to abuse minor in Yamunanagar||A person allegedly made an attempt to sexually abuse a 12-year-old girl of a colony in Jagadhri town.The accused, identified as Prem Kumar of Jagadhri, also allegedly misbehaved with a woman head constable, when a police team went to investigate the said case.After registering a case, the police arrested the accused and produced him before a court on Friday where he was sent to judicial custody.A woman, in her police complaint, said she had three children. “My eldest daughter (12) had been disturbed for several days. On being asked repeatedly, she told me that a few days ago, our neighbour Prem Kumar came to our house and made an attempt to sexually abuse her,” said the complainant.According to information, the accused also misbehaved with a woman head constable. — TNS
03-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram trader robbed of Rs 16K at gunpoint||Gurugram, January 2A local shop in Farrukhnagar was robbed by armed persons on Friday evening. The accused flashing a pistol fled the spot with some goods and the cash available at counter.An FIR has been registered at Farrukhnagar police station.According to a complaint filed by Deepak Aggarwal of Ward No. 4 here, he was at his shop located in main market when three men came there for shopping.“My salesmen Rohit and Nishant were also there. The trio selected some items worth Rs 16,000. When I asked them for the payment, one of them took out a pistol and threatened me. They snatched Rs 7,000 from the counter and fled the spot. Later the police was called,” Aggarwal told the police.As per the complaint, an FIR has been registered. The police said they were trying to identify the accused with the help of CCTV footage.
03-01-2021||Faridabad||4 held with 12 stolen vehicles in Faridabad||The police claimed to have busted a gang of vehicle thieves by arresting four persons. As many as 12 vehicles, including nine motorcycles, have been recovered from the accused.According to police officials, the accused, identified as Faisal, Yunus, Jahul and Ismail, all residents of Nuh district, were nabbed from a spot near Hardware Chowk in the city on the basis of input from the sources on Wednesday evening.Two days of police remand of the accused led to recovery of nine motorcycles and three cars, which had been stolen from Faridabad, Gurugram and Delhi in the past two years. A countrymade revolver and a live cartridge have also been recovered. It is revealed that the accused used to dispose of the stolen vehicles in Nuh, Mewat district.“The accused had been active in the region for the past several years and had been arrested earlier too,” said a police official. He said the accused had been remanded to judicial custody on Saturday. — TNS
03-01-2021||Jhajjar||8 days after minor’s rape, chargesheet filed||The local police have filed a chargesheet into the abduction, rape and murder case of a five-year-old daughter of a migrant labourer from Madhya Pradesh.The case was registered with City police station here on December 21. The chargesheet was filed within eight days on December 29 and 25 persons have been made witnesses in the case.A 27-year-old man — Vinod alias Munna — kidnapped the girl from her room and took her to his house on the intervening night of December 20 and 21 where he raped and murdered her.The police later recovered the body of the girl after breaking open the main door of the accused’s house. The accused in a drunken state was present there.A case under Section 376AB (committing rape of a girl under 12 years of age), 302 (murder), 365 (kidnapping any person with intent to cause that person to be secretly and wrongfully confined) of the IPC and Section 6 of POCSO Act was filed against the accused on the complaint of the victim’s father. — TNS
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryna to open 1st vehicle charging station tomorrow in Panchkula||Haryana will soon have its first electric vehicle charging station in Panchkula. It will be inaugurated on January 4 by Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Tarun Kapoor, and Additional Chief Secretary, New and Renewable Energy Department, TC Gupta.An official spokesperson said that this electric vehicle charging station will be the first station in Haryana. It has the capacity to charge every electric vehicle varying from small to large.He said the Department of New and Renewable Energy had been designated as the state nodal agency for setting up the infrastructure. — TNS
03-01-2021||---||SIT to probe suicide of woman employee||Hisar, January 2The Jind police will form a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the death of Bhateri Devi, a contractual employee in the Saral office of Uchana subdivision.The woman, a resident of Khatkar village, allegedly died by suicide and left a five-page note and an audio recording in which she blamed 12 persons, including the Uchana SDM, of harassment and abetment to suicide.SDM among accusedSHO, Uchana police station, Ravinder Kumar said the district police chief would assign the inquiry to the Special Investigation Team after which a formal inquiry would begun.The accused also include some employees of the SDM office, who allegedly harassed her and issued a driving licence from her user ID in violation of the rules and regulations.
03-01-2021||Gurugram||College students want exams cancelled||Students of Government Girls College, Sector 14, here staged a protest on Saturday after being asked to appear for offline exams despite being promoted on the basis of online performance.On being contacted, College principal RK Garg said the Gurugram University Vice-Chancellor had called for a review meeting on January 4. — OC
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Govt transfers 56 HCS officers||Haryana Government today issued posting and transfer orders of 56 HCS officers with immediate effect.Vandana Disodia, Additional Director (Admn), Mid-Day Meals, Elementary Education, has been posted as OSD in the office of Divisional Commissioner, Karnal.Gajender Singh, City Magistrate, Nuh, and Additional Director (Admn), Medical College, Nalhar (Nuh), has been posted as Additional Director (Admn), Medical College, Nalhar (Nuh) and Deputy CEO, Mewat Development Agency.Vinesh Kumar, City Magistrate, Yamunanagar has been posted as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Shahbad. Preetpal Singh Mothsara, City Magistrate, Kurukshetra, and Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Ladwa, has been posted as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Kalayat.Suresh Ravesh, City Magistrate, Kaithal, has been posted as Estate Officer, HSVP, Bhiwani. Kapil Kumar, City Magistrate, Fatehabad, has been posted as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Ladwa.Vijaya Malik, City Magistrate, Karnal, has been posted as Estate Officer, HSVP, Jagadhri. Laxmi Narayan, City Magistrate, Mahendragarh, has been posted as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Siwani.Suresh Kumar, City Magistrate, Charkhi Dadri, has been posted as Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Rohtak. Surinder Singh, City Magistrate, Rohtak, has been posted as Additional Director (Admn), PGIMS, Rohtak. Uday Singh, City Magistrate, Sonepat, has been posted as Managing Director, Cooperative Sugar Mill, Gohana.Sandeep Kumar, City Magistrate, Sirsa, has been posted as Estate Officer, HSVP, Sirsa. Hosyar Singh, City Magistrate, Jind, has been posted as Estate Officer, HSVP, Jind. Braham Parkash, City Magistrate, Gurugram, has been posted as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Tauru.Rajender Kumar, City Magistrate, Hisar, has been posted as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Barwala. Parveen Kumar, City Magistrate, Jhajjar, has been posted as Managing Director, Cooperative Sugar Mill, Jind. Sanjeev Kumar, City Magistrate, Rewari, has been posted as Joint Director (Admn), Medical College, Khanpur Kalan. Dinesh, City Magistrate, Palwal, has been posted as Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Ballabgarh. — TNS
03-01-2021||Panipat||Youth killed in Panipat, honour killing suspected||A 25-year-old youth was stabbed to death near Bhawna Chowk here on Friday.The police suspect it to be a case of honour killing. Two family members of the youth’s wife have been booked.The deceased has been identified as Neeraj of New Ramesh Nagar.Gulshan, father of the deceased, said that Neeraj had an inter-caste marriage with Komal of Vijay Nagar around 45 days ago. But Vijay alias Chhota, brother of Komal, and other family members were not happy with the marriage.Gulshan alleged that Vijay, along with his cousin Pawan of Jawa colony, stabbed his son to death near Bhawna chowk. A case has been registered against Vijay and Pawan. — TNS
03-01-2021||---||2 held with 244-kg ganja in Jhajjar||Jhajjar, January 2The district police seized 244-kg ganja (cannabis) valued at Rs 25 lakh from a vehicle in Beri town here on Friday night and arrested two persons in this connection.The consignment was being taken to Rajasthan from a place located on the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border. The arrested persons have been identified as Ajit of Balkara village in Charkhi Dadri and Basant of Uttar Pradesh.Jhajjar Superintendent of Police Rajesh Duggal said the ganja was packed in six bags so that no one could suspect them.“On a tip-off about smuggling of narcotics, a team of Beri police jointly led by Inspector Manoj Kumar and ASI Amit Kumar put up a naka on the Jhajjar road in Beri town and started checking vehicles. The vehicle was intercepted and on checking, the police seized the ganja,” said Duggal, adding that the duo was rounded up and a case under the NDPS Act was registered against them.ASP Vikrant Bhushan claimed it was the biggest consignment of narcotics seized by the Jhajjar police over the past some time.“The accused will be produced in the court today to take them on police remand. Some vital information about the racket and those involved is likely to come out,” said Bhushan.
03-01-2021||---||Showers can’t dampen our spirit, say protesters||Sonepat, January 2Firm on their demands of repealing of the three farm laws, the farmers continued their protest on the 37th day at Singhu border despite bone-chilling cold and showers on Saturday.The rain on Friday night and on Saturday morning added to the farmers’ difficulties but the farmers’ confidence went up rather than going down.The farmers said that they were neither afraid of the shivering cold nor of the rain. “We will not step back till the government repeals the three farm laws,” they said.“We face these cold waves and rain in our fields regularly and these cannot defeat our mission,” said Gurbachan Singh of Sangrur district in Punjab.We have come here with full preparation and have no shortage here. We pray to God that the government should fulfil our demand as soon as possible as we are only demanding our rights, said farmer Jagjeet Singh of Ludhiana.On the other side, many protesters, especially elders and women along with children, spent time in their trolleys and under waterproof tents.Villagers from nearby places reached the dharna site with tarpaulin and polythene to cover the tents and also provided tea, milk, hot beverages to the protesting farmers.Commuters as well as farmers were forced to face problems as the road was covered with mud due to rain. But the farmers – men and women — cleaned the mud from under the trolleys and on the road.
03-01-2021||Our Correspondent||No headway in Manesar murder case||Gurugram, January 2With the police making no major headway in Manesar property dealer murder case even after 10 days, the panchayat has given a seven-day deadline to cops.The panchayat, held in the village’s Bhishm temple on Saturday, threatened to block the national highway and hold protest at tehsil office if the police fail to yield any results within a week.The panchayat had called the Commissioner of Police to address the doubts but ACP (crime) Preet Pal Singh Sangwan attended instead and promised swift action.“We have waited for 10 days already. We will wait for one more week and if no leads are made we will be left with no choice but to stage a protest to get justice,” said panchayat.ACP Sangwan told in panchayat that they got some vital clues and their teams were working on it. The police hope that the accused will be arrested soon.It was on December 24 when 46-year-old property dealer Ravinder Yadav of Manesar was shot dead near Gadoli village on Pataudi road by unidentified men. His body was found near his abandoned car. An FIR had been registered.Village sarpanch Vijay Pal, also Ravinder’s friend, told the police that around 10 pm he was on a video call with Ravinder and the phone was disconnected after he heard a crash.“We searched for him the entire night but got to know from the police that his body was found near Gadoli village. We want the accused to be arrested immediately,” said the sarpanch.
03-01-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana info commission seeks reply on Ashok Khemka rejoinder||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2The proceedings before Haryana’s State Information Commission (SIC) have revealed that neither the office of Chief Secretary nor Town and Country Planning (TCP) Department have information related to total remuneration paid to Justice SN Dhingra (retd), who led an inquiry commission into land deals involving Robert Vadra.On the RTI information sought by senior IAS officer Ashok Khemka, it has been told that counsel Tushar Mehta, currently Solicitor General of India, was paid Rs 61.6 lakh for eight hearings for defending Dhingra Commission.State Public Information Officer (SPIO), political department of Chief Secretary office, transferred the RTI application of Khemka to SPIO-cum-Accounts Officer, TCP Department, under Section 6(3) of RTI Act. It was claimed that remuneration paid to Justice Dhingra was related to TCP Department.Khemka had told the SIC that none of the SPIOs were submitting information. After that, Chief Information Commissioner Yash Pal Singal ordered for supplying information “in the interest of justice, transparency, accountability and good governance” vide its order dated, October 27, 2020, within 15 days and sought compliance report.SPIO of TCP Department told Khemka vide its letter dated December 15, 2020 that no amount has been paid to Justice Dhingra as per records.Now, Khemka in a rejoinder, dated December 24, 2020, told the SIC that “this is a deliberate denial of information to cover up the huge waste of public money in appointing the Inquiry Commission. The Commission is requested to initiate penal action u/s 20 of the RTI Act and ask the government through the Chief Secretary to supply the information sought.”The SIC has sought replies from political department of the office of Chief Secretary and also TCP Department by January 15.
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Four fatalities, 239 fresh cases in Haryana||With four deaths and 239 fresh cases, the Covid tally of the state reached 2.62 lakh today. One death each was reported from Panipat, Panchkula, Yamunanagar and Mahendragarh.The maximum fresh cases came from Gurugram at 64, followed by 24 from Ambala, and 20 each from Faridabad and Panchkula. —TNS
03-01-2021||---||Dry run in Panchkula for Covid vaccine roll out||Chandigarh, January 2For Covid vaccine roll out in the state, the Health Department today conducted a dry run in Panchkula district as planned by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Prabhjot Singh, MD, National Health MissionPhase I: over 67 lakh will get jabOver an year, 67 lakh beneficiaries will be vaccinated in Haryana, including 2 lakh healthcare workers, 4.5 lakh frontline workers, 58 lakh population above 50 years and 2.25 lakh population below 50 years with co-morbidities. Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajeev Arora, said, “The primary aim of the dry run was to exercise end-to-end testing of Covid vaccination rollout so as to identify the challenges. It will further help in formulating detailed plans for actual implementation of the vaccine roll out and also to provide confidence to programme managers at various levels. The dry run will also help to monitor and review the preparedness at the district and block levels and gather empirical data.”Besides this, a dry run has been planned across the state of Haryana on January 7 as well.Regarding sites in Panchkula district, he said, “The dry run in Panchkula today was conducted at four identified sites with two sites in urban and rural settings each. The sites in urban areas are in Sector 4 dispensary and Sector 8 dispensary while in rural area are in Primary Health Centre-Kot and Primary Health Centre-Raipur Rani.” The platform of existing universal immunisation programme of the state with enhanced capacity will be used for providing Covid vaccine.As per guidelines given by the Centre, the Covid vaccine introduction will span over a year with multiple groups being included sequentially starting from healthcare workers; frontline workers like municipal and sanitary workers, state and central police force, civil defence, armed forces, population above 50 years and population below 50 years with co-morbidities.Prabhjot Singh, MD, National Health Mission, said, “Over an year, 67 lakh beneficiaries will be vaccinated in Haryana including 2 lakh healthcare workers, 4.5 lakh frontline workers, 58 lakh population above 50 years and 2.25 lakh population below 50 years with co-morbidities.”He added that hands-on training on operationalisation and use of CoWIN platform for vaccine and beneficiary management was also given to the participants.
03-01-2021||---||Bhartiya Kisan Union Ugrahan launches ‘Chetna Yatra’ on tractors||Rohtak, January 2Without waiting for the outcome of the proposed meeting with the Central Government on January 4, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) today launched ‘Chetna Yatra’ on hundreds of tractors-trailers from the Rohad toll plaza on the Rohtak-Delhi highway to the Shahjahanpur-Khera border in Rajasthan.Shingara Singh Maan, State President, Bhartiya Kisan Union, UgrahanGarnering support of localsThe yatra is aimed at enhancing local participation in the ongoing agitation to pressurise the Central Government to repeal the three ‘black’ laws. We had announced to carry out the yatra between January 2 and 4 before the last meeting between Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and the Union Government on December 30.Farmers reached the Gangachai Jat toll plaza on the Jhajjar-Rewari highway, 10 km from Rewari city, at 7 pm after passing through Sampla (Rohtak) and Aasanda, Bhapdauda, Chhara and Jhajjar city. They camped there instead of moving ahead at night in the bone-chilling cold.The toll barrier, too, started providing free passage to the commuters as soon as the farmers reached there. The barrier had been charging toll from the commuters despite the farmers’ call for free passage. The place is about 40 km from the Shahjahanpur border.“The yatra is aimed at enhancing local participation in the ongoing agitation to pressurise the Central Government to repeal the three ‘black’ laws. We had announced to carry out the yatra between January 2 and 4 before the last meeting between Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and the Union Government on December 30,” said Shingara Singh Maan, state president of the BKU (Ugrahan).Maan said they interacted with farmers in every village on the way and urged them to support the agitation. “The villagers accorded a warm welcome to the yatra and also organised a langar near Silana village in Jhajjar district. We are confident about a huge participation of locals in the protest in the coming days. We will move towards the Shahjahanpur border on Sunday morning and return to Tikri the next day,” he added.Hakkam Singh Walia, another protester from Punjab, said police personnel extended full support to them during the yatra. Jaspal Singh, another farmer from Fazilka, said the yatra would play a vital role in further strengthening the protest.Ashok Arya, a leader of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, said special arrangements were being made at the Shahjahanpur border to welcome the yatra.
03-01-2021||---||Farmers stage dharna, seek Kaithal MLA’s apology for ‘offensive’ remarks||Karnal/Yamunanagar, January 2Intensifying their agitation against the three agriculture laws, farmers today staged a protest outside the residence of Kaithal MLA Leela Ram on the Dhand road. They also raised slogans against the Union and state governments.The protesters demanded an apology from the MLA for his “derogatory” remarks against the farmers in which he had stated that there was no farmer at the Delhi border and people sitting there were shouting slogans in support of Khalistan. “We are not terrorists, but farmers. Not a single protesting farmer supports Pakistan and Khalistan, but it’s our MLA who described us as Khalistanis. He should tender an apology for this,” said a protester.After protesting outside the residence of MLA Leela Ram¸ the farmers moved towards the residence of Minister of State for Women and Child Welfare Department Kamlesh Dhanda on the Ambala road in Kaithal. The police tried to stop them by installing barricades there, but the farmers drove a tractor and hit the barricades to remove them. It was a narrow escape for some police personnel, who were standing behind the barricades to stop the protesters.Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha MP and Congress leader Deepender Singh Hooda has urged the Central Government to leave its stubborn attitude and repeal the three farm laws with immediate effect.Deepender, who met the protesting farmers at the Milk Majra toll plaza on the Panchkula-Yamunanagar national highway today, said, “We stand with the farmers. I have decided not to celebrate my birthday on January 4 until the farmers win their fight against the farm laws,” said the MP.He also sought the martyr status for those farmers who died during the agitation.During his one-day tour of the district, he visited the houses of Congress leader Brijpal Chhappar, former MLA Subhash Chaudhary and Radaur MLA Bishan Lal Saini.Earlier, addressing the gathering at the toll plaza, Deepender exhorted every citizen of the country to extend support to the farmers.
03-01-2021||Sushil Manav||4,500 units near Tikri hit hard||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2Farmers’ protests at the Tikri border have hit Bahadurgarh industry hard as over 4,500 units, including 1,500 footwear manufacturers having annual turnover of over Rs 10,000 crore, are almost completely shut because of the sealing of the border.On the other hand, over 8,000 industries in Kundli, Rai, Murthal, Garhi and Sonepat near the Singhu border are functioning almost as usual except for having to face some hike in transportation rates and time-consuming travel.Subhash Jagga, general secretary of Footwear Park, Bahadurgarh, who is also general secretary of Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCCI), said over 4,500 industries based there are almost shut due to sealing of Tikri border due to the protests.“Many of our labourers come from Delhi. Most of the unit owners also hail from Delhi. We depend hugely on the national capital for our raw material and also for the sale of finished goods. With Delhi’s borders with Bahadurgarh closed at Tikri for almost 40 days now, we don’t have any chance of running our units,” said Jagga.Bahadurgarh is the hub of the footwear industry. Of the 4,500-odd units there, 1,500 are footwear manufacturers having an annual turnover of over Rs 10,000 crore.Industry owners in Bahadurgarh town claim that they have been facing issues since March when the industry was shut due to Covid-related lockdown.“The industry started opening in July after the lockdown was lifted, but our production had hardly attained 60 per cent of the pre-March stage that the farmers’ protests at Tikri shut our business again,” alleged another industry owner.While the industry at Bahadurgarh has been hit hard by the protests, those at Kundli, Rai, Murthal, Garhi and Sonepat near the Singhu border are functioning as usual despite a large number of protesters sitting there.“Farmers at Singhu are largely from Punjab while those at Tikri are from Haryana. The Punjabi farmers don’t stop anyone from crossing while they are sitting on the roadsides. Rather, they help commuters, including drivers of transportation vehicles, to pass safely and guide them towards the village routes. I have to drive through the road where the farmers are sitting and I am often offered mineral water bottles and food items, including pizzas,” said Rakesh Chhabra, president of Rai Industrial Association. Chhabra said that it was only because the police don’t allow them to cross their barricades at Singhu that they have to take village routes, but the farmers never harass anyone.
03-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Norms violated, NHM cancels selection of 43 staffers in Panipat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, January 2A probe ordered by Health Minister Anil Vij has detected anomalies in the selection of nurses, ANMs, programme officers and computer operators recruited under the National Health Mission in 2019.The mission director has ordered the cancellation of recruitment on 43 posts and sought details from the Panipat Civil Surgeon.Ranbeer Singh of Hathwala village, who was among the unsuccessful applicants, had alleged corrupt practices by the selection committee. For 64 posts, advertised in September 2019, candidates were finalised in “violation” of norms. Those selected had joined service in January last year.Probe findingsA probe by the City Magistrate states that as per the directions, the applicants residing near the PHC/CHC should be given 20 and 15 marks each, respectively, and those residing in Panipat should get 10 marks each, but the committee gave 20 marks to each candidate.Besides, a nominee of the DC was mandatory on the panel, but no member was present. The NHM Director has ordered cancellation of recruitment of those applicants to whom 20 marks were wrongfully given.Ranbeer Singh claimed: “As per norms, even if anomalies are found in 30 per cent cases, the entire recruitment has to be cancelled.” Dr SL Verma, Civil Surgeon, said: “We have received the order from the NHM Director and will act accordingly.”
