03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records highest single-day jump in COVID-19 deaths, new cases||Haryana on Thursday reported its highest single-day spike in COVID-19 deaths with 19 new fatalities, while the total number of infections also rose by a record 1,881, officials said.The rise on Thursday pushed the cumulative figures to 740 deaths and 70,099 cases, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Three fatalities each were reported from Karnal and Kurukshetra, two each from Jind, Yamunanagar, Hisar, Ambala and Gurgaon, and a death each was reported from Faridabad, Panchkula and Sirsa districts.For the past few weeks, the state has recorded a surge in COVID-19 cases.On July 31, the total number of cases in Haryana was 34,965, which soared to 64,732 by August 31.The districts that reported fresh cases include Gurgaon (224), Sonepat (190), Faridabad (150), Panipat and Panchkula (128 each), Sirsa (115), Karnal (112), Hisar (111), Kurukshetra (100), Rewari (94) and Yamunanagar and Ambala (92 each), as per the bulletin.The number of active cases stands at 13,470, while 55,889 patients have been discharged after recovery.As of Thursday, the state’s recovery rate stands at 79.73 per cent, a slight drop from 81.05 per cent on Tuesday. The fatality rate is at 1.06 per cent, while the rate at which infections are doubling is 33 days. PTI
03-09-2020||Mukesh Tandon||75 staffers at Sukhdev, Garam Dharam dhabas in Murthal test positive; eateries sealed||Tribune News ServicePanipat, September 3As many as 65 staffers of famous Sukhdev dhaba in Murthal on NH-44 in Sonepat district have tested positive for COVID-19 while 10 staffers of the adjoining Garam Dharam Dhaba, owned by film star Dharmender, also tested positive for COVID-19.The Sonepat administration has ordered to seal the duo dhabas till further orders and directed to sanitise the eateries.As per the information available, the district administration has begun a special drive for the sampling of the workers at the dhabas in Murthal. In continuation of the drive, the health teams have collected samples of approximately 300 workers of Sukhdev dhaba, of which 65 have tested positive for COVID.The owner of Sukhdev dhaba had called its labour from Bihar in a bus four days ago and told the health department to conduct their tests.Dr Geeta Dahiya, Deputy Civil Surgeon and Nodal Officer, said the labourers at Sukhdev dhaba had come from outside and the second samples’ report of some were found positive. Besides, some labourers were also found positive at Garam-Dharam dhaba, she added.All have been quarantined at their home.Notably, Amrik-Sukhdev Dhaba in Murthal is a favourite point for commuters and heavy rush of commuters is seen each day here, especially from people from Delhi-NCR and Punjab.Sonepat DC Shyam Lal Poonia said a special drive had been launched to conduct a test of all workers at all dhabas and hotels in Murthal to check the spread of the disease.
03-09-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak PGIMS sends COVID-19 patients to COVID Care Centres as cases rise||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 3With an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in Rohtak and nearby districts, the authorities concerned at Rohtak PGIMS have started shifting COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms to COVID care centres being managed by the Health Department and district administration.As per the official data, as many as 119 positive COVID patients are lodged at Rohtak PGIMS as of now. Though a total of 520 beds have been earmarked for COVID patients in various wings of PGIMS, only 175 beds have been dedicated to COVID patients at the institute so far.As per the officials engaged in the management and control of COVID-19, work is going on to strengthen the preparedness for the probable rise in the number of COVID patients in the coming weeks.“Arrangements are being made to provide more beds for COVID patients. While the trauma centre has already been dedicated to COVID hospital, the newly built modular operation theatre complex is also being modified to lodge COVID patients. Certain other blocks and wings have been kept on standby for the purpose,” said Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, state Nodal Officer for COVID-19.Rohtak Civil Surgeon Dr Anil Birla stated that five COVID Care Centres had been set up to lodge COVID patients, but as of now, some patients had been lodged at only one of these centres.On being questioned about the complaints regarding the lack of basic amenities such as adequate drinking water and clean washrooms at the said centre, the Civil Surgeon maintained that a team of the Health Department had inspected the centre and the complaint was found baseless.
03-09-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugarm||36 jail inmates who tested positive for COVID-19 shifted to government quarantine centre in Gurugram||In what has brought the health authorities on its toes, 36 jail inmates who tested positive for COVID-19 have been shifted to health department’s institutional quarantine rather than creation of a facility inside the jail.This shifting has left the authorities taxed not just with patient care but also with the responsibility of their security against any attempts to flee.The Bhondsi jail of Gurugram emerged as a Covid hub yesterday when 18 out 80 of inmates tested positive.Today again 18 more inmates were found positive. Rather than isolating them in the jail premises, the authorities shifted them to a government isolation centre in Sector 9A.The centre now has staff deputed to take care of sanitation, food and medical surveillance of the inmates in addition to security provided by police.“The Covid spread in the jail is surely a matter of concern hinting at lapses in distancing and usage of masks. Initially two inmates had tested positive and when went on to trace contacts, all 36 inmates had tested positive in last two days. They should have been quarantined in jail but have been shifted here,” said a senior health official.Meanwhile, 37 NSG commandos including a doctor have tested positive in the last two days. All the commandos are in home isolation inside the NSG premises.As per the guidelines, a special quarantine centre was suggested in Faridabad for jail inmates but they were shifted in health department quarantine centre“We are focused on contact tracing of these inmates. They must be quarantined inside the jail but we are waiting for the government instructions and police are also watching them in our quarantine centre,” said civil surgeon Dr Virender Yadav.Despite several attempts jail superintendent Harender Singh could not be contacted.
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt issues guidelines for film shootings in state||The Haryana government on Thursday issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) and guidelines for resuming film shootings in the state that include measures such as social distancing and mandatory use of face covers or masks for cast and crew, except for actors in front of the camera.As per the guidelines, the duration of the shooting should be restricted to the minimum possible time and not more than 50 people should be allowed to be present at a spot."Locations will be chosen taking into consideration whether the locality falls in or near containment zones. Permissions and approvals will be given only for safe zones," an official spokesman of the Home Department said while detailing the guidelines for film shootings.The guidelines were issued after the Centre last month announced SOPs for resuming shooting of films and TV programmes.The spokesman said that in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, all applications seeking permission for shooting of films would be submitted on an online portal and initial approval will be granted by the Director General, Information, Public Relations and Languages Department (DGIPR).         "The application will then be forwarded to deputy commissioners of the districts concerned in which the proposed locations for shooting will be mentioned," he added.  He said that as per guidelines, all applications will include full details of locations, the number of days and the timing for which permission is required.The spokesman said that the deputy commissioners will consult with police authorities before granting permission. A copy of the permit will be endorsed to the police authorities for information and necessary action."The duration of shooting should be restricted to the minimum possible (time) and not more than 50 persons should be present. Moreover, shooting will commence only after all the persons involved are thermally scanned and are found asymptomatic," he said.  "Every set will have one person recording information about all crew members and anti-contagion measures," the spokesman said.The spokesman further said that all non-acting crew members including the support staff will wear masks during the entire course of shooting and will be instructed to maintain social distancing norms as applicable.  "Social distancing norms will have to be maintained except for the ones who are being filmed. The production house will also have to take charge of assigning designated people to open doors, to ensure used masks are disposed off properly and not left unattended, food items are handled in a proper manner, etc," he added.He said that shooting venues should have sanitizers, soaps and water, and furthermore, the members present should frequently wash their hands.Washing and sanitizing hands will be a mandatory step for everyone on entry, exit and during the shoot.  In order to avoid crowding, enforcement of crowd control by private security personnel would have to be ensured, he said.The spokesman said that use of mobile toilets, portable wash basins is mandatory (unless the shooting venue has a dedicated toilet facility available) and it should be strategically placed if possible, bathing arrangements should also be provided."All these facilities should be separate for men and women. These facilities should be manned and sanitized continuously. And in case any crew member is found ill, the same to be reported to the nearest health centre immediately," he added. PTI
03-09-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Mewat village turns ATM scammers’ hub||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, September 2In what has set the alarm bells ringing for the Haryana Police, a quaint village in Hodal block of Mewat seems to be emerging as the next Jamtara — a Jharkhand town notorious for cyber crime. Having adopted an organised syndicate model, over 200 youth of Ghaghot village in Palwal are committing ATM frauds across the region.The issue has been brought to the notice of the state DGP by the police of various states, including Delhi, Rajasthan, Punjab and even Haryana.Inhabited by around 600 people, the Meo Muslim village has at least one man from each family involved in the illegal activity. The syndicate deputes members to various cities having people with low-tech awareness. They either clone or swap ATM cards while pretending to help gullible customers inside teller machine booths. Within days, they decant the bank accounts.Started by two-three families some 10 years ago when cards made advent in Mewat, this has now become means of mass livelihood. The fraudsters bank on either non-registration of FIRs or being booked under easily bailable sections like IPC 420.There are many cases in Hodal itself where it takes years to register a complaint. Two such complainants have written to the DGP saying their FIR had not been registered even after almost a month.The fraudsters are learnt to be computer-savvy and aware of the functioning of the ATMs.A few villagers took to the activity about 10 years ago when a majority of Mewat people had problems in operating ATM cards. They would pretend helping people withdraw money and swap cards instead.Those expert in the “trade” even impart coaching to youngsters to clone cards and violate machines.While Palwal SP Deepak Ahlawat did not respond to calls, a senior official said, “The problem of this village is similar to several others in Mewat — residents support criminals. They obstruct raids, hide them and even go on to negotiate with complainants before the accused reach court. They don’t use phone, which makes tracking them difficult. Most of the fraudsters operate outside the district and even the state.”Land of conmen
03-09-2020||Ambala||2 thieves strike at ATM in Ambala, make off with Rs 9 lakh||Two unidentified miscreants targeted an ATM of Indian Bank, Shahapur branch, on the national highway in Ambala Cantonment and took away over Rs9 lakh from it after using a gas cutter in the wee hours of Wednesday.In a complaint to the police, Priyanshu Taank, bank manager, said he got information about the theft at 6.19 am. There was an amount of Rs 9,13,600 in the machine when the thieves struck.A case has been registered at the Parao police station under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC.Parao SHO Devender Singh said, “We have obtained the CCTV footage in which two men, wearing monkey caps, are seen. Efforts are on to trace them. Negligence on the part of the security guard has come to light. A probe is on.” — TNS
03-09-2020||---||To protect Rafale from bird-hits, notices issued to pigeon owners||Chandigarh, September 2Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora has ordered the officers concerned to address the complaint of the Ambala Air Force Station about the risk to the safety of newly inducted Rafale fighter aircraft from the presence of birds around the airbase.“I have directed the Ambala MC Commissioner and the Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Local Bodies, to resolve the matter with the Army authorities,” she said.The area close to the Air Force station falls under the military cantonment.Meanwhile, the sanitary inspector of the local body has issued notices to residents, who are breeding pigeons. Action would be taken against the residents if their pigeons flew within the 10 km radius of the airbase, the official said.Earlier, the Director General, Urban Local Bodies, had written to the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Ambala City; Municipal Commissioner of Ambala, and the Executive Officer of Municipal Council, Ambala Sadar, for a reply on August 28. The same day, the local body had started issuing notices.From the Air Force, Director General (Inspection and Safety) Air Marshal Manavendra Singh wrote to the Chief Secretary on August 5, complaining about the presence of birds around the Ambala Air Force Station.He said that the safety and security of Rafale aircraft were the prime focus of the Indian Air Force (IAF), but the Ambala Air Force Station has a “very high concentration of birds” and the potential to cause “very serious damage” to the aircraft in case of a collision.“The bird menace over the airfield is because of a garbage dump nearby. Several measures have been recommended to reduce the garbage. The Air Officer Commanding, Air Force station, Ambala, has met the Joint Commissioner and the Additional Municipal Commissioner of Ambala during the Aerodrome Environmental Management Committee meetings conducted on January 24, 2019, July 10, 2019, and January 24, 2020,” Air Marshal Manavendra Singh said.He called for a ban on pigeon breeding around the airbase and the implementation of the solid waste management scheme to reduce the bird menace in the aerodrome zone, 10 km around the airfield. “This will involve imposing a penalty, improving the garbage collection system and setting up of a suitable solid waste management plant at a distance from the airfield,” he added.Meanwhile, MC officials refused to comment on the complaint of the Air Force.
03-09-2020||Ravinder Saini||Power cuts, poor Net hamper online education in villages||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 2Interruption in electricity supply, the lack of smart phones and poor internet service in rural areas are coming in the way of online classes at government schools in Haryana.The Tribune has learnt that around 20 per cent school students do not have a phone, 15 per cent have a simple phone and a majority of the remaining 65 per cent students are dependent upon the smart phones of their parents and other family members.65% depend on parents’ phonesSince a considerable number of parents are engaged in labour work, many children get the phone only in the evening after their parents return. The poor internet connectivity in villages adds to their problems while studying online.Though the Department of School Education is also running four Haryana EDUSAT channels for students of primary, middle, secondary and higher classes on all cable/ DTH connections, electricity supply is limited to merely four hours in villages (except those falling under the Jagmag scheme) during the day and that too in different slots.Mid-day meal workers delivering materialA special arrangement has been made for those 20% children with no phone. Either Siksha Mitra (volunteers) are sharing their smart phones with them or their teachers are providing them study material through mid-day meal workers. —Vijya Laxmi, District education officerSiyaram, a construction worker from Polangi village here, said his two sons studied at the village government school, but he neither had television nor a smart phone. “I can’t afford a smart phone so both my kids go to a neighbourer’s house for online classes,” he said.Krishan, another labourer working at a factory, said he had a smart phone but his children were able to use it only when he returned home in the evening. “Earlier, my children went to the house of one of their classmates who lived nearby but now we do not send them there due to Covid fear,” he said.A teacher said: “Many parents are also facing the issue of internet data. They complain of insufficient data when aksed why their children did not complete their homework. Some even requested us to provide internet data so that their children could study,” she added.District Education Officer (DEO) Vijya Laxmi said a special arrangement of teaching had been made those 20 per cent children without no phone. “Either Siksha Mitra (volunteers) are sharing their smart phones with them for school work or their teachers are providing them study material through mid-day meal workers,” said the DEO, claiming that 65 per cent children were watching EDUSAT channels.J Ganeshan, Director General (School Education), said the department had set up four different channels on the EDUSAT in consultation with the SCERT and three different time slots had been given so that every student could watch the channel as the per availability of electricity supply.The channels, he said, were being run through the local cable networks.
03-09-2020||
||DRM gets work stopped at Karnal railway station||Karnal, September 2 Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) SC Jain visited the Karnal railway station on Wednesday. He got the construction of a building of electronic interlocking stopped after the authorities concerned reportedly failed to produce its drawing during inspection. He told the authorities that he would review the project. Jain spent around 20 minutes at the station and also listened to the grievances of the employees.  Asked by mediapersons about the ‘sacking’ of safai karamcharis, he said that due to Covid-19, the movement of trains had been stopped and once trains start moving again, the department would take back the employees. He added that the Railways was not being privatised or handed over to any private company, but efforts were being made to strengthen it.
03-09-2020||---||Held for blackmail, teacher, spouse out on bail||Karnal, September 2A court on Wednesday granted bail to a teacher and her husband, who had been arrested for allegedly accepting Rs 7.25 lakh for withdrawing her gang-rape case registered against the owner of a private school and a tehsildar.Gang-rape caseThe teacher along with her husband was arrested on August 21 while ‘accepting’ money from a staff member of the private school in Sector 12The teacher along with her husband was arrested on August 21 while ‘accepting’ money from a staff member of the private school in Sector 12 here. Earlier, on her complaint of gang-rape a case was registered against the school owner and the tehsildar. The school owner had also filed a complaint against her for blackmailing him. The police had registered FIRs on both complaints. The SP had also constituted two SITs to probe the cases. They were sent to judicial custody yesterday after one-day police remand.
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Surjewala demands withdrawal of toll hike||While condemning the toll hike in Haryana, Senior Congress leader and chief spokesperson of Indian National Congress Randeep Surjewala has urged the government to immediately withdraw the toll hike.Surjewala said the toll had been increased by the government for the second time during the Covid epidemic, which shows the government’s insensitivity towards the people. On the one hand, people of the country and the state were facing an economic recession due to the pandemic, but on the other, instead of providing some relief to them, the government was rubbing salt into their wounds by issuing such Tughlaqi decrees, he said.He said that heavy tax was being levied by the state government in the form of road tax and it was also a matter of record that the Khattar-Chautala government of the state had been repeatedly increasing VAT on petrol and diesel for the last six years. He described the hike as an “insensitive” and the third blow to the people, who are already bearing the brunt of coronavirus, lockdown and economic slowdown.Surjewala said there were 32 national highways and three national expressways with a total length of 3,531 kilometres in the state, which enable every district to connect to some national highway. “Often, one uses national highways to go from one district to other and in such a situation, the toll hike on national highways will increase inflation and directly affect transporters and a large number of people using private vehicles,” he said. — TNS
03-09-2020||---||Health team stopped, antigen kits destroyed||Hisar, September 2A team of health officials was allegedly stopped and their medical kits were burnt when they went to take samples of contacts of a Covid patient in Nakta village of Fatehabad district, the police said on Wednesday.The team had gone to Nakta village on Tuesday to take samples of a family after a member had tested positive and died at the medical College in Agroha on August 31.A group of villagers armed with iron rods, sticks and other weapons did not let the team enter the village, according to a complaint by the health officials.Some of the equipment such as rapid antigen kits were burnt during the incident, the police said.A police spokesperson said a case under Sections 147, 149, 186, 269, 353, 435, 504 and 506 of the IPC and Section 51 (B) of the Disaster Management Act was registered against unidentified persons.
03-09-2020||Chandigarh/Gurugram||1,792 new virus cases, 15 deaths in Haryana||With each passing day, the state has been recording more and more cases of Covid. On Wednesday, the state recorded 1,792 new cases, the highest so far in a day. With this, the tally reached 68,218. Besides, 15 persons died of the virus, taking the toll to 721.Two deaths each were reported from Panipat, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Fatehabad, while one death each was recorded in Faridabad, Ambala, Rohtak, Hisar and Sirsa.Most of the cases were reported from Panchkula (216), Gurugram (184), Faridabad (152), Panipat (142), Karnal (130) and Kurukshetra (126).Of the 184 persons infected in Gurugram, 18 are inmates of Bhondsi jail and as many are National Security Guard (NSG) commandos deployed in Manesar. The Health Department has started aggressive testing, while the police have commenced contact tracing. — TNS
03-09-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Covid hits economy badly, revenue receipts fall by 31%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 2Covid-19 has hit Haryana’s financial health, as the state’s revenue receipts in the current fiscal year (2020-21) are the lowest since 2015-16, but borrowings and other liabilities stand at Rs 10,612 crore.According to the CAG’s state-wise monthly indicators, the state’s revenue receipts till July this year stood at Rs 15,178.91 crore against Rs 22,221.01 crore last year, shrinking by 31.7 per cent.The revenue receipts in 2018-19 were Rs 21,112.52 crore, in 2017-18, Rs 20,950.35 crore and in 2016-17, Rs 15,992.51 crore.This financial year, GST collections were Rs 3,698.77 crore against Rs 5,362.09 crore last year, a reduction of 31 per cent.The stamp and registration fee collections were the worst affected with just Rs 938.78 crore against Rs 2,244.61 crore last year, a reduction of 58.2 per cent.The sales tax collection, including earnings from the sale of petrol and diesel, besides a few other items, this year stood at Rs 2,056.03 crore, 29.6 per cent less than the previous year.The state excise duty wasRs 1,979.41 crore against the previous year’s Rs 2,649.23 crore, a reduction of 25.3 per cent.The non-tax revenue, which includes collections from mining, transport, external development charges, has also seen a shortfall of 63 per cent this year, as only Rs 696.93 crore was collected. However, till July 2019-20, it was Rs 1,885.69 crore.Under capital receipts, the loans and advances recovered was just Rs 59.23 crore against last year’s Rs 5,211.42 crore. The borrowings and other liabilities stood at Rs 10,612.99 crore, while it was Rs 7,383.79 crore till July last year.There was a marginal rise in the revenue expenditure — Rs 23,616.61 crore has been spent against Rs 23,565.90 crore last year — but the capital expenditure has shrunk by 81 per cent.The Assembly recently passed supplementary demands of Rs 11,260.51 crore, including Rs 6,407.56 crore of revenue expenditure. It includes Rs 6 crore to meet the “annual repair and special repair works” of various ministers’ residences despite the grim situation of the economy.
03-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Ex-MLA used political clout to block drain: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that a former legislator misused his political connections and influence to block a drain and dismantle pipes laid down by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). But despite the “gross illegal act”, the authorities maintained silence, remained insolent towards protecting the citizens’ interests, succumbed to political pressure and showed utmost servility towards the leader.The assertion by Justice Fateh Deep Singh came on a petition filed against the Union of India, Haryana, now-deceased MLA and other respondents by Amrik Singh through counsel Jagdish Manchanda.Influenced respondentWhat one can perceive that being a politically connected person, the respondent-MLA had influenced another respondent (represented by the Haryana Additional Advocate General), who has tried to be evasive in his reply obviously aimed at succumbing to the political pressure of the respondent-MLA. —Justice Fateh Deep Singh, High CourtHe was seeking directions to the respondents to open a minor culvert “blocked” by respondent-MLA as crops belonging to him and other farmers were being damaged. The Bench was told that the petitioner and his family owned more than 168 kanals along the Ambala-Kaithal National Highway. But the respondent, who happened to be an MLA, closed the culvert by placing mud at the opening. As a consequence, accumulating water was causing irreparable loss to the crops.Taking up the matter, Justice Fateh Deep Singh observed even the local commissioner appointed by the court stated in his report that water had logged on account of an unauthorised bandh set up by putting earth and raising construction, “inevitably suggesting it was done by the respondent-MLA”.Justice Fateh Deep Singh also referred to a report by a “Resident Engineer” stating: “After the discharge of the water recently, Gagan Jot Singh Sandhu, son of late Jaswinder Singh Sandhu, has dismantled the pipes and blocked the drain. If in near future heavy rains occurred, the fields of the petitioner will be flooded....”The Judge asserted it was clearly elicited from the report that the respondent misused his political connections and influence to block the drain and dismantled the pipes. As a consequence of his “illegal and unwarranted act”, rainwater had accumulated and was entering the petitioner’s fields and causing loss to them.
03-09-2020||New Delhi||Supreme Court rejects bail plea in Gurugram school murder case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday junked the bail plea of a boy accused of killing a seven-year-old boy at a private school in Gurugram.A three-judge Bench headed by Justice RF Nariman dismissed the plea challenging the Punjab and Haryana High Court order. “We have heard the counsels for all parties exhaustively, including the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the complainant. Since the petitioner is now being tried for the purposes of bail only as an adult, we see no reason to interfere with the impugned judgment of the HC at this stage. Accordingly, the special leave petition is dismissed,” said the Bench comprising Justice Navin Sinha and Justice Indira Banerjee.The CBI opposed the bail plea saying the accused did not deserve leniency and the Juvenile Justice Act could not be used as a ploy to dupe the course of justice. The accused had argued before the top court that the high court had erroneously observed that “there is a possibility of tampering with witnesses in the case”. He said due to Covid, there was less possibility of trial to commence in near future.Advocate Sushil Tekriwal, appearing for the victim’s father, had also opposed the bail plea saying the accused being a serious threat, if enlarged on bail, there was the likelihood of tampering with the evidence. The Punjab and Haryana High Court in June had dismissed the bail plea filed by the boy. The CBI, in a chargesheet, had said the teenager had murdered the seven-year-old student on September 8, 2017, in a bid to get the exams postponed and a scheduled parent-teacher meeting cancelled. The victim’s body, with the throat slit, was found in the washroom of a Gurugram school. — PTI
03-09-2020||vinder Saini
||Residents block NH, seek CBI probe into banker’s murder||Tribune News Service Jhajjar, September 2  Residents of Dighal village led by the Ahlawat Khap on Wednesday blocked the NH-71 that connects Rohtak to Rewari by pitching tents in the middle of the highway near the Dighal toll plaza here.  The blockade was imposed around 9 am and it continued till the filing of a news report in the evening. A large number of police personnel were deployed on the spot while Beri SDM Ravinder Kumar, DSP Naresh and other officers were also present there.  They are demanding the arrest of the killer of Dheeraj Ahlawat, a banker, and a CBI probe into the matter.  Dheeraj (38) of Dighal village was working as a senior vice-president of a private bank in Gurugram. His body was found in a canal in Delhi on August 12, a week after he had gone missing while taking a stroll outside his house in Gurugram on August 5.  Suspecting the involvement of a close friend of Dheeraj into the crime, the kin said they had informed the police about him but the police had not arrested him yet as he is a relative of a higher officer posted in Gurugram.  Jai Singh, chief of Ahlawat Khap, said they were not against the state government but wanted justice for Dheeraj. “The Gurugram police had formed a SIT a fortnight ago but it has not succeeded in arresting the accused. We will not hesitate to seek support of other khap panchayats if the demand is not met,” he added. SDM Ravinder Kumar said efforts were on to persuade the protesters to lift the blockade. Commuters had to face inconvenience as the vehicular traffic was diverted from both Jhajjar and Rohtak side to alternate routes to avoid traffic snarls.
03-09-2020||---||87 addicts ended life, 13 died of overdose in 2019: NCRB||Chandigarh, September 2As many as 87 people committed suicide due to drug or liquor addiction while 13 died of overdose in the state in 2019, reveals the National Crime Record Bureau’s (NCRB) report on ‘Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India-2019’.In 2018, 137 people had committed suicide due to drugs or alcohol addiction while 86 had died of overdose in Haryana.However, in neighbouring Punjab, 102 committed suicide due to addiction and 45 people died of drug overdose in 2019. Also, 78 people lost their lives due to overdose and 55 committed suicide because of addiction in 2018. So, there were more suicides due to addiction in Punjab in 2019.Major reasonsThere were 4,191 suicides in Haryana in 2019, a jump of 18.2 per cent from 2018, when 3,547 people had taken their lives. In Punjab, there is a rise of 37.5 per cent in suicides as 2,357 ended their life in 2019 while there were 1,714 such cases in the previous year.If we analyse the reasons, the highest number of suicides had taken place due to illness (753), family problems (649), marriage-related issues (317), professional or career problems (63) and the causes are not known in 587 cases.Among marital issues, 43 men and 17 women, ended life due to non-settlement. Also, 20 suicides were due to extra martial affairs, which included 15 men and five women.Mental illness was the reason behind 302, including 242 men and 60 women, suicides in Haryana, while 422 cases were of prolonged illness. Meanwhile, 17 committed suicide due to issues in love affairs, which included 10 men and seven women.In case of professional issues, 402 housewives committed suicide. It comprised 45 per cent of total women suicides in the state.In all, 179 students, including 123 men and 56 women, ended life. As many as 503 suicides by unemployed, included 464 men and 39 women.Suicide by farmersThough there were no farmers’ suicides as per the report, but 219 labourers had ended life in 2019 while in the previous year there the number was 104. So, more than double labourers took their lives.However, Punjab saw rise in farmers’ suicides. In 2019, as many as 239 farmers committed suicide, including 203 cultivating their own land and 36 working on leased land. Besides, there were 63 suicides by labourers. In 2018, there were 229 suicides by farmers, including 202 by those cultivating own land and 27 working on leased land. There were 94 suicides by farm labourers in 2018.Modus operandiHanging is the most common way of ending life in Haryana as 1,177 (28.1 per cent) people committed suicide this way, while 686 took poison (16.4 per cent), which included 336 consuming pesticide, in 2019. There were 172 suicides by touching electrical wire and 16 by self-inflicting injuries.If we see the economic status, then a majority of suicides had taken place in low-earning groups in Haryana. There were 2,336 suicides (55.7 per cent) among people whose earning was less than Rs 1 lakh and 1,391 (33.2 per cent) among those with income between Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh.
03-09-2020||Mahendragarh||Man booked for killing wife, kids||A mason reportedly killed his wife and three children with an axe at their tin-shed hut on the Singhania Road in Narnaul town here on Tuesday night and fled.  The deceased have been identified as Aarti (29), two sons Arun (7) and Arvind (6) and daughter Sandhya (4). The police have booked a case of murder against the mason, Tulsidas of Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh. The reason behind the killings is yet to be ascertained while the accused is stated to be a drunkard. The crime came to the fore on Wednesday when a neighbour found the door closed till noon and later opened it. He found the four lying in a pool of blood on the floor. They immediately informed the police. The axe used in the crime was recovered.— TNS
03-09-2020||vinder Saini
||Jhajjar villagers elated over Nagal’s US Open victory||Tribune News Service Jhajjar, September 2 Tennis star Sumit Nagal, a native of Jaitpur village here, has made the state and the country proud again by becoming the first Indian to win the first round of a Grand Slam in 7 years (since 2013). Sumit defeated American Bradley Kiahn to enter the second round of the US Open.  Residents of his native village are elated over his feat and are congratulating Sumit’s family members. “The match was played at midnight, but I got this wonderful news early in the morning through a WhatsApp message. The news had gone viral on social media till noon hence, many villagers and colleagues extended their heartfelt congratulations to me for Sumit’s achievement,” said Narendra Nagal, cousin of Sumit, who works with Haryana Roadways. Narendra said they felt proud every time Sumit created history by making new records. “Sumit is so talented that he will create many more records in coming days.” His uncle Sunder Lal said Sumit’s father Suresh Nagal and his mother came to the village last month and stayed for a day. “We talked a lot about Sumit’s career and his practice for the upcoming tournaments. My younger brother was quite sure about the marvelous performance of Sumit as he was toiling hard for the same,” Sunder Lal said, adding that Sumit visited the village nine months ago.  Mahabir of Jaitpur village  said Sumit had become a role model for youngsters here. “Youths await Sumit’s visit to the village to get tips from him. With his persistent good performances, Sumit has proved that the youth of small villages are not behind in any manner and in any field from those belonging to big cities.” In 2015, Sumit won the Wimbledon boys’ double event and became the sixth Indian to win a junior Grand Slam title.
03-09-2020||Nitin Jain||Covid care facilities upgraded in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, September 2Government health facilities have been upgraded and private doctors have been roped in following a spurt in the number of Covid cases and deaths in Ambala district.While testing, quarantine and isolation facilities have been doubled, the arrangements for Covid patients at the Civil Hospitals in Ambala Cantonment and Ambala City have also been ramped up. Besides, private doctors, through local chapters of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), have been roped in to help in tackling the increasing patient load and their health centres have also been made available to deal with the situation.Prepared to deal with any eventualityThe number of quarantine and isolation beds has nearly been doubled in Ambala district to deal with any eventuality arising out of the pandemic. Besides, testing facilities have also been scaled up in the district to trace, treat and quarantine symptomatic as well as asymptomatic persons. —Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil SurgeonThe testing capacity has been doubled by adding another RT-PCR machine and initiating antigen tests of all patients showing flu-like symptoms, the number of quarantine beds has been increased from 15,000 to 25,000 and isolation beds from 550 to 1,000 in Health Minister Anil Vij’s home district. Moreover, the number of beds at the Covid care centre has been doubled from 100 to 200.So far, around 63,000 tests have been conducted in the district, of which about 59,000 have come out to be negative and 4,000 positive. The virus has claimed 35 lives here till now.With an average of 1,500 tests every day, the district has reached 55,500 tests per million. Besides, 10 mobile health teams have been visiting each nick and corner of the district since April 15 and they have examined over 5.24 lakh persons so far.Following the approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Ambala has begun conducting cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) using Cepheid’s Xpert Xpress SARS-CoV-2 test for Covid patients and installed an RT-PCR machine to conduct real-time reverse transcription – polymerase chain reaction (real time RT-PCR), one of the most accurate laboratory methods for detecting, tracking, and studying coronavirus.These machines had been functioning at a special Covid testing laboratory set up in Ambala City.
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Wanted criminal held in Sonepat||A police spokesperson today said six cases of murder, attempt to murder, loot, theft and under the Arms Act were solved with his arrest. — TNS
03-09-2020||Ambala||Two arrested for theft||3 held for cruelty to animalsThe police have arrested Amrik Singh of Fatehgarh Sahib, Dilshad and Mohnish of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh for cruelty to animals and rescued 20 heads of cattle. They were released on bail by a local court. TNS4 kg poppy husk seizedThe police have arrested Manoj Kumar of Barara in the district in a case of drug smuggling and recovered 4 kg of poppy husk from his possession, officials said. A local court sent him to three-day police remand. TNSMinor girl abductedA woman from Ambala City had complained to the police that Ajay kidnapped her daughter by luring her on the pretext of marrying her. The police have lodged a case of abduction. TNS
03-09-2020||THE National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has got fixed iron railings alongside roads||Service roads not provided||Toll for ‘non-existent’ roadIT is disturbing to observe that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials never bother to monitor the poor quality of services rendered by the designated service providers vis-a-vis the ever rising toll fee charged by them from the vehicular traffic passing these ‘compulsive’ toll gates. To exemplify, the general road conditions between the Gharaunda toll plaza (near Karnal) and Panipat is in dire straits. Similarly, a massive toll fee is currently being charged for a ‘non-existent’ road between Panipat and Mukarba Chowk in Delhi on the NH-44. How could anyone be forced to bear the burden of a huge toll fee while making him traverse through this grossly ill-maintained road? The concerned authorities must look into the issue and do the needful. —SK Gupta, PanchkulaNo end to stray cattle menaceTHE number of stray cattle in the main market of Sector 9, Ambala City, and on another road linking the Sector to Inco Chowk, is increasing day by day. These are causing serious threat to commuters and a number of road accidents occur due to these animals. Sometimes these gather near the market on main road at night. Though the issue has been brought to the notice of the administration several times, no action has been taken. —Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
03-09-2020||Rohtak||4 doctors bring laurels to UHS||GJUST organises webinarHisar: Department of Communication Management and Technology, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology here organised a webinar. Dr Amit Sangwan, Media Educator from Ch Devi Lal University, Sirsa, was the resource person at the webinar. Dr Sangwan said digitalisation was the need of the hour and teachers must adopt latest technologies and softwares to enhance teaching and learning process. He said Open Broadcaster Software and YouTube channels play an important role in providing qualitative education to students in the era of pandemic. Dr Sangwan said education sector was experiencing one of the biggest shifts during the last five months. “Physical classrooms are converted into virtual classrooms. Seminars and workshops are nowadays shifted to webinars and learning from home has become a fashion and necessary,” said Dr Sangwan. He said digital divide between the haves and have nots and lack of common syllabi were big challenges for online mode or virtual classes.MDU practical exams beginRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has started practical examinations of UG/PG/Engineering/BEd and other programmes from September 1 to September 10 for the final semester. BS Sindhu, Controller of Examinations, MDU, said the practical examinations would be conducted in both online and offline modes at their respective departments. The necessary guidelines and the SOP issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs regarding Covid would be followed, he said. The practical exams of students, who are re-appearing, will be conducted in their respective colleges.Military training missing in NEPKurukshetra: The Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of Markanda National College, Shahabad, Markanda, organised a faculty development programme on ‘New Education Policy (NEP) : Opportunities and Challenges’. The speakers comprised eminent scientist and educationist Prof Kuldip Singh Dhindsa (retd) of Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, and Prof Rajneesh Arora, director, regional campus, The English and Foreign Languages University, Lucknow. Dhindsa emphasised the importance of compulsory military training for the youth, to inculcate moral values in them, which is missing in the NEP. He proposed two litmus tests for the success of the NEP, firstly, the demand of coaching centres should decrease drastically, and secondly, skilled manpower should be inducted at better places to reduce the unemployment graph of the country. Arora said the NEP was a result of the concerted efforts of the education experts. Principal Ashok Kumar chaired the session. Sunita Pahwa, Principal, Arya Kanya Mahavidyalya, Shahabad, Markanda, was the guest of honor.AESL distributes face masksKarnal: Aakash Educational Services Ltd (AESL) distributed 1,350 face masks among the citizens of Kaithal. The number was equal to students who scored 90 per cent and above in the CBSE Class X and XII examinations from Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, the results of which were announced last month. Out of 1,350 students, 60 were from Kaithal branch. Sanjay Kumar, SDM, along with senior officials from AESL’s Kaithal branch, distributed the masks. Aakash Chaudhry, director and CEO, Aakash Educational Services Limited (AESL), said the initiative aimed at helping people to strengthen their fight against Covid.Patent granted to Hisar varsityHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) here has been granted the patent for its technology design and development of pricking machine. RK Jhorar, Dean, College of Agricultural Engineering and Technology, said the machine was designed under the leadership of Prof Mukesh Kumar Garg and Dinesh Malik, student of the department of processing and food engineering of the college. He said the patent was applied for this machine in 2009. The machine got the patent for 20 years. Samar Singh, Vice-Chancellor praised the scientists on the achievement. Director of Research, SK Sehrawat, said the purpose of the machine was to prick aonla fruits. Pricking is an essential operation for the preparation of aonla ‘murabba’. He further added that aonla or Indian gooseberry (Emblica officinalis) is highly nutritive and one of the richest source of vitamin C among fruits. It also contains proteins and is a rich source of calcium, phosphorous and iron.
