03-05-2020||Panchkula||Shops to open between 8 am and 6 pm in Panchkula||Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Sunday issued an order regarding timing of neighbourhood and standalone shops allowed as per Ministry of Home Affairs during lockdown 3.0, which starts from Monday.As per the order, all essential shops and bookshops will remain open on all days between 8 am and 6 pm.While shops related to furniture, mobile repair and recharge shops, electrical goods will be allowed to operate just on Monday, Wednesday and Friday between 8 am and 6 pm.Garment shops, gift shops, jewellery shops, dry cleaners can run their services on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday between 8 am and 6 pm.Only five persons at liquor shops would be allowed at one time.Ahuja said shops selling liquor, paan, gutka, tobacco etc. should ensure minimum six feet distance from each other and also ensure that no more than five persons are present at one time at the shop.“All establishments shall ensure permanent paint marking outside and inside their premises. These marks shall be 1m apart and it shall be ensured that persons visiting and working maintain social distancing by means of those marks,” said the order.
03-05-2020||Mayna (Rohtak)||Life in lockdown: World’s top boxer Amit Panghal does household chores; watches Ramayan||Amidst the ongoing lockdown imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, Asian Games gold-medallist Amit Panghal, who is the first-ever Indian boxer to have won a silver medal at the AIBA World Boxing Championship, is spending time with his family at their home located in Mayna village of Rohtak district.Amit, who ranked World No.1 in 52 kg category by the International Olympic Committee’s Boxing Task Force recently and has qualified for the Tokyo Olympics, does household chores, maintains fitness by exercising and practising, serves his grandfather and relishes ‘desi’ Haryanavi delicacies such as ‘churma’ and ‘chulhe ki roti’ prepared by his mother.“The lockdown has given me an opportunity to stay at home. I interact with my family members, play and exercise with children in my extended family and watch Ramayan and Mahabharat on TV,” says Amit, who is fondly addressed as Meetu by his near and dear ones.Apart from attending to domestic chores such as shifting food-grains to the storage place and bringing LPG cylinders, Amit also does social work by collecting cooked food from his fellow villagers and taking it to the village temple, where stranded travellers are lodged.The boxer has contributed to the PM Cares Fund and has been taking care of a group of migrant labourers who were staying at his village and had been rendered jobless due to the ongoing lockdown.Amit, who is serving as a junior commissioned officer in the Indian Army, also practices boxing regularly, though he feels constrained due to lack of a sparring partner.He feels the youth should stay away from drugs and intoxicants like alcohol and maintain physical and mental fitness in order to do well in their personal and professional lives.Amit’s father Vijender Singh and mother Usha maintain that their son has brought pride to the family and country and would do the nation proud in the upcoming Olympics as well.
03-05-2020||---||Elderly man, wife bludgeoned to death; son arrested||Rohtak, May 3Brahmjit and his wife, Sumitra, of Pakasma village, Rohtak, were allegedly bludgeoned to death by their son. Some domestic dispute over money is stated to be the reason behind the murder.The bodies of the man and his wife were found lying in Naunand village, which is located near Pakasma, on Sunday. The police have registered a case and arrested the son, Pawan, alias Boda (26). Pawan used to live with his parents in the village.SHO (Sampla) Kulbeer Singh said Pawan murdered his parents with an iron pipe and had confessed to the crime.In a complaint lodged with the police, Sumitra’s brother, Ram Mehar, stated that Brahmjit and Pawan had gone to sell their produce at the grain market in Kharkhauda township of Sonipat district on Saturday, where he had met them.“An altercation had broken out between Brahmjit and Pawan over some monetary matter at the grain market in my presence. I intervened and tried to resolve the matter, but Pawan threatened his father with dire consequences,” he said.“On Sunday, I was informed that my sister and brother-in-law have been murdered. I was sure Pawan had killed his parents,” Ram added.The police have registered an FIR under Sections 302, 201 and 506 of the IPC.
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana mulling to impose new ‘COVID cess’ on liquor: Dy CM Chautala||The Haryana government is considering to impose a variable “COVID cess” on liquor to support the areas or institutions adversely hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Sunday.Haryana has been suffering monthly revenue losses of Rs 6,000 crore due to the COVID-triggered lockdown.“The government is considering new COVID cess so that those areas or those institutions which have been adversely hit by the pandemic and need support can be helped,” Chautala said during a news conference, here, on Sunday.When asked how much cess the government is contemplating to impose, he said: “Discussions are on. Every product is different, fixed cess is not possible, so it will depend on product and quantity. The cess will be variable.”The Deputy Chief Minister indicated that the cess could be anywhere between Rs 2 to Rs 20.Chautala, who also holds the portfolios of Excise, Industry and Commerce Departments, said no decision had yet been taken on when to open the liquor vends.He, however, said suggestions, including from the media, had been sought so that steps were taken accordingly.It will have to be ensured that there was no crowding and proper social distancing was maintained at the vends, as and when these get opened, he said. The state government has also sought report from Deputy Commissioners on whether vends should be opened or not as COVID-19 situation varied from district to district, he added.Chautala said stock of warehouses involved in liquor distribution was checked on three different occasions in the past over a month and irregularities were found in 53 of these. FIRs were registered and fines imposed in the matter.On giving relaxations to the industry in accordance with the Centre’s guidelines, he said from April 20 onwards, they had been easing out restrictions, barring those units which were in containment zones, so that economic activity could be resumed.“From May 4 to 10, and from May 11 to 18, we will give more relaxation to the industry, but with more strictness than even what the MHA guidelines say so that our industry can be revived on one hand, while on the other, we are able to check COVID-19 infections,” he said.In the I-T sector, workforce with 33 per cent in the red zone, 53 per cent in the orange zone and 100 per cent in the green zone would be permitted, while in second phase (May 11 to 18), it would be 50 per cent, 75 per cent and 100 per cent, respectively, Chautala said.“In rural areas, for the red zone, industry will be given permission to open with 33 per cent workforce and with 50 per cent for in-situ where units can retain workforce at places of work. Likewise, industry will be given permission to open with 75 per cent and 100 per cent in orange and green zones, respectively,” he added.For e-commerce, for the period between May 11 to 18, only essential goods would be allowed in the red zone, Chautala said.Shops in rural areas had already been opened, he said, adding that in the urban areas, in non-containment zones, especially those in the orange and green zones, Deputy Commissioners had been authorised to decide whether to open shops by odd-even system (on the basis of shop numbers).With the MSME sector being adversely hit, Chautala said the Haryana government would be extending a financial support of nearly Rs 250 crore to them.On current crop procurement, he said 41.23 lakh metric tonne (LMT) wheat and 3.62 LMT mustard had been procured. From June 1 to 30, sunflower would also be procured at the rate of Rs 5,650 per metric tonne, he said.He said despite the challenges of labour shortage and other difficulties in view of the lockdown, procurement was going on smoothly. “I am hopeful that we will touch 75 lakh MT target of wheat procurement in next 10 days,” he said.On Congress criticising the state government for hiking VAT rate on diesel and petrol and increasing bus fares, he said while people were not complaining as they fully know the present crisis situation, the Opposition was playing politics over the issue.Hitting out at Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, who has been critical of the Manohar Lal Khattar government on various issues, Chautala said, “Why did he not raise his voice when the Congress government in Rajasthan revised diesel and petrol rates on three occasions in the recent times, why did he not dub it as Jazia Tax there?” PTI
03-05-2020||Rohtak||Coronavirus-positive Gurugram man dies at Rohtak PGIMS||A 45-year-old man hailing from sector 18 in Gurugram died in the daycare Center of Pt BD Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here on Saturday night.“He was Covid-19 positive and admitted to the PGIMS on April 30. The doctors gave him best possible treatment as per protocols but he died on Saturday night,” said a spokesman of the PGIMS.He said samples of 532 persons were tested at the PGIMS on Saturday and five of them were found COVID-positive. One is from Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh town and four are from Fatehabad and had recently travelled from Nanded in Maharashtra.“A total 11,401 samples have so far been tested in the PGIMS and 157 of them have been found positive,” the spokesman added.Meanwhile, Jhajjar reported two more cases on Sunday, taking the district tally to 42.“One of them is a labourer at the vegetable market in Bahadurgarh while the second one is the family member of a Covid-positive commission agent working at the vegetable market in Jhajjar. Both the new cases have also linked to Azadpur mandi in Delhi,” said Randeep Singh Poonia, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar.He maintained both the persons are residing in such localities which have already been notified as Containment Zone. Both of them had been admitted to Rohtak PGIMS while close contacts of both the persons were being identified to quarantine them, he added.
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 43 new cases, 1 death||Haryana on Sunday reported a coronavirus death, while 34 people tested positive for the disease, taking the state's case tally to 425 and death toll to six.A 45-year-old man from Gurugram died of COVID-19 at PGIMS in Rohtak, where he was admitted to the ICU on April 30.Sonepat reported a massive spike in the number of cases. The number includes four doctors---one from a general hospital and three junior doctors in BPS Medical College at Khanpur.The development took the district tally to 47.Civil Surgeon Dr BK Rajora said had said earlier in the day that many of the new patients had a Delhi connection. Some of them were employees in Delhi, while others had visited Azadpur Mandi.District health department said they had quarantined their immediate contacts and started containment protocol in the areas to which they belong.Faridabad reported 10 more COVID-19 cases, taking the total in the district to 73.The new cases include two male nurses and three patients, already under treatment for other ailments, at the ESI hospital in Faridabad.Among the patients is a woman who had delivered a child a couple of days ago. The others who are infected are a 42-year-old ANM working at a CHC at Kheri Kalan village and a 24-year-old woman residing in Mujesar area of Faridbad. Jhajjar reported two more COVID-19 cases, taking the total in the district to 42. One is a labourer at a vegetable market, while the other is a family member of a COVID-positive commission agent.Yamunanagar reported two more COVID-19 cases, taking the case tally in the district to six.Jind reported six more COVID-19 cases, taking the case tally in the district to eight.Palwal reported two more cases after reporting none for two weeks. A Haryana policeman posted on the Nuh-Palwah border and a 40-year-old woman from Gurawali village tested positive.This takes the district tally to 36. A photo journalist tested positive in Karnal.
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||OPDs to open in Haryana hospitals||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Saturday directed all government hospitals in the state to open the OPDs, which have so far remained closed due to the Covid scare.“A protocol is being prepared for it. The norm of social distancing has to be followed,” said Vij. “Earlier we had started OPDs in primary and community health centres. We will open OPDs in a phased manner,” said Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General Health Services.Meanwhile, Vij clarified that there would be no relaxation along borders with Delhi and other states. “All recent cases are due to infection from Delhi. If we continue to close borders for the next 15-16 days, the situation will normalise in the state,” he said.Tthe Haryana Government is gathering details of migrants in the state and those who are stranded in other states. “But whosoever enters Haryana has to undergo test,” said Vij.
03-05-2020||Jhajjar||Special police officer arrested for smuggling liquor||A special police officer (SPO) engaged with the traffic wing at Bahadurgarh and his friend were arrested by the Badli police at a naka on charges of smuggling liquor in a car. The police also seized 32 cartons of ‘desi’ liquor from the car.The SPO, identified as Sandeep of Rewari Khera village, and his friend Suresh of Bajghera village in Gurugram have been booked under Section 188 269, 270 of the IPC and Section 61 of the Punjab Excise Act. Jhajjar SP Ashok Kumar has terminated his services.“We got a tip-off that a car bearing registration number of Gurugram is being used to smuggle illicit liquor. It would go to Gurugram on Friday night from the Bupania village side. Acting on the information, a naka was set up near Bupania village. The car was intercepted when it reached the naka,” said Chaman Lal, spokesman of Jhajjar police.Lal maintained that Sandeep — donning the uniform of Haryana Police — was driving the car while Suresh was sitting at the adjoining seat. — TNS
03-05-2020||---||Haryana CM attacks Surjewala over monthly pension||Chandigarh, May 2After drawing criticism of state Congress president Kumari Selja and AICC communication incharge Randeep Surjewala over hike in VAT on fuel and passenger fares, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today lambasted them for indulging in politics and sought an account of donations from Surjewala.In his address to the people, Khattar said Surjewala was getting Rs 1.68 lakh per month as pension, but had not donated anything to fight Covid.Khattar pointed out that Surjewala came to the House only seven times during the term of the previous Assembly, but took Rs 1.12 crore. “If they can seek replies from us, we can also question them,” he said. He criticised Selja and Surjewala for politicking in such times.Surjewala said he would not succumb to Khattar’s threats and would continue to raise issues. He added that he had been a MLA for 18 years and his pension was not due to anyone’s mercy. “When will you give details of between Rs 6 crore and Rs 8 crore salary and allowances,” he asked.The CM said the government had previously corrected mistakes of the Congress government and was still doing the same.
03-05-2020||Sanjay Yadav||2 cops molest suspected Covid patient in Gurugram, suspended||Gurugram, May 2In what has left the Gurugram police embarrassed, two policemen on Covid duty not just ransacked the polyclinic they were posted in but also molested a mentally unstable Covid-suspect woman in an inebriated state.When the police came to arrest them, they threatened to fire on the policemen and fled away. The duo has been suspended and booked by the police.Though the incident happened on Wednesday, an FIR was registered only on Friday.According to the FIR, the incident happened late on Tuesday night at the government polyclinic in Sector 31 where Gurugram police constables Rajesh and Bijender were deployed outside the prisoner’s ward. They had one rifle.Both allegedly started consuming liquor on duty. They then went to the isolation ward and allegedly started misbehaving with a woman patient who is mentally unstable.She tried to push them away but then, they allegedly molested her. She screamed and cried and the hospital staff gathered there.The constables argued with the doctor and staff and broke the CCTV cameras to erase evidence. The other policemen on duty rushed to stop them but they did not listen. They created ruckus for 20 minutes and threatened to fire at them and then, fled away with the rifle.On the complaint of Senior Medical Officer of the polyclinic, an FIR has been registered against the duo under Section 354 (molestation), 34 (common intention), 427 (damage of property) of the IPC at Sector 40 police station.“As per the complaint of a woman doctor, an FIR has been registered. We are verifying the facts,” said inspector Pawan Kumar, SHO of Sector 40 police station.Meanwhile, both constables have been suspended and departmental inquiry has been initiated.
03-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Lockdown makes battle against cancer tougher in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 2The Covid pandemic has hit cancer patients hard as many of them have not been able to continue their treatment. Over 60 per cent of the patients visiting Pt BD Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here have been forced to discontinue treatment.Only around 100 of the 250 patients normally visiting the cancer OPD here before the lockdown are now coming for treatment. Many of them either cover long distances on two-wheelers or hire vehicles despite financial constraints.Similarly, chemotherapy, performed on 25 patients a day, on an average, before the lockdown has now been reduced to 10 a day. On Saturday, 95 patients came to the OPD for their check-up and 10 underwent chemotherapy. The OPD was restarted on April 28 after a gap of over one month.A young woman in a Panipat village suffering from breast cancer covered 70 km on a motorcycle to reach the PGIMS. “We have a BPL card and cannot afford a taxi to visit the PGIMS. My husband borrowed his friend’s motorcycle to take me to the PGIMS,” she said.Shamsher of Narnaund in Hisar hired an ambulance for Rs 1,400 to reach the PGIMS. The small farmer used to commute by public transport earlier. “I will have to spend Rs 1,400 again on Monday as the doctor has called me for follow-up that day,” he said.Social activist Mukesh Bagdi said the state government had provided free travel to cancer patients in Haryana Roadways buses, but had now left them in the lurch by not giving them alternative arrangements for travel during the lockdown.“Cancer is a chronic disease and its patients are required to get treatment regularly while irregularity in treatment adversely affects their health,” said Dr Ashok Chauhan, senior professor in the cancer department of the PGIMS.
03-05-2020||---||25 fresh cases in Haryana, toll goes up to 5||Chandigarh, May 2With 25 fresh cases, the state’s tally of infected persons touched 382 today.Meanwhile, a 63-year-old woman of Rattangarh in Ambala died today at PGIMER Chandigarh. She was on ventilator. According to PGIMER, the causes of death were septic shock, chronic kidney disease, hypertension and Covid-related pneumonia. This is the fifth death in the state due to Covid with two from Ambala and one each from Faridabad, Rohtak and Karnal.With the addition of 14 Italian nationals, the state’s tally will touch 396. There were 309 cases on April 28 and since then, there is a rise of 28.2 per cent.The fresh cases were reported from Panipat (11), Jhajjar (6), Gurugram (4), Faridabad (2), Yamunanagar (1) and Sonepat (1).In Panipat, 11 positive cases included four journalists and a 20-year-old woman of Gokul Colony, Sector 11.Six cases were reported from Jhajjar taking the district’s tally to 40 today. Five of the fresh cases are vegetable sellers and their labourers working in the main vegetable market at Bahadurgarh town here while the sixth one is a staff nurse posted at a government hospital in Delhi.“Out of the 40 Covid patients, 33 have direct link to Azadpur mandi in Delhi while the rest either have travel history to Delhi or are primary contacts of Covid-positive patients. The 33 Covid patients were involved in the practice of bringing vegetables/ fruits from there to Bahadurgarh. All of them were asymptomatic when their samples were taken,” said Dr Randeep Singh Poonia, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar.Four more cases were reported from Gurugram including two from Dundahera — a jeweller working in Delhi and an accountant of a local private hospital.In Faridabad, a 10-year-old boy hailing from Sector 88, whose father recently died of Covid, and a 25-year-old woman from Milhard colony in the NIT area, who is a contact of earlier positive case, got confirmed for Covid.A 27-year-old man of Kalindi Colony of Jagadhri town (Yamunanagar), who came from Nanded along with other pilgrims, tested positive for Covid. A 32-year-old woman in Gohana (Sonepat) tested positive today.
