03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Free sanitary napkins for women below poverty line in Haryana||The Haryana Government will launch a scheme to give a packet of free sanitary napkins to about 22.50 lakh women and girls below the poverty line every month for a year, Women and Child Development Minister Kamlesh Dhanda said on Monday.A scheme will also be started to provide fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder under the ‘Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana’ for children aged 1-6 in anganwadi centres, and pregnant and lactating mothers under the Integrated Child Development Scheme, she said.Dhanda informed that Chief Minister ML Khattar would launch the ‘Mahila Avm Kishori Samman Yojana’ on Wednesday for girls and women living below the poverty line (BPL).She underlined that the government was committed to the all-round development and empowerment of women.Under the ‘Mahila Avm Kishori Samman Yojana’, about 22.50 lakh women aged 10-45 will be provided free sanitary napkins every month for a year, she said.Dhanda said Rs 216 crore would be spent for fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder under ‘Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana’ and Rs 30.80 crore under the ‘Mahila Avm Kishori Samman Yojana’.She said fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder would play an important role in reducing malnutrition.Around 200 ml of fragrant skimmed milk would be given per day for six days in a week.The minister said the ambitious scheme would reach about 9.03 lakh children and 2.95 lakh pregnant and lactating mothers visiting 25,962 anganwadi centres in the state.She informed that sanitary napkins and fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder would be distributed door-to-door by anganwadi workers at the villages. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-sanitary-napkins-for-women-below-poverty-line-in-haryana-121670
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana STF sleuths arrest man with drugs worth around Rs 1 crore||Sleuths of the Haryana Special Task Force on Monday arrested a man allegedly with 35 kg of ‘charas’ and 5 kg opium being smuggled from Uttar Pradesh in a jeep, an official said.The recovery was made near the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal toll plaza in Sonipat district by a Hisar STF team, a Haryana Police spokesperson said, adding that the seized drug cost around Rs 1 crore in the international market.On receiving information in this regard, the STF team laid a trap. It signalled the jeep to stop near the toll plaza for checking. The inspection of the vehicle led to the seizure of 35 kg of ‘charas’ and 5 kg of opium, the spokesperson said.The accused has been identified as Vijay, a resident of Bhawar, Sonipat.During preliminary interrogation, it was found that the accused had brought the contraband from Uttar Pradesh, he said.A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at the Rai police station in Sonipat, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-stf-sleuths-arrest-man-with-drugs-worth-around-rs-1-crore-121618
03-08-2020||Karnal||Karnal reports Covid death; Haryana toll rises to 434||Haryana reported another coronavirus death on Monday, taking the state’s toll to 434.A 64-year-old man of Singhra village in Karnal died of the contagion, taking the district’s death toll to 12. The man had tested positive for the deadly disease on July 31 and died at KCGMC on Monday.On Sunday, Haryana reported 761 fresh Covid positive cases and five deaths, taking the total number of cases to 36,519.Faridabad led with 172 cases, followed by Gurugram (79), Ambala (75), Rohtak (65) and Sonepat (60). While two deaths were reported from Sirsa, Ambala, Sonepat and Karnal reported one death each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-reports-covid-death-haryana-toll-rises-to-434-121575
03-08-2020||Hisar||Rs 50K per acre relief sought for locust-hit farmers of Hisar, Bhiwani and Sirsa||The Kisan Sabha has demanded a compensation of Rs 50,000 per acre for the affected farmers whose crops were devoured by the locusts during the recent attack in some villages of Hisar, Bhiwani and Sirsa districts.The Kisan Sabha activists alleged that the spurious spray and pesticides had failed to control the locusts. They said the farmers in Gorchi, Gavar, Panihar, Bheria, Chirod, Kalwas, Sarsana, Basra and Chodhariwas were affected as the swarms of locust had damaged their kharif crops during the recent attack. Sabha leaders Shamsher Nambardar and Sube Singh Boora said farmers must be compensated to the tune of Rs 50,000 per acre for the crop loss due to the locust attack.They alleged that the spraying done by tractor-mounted pumpsets and fire brigade had little effect on the locusts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-50k-per-acre-relief-sought-for-locust-hit-farmers-of-hisar-bhiwani-and-sirsa-121265
03-08-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Encroachments at market||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comEncroachments at marketENCROACHMENTS on the market opposite Sector 17, Kurukshetra, are a constant trouble to pedestrians. The footpaths are encroached by shopkeepers that make it difficult for people to walk and stroll. Thanesar Municipal Corporation must look into the issue and do the needful immediately. Ravinder Malik, KurukshetraPM must look into SYL issueFOR a solution to the knotty dispute over SYL canal construction, the PM must call for a meeting with top political leaders from both the states. According to the Reorganisation Act, Haryana is entitled to receive 3.5 million acre-foot (MAF) of water from Punjab rivers. The state is already receiving 1.7 million acre-foot of that and the dispute is over the remaining 1.8 million acre-foot of water. All the political parties of Punjab have taken a rigid stand and declared that no water will be given to Haryana thus it is difficult for the Cheif Ministers to negotiate a settlement by third week of August as directed by the Supreme Court. RN Malik, OP Goyal, Randheer Singh, RS Rathi, retd engineers, HaryanaPeople must don maskI recently went outdoors for buying some medicines and other essential work. To my surprise people were not at practicing social distancing or following other norms such as wearing a mask. A number of people were found flouting the government advisory and putting their own and others lives at risk. People must take the Covid pandemic seriously and should act responsible. Till the time we don't have a vaccine to the disease, we must follow the precautions to avoid catching infection. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaDevise way to know status of complaintTHE complainants who hand over their grievances personally at the grievance redressal cell should be provided with some window where they can know its action taken status. Home Minister Anil Vij should look into the issue and get the needful done so that the complainants through some mail ID or mobile phone number. As a complaint is submitted through a mobile phone only so the concerned staff should inform at the same number. Avinash Prabhakar, Bhiwani||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/encroachments-at-market-121269
03-08-2020||Faridabad||New education policy hailed||Virtual interview competitionHisar: The Training and Placement Cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology here organised an online personal interview contest under its fortnightly virtual speakathon event. In all 45 students of various courses participated in the event. Placement Cell director Pratap Singhsaid that was the ninth speakathon in the series, that aimed to sharpen communication skills. He said virtual interviews would increase in the coming times therefore the event was designed for students to practice mock virtual interviews. Pankaj Asija, one of the judges at the event, highlighted that voice quality, proper lighting and background, etc were some of the major factors that need to be taken care in a virtual interview.Nod to IEEE branch at CUHMahendragarh: The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), New York, USA, has given an approval for opening its branch at the Central University of Haryana (CUH) campus here. “The IEEE branch will be opened under the Department of Electrical Engineering here and will benefit the students in innovation, research and employment sector. Through this international affiliation students will also get an exposure to more worldwide professional activities,” said CUH Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-education-policy-hailed-121271
03-08-2020||Panipat||8 held for kidnapping||The police have claimed to have busted a gang allegedly involved in kidnapping managers of a private construction company working at the IOCL refinery and demanding Rs 1 lakh a month. The accused were nabbed on Saturday night and produced in a local court on Sunday. The court sent kingpin Rathi and Navin to two-day police remand and the other six accused in judicial custody. TNSJhajjarMan found deadA 45-year-old man, identified as Santraj, was found dead near a stadium in Ladpur village on Sunday. His family suspected that Santraj had been murdered. His body bore injury marks inflicted by a weapon. A murder case has been registered. Santraj worked at a warehouse in Pahsaur village. He went there on Saturday evening, but did not return. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-held-for-kidnapping-121272
03-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Environmental society demands enactment of tree Act||Covid warriors honoured in HisarHisar: The Covid contact tracing team in Hisar district led by Dr Ramesh Punia has traced over 1,000 contacts. Painter Sikandar honoured Dr Punia and his team by painting a portrait. Multi-purpose health worker Noor Mohammad was honoured by the people of Sulchani village, with sarpanch Vijender Sharma praising his work.Haryana Police give warm send-off to state CID chiefKarnal: The Haryana Police have accorded a warm send-off to ADGP Anil Kumar Rao. He retired after putting in over 32 years of service in various capacities. A farewell meeting was organised at the Haryana Police Academy in Madhuban, which was attended by several police officials. Before being posted as CID Chief, he also served as IGP Rohtak Range, Hisar Range and IGP CID. Hailing from Narnaul, Rao had joined the force in 1988 and had been inducted into the IPS in 1994.Nasibpur panchayat donates Rs 5 crore to Covid fundMahendragarh: Nasibpur panchayat under the Narnaul block has donated Rs 5 crore to the Haryana Corona Relief Fund. Sarpanch Promila Bai, accompanied by Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Om Prakash Yadav, handed over the cheque to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Chandigarh. Deputy Commissioner RK Singh, who was present, said it was the responsibility of every citizen to help the state government in the fight against Covid.Free auto facility in Rohtak todayRohtak: Former minister Manish Grover has flagged off 10 pink auto-rickshaws for free travel to people on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. “The auto-rickshaws will ply on different routes in the city so that the maximum people can avail the facility,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/environmental-society-demands-enactment-of-tree-act-121273
03-08-2020||Faridabad||Soon, outreach police officers to deal with teenage issues||The local police will soon appoint outreach officers in all police stations in the city to deal effectively with the issues of teenage students.Revealing this, Commissioner of Police OP Singh said the move came in connection with the launch of the concept of ‘Teenage Police’, which aims at dealing with the day-to-day issues of teenagers, so that they do not take to crime or anti-social activities due to problems in their lives.He said officers would work to resolve the issues connected with inadvertence, drug abuse and crime by students. Proper counselling, guidance and help to the youngsters could help in saving many from taking to crime or anti-social activities, Singh added.He said the officials would keep an eye on places like schools, coaching centres and would visit these places on a regular basis and work on the root cause and diagnosis of crime, intoxication and misconduct and make them aware of not going for underage driving. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soon-outreach-police-officers-to-deal-with-teenage-issues-121274
03-08-2020||Sushil Manav||Haryana shows marked upturn in cure curve||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2Haryana witnessed a marked improvement in the recovery rate of coronavirus patients in the past two months from 44.78 per cent on June 1 to 80.73 per cent by July-end.Not only this, the fatality rate in the state has come down from 1.61 per cent on July 1 to 1.23 per cent on July 31, while the positivity rate came down from 5.91 per cent on July 15 to 5.76 per cent by the end of July. Read also: Daily testing Although Haryana has witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases after the lockdown, primarily because of NCR districts, the state has seen a decline in the growth rate from 15.18 per cent during the first 15 days of June to 6.23 per cent during the last 15 days of June. The growth rate per day decreased further to 3.73 per cent in the first 15 days of July and dipped to 2.74 during the last fortnight of July.The Covid-19 status report prepared by the Haryana Health Department shows that the doubling rate, which is the number of days in which virus cases double up, was 5 during the first 15 days of June, but it went up to 12 in the last fortnight of June, 19 days in the first 15 days of July and 25 days by the end of July.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, said the state had taken a series of measures for improvement of various parameters, which include ramping up testing, isolation of patients and hospitalisation of moderate and severe cases.By the end of July, Haryana conducted 6.12 lakh tests.The increase in the testing in the state can be gauged from the fact that from 30 tests a day in March, it increased to 880 in April, 2,930 in May, 4,930 in June and 10,930 tests in July.Meanwhile, Haryana is expecting nearly 13,000 fresh cases of virus in the first 15 days of this month, as the gap analysis of the health department has forecasted 47,827 projected cases by August 15.Of these, the number of active cases has been projected at 16,739 against 6,250 active cases on July 31. “We are fully prepared for the projected cases. As per projections, we will need 1,004 beds with oxygen support, 502 ICU beds and 167 ventilators on August 15, but we have 5,908 beds with oxygen support, 2,216 ICU beds and 1,080 ventilators with us,” said Arora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-shows-marked-upturn-in-cure-curve-121448
03-08-2020||Panipat||Rice miller booked for not delivering milled rice||A local rice miller has been booked for allegedly not delivering the entire stock of custom-milled rice (CMR) to the state government.The case was registered on the complaint by Kirpal Singh, District Manager, Hafed. In his compliant, he said the district milling committee had allotted 5,700 MT of paddy to the miller, Rambhaj Jain, proprietor of Vardhman Rice Mills situated on the Gohana road here. He was bound to deliver 3,394 MT of CMR till April, but he delivered only 1,919 MT.“Several reminders to deliver the pending stock were served on the miller, but to no avail. A couple of months ago, Jain’s rice mill was inspected and the stock of 500 tonnes was found there, he added. The cost of the pending CMR is about Rs 3.25 crore,” Singh said. The FCI has pushed the deadline to receive the pending CMR by August 31, he added.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rice-miller-booked-for-not-delivering-milled-rice-121270
03-08-2020||Nitin Jain||MCs tighten noose around defaulters||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 2After a four-month halt due to the lockdown, civic bodies have resumed operations to tighten the noose around property tax defaulters. These have even put government departments on notice.In Ambala City, several government departments owe over Rs 7.5 crore to the municipal corporation. Property tax arrears in Ambala are over Rs 36 crore.While Ambala City Municipal Corporation is struggling to collect Rs 16 crore arrears from around 1.56 lakh owners, over 1,000 defaulters owe Rs 20 crore to the Ambala Sadar Municipal Council.“Since commercial and business operations have resumed, we have asked defaulters to clear their arrears, failing which we will declare them defaulters and resume properties,” said a senior officer.Ambala City Municipal Commissioner Parth Gupta said the properties of several major defaulters had been sealed and other major defaulters had been served sealing notices, which had been pasted outside their properties. Officials said the arrears would be recovered before March 31. In Ambala Cantonment, the council had sealed the properties of 10 major defaulters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mcs-tighten-noose-around-defaulters-121260
03-08-2020||---||Demolish illegal dhabas along NH-44: Deputy Commissioner||Karnal, August 2Deputy Commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav has directed the District Town Planner (DTP) to get all the illegal dhabas along the National Highway 44 demolished.The DTP told the DC that they had earmarked 47 dhabas, which had not procured CLU certificate to run the dhaba along the NH. Of them, 22 had already been demolished.Chairing a meeting of the district task force, Yadav asked the DTP to initiate a demolition drive in the district every Tuesday.“I have directed the DTP to demolish the illegal dhabas. The PWD authorities have been directed to remove encroachments along the road in the district,” said the DC.He added that he had also directed the power corporation authorities not to allot power connection to residents living in illegal colonies, and to owners of illegal dhabas. For power connection, an NOC should be procured from the DTP office, he said.He also asked the authorities to keep a vigil on the illegal colonies. The DC said they had identified 42 illegal colonies and people were buying plots in these colonies without carrying out the requisite verification process.“Warning boards will be erected in the illegal colonies to make people aware that they should not purchase property in such colonies,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demolish-illegal-dhabas-along-nh-44-deputy-commissioner-121258
03-08-2020||---||Karnal to have four more welcome gates||Karnal, August 2With the aim to beautify CM’s city, four more welcome gates will be constructed at different entrances to the city. With these four new gates, the number of welcome gates will increase to eight in the city.Tender process by septemberThe drawing will be completed by the end of next week. The short tender process will be done for these gates by September. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, KMC CommissionerPresently, one gate — Shrimad Bhagvad Gita welcome gate at Baldi bypass — has already been constructed at a cost of Rs 90 lakh and inaugurated. Work on three gates –- Raja Karan welcome gate at Namaste Chowk, Atam Manohar Jain Muni welcome gate on Karnal-Indri road and Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya welcome gate at Devi Lal Chowk — is under way. It is expected that these will be completed in a month.As per the authorities associated with the Karnal Municipal Corporation, the survey for new four gates — a welcome gate named after Guru Nanak Dev at Karnal-Kaithal road, Swami Vivekananda welcome gate at Karnal-Kachwa road, Mata Saraswati welcome gate at Karnal-Kunjpura road, welcome gate named after astronaut Kalpana Chawla at Karnal-Munak road — has been completed and the drawings for these gates are being prepared.“The drawing will be completed by the end of next week. The short tender process will be done for these gates by September,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Commissioner, KMC. He maintained that the work would start in October and the deadline would be February.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-to-have-four-more-welcome-gates-121240
03-08-2020||Nitish Sharma||Ambala civic body to have 20 wards for poll||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 2The Ambala Municipal Corporation will have 20 wards with the purpose of general election of which seven wards will be reserved for women, including two for women candidates from Scheduled Caste (SC) category, five for SC candidates, two for Backward Class (BC) candidates and six for general category. The Urban Local Bodies Department (ULBD) has issued a notification in this regard.As per the notification the total population under the corporation limit is 3,03,850 of which 71,940 people belong to SC community.The tenure of the previous house got completed in July 2018 and last year the corporation was bifurcated into Ambala City Corporation and Ambala Municipal Council Sadar Zone. In the last tenure there were 20 wards under the Municipal Corporation — 11 in Ambala City and the remaining nine in Ambala Sadar Zone (Ambala Cantonment).A city resident and Punjab and Haryana High Court advocate Hemant Kumar said, “A minimum population of 3 lakh is necessary for the status of Municipal Corporation and to retain it for Ambala City, 12 adjoining villages such as Dangdehri, Manakpur, Lohgarh, Dadiana, Devi Nagar, Nijampur, Ghel Kalan, Ghel Khurd, Kanwala, Kanwali, Kalu Majra and Liharsa were included.”“After the delimitation process, their draft will be published in a gazette notification and notices will be issued to public to register their objections. Through the DC, the public can send their objections to the administrative secretary or the director general of the ULBD within 10 days of publication of the draft, after considering which the final delimitation of the wards will be notified. The selection of wards that would be reserved for women, SC and BC candidates will be made through a draw, which will be notified and after it the election process will be started by the state Election Commission,” he added.Himmat Singh, former councillor of the Ambala Municipal Corporation, said “The officials must form a committee and the delimitation must be done with the consensus of the public. The entire process may take around six months and the elections for the new house will be held next year.”Parth Gupta, Commissioner, Ambala Municipal Corporation, said, “The notification regarding the wards has been issued and the delimitation process is on. The process will be completed soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-civic-body-to-have-20-wards-for-poll-121241
03-08-2020||Parveen Arora||Garbage mounds at waste management plant health hazard for residents||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 2The reduced capacity of the Karnal solid waste management plant to recycle garbage is causing inconvenience to residents. The plant is located along the Karnal-Meerut road in Shekhpura Suhana village, around 8 km from the district headquarters.The city, which has a population of over 4 lakh, generates around 200 quintals of garbage daily. The plant has a capacity to recycle around 120 quintals of garbage daily, but it processes around 150 quintals of garbage every day. As a result, the remaining garbage is dumped on the plant’s premises, which has led to heaps of garbage at the site.The plant was started in 2012 by the Congress government with an aim to convert the solid waste into the compost and refuse-derived fuel under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission.Hydro-air Tectonics Pollution Control Development Limited (HTPL), a Mumbai-based company, had established the plant at a cost of Rs 32 crore. Half of the project’s cost was borne by the state government.The operations of the plant were handed over to Hydro-air Tectonics Pollution Control Development Limited on the BOT basis for 30 years. However, due to poor handling by the company, the municipal corporation cancelled its contract, and took charge of the operations.Commuters and residents have raised the problem of garbage stench emanating from the heaps of garbage, claiming it to be hazardous for their health. Worried over the consequences of the foul smell on the health of residents, Baldev Raj, a daily commuter, said the capacity of the plant should be increased.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Municipal Commissioner, said they had included the plant in the smart city project. The plant’s capacity would be enhanced to 250 quintals per day. “We have come up with a plan which will dispose of the dumped garbage from the site,” he added.RECYCLING WASTE ABOVE CAPACITYThe plant has a capacity to recycle around 120 quintals of garbage daily, but it processes around 150 quintals of garbage every day. As a result, the remaining garbage is dumped on the plant's premises, which has led to heaps of garbage at the site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garbage-mounds-at-waste-management-plant-health-hazard-for-residents-121242
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Safety of women topmost priority of govt, says Haryana Chief Minister||Celebrating Rakshabandhan amid the Covid pandemic, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today interacted with 650 women from various fields during a webinar ‘Mhari Baat, Mhare Manohar Ke Sath’ here today.Highlighting the importance of ‘Raksha Bandhan’, the CM said, “The relationship of brother and sister is very special. On the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, I congratulate and extend my best wishes to all.”He said from times immemorial, women have been given a special place in our society and we should always hold them in high esteem.The webinar was organised by the Sashakt Yuva Foundation wherein women participated from various fields, including renowned singer Himani Kapoor, Class XII toppers, Vice-Chancellors of various universities, lawyers, doctors and panchayat representatives.During the webinar, women thanked the CM for giving them an opportunity to directly interact with him and share their views with him. On this occasion, the CM also thanked around 200 women for sending ‘rakhis’ and messages to him.The CM said ensuring the safety of women and daughters is the topmost priority of the state government and several important steps have been taken in this direction. He said that the state government in its previous tenure and this time also has given special focus on the education and empowerment of women.“Dedicated efforts have been made to ensure that girls are treated equal to boys. It is a matter of great pride that girls have always outshone boys, be it in education, sports, politics, etc,” he said.While responding to an issue raised by Pooja Khasa, a B-Pharmacy student regarding bus service especially for girl students in Baroda in Sonepat district, Khattar said, “The concerned officers will be directed to make the necessary transport arrangements immediately. ‘Chhattra Parivahan Suraksha’ has already been implemented in the state for ensuring safety of girl students in public transport.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/safety-of-women-topmost-priority-of-govt-says-haryana-chief-minister-121244
03-08-2020||Karnal||Denotify NH-44 stretch, reduce green belt width: Karnal residents to Haryana Chief Minister||City residents have requested Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to denotify a stretch of the National Highway 44 between Baldi bypass and Namastey Chowk. By doing so, the width of the green belt along the stretch can be reduced from 100 m to 30 m. As a result, development activities can be taken up, which, residents say, will generate revenue and jobs.They have written to Khattar in this regard. Along with their letter, they have attached a reply by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), in which it “admitted” that technically the stretch could not be referred to as a bypass, but since the stretch had been mentioned as a bypass in the schedule annexed with the Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Development Act, 1963, it was designated as a bypass. The NHAI also suggested that the state government could de-notify the stretch.Kailash Gupta, a resident, said: “In Haryana, building line norms along scheduled roads are governed by the provisions of the Punjab Scheduled Road Act of 1963. As per the Act, a green belt of 30 m is required along the right to way of any scheduled road. In case of a bypass, the green belt’s width is 100 m. The 30 m no-construction zone or green belt is not mandatory in case the scheduled road is passing through the municipal limits. This is not applicable if the road is a bypass.”“The stretch from the Baldi bypass and Namastey Chowk passes through the city. It is within the limits of the Karnal Municipal Corporation. The NHAI has also admitted that technically, it is not a bypass. So we request the CM to de-notify the stretch, reducing the width of the green belt to 30 m from 100 m,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/denotify-nh-44-stretch-reduce-green-belt-width-karnal-residents-to-haryana-chief-minister-121245
03-08-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||2 policemen covered 100 km in 20 minutes!||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, August 2Can 100 km be covered by bus in merely 20 minutes? The perusal of the State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) records show that two cops made this feat possible, at least on paper.An RTI query has brought out that head constable Narinder Kumar and constable Anil Kumar travelled from Panchkula to Yamunanagar in 20 minutes to conduct a raid on Bharat Joon, a Junior Engineer in the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar.‘I am being implicated’As per the VB’s record, it received a complaint against me at 4.05 pm on September 25, 2018, but the raiding team was constituted more than four hours earlier — at 11.35 am. This is enough to suggest that the authorities out to implicate me.As per the daily diary, SVB cops left the Panchkula police station at 11.15 am on September 25, 2018. As per the records, they reached Yamunanagar at 11.35 am by bus. How did they cover about 100 km in 20 minutes? It is a matter of investigation. — Bharat Joon, Junior Engineer, MC, YamunanagarHe is accused of taking a bribe of Rs 10,000 from a contractor on September 25, 2018, in lieu of preparing a bill of constructing a road.Joon said, “As per the daily diary (roznamcha), SVB head constable Narinder Kumar and constable Anil Kumar left the Panchkula police station at 11.15 am on September 25, 2018, to join a team constituted for conducting a raid on me. As per the records, they reached Yamunanagar at 11.35 am by bus. How did they cover about 100 km in 20 minutes? It is a matter of investigation.”The JE alleged the SVB and the contractor had implicated him in a false case.To substantiate his claim, he said, “As per the SVB’s record, the bureau received a complaint against me at 4.05 pm on September 25, 2018, but the raiding team was constituted more than four hours earlier — at 11.35 am. This is enough to suggest that the authorities and the contractors are hands in glove against me.”“I will expose the connivance of the SVB and the contractor in court. I filed a complaint at the CM window on this July 29, seeking action against officials who made fake entries in the daily diary,” the JE sadded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-policemen-covered-100-km-in-20-minutes-121247
03-08-2020||---||5 more succumb, 761 fresh Covid cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 2Haryana reported 761 fresh Covid positive cases and five deaths, taking the total number of cases to 36,519 and death toll to 433.Faridabad led with 172 cases, followed by Gurugram (79), Ambala (75), Rohtak (65) and Sonepat (60). While two deaths were reported from Sirsa, Ambala, Sonepat and Karnal reported one death each.The total number of cases surged to 9,002 in Faridabad with the addition of 172 cases.In Panipat, two more deaths were reported. A 50-year-old man of Panipat died at the PGIMS in Rohtak and a 62-year-old man of Pawati village in Samalkha subdivision died in Panipat. These deaths were not counted in the health bulletin.A total of 21 fresh cases were reported in Kurukshetra on Sunday. A 68-year-old woman of Pehowa died at the PGI in Chandigarh and a 75-year-old woman of Shahabad died at the MM Hospital in Mullana. The health bulletin did not include these two deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-more-succumb-761-fresh-covid-cases-in-haryana-121248
03-08-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Unused polyclinic to double up as lab, isolation ward||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 2Faced with the shortage of space in hospitals in the wake of the Covid pandemic, the Health Department has decided to set up an isolation ward and a testing laboratory in the abandoned building of a government polyclinic in Sector 55 here. It has been lying unused for the more than two years.‘Need of the hour’Another isolation ward is the need of the hour because the existing one is unsafe as it is located near the general post-operative (surgery) ward. — Dr Savita Yadav, Principal Medical OfficerSources say the laboratory and the isolation ward in the polyclinic are likely to be functional by the second week of this month. The need to have another laboratory for RT-PCR tests arose due to spike in Covid cases.The district has reported 8,829 cases and 133 deaths so far.At present, the department is dependent on the laboratory of ESIC Medical College and Hospital here.Dr Savita Yadav, Principal Medical Officer, said: “Another isolation ward is the need of the hour because the existing one is unsafe as it is located near the general post-operative (surgery) ward.”The polyclinic was built in 2014 at the cost of Rs 5 crore, but it never became functional because the staff was not appointed.In 2016, the building of the polyclinic was handed over to the Department of Skill and Industrial Training, which used it as a transit campus of Sri Vishwakarma Skill University, Palwal. The campus was vacated in 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unused-polyclinic-to-double-up-as-lab-isolation-ward-121249
03-08-2020||---||Haryana Farmers launch stir against ordinances||Kurukshetra, August 2Farmers from Kurukshetra and Kaithal districts and Radaur block of Yamunanagar, led by Rattan Singh Mann, president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Mann), Haryana, today launched ‘August Kisan Kranti Andolan’.They demanded that the Centre should bring a law ‘right to sell at MSP’ and immediately withdraw the three ordinances on the agriculture sector to protect the interests of farmers.The farmers held a panchayat at the Jat Dharmshala, took out a protest march and held a demonstration outside the residence of Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini. They later submitted a memorandum to the MP in support of their demands.BKU president Rattan Singh Mann said, “The BJP government has been ignoring the interests of farmers and hasn’t even been trying to understand the issues being faced by farmers. The government should bring a law on ‘right to sell at MSP’. Otherwise, the farmer union will launch a big agitation.“The ordinances introduced by the government will only benefit private players. The farmers are ready for every struggle,” he said.The Centre had introduced three ordinances including the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, the Farmers Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and the Ordinance to amend the Essential Commodities Act.As per its plan for ‘August Kisan Kranti Andolan’, the farmer union will submit memorandums to all MPs of Haryana.Mann said, “Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar should call an all-party meeting before August 15 to discuss the three ordinances. If the ordinances are not withdrawn, a state-level kisan mahapanchayat will be held on September 4 at Rohtak.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmers-launch-stir-against-ordinances-121250
03-08-2020||Deepender Deswal||Covid-19: Sirsa tops in contact tracing||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 2Sirsa district has traced the highest number of contacts of Covid patients. On an average, the heath authorities traced 24.2 contacts of every patient.Sirsa Civil Surgeon Dr Surender Nain said, “The district’s contact tracing team has been on the job round the clock, tracing contacts immediately a person tests positive.”Of the 22,129 samples taken so far, 419 have tested positive, he said. At present, there are 162 active cases, while 252 persons have recovered.The Health Department’s data show Fatehabad is on the second position in the number of contacts traced. It has traced 14.8 contacts of every Covid patient, while Jind has traced 12.4 contacts.Sonepat and Gurugram, which are among the most affected districts, are at the bottom of the chart. On an average, 3.6 contacts have been traced in the two districts. Rewari’s score is 4.2, Panipat 4.4, Jhajjar 4.6 and Faridabad 4.8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-sirsa-tops-in-contact-tracing-121251
03-08-2020||---||2 die as heap of mud caves in||Karnal, August 2Two women labourers died in Biana village, while three other sustained injuries after they got trapped in a heap of mud on Sunday. They were working under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. The deceased were identified as Gyano Devi (58) of Nagla Roran, and Suraiya (40) of Biana village, while among the injured are Hansraj, Amit of Biana and Ashok of Nagla Roran village.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav ordered an inquiry into the incident. “An inquiry will be initiated in this tragic incident and action will be taken if anyone is found responsible,” he said, adding that compensation would also be given as per the Act.As per information, the incident took place around 11 am when around 40 workers were working at the site when a heap of mud caved in and fell on them. Other workers pulled them out and rushed them to the hospital. Of them Suraiya and Gyano were declared dead by the doctors. The police have registered a case against the contractor and no arrest has been made so far.“We have registered a case against contractor Seth Pal under Section 304-A, 336, and 337 of the IPC,” said Jai Narayan, incharge Biana police post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-die-as-heap-of-mud-caves-in-121252
03-08-2020||Karnal||Karnal college designated Covid hospital||Following government approval, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) here has been declared a dedicated Covid hospital. A total of 150 of the 550 beds will be reserved for Covid patients.Earlier, patients in the severe category were being referred to the medical college in Mullana and asymptomatic ones to Gurukul in Nilokheri. Only patients with moderate symptoms were being treated here. Now, patients in severe and moderate categories would be treated at the KCGMC.“In view of the rise in the number of cases, the KCGMC has been declared a Covid hospital as per Government of India norms on the management and treatment of Covid patients,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, District Magistrate.He said since the recovery rate in Karnal was above 70 per cent and most patients were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, they did not anticipate a huge rush of patients for hospitalisation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-college-designated-covid-hospital-121253
03-08-2020||---||Panipat villagers: Cancel case, release protesters||Panipat, August 2The special team of the Karnal police had to go back to Karnal on Sunday from Panipat after the villagers at Binjhol village here refused to give any statements to the police.They demanded the release of their 14 prominent persons, who have been lodged in jail by the police, and also the cancellation of the case registered on July 30.As per sources, the special team headed by DSP Jagdeep Duhan visited Panipat in connection with the investigation of the murder case of three children on the consecutive second day on Sunday.The team members called up the family members and other villagers to record their statements and to visit the spot along with them and the three children who were along with the deceased on July 7 evening. But the villagers refused the police team’s request, said sources.The villagers refused to give any statements to the police saying that their all prominent leaders were lodged in jail by the Panipat police on July 31.The villagers demanded that till their prominent leaders are not released, they won’t be able to give any statements. The villagers began a dharna in their village ‘chaupal’ over their demands.Later in the evening, a delegation of villagers came to Karnal and had a meeting with the police.Surinder Singh Bhoria, SP, Karnal, said that the investigation in both cases is under progress. We are regularly in touch with the family members of the three children. A delegation came to Karnal in the evening and met us. We have pacified them. We also asked them to provide the evidence they have. They have given us some videos and photos, he added.Children’s murder||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-villagers-cancel-case-release-protesters-121254
03-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||Covid fear brings ‘rakhi’ sale down 60% in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 2After ‘Teej’, the Covid pandemic has cast its shadow over Rakshabandhan too with the sale of ‘rakhis’ and other gift items declining 60 per cent in the district.The reluctance of women to travel to their brothers’ house amid the Covid scare is one of the major reasons behind lack of enthusiasm for the festival.Like ‘rakhi’ and gift sellers, sweet shop owners too are facing a similar situation as they are not getting expected business.“More than 100 stalls used to be put up at Quilla road and surrounding markets every year to sell ‘rakhis’ and other gift items on Raksha Bandhan. The markets used to be jam-packed as people used to buy ‘rakhis’, gifts, sweets etc. But this year, there are merely 25 to 30 stalls due to limited number of buyers,” said Ashok Sharma, a ‘rakhi’ seller.Sharma said he had, this time, ordered half the quantity of ‘rakhis’ as compared to last year keeping in view the economic slowdown. But the situation is so bad that he is struggling to sell even that quantity this time. “People do not have the money to spend for celebrating the festival,” he added. Jatin, another rakhi seller, said restrictions on opening the shops were also adversely affecting business.“The majority of customers come out of the house after 6 pm to protect themselves from the heat but the district administration has set 7 pm as the closing time in view of Covid. Many times, we have to refuse customers who come close to the closing time as officials do not hesitate in issuing a hefty challan after that,” he added.Deepak, another ‘rakhi’ seller, said as the drop in the sale of ‘rakhis’ was expected, he did not order ‘rakhis’ this time. He was selling the ones that remained unsold last year. Many others were also selling their old stock, he added. Dharampal Kataria, a sweet shop owner, said like Teej, the sale of ‘ghevar’ and other sweets has been 50 per cent lower on Rakshabandhan too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-fear-brings-rakhi-sale-down-60-in-rohtak-121255
03-08-2020||---||Hooda wants free bus travel for women in Haryana on Rakshabandhan||Chandigarh, August 2Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has demanded that the government should provide free bus service for women on Rakshabandhan.He said the decision to stop free bus service for women on Raksha Bandhan should be reconsidered as it would put undue financial pressure on lakhs of families amid acute distress due to months of lockdown and a massive economic slowdown in the country.“This will be the first time in 14 years that the government will collect fare from women on Rakshabandhan. Our government started this free bus service, giving women a gift on Rakshabandhan. Women were exempted from tickets even when they were travelling to other states on Haryana Roadways buses,” he said.Hooda stated that elderly women were charged half fare on Haryana Roadways buses during the Congress government and the party had promised free travel for women on roadways buses during the 2019 Assembly elections. He demanded that the government should start new welfare schemes in broader public interest instead of discontinuing the schemes started during the Congress government.Hooda demanded the government should run more buses to avoid crowding and ensure social distancing and safety of women. He said the government had already started running roadways buses. He said there could be no justification in removing a one-day waiver for women on one of the most important festivals of the year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-wants-free-bus-travel-for-women-in-haryana-on-rakshabandhan-121256
03-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Lokayukta demands more power to punish officials||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2As reports of Haryana Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal (retd) against senior officers have been piling up for want of action from government departments, he has demanded amendment to the Haryana Lokayukta Act, 2002, seeking power to punish officers and to take suo motu congisance of important matters.According to its annual report for 2018-19, 554 cases were disposed of with action-taken reports received in only 52 cases. In 20 cases, compliance reports were not sent.In his report, Justice Agarwal has mentioned several cases, in which action against officers has not been taken. A case in point is his order dated September 5, 2018. He had ordered action against IAS officer Sudhir Rajpal, then Chief Engineer of the Gurugram local body BS Singrohra and six others for not stopping illegal construction in the city. But his order was not complied with.In another case pertaining to the illegal appointment of a “prabandhak” in the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society (PACS), the Lokayukta had commented in its order dated December 19, 2018, that then Additional Chief Secretary (Cooperation Department) was “allowing the illegality to perpetuate”.In another order dated March 20, 2019, the Lokayukta had called for an FIR against chairperson I Hasan of Saraswati Kunj Cooperative House Building Society Limited, Gururgam, in a case of fraud. Against 1,871 plots on offer, money was accepted from 14,500 people. The Lokayukta has said in his report that his order was not complied with.Also, nothing happened on the recommendation of a departmental action against Deputy General Manager of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) Hamvir Singh regarding the purchase and sale of a property without permission. This order was passed on March 25, 2019.On October 16, 2018, the Lokayukta had called for an inquiry into the embezzlement of freedom fighters’ pension. Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal had said pointed out that in spite of repeated reminders from the Chief Secretary’s office for the inquiry, the office of the Gurugram DC failed to take action for six years — from 2009 to 2015. The payment of pension was stopped when the Lokayukta had issued the notice.Justice Agarwal commented that as heads of departments caused delay in conducting inquiries on complaints or filing replies in spite of repeated reminders, the provision of contempt of court be restored in the Haryana Lokayukta Act.He also pointed out officials of local bodies and the Town and Country Planning Department “have not been cooperating in a number of cases”.He has called for constituting an inquiry wing for investigation against public officials and attachment of proceeds of corruption.What he wants||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lokayukta-demands-more-power-to-punish-officials-121257
03-08-2020||---||Minister pulls up officials for poor quality of work||Kurukshetra, August 2Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Sandeep Singh on Sunday made a surprise visit to a five-pond system constructed at Thana village by the Forest Department and pulled up the officials for poor quality work.Ponds in bad shapeWithin seven months of construction, the ponds are in poor condition. The walls have collapsed and it is dangerous to walk around the ponds. No corruption will be tolerated in the development works being carried out. — Sandeep Singh, sports and youth affairs ministerThe minister said, “Within seven months of construction, the ponds are in poor condition. The walls have collapsed and it is dangerous to walk around the ponds. No corruption will be tolerated in the development works being carried out. If there is any irregularity in the quality of work, strict action will be taken against the officers and contractors involved.”He said the duty of the officers doesn’t end by just issuing a tender. Monitoring the quality of work is also their responsibility, he said.“During the construction work, on December 5, I reached here and instructed the officials and contractors to pay attention to quality and I told them that I will check the work after completion. Within seven months the construction work has started to collapse. I will talk to the Chief Minister to cancel the license of the contractor, register an FIR and initiate recovery, and also recommend action against the officials if they are found guilty,” said Sandeep.Annoyed at the laxity in construction, the Sports Minister also ordered an inquiry against the contractor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-pulls-up-officials-for-poor-quality-of-work-121259
03-08-2020||---||Haryana Power Minister seeks action against SDE||Hisar, August 2Power Minister Ranjit Singh on Sunday during his visit to a waterworks in Sirsa town directed the district administration to take action against a sub-divisional engineer (SDE) of the Public Health Engineering Department for dereliction of duty.Upset over lack of cleanliness in waterworks, he directed the authorities to initiate action against SDE Anchal Jain. The minister visited the waterworks in Sector 19 and in Panjuana village. Deputy Commissioner Ramesh Chander Bidhan and executive engineer of the Public Health Engineering Department RS Malik accompanied the minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-power-minister-seeks-action-against-sde-121261
03-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rain brings cheer to bajra growers||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, August 2The recent spell of rain has brought cheer to the farmers as it will be beneficial for their bajra crop that had started drying up due to the scarcity of water.‘70% under bajra’Around 70% of the total kharif area in the district is used for sowing bajra. This spell of rain will not only give rebirth to the crops but also be useful in their speedy growth. — Jaswinder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), MahendragarhBajra is a prominent kharif crop of the district and it is sown over 78,000 hectares. There are many villages in the Nangal Choudhary and Narnaul blocks here where farmers are totally dependent upon rain water for farming. Both the blocks have been declared as dark zones owing to the steep decline in water table. “The Bajra crops had reached the brink of drying up following the scarcity of rainfall this season hence farmers had eagerly been waiting for it for the past several days. Though the rainfall was not heavy in our block as compared to others, the spell was sufficient to revive the crop,” said Deepak Sharma, a farmer from Gaud Balaha village, which falls under Nangal Choudhary block.Surender Sharma, another farmer from Amarpur Jorasi village, said he had a tubewell in his field but the groundwater was salty hence bajra cannot grow without rainwater. “I have sown over 13 acres and rain will help the bajra crop flourish, otherwise we had deserted the hope of getting any produce due to the lack of rain,” Sharma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-brings-cheer-to-bajra-growers-121262
