03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Below normal day temp at most places in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||The maximum temperature at most places in Haryana and Punjab continued to hover below the normal limits on Wednesday, the Meteorological department said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a maximum temperature of 35.4 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, according to the MeT department.In Haryana, Ambala's maximum temperature settled at 35.9 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, while Karnal recorded a high of 35 degrees Celsius, it said.The maximum temperature in Hisar was six notches below normal at 36.5 degrees Celsius, the Met department said.Narnaul registered a high of 35 degrees Celsius, which was seven notches below the normal limits, it said.In Punjab, Ludhiana recorded a high of 35.2 degrees Celsius, down five notches against normal limits, the MeT department said.Amritsar registered a maximum of 36 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, while Patiala's maximum temperature was 36.3 degrees Celsius, four notches below the normal limits. PTI
03-06-2020||---||Boxer Amit Panghal’s coach nominated for Dronacharya Award||Rohtak, June 3Top Indian pugilist Amit Panghal’s coach Anil Kumar has been nominated for the prestigious Dronacharya Award. Kumar’s name was recommended by former India boxer and Arjuna Award recipient Rajkumar Sangwan.“Whatever I have been able to achieve, it is due to the efforts of my formative coach Anil Dhankhar,” said Panghal.The World silver-medallist boxer was on Monday nominated for the country’s highest sports honour – Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna – by the Boxing Federation on India.Kumar trained Panghal during his formative years and the boxer said he would be grateful if his coach was considered for Dronacharya Award.“I do not want any award for myself, but I would be happy and grateful if my coach is considered for Dronacharya Award,” said Panghal.  Kumar is presently engaged with coaching young boxers at Gurugram.
03-06-2020||---||Food delivery latest by 8.30 pm, no delivery boy on road after 9: Official||Chandigarh, June 3The Haryana government has issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for ensuring social distancing in the market areas within the Municipal limits up to June 30, 2020.An official spokesperson of the Urban Local Bodies Department said all permitted shops other than essential goods can open from 9 am to 7 pm to ensure the compliance of ‘Night Curfew’ regarding movement of individuals between 9 pm to 5 am. Social distancing (2 gaz ki doori) should be strictly maintained in all such market areas by all concerned.He added that the shopkeepers should wear gloves and masks to avoid hand contact and shall ensure frequent sanitisation of all points which come into human contact for example, door, handles etc.He said that that the shopkeepers shall ensure deployment of minimum required staff in their shops to avoid overcrowding and they can alternatively call the staff in shifts.The security guards at large entry points and AC shops should be provided with sanitisers and thermal scanner. He further added that the shopkeepers and salesmen shall invariably wear masks while attending the customers and shall ensure that no customer enter the shop without thermal scanning, sanitisation and mask. It shall also be ensured that not more than five persons, including shopkeeper, helpers and customers, are present at a time in any shop.The spokesperson said that the customers or visitors should wear masks and be asked to stand in queue at a distance of minimum six feet. Proper marking of circles at the required distance should be done on regular basis so that customers or visitors shall wait for their turn.He further said that temporary barriers with thermal scanning system should be provided at the entry and exit points of these market places so as to maintain the flow of customers or visitors for ensuring social distancing.He specified that the municipal staff shall ensure proper cleanliness and sanitization of such market places or areas at regular intervals during day as well as night. In addition, challaning should be strictly enforced against spitting in open or market areas.Furthermore, shopkeepers or street vendors shall display a Public Notice regarding downloading of “AarogyaSetu Mobile App” for public or customer awareness and motivate them to install the same and regularly update their health status on this app. He added that the shopkeepers shall ensure that all the employees must install AarogyaSetu Mobile App and use the same regularly.The spokesperson said that in the areas falling under the jurisdiction of any Municipal Corporation, if it is not possible to enforce the social distancing norms set out by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India in congested markets, then Deputy Commissioner concerned in consultations with Commissioner, Municipal Corporation concerned shall take essential measures to notify the protocol for operating shops such as 50% opening of the markets, etc.He stated that the food restaurants and food aggregators like Zomato, Swiggy etc. are permitted to operate kitchens for home delivery of food items. The upper time limit for operation of kitchen will be 8 pm and home delivery, by all means, will be completed before 8.30 pm or earlier to ensure that no delivery boy will be out on roads beyond 9 pm.All standards of hygiene like wearing of masks, gloves, caps etc are being followed while cooking food in such kitchens.Also, no signature or thumb impression of the customer shall be taken by them while delivering items. Preferably online electronic mode of payment shall be ensured to avoid contact and to maintain social distancing.Besides, Municipalities should also endeavour to publicize these guidelines amongst the shopkeepers or rehriwalas or fruit and vegetable vendors etc. for their awareness about maintaining social distancing.Barber shopsThe spokesperson said that the directions regarding barber shops, sweet shops and banquet or marriage halls will remain in force as already circulated. In such markets where there is no restriction on opening of shops on daily basis, weekly off system as prevailing prior to lockdown shall be resorted. However, congested markets where there is restriction on daily opening of shops the condition of weekly off as included in instructions dated May 22, 2020 shall apply.He said the directions of Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India regarding lockdown guidelines May 30, 2020 should not be diluted in any manner, whatsoever, while complying with the SOPs. All municipalities shall ensure to arrange wide publicity by ‘munadi’ on its own vehicles being used for door-to-door garbage collection having Public Address System (PAS) facility by hiring vehicles for this purpose today itself on priority basis.
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana issues SOP for interstate travel||Haryana Government has issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in accordance to the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs regarding interstate travel in buses of Haryana Roadways.The SOP says passengers intending to undertake inter-state travel must carry their identity proofs and tickets, in either electronic or physical form. Apart from this, the bus staff as well as passengers must have Aarogya Setu app downloaded on their mobile phones while they travel with all relevant details filled in.Giving details in this regard, an official spokesperson said that it must be ensured that the staff and passengers are free of any COVID-19 symptoms. If any such person is aboard, he or she must immediately be de-boarded and sent home and the people in contact with him must be home quarantined for 14 days.He said that the number of passengers aboard one bus shall not exceed 30-35. The buses being employed for ferrying passengers should be fully sanitized inside out. In addition, sanitiser bottles must be kept inside the buses at all times and must be used by the bus staff from time to time at regular intervals. He said that the wearing of masks by everyone aboard the bus and on bus stands must be strictly adhered to by all and every passenger should carry sanitizers with them.He said that the strict adherence of SOPs issued by the Transport Department for inter-state travel by the Haryana Roadways buses should be ensured. He said that the passengers shall ensure following NCOVID protocol and shall maintain physical distancing at bus stands and in the bus, not spit inside the bus or outside and at bus stands and other public places, cover their faces while sneezing and coughing.He said that while passengers are boarding, their thermal screening must be ensured by the staff deployed there. No passenger should be allowed to board if he or she is running high temperature. The staff doing thermal screening must be wearing PPE kit while doing the screening and should sanitize themselves properly and adequately.He said that for smooth movement of passengers, the interstate and intrastate routes being operated from time to time will be widely publicized through the departmental website and print media.
03-06-2020|| ||Speeding car drags cop on its bonnet for 200 metres in Panipat||Panipat, June 3A special police officer (SPO) was on Wednesday dragged for almost 200 metres by a speeding car near Eight Marla Chowk of Model Town in Panipat. The SPO, Jogender Singh, sustained injuries and has been admitted to a private hospital. The car driver also hit an e-rickshaw whose driver also sustained injuries and has been referred to PGIMS, Rohtak.The Model Town police have registered a case under Section 279, 337, 353, 186 and 307 of the IPC.
03-06-2020||Sushil Manav||Haryana to start schools from July; colleges, universities from August||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3With most of the activities beginning after lockdown for over two months, Haryana has now decided to start teaching work in schools from July and in colleges and universities from the month of August.As per the schedule decided by the government so far, teaching work for classes 10, 11 and 12 only in the first phase, and that too in shifts.Also read: Chandigarh private schools barred from hiking fee for 2020-21 sessionHRD minister releases academic calendar for Classes 11, 12J-K govt defers decision to re-open schools in mid-JuneKanwar Pal Gujjar, Haryana Minister for Education, Forest and Parliamentary Affairs, said since the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in its Unlock 1 guidelines has already permitted opening of the schools and college in phase 2 of the reopening beginning July 1, the state government has decided to open the schools.The results of the matriculation exam would be declared on the coming Monday “We will do it in a phased manner by starting teaching work for classes 10, 11 and 12 on July 1; for classes 6, 7, 8 and 9 after 15 days; and for the primary classes from August. The classes would be held in shifts so that half the students of a class come in first shift and the rest in the second shift. We are yet to decide whether it should be morning and evening shift or on alternate days,” said the minister.READ: Haryana issues SOP for interstate travelGujjar said the government has decided to run demo classes in 4 or 5 schools of the state in the coming days to find out how social distancing and sanitisation of the classrooms can be ensured and whether morning and evening shifts would be better or the shifts on alternate days will be better.He said the government’s efforts will be to start the classes from July 1, but in any case the teaching work will begin in the month of July if there is any delay due to preparations.The minister said the results of the matriculation exam would be declared on the coming Monday.He said as far as the left out subjects was concerned, the students would be promoted on the basis of their average marks in other subjects, but those who opted for science will have to appear in the exam.As for the colleges and universities, Gujjar said that classes for part one of the BA, BSc, BCom and other graduation classes will begin from September, while the teaching for other classes would begin from August.Meanwhile, the Director of School Education has asked the district education officers in Haryana to set up committees of education officers, teachers, parents and media persons by Thursday to suggest ways and means to start schools with social distancing.The committees have been asked to submit their reports by June 7.
03-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak court slams police for ‘partisan’ probe in case against former IIM teacher||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 3A Rohtak court has reprimanded the police for having conducted a shoddy investigation into a case of cheating registered against a former faculty member of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Rohtak.Maintaining that the investigating officer had failed to make effective investigation and appeared “partisan or biased,” the court of Vivek Singh, Judicial Magistrate (First Class), has entrusted the further investigation to the SHO of the police station concerned.On February 18, an FIR under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC was registered against Nirmalya Bandopadhyaay, a former assistant professor of IIM-Rohtak, on the basis of a complaint lodged by Surjeet Singh, a local resident who runs an outsourcing agency and has been associated with the institute.The complainant had alleged that Bandopadhyaay had taken Rs 5 lakh from him on assurance of getting his wife employed at IIM-Rohtak.Bandopadhyaay, who belongs to West Bengal, refuted the charges and sent the evidence supporting his claim to the investigating officer.However, the Rohtak police investigators sent a communique to the West Bengal police, following which the former IIM faculty member was detained at Kolkata airport on March 5. A team of Rohtak police then went to Kolkata, arrested Bandopadhyaay and brought him to Rohtak.Following that, the police produced the former IIM teacher before the Rohtak court and sought his police remand for interrogation.“From the bare perusal of the remand application, it can be visualized that a deliberate attempt has been made to trump up the evidence and to deprive the liberties of the accused by fabricating facts and evidences,” maintained the Judicial Magistrate.The orders further state that “the investigation conducted so far appears to be malafide and partisan. The police did not make the documents sent by the accused showing his presence on the alleged dates of transaction outside Rohtak part of police file. Thus, in the wake of the counter-allegations made against the police and the complainant and in the backdrop of the failure of the police to collect the necessary material, the possibility of false and mistaken implication cannot be ruled out altogether.”Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma said the matter had been handed over to the in-charge of the Economic Offences Wing for a detailed inquiry.
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 15 new cases, tally rises to 2,667||Haryana on Wednesday reported 15 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's case tally to 2,667. Karnal reported two fresh cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 58. The two persons who tested positive are a 29-year-old migrant labourer of Kurlan village and a 55-year-old woman from Badarpur village. The labourer had come from Bihar for transplanting paddy and the woman had come from Pune recently.Faridabad reported 13 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 498. Nearly 115 patients are under home-isolation and 169 have recovered so far in the district. On Tuesday, Haryana recorded 296 cases, the highest so far. Gurugram recorded 160 cases, Faridabad (26), Sonepat (21) and Jhajjar (2) contributed 70.6 per cent of the total cases today. Cases were also recorded from Rohtak (45), Palwal (9), Ambala (7), Bhiwani (6), Fatehabad (5), Karnal (4), Sirsa (4), Jind (3), Panipat (2) and Mahendragarh and Kurukshetra (1 each).
03-06-2020||Jhajjar||Medical Officer in dock for issuing report without examination||Jhajjar Civil Surgeon Randeep Singh Punia has recommended action against a medical officer for preparing the medical report of a photojournalist without conducting his examination.Dr Narender Singh, posted at Jhajjar Civil Hospital, was found guilty of not complying with the rules of medical examination, in an inquiry conducted by ADC Uttam Singh following the directives of DC Jitender Dahiya.Significantly, any action is yet to be taken against Roshan Lal, SHO, City police station, who had booked a case against photojournalist Naresh Khohal under ‘inappropriate’ sections of the IPC on the complaint of Head Constable Sandeep Kumar, which had prompted the medical examination.Jhajjar MLA Geeta Bhukkal on Tuesday talked to Home Secretary Vijay Vardhan over the phone and demanded action against those found guilty in the inquiry report. “Media-persons are COVID warriors and it is unfortunate that they are being implicated in false cases and are being tortured by the police. The authority should take action against guilty persons with immediate effect,” Bhukkal added.The DC, however, ordered the inquiry while acting on the complaint of media persons that Khohal was not only booked for informing the SHO about stone-throwing but also given third-degree treatment in the police station on May 7 night.Khohal, in his complaint, said he had informed the SHO through A phone call about the stone-pelting incident in his neighbourhood at Chhawani Colony here. When the police did not reach the spot, he again rang up to the SHO.He alleged later that a police jeep came there and the cops arrested him on the charges of creating a nuisance and spreading dangerous diseases instead of taking action against those involved in the stone-throwing. “After the arrest, the police took me to the Civil Hospital, where Dr Narender issued a false medical certificate on the behest of the police without any examination. The police later tortured me at the station the entire night,” Khohal had alleged.Randeep Singh Punia, Jhajjar civil surgeon, said “I got the inquiry report from the DC. I have written to the Director-General (Health Services) for appropriate action against Medical Officer Dr Narender Singh.”  Jhajjar SP Ashok Kumar could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
03-06-2020||Sonepat||Kingpin had control over official godown: Probe||The liquor in Kharkhoda godown in this district, which was seized by the police, was permitted for sale only in Arunachal Pradesh and Chhattisgarh and was manufactured at NV Distilleries and Breweries, Rajpura, Punjab.From driver to kingpin in 15 yearsBhupender Singh of Sisana village used to drive a jeep between Kharkhoda and Sonepat before entering into the liquor smuggling trade. He started smuggling it in 2005-06 and supplied it to other states. His brother Jitender helped him manage the business. Bhupender acquired a private school, brick kiln, restaurant, luxury vehicles and agricultural land after entering into smuggling.Investigations have also revealed that kingpin Bhupender Singh of Sisana village managed this lot of liquor from the distillery on fake permits and he also owned a godown in Rajpura.Interestingly, the building from where Bhupender operated his liquor smuggling business was also being used by the police as well as the Excise and Taxation Department for storage of liquor seized by them during raids on the sale of illicit liquor.The building was in the name of Bhupender’s mother, but both the godowns (of the police as well as of the Excise and Taxation Department) were being operated by kingpin Bhupender along with his brother Jitender Singh and other associates allegedly in connivance with dismissed inspector Jasbeer Singh, former SHO Kharkhoda, ASI Jaipal, ASI Narender and other police officials, said sources.This was also revealed in the complaint given by the Excise Department in which it said that approximately 8,000 cartons were excess in their godown, sources added.Senior officials of the Excise Department said that the maximum illicit liquor seized from various districts of Haryana was linked to NV distillery at Rajpura in Punjab or from Chandigarh.It was also revealed during the investigation that the seized liquor brands were permitted for sale in Arunachal Pradesh and Chhattisgarh only, said SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa. These brands were not allowed for sale in Haryana or other states, he added.The distillery’s management has been summoned to join the investigation, but it has sought some time. We would again serve notice to them and most likely, they would join the investigation this week, the SP added.The matter came to light in the first week of May after SP Sonepat Jashandeep Singh Randhawa directed the assessment of the liquor stock in the godown in Sisana after getting information of pilferage from the godown.
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Parking space must for houses measuring  4 marla & above in Haryana||The Haryana Government has effected major changes in the Haryana Building Code-2017 to tackle parking problems in residential colonies. Now, it will be mandatory for 100 sq metre (4 marla) plot owners to have a car parking space for each floor in their new constructions.While plot owners between 100 to 250 sq metre (4 to 10 marla) will have to leave one equivalent car space (ECS) for each floor within their premises, those undertaking construction on plots between 250 to 500 sq metre (10 marla to 1 kanal) will have to leave 1.5 ECS. An ECS consists of a total area of 12.5 sq metre with dimensions of 5×2.5 metre.A recent order of the Additional Chief Secretary, Town and Country Planning, amending the building code said those constructing new buildings on plots measuring 500 sq metre and above will have to leave 2 ECS of parking space. However, the plots below 100 sq metre (below 4 marla) will only have to leave 0.5 ECS. — TNS
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Court to Haryana: Supply food, ration to migrants, if not given yet||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday suo motu directed Haryana to supply food and ration to migrant labourers in case it had not been provided so far. The state was also asked to comply with all interim directions issued by the Supreme Court in the matter.The directions by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came during the hearing of a petition filed in public interest by the National Campaign Committee for Eradication of Bonded Labour against Haryana and other respondents.The petitioner was seeking directions to provide food and ration to 2,500 stranded migrant labourers in Faridabad district. It was stated that the persons referred to in a document were provided ration only once and were on the verge of starvation. It was stated that necessary directions were required to be issued to the authorities.The Bench, on a specific query, was informed that the committee was not registered. It asserted that the petition had apparently been filed by a society having no legal status or entity in the eyes of the law and as such, was not maintainable. The Bench, at the same time, observed that the issue raised by the petitioner was important and as such, the court was inclined to take up the issue on its own.Appearing before the Bench, the Haryana Additional Advocate General submitted that the state had taken all possible steps to provide necessary facilities of food, ration and transport to all migrant labourers. He gave an undertaking that the authorities would look into the issue raised in the petition and take into consideration details and averments mentioned by the petitioner.The Bench was told that the Supreme Court had taken up the issue of migrant labourers and issued interim directions, including those on providing free food and ration. It was submitted that the state was complying with the directions issued by the Supreme Court and would submit a report in this regard.“In such circumstances as the Supreme Court is already seized of the matter and necessary interim directions have already been issued, we think it appropriate to dispose of the present petition, directing the state to look into the issue raised in the petition and in case food and ration etc have not been provided to the migrant labourers mentioned therein, the same be provided,” the Bench concluded.
03-06-2020||---||CM, Haryana: Will open borders when Capital agrees||Chandigarh, June 2Haryana will open the borders with Delhi after the governments agree. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said this at a digital press conference today. He said Haryana was willing to open its borders whenever Delhi was ready.“We followed guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Delhi protested, after which the borders were closed. The ministry has said Delhi and Haryana can decide the issue,” he said.Listing his government’s achievements, Khattar said the ranking of Haryana in ease of doing business had improved from 16th to third.He said providing ration to the needy remained the topmost priority during the pandemic. He said distress tokens were issued to those not having ration cards and arrangements to send labourers back were made.
03-06-2020||Faridabad||Delhi-Faridabad traffic flow smoothens as curbs lifted||The restrictions imposed by the state government recently for regulating the entry of vehicles from Delhi into the district in view of the Covid were removed today. As a result, the movement of vehicles across the Badarpur border became smooth by late evening today.“Though there was some rush in the morning and the movement was slow due to random checking by the police, the cops went away by the evening. No cop was posted at the entry to Faridabad at Sector 37 in the evening,” said Mukesh Kumar, a trader and regular commuter.Claiming that movement across the border has become smooth, Ajay Bahl, a regular commuter to Delhi, said there was no check of any kind on both sides.Admitting that restrictions had been removed, Naresh Kumar, SHO, Sector 37, said that checking of passes had been halted for the time being as no fresh instructions had been received.DC Yash Pal Yadav also said movement had become normal as no new directions have been issued by the state government for any check that was being done previously.Welcoming the decision, Navdeep Chawla, former president of the Faridabad Industries Association, said that border sealing had resulted in grave inconvenience to business and employees. — TNSNo entry without pass At KundliSonepat: Commuters had to face a hard time on Tuesday after the Delhi Government sealed its border at Kundli on the NH-44. As a result, vehicles queued up over 2-3 km. The Delhi Police refused entry to people who failed to show valid pass and allowed vehicles having valid e-pass till June 8. Sonepat SP Jashandeep Randhawa said traffic jam was witnessed after the Delhi Government’s order. We have deputed extra police force to deal with any untoward situation, he added. Vehicles carrying essential goods were allowed to move freely, he said. TNS
03-06-2020||Kurukshetra||BKU threatens stir over sunflower procurement||With procurement of sunflower yet to begin, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) has threatened to launch a stir if the entire crop is not procured at the minimum support price.“Harvesting has started, but farmers are not in a position to keep the wet crop for long. It cannot be stored in the open lest there is a strong wind. Due to uncertain weather conditions and delay in procurement, farmers have been storing the stock at their houses,” said Rakesh Bains, BKU (Charuni) spokesman.Process to begin on June 5: GovtSanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, said the procurement would start on June 5He said the government had designated Hafed and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation for the purpose and it would procure the entire produce of 13,784 tonnesHe said 6,109 farmers had registered themselves on “Meri Fasal Mera Byora” portal and only they would be entitled to sell their produce to the agencies“Farmers do not want to sell their produce to private players, who offer low prices. Farmers are taking the produce to the market to get it cleaned and dried and are bringing it back. The government should start procurement at the earliest and procure the entire crop,” he added.A total of 2,805 farmers were registered in Shahabad and registration of nearly 1,000 was pending. “A meeting has been called at the Shahabad grain market on Wednesday to decide the future course of action,” said BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni.
03-06-2020||Gurugram||Man arrested for daughter’s ‘rape’||
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||2 deaths, record 296 new cases in Haryana||Haryana recorded 296 cases in the past 24 hours, the highest so far, taking the tally to 2,652. The doubling rate fell from eight days to six days today. With just 14 patients discharged, the number of recovered cases reached 1,069. The recovery rate fell from 44.78 per cent to 40.31 per cent in a day.Gurugram (160), Faridabad (26), Sonepat (21) and Jhajjar (2) contributed 70.6 per cent of the total cases today. Cases were also recorded from Rohtak (45), Palwal (9), Ambala (7), Bhiwani (6), Fatehabad (5), Karnal (4), Sirsa (4), Jind (3), Panipat (2) and Mahendragarh and Kurukshetra (1 each).The state recorded two deaths from Faridabad, taking the tally to 23. A 53-year-old man from Badh Mohalla in Old Faridabad and a 46-year-old man from SGM Nagar in the NIT Zone were the casualties.The 53-year-old man had been suffering from heart ailment, hypertension and paralysis. The 46-year-old man had a history of kidney disorder and diabetes.Faridabad district had recorded 10 deaths so far. Fresh cases were reported from Ballabgarh, SGM Nagar and Old Faridabad localities, where several cases had surfaced earlier.The fresh cases in Sonepat included four women. Sixteen cases were from Rai in the district. A woman suffering from cancer and five members of her family tested positive in Ambala Cantonment.In Karnal, a 29-year-old man of Barthal village, a 45-year-old man and his 35-year-old wife in Madhuban tested positive. A 22-year-old woman tested positive in Purewal Colony of Panipat.A 55-year-old woman from Ladwa in Kurukshetra, whose husband had tested positive at the PGI in Chandigarh a couple of days back, tested positive today.
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||IG-led SIT to probe illegal immigration in Haryana||To check the menace of illegal migration to foreign countries through travel agents, Home Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday formed a seven-member special investigation team (SIT) under IG Bharti Arora.Arora is the Karnal range IG at present. Other SIT members include officers of SP-rank — Nazneen Bhasin, Rahul Sharma, Himanshu Garg, Lokendra Singh, Shashank Kumar and Mohit Handa.Besides probing incidents of youth getting cheated, the SIT will also look into the issue of human trafficking.Vij said the US had deported 135 Indians, of which 75 were from Haryana. On May 19, as many as 73 state residents reached home and on their statements, 73 FIRs across several districts were registered.He said the victims were treated inhumanly and taken to the US through the route of sea and forest. He said at times, they were taken in a truck or canter, kept hungry and tortured too. He pointed out that there could be a number of cases where people had been sent to other countries as well. “It is important to investigate all cases. Whosoever is a victim, he or she could approach the SIT. It will help in stemming this kind of crime,” he added.
03-06-2020||---||Haryana Govt offices can operate with 75% Group C, D staff||Chandigarh, June 2The Haryana Government has now allowed offices to operate with 75 to 100 per cent Groups C and D staff, depending upon the availability of space for the complete observance of social-distancing norms.Meanwhile, the decision of 100 per cent attendance of Group A and B officers remains intact.Aarogya Setuapp mandatoryGiving details, an official spokesperson said the decision had been taken in view of the amended MHA guidelines issued on May 30.He said the Heads of Departments, heads of offices and deputy commissioners may stagger timings as per their assessment to ensure there was no rush in the offices. They shall also ensure compliance of social-distancing norms, hygiene practices among the employees and regular sanitisation of offices, files, equipment, canteens and vehicles, he added.The spokesperson said all employees coming to the office shall install Aarogya Setu mobile app on their smartphones.He said a weekly roaster of duty for Groups C, D for the headquarters and field offices shall be prepared to ensure 75 per cent attendance.The spokesperson said public dealing may be restricted till June 15. Also, the instructions issued by the PWD (B&R) in respect of use of air-conditioners in office buildings shall be strictly followed.Moreover, the Health Department shall conduct regular checks to assess the quality of implementation of Covid standard operating procedures in government offices and shall also conduct random sampling of the employees, he added. Furthermore, the bar of 75 per cent attendance in respect of Group C, D category shall not apply on essential category departments and their constituent units (Municipal bodies, boards, corporations, missions, societies etc), the spokesperson added.
03-06-2020||Tribune ReportersKaithal/Hisar||Fake sanitiser unit busted in Kaithal, 1 held||The Kaithal police claimed to have busted a fake hand sanitiser manufacturing unit and arrested the owner.Kaithal DSP (Headquarters) Kulwant Singh said the accused, Kishore Kumar of Main Bazar, was allegedly manufacturing fake hand sanitisers in the name of a Japan-based company.The DSP said the police got a tip-off that the accused was manufacturing fake sanitisers in his house. Following the tip-off, a police team led by CIA-I incharge Anoop Singh conducted a raid at the house and recovered 2,000 litre of hand sanitiser and 5,600 litre of ethyl alcohol, 100 litre glycerin, 100 packed bottles of sanitiser and 12,000 empty bottles and a mixer machine from the illegal unit.Meanwhile, in Hisar, the Food and Drug Administration Department seized hand sanitisers manufactured by a well-known firm that were being sold as disinfectant to fleece the customers. The FDA team raided a medical store and recovered 10 pieces of the product and sent it for examination and analysis. The police have registered a case of fraud and under relevant sections of the Essential Commodities Act and Disaster Management Act against two officials of a Mumbai-based marketing firm, two traders and an unknown person.
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||1.92L migrants set to return to Haryana||A total of 1.92 lakh people, registered with the government, are set to return to the state. As a majority of them will come by trains, health teams are stationed at railway stations for screening them. The government allowed online registration till May 26.A total of 74,785 (38.9%) are coming from Bihar, 56,304 (29.3%) from Uttar Pradesh, 9,740 (5.1%) from West Bengal, 8,577 (4.5%) from Rajasthan and 7,668 (4%) from Delhi.People are also coming from Puducherry (50), Sikkim (36), Andaman and Nicobar Islands (32), Mizoram (23), Ladakh (14), Daman and Diu (8) and Lakshadweep (5).“Every passenger coming from outside will be screened at the railway station and only then allowed to proceed. Health teams are stationed at railway stations across the state,” said Health Minister Anil Vij.Meanwhile, 12.38 lakh people have registered online for leaving the state, 82.9% of them for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 5.13 lakh (41.5%) are going to Bihar, 4.79 lakh (38.7%) to Uttar Pradesh, 78,333 (6.3%) to Madhya Pradesh, 63,547 (5.1%) to West Bengal and 29,181 (2.4%) to Jharkhand.“Migrants will be back. They do not have the capacity to stay at their native places for long. Some have not been received with warmth. Unlocking has started, but it is staggered. We have to increase their confidence in the economy, social networking and governance,” said Prof Aswini Kumar Nanda, migration expert.
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||MSP hike a joke: Selja||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja today termed the increase in the minimum support price (MSP) of crops by the Central government as “inadequate”.She said in the midst of the pandemic, the Centre had failed to end the difficulties faced by farmers. The increase in the MSP by the government was a joke with farmers, she said.“The government has increased the MSP of paddy by Rs53 per quintal, which increased from 2.89 to 2.92 per cent. The MSP for cotton has been increased by 4.95 per cent per quintal. It has become clear that the BJP’s promise of doubling farmers’ income is just aslogan,” she said. Selja said the decisions of the Centre and Haryana Government had ruined farmers.
