03-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||Police solve Jhajjar bank robbery case, three juvenile inmates involved in crime||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 3With the arrest of two persons, including a juvenile, the police on Tuesday claimed to have solved the bank robbery case in which five masked armed miscreants robbed Rs 8.73 lakh at gunpoint from a Punjab National Bank branch in Machhrauli village here on October 21.The police have also recovered cash Rs 2.20 lakh from their possession.Significantly, three of the 17 juvenile inmates, who escaped from Hisar Observation House on October 12, were involved in the crime. One of the juveniles has been arrested while raids are being conducted at the possible hideouts of the two others.“Six persons were involved in the crime. One was doing recee while five others barged into the bank and robbed cash from there at gunpoint. The main accused, identified as Aakash alias Ashu of Birdhana (Jhajjar), was arrested from the Jhajjar-Rewari road. A country-made pistol and two live cartridges were recovered from his possession. Similarly, another accused juvenile was arrested near Birdhana village some days ago after a brief encounter. He is, at present, undergoing treatment at PGIMS Rohtak,” said DSP Naresh Kumar.The DSP informed that several cases of loot, vehicle snatching, carrying illegal arms and attempt to murder were booked against Ashu in various police stations of Jhajjar and Sonepat districts.“The three juveniles after escaping from Hisar reached Charkhi Dadri with the help of a youth, identified as Rohit from Chhapar village in the district. Next day, they went to Rohit’s house where they hatched the conspiracy of the robbery at Machhrauli village. After robbing the bank, they went to Khuddan village and distributed the booty among them. They also visited Gudda village here later,” said the DSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-solve-jhajjar-bank-robbery-case-three-juvenile-inmates-involved-in-crime-165349
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||68 pc votes cast in Haryana’s Baroda bypoll||An average of 68 per cent voters exercised their franchise on Tuesday in the bypoll for Baroda assembly seat in Haryana.The Election Commission data said the voter turnout for the Baroda seat was 68 per cent at the end of the voting at 6 pm. The seat had recorded 69.43 per cent polling in the 2019 Haryana assembly polls.The polling started at 7 am and continued till 6 pm amid tight security and special anti-COVID precautions, said officials. The polling remained peaceful, they added.The counting of votes will be held on November 10.There were 14 candidates, including Olympian wrestler and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nominee Yogeshwar Dutt, in the fray for the Baroda assembly seat, which has around 1.81 lakh registered voters.The seat had fallen vacant in April following the death of Congress MLA Krishan Hooda, who had won it consecutively thrice in 2009, 2014 and 2019 assembly polls.A total of 280 polling booths were set up, of which 151 were categorised as “vulnerable”.Security personnel, including three companies of paramilitary forces, were deployed to ensure peaceful polling, said officials.Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the voters were screened with thermal scanners at polling booths.Masks and gloves were also given to voters and they were asked to maintain physical distance at polling stations. The arrangement of PPE (personal protective equipment) kits, gloves and sanitizers were also made available to the polling staff.The polling began at a slow pace in the morning but it picked up pace as the day progressed.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar appealed to Baroda voters to ensure maximum participation in the voting process.“In a democracy, each vote is valuable. So is yours. I appeal to all of you to participate in this ‘utsav’ of democracy with your family members in large numbers and cast your votes,” Khattar tweeted.Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda too urged voters in a tweet to exercise their franchise while adhering to anti-COVID precautions.Hooda said the Baroda bypoll would change the direction of Haryana politics.BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt cast his vote in the morning. Before exercising his franchise, the wrestler-turned-politician offered prayers to Lord Hanuman at his village.Talking to reporters, Dutt appealed to people to cast their votes and said his objective was to serve people.The Baroda assembly constituency has a total of 1,80,529 registered voters, including service voters, with 99,726 men, 80,801 women and two transgenders, the officials said.BJP’s candidate Dutt is also backed by saffron ally JJP. Dutt had lost the 2019 assembly poll by about 4,800 votes to the Congress candidate Shri Krishan Hooda.The opposition Congress has fielded former Sonipat Zila Parishad member Indu Raj Narwal while Joginder Malik is fighting the bypoll as an Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) candidate.Seven independents and four candidates belonging to other parties, including former Kurukshetra MP Raj Kumar Saini who heads the Loktantra Suraksha Party, are in the fray from the constituency.The Baroda bypoll is being seen as a direct contest between the ruling BJP and the Congress.The ruling BJP would like to register a victory from the Baroda seat which it never won while the Congress would like to retain it.The Baroda bypoll is also a battle of prestige for former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda as this Jat-dominated constituency lies adjacent to his own Garhi-Sampla Kiloi seat in Rohtak and is considered his stronghold.The bypoll is equally important for the INLD which had slumped to its worst-ever performance in the 2019 assembly polls when the party could win only one out of 90 seats.Baroda was a reserved seat till 2005 and a pocket borough of the INLD before the Congress won it for three consecutive terms since 2009.The BJP had won 40 of the 90 assembly seats in 2019 and later formed the government with JJP’s support, which had won 10 seats.A win in Baroda will take the saffron party’s tally to 41 while if Congress wins, its tally will remain unchanged at 31 as the seat was held by Shri Krishan Hooda.INLD’s strength will rise to two if they win the seat. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/68-pc-votes-cast-in-haryanas-baroda-bypoll-165319
03-11-2020||Amit Bathla||3 abducted minor girls recovered||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 2The woman, who abducted three minor girls, aged two, four and six, from a park in Sector 6 here, was arrested from Gurdwara Nada Sahib today.The woman has been identified as Preeti, a resident of Delhi. She has two children, aged two and eight, who are living with their father in the National Capital.The 40-year-old woman is a postgraduate in English and reportedly estranged from her husband. She also worked in call centres in the past. All these facts were revealed during initial investigations by the police.She had been living away from her family for the past six months. The woman took shelter in gurdwaras and other religious institutions during this period, the police said. Her intention to commit the crime is still not clear.“During investigations, the woman told the police that she picked up the girls to help them as she thought they have no one to take care of,” said ACP Noopur Bishnoi. In the past one week, she took the children to various gurdwaras in Mohali and Patiala before returning to Panchkula.Asked about the ambiguity on her mental state, ACP Bishnoi said they had no medical certificate or proof to support the fact that the woman was not mentally stable.The woman was produced before a court, which sent her to 14-day judicial custody in the Ambala jail today.Toughest time for familyMigrant labourer Deepak Goswami’s world came crashing down when his three daughters were abducted from a park in broad daylight in Sector 6 here, not too far from the office of the Haryana Deputy General of Police.Hours before return from the work, Deepak, a native of Bihar, was taken aback by the news of his daughters’ disappearance.For the next seven days, he faced the most difficult time of his life he had never thought in their wildest dreams. It was even more tragic for him than the Covid-induced lockdown, which brought him to his knees.The family waited for hours before filing a police complaint at the Sector 7 police post.Desperation to find his daughters took Deepak to most corners of the city and beyond, carrying their photographs with a hope to get any clue.“I was in a dilemma whether to go to work to earn a living, a meagre amount of Rs300-400 daily, or keep searching for my daughters. Food was equally important to keep us alive," he said.After a period of despair, Monday morning finally brought good news for Deepak when he got a call from the police about the recovery of his daughters.The parents finally got reunited with their daughters at the Sector 5 police station. The family now hopes to get its life back on track.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-abducted-minor-girls-recovered-165188
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cong, INLD cry foul, move election panel||On Tuesday, 1.81 lakh voters will decide the fate of 14 candidates, including seven Independents, who are in the fray for the byelection to the Baroda Assembly seat in Haryana.The seat fell vacant in April with the demise of Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda.The Congress and the INLD on Monday accused the BJP-JJP government of luring the voters with free LPG cylinders. Addressing the media here, Leader of the Opposition BS Hooda said his party had lodged several complaints with the Chief Election Commissioner.. The INLD too has moved the poll panel, said party general secretary Abhay Chautala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-inld-cry-foul-move-election-panel-165140
03-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Gender-based foetus destruction on: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 2Despite legislation, the menace of gender-based destruction of foetus continues to plague society, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted.The assertion came in a case where the accused allegedly “dramatised” the conduct of ultrasound on a decoy customer and showed pre-recorded video in the name of sex determination. He allegedly played the video on an LCD screen.The matter was placed before Justice Avneesh Jhingan’s Bench after accused Hassan Mohd sought anticipatory bail.Justice Jhingan asserted that determining the gender of foetus was a malaise affecting society and the desire to have a male child was an open secret.Considering society’s disdainful attitude to female child and use of diagnostic equipment for female foeticide, the Act was enacted to curb prenatal sex determination, but the menace continued, Justice Jhingan pointed out.“The Constitution guarantees equality to genders, but prenatal sex determination deprives a female foetus to come to this world. The termination of female foetus is destruction of woman of future. There cannot be a dispute on the fact that woman has a multi-faceted role in society,” Justice Jhingan asserted.Referring to the petitioner’s contention regarding absence of a complaint, Justice Jhingan stated that a person in participation against an enactment and a party to illegal act was not expected to come forward to lodge a complaint. “The persons being fleeced probably would not be aware that in the name of determination of sex, they were shown pre-recorded video,” Justice Jhingan added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gender-based-foetus-destruction-on-hc-165040
03-11-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Violence accused in judicial custody||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 2The 32 persons arrested for violence and attempt to block the national highway in Ballabgarh on Sunday, soon after a mahapanchayat was held to demand death penalty for the accused in Nikita Tomar murder case, were sent to judicial custody on Monday.Though the police used force to remove around 250 youths, who resorted to stone-throwing and attempted to block the national highway, located 500 metres from the mahapanchayat venue, officials blamed anti-social elements.Meanwhile, Nikita’s brother Naveen was issued an arms licence. The officials claimed that anti-social elements tried to take advantage of flared up emotions at the meeting organised by some right-wing organisations and associations of a particular community.“There are always elements which try to resort to anti-social activities under the guise of protests. This occasion was also used by such elements,” said Adarshdeep Singh, ACP (HQ).As they resorted to stone-throwing on shops of members of the minority community, many of them reportedly used inflammatory words to incite communal hatred, he pointed out. “A total of 32 persons were arrested and over 200 others booked,” he said.The situation had returned to normal as the police increased their presence and put barricades at all entry points, he added. Ballabgarh SDM Aprajita and ACP Jaiveer Rathi stated that permission had not been taken to hold the mahapanchayat.According to OP Singh, Commissioner of Police, every member of Nikita’s family had been provided a security guard and Naveen issued an arms licence. The charge sheet was expected to be filed within four days, he said.Revealing that three of the persons who had been arrested were found Covid-positive and put under quarantine, he said all those who attended the mahapanchayat required to get themselves tested.Though a similar appeal had been issued by DC Yashpal Yadav, none of the officials spoke about the possibility of action on the issue of holding the mahapanchayat without permission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/violence-accused-in-judicial-custody-165041
03-11-2020||Sushil Manav||Government to study UP proposal to frame law against ‘love jihad’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 2The Haryana Government will deliberate plans to legislate a law against “love jihad” after discussions with the people, within the BJP cadre and with the JJP.The state also plans to look into details of the law the Uttar Pradesh Government led by Yogi Adityanath proposes before determining the contours of the proposed law.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Home Minister Anil Vij had on Sunday announced that the BJP-JJP government was considering a law against “love jihad” on the lines of the one announced by Yogi Adityanath on Saturday.The announcement came in the context of Nikita Tomar murder in Ballabgarh in public view outside her college. “Nikita’s family has alleged that it was a case of love jihad since Tausif wanted her to marry him after changing her religion. We need a stern law to address these issues so that such incidents do not occur in future,” Vij said.He said deliberations at the party level and with the people had already started and a debate had begun on social media and other platforms on the proposed legislation.Vij cited the judgment by the Allahabad High Court on October 31, wherein it said religious conversion just for the sake of marriage was not valid.The court had made these comments after finding that a Muslim woman had converted to Hinduism and married as per Hindu rituals a month later.The court had cited a 2014 order issued in the case of Noor Jahan Begum alias Anjali Mishra and another versus Uttar Pradesh, wherein the court held that conversion for marriage was not bonafide.“Love jihad”, as the phrase is used in India, is an Islamophobic conspiracy theory, alleging that Muslim men target women belonging to non-Muslim communities for conversion to Islam by feigning love.STERN LAW NEEDEDNikita’s family alleged that it was a case of ‘love jihad’ since Tausif wanted her to marry him after changing her religion. We need a stern law to address these issues so that such incidents don’t occur in future. —Anil Vij, Home MinisterThe campaign by Hindutva supporters to push the “love jihad” conspiracy theory is not new as it has been around for more than a decade.The concept rose to national attention in India in 2009 with alleged conversions first in Kerala and subsequently in Karnataka.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-to-study-up-proposal-to-frame-law-against-love-jihad-165042
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||15 more succumb; 1,566 fresh cases in Haryana||With 1,566 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state went up to 1,70,466 on Monday. The death toll reached 2,810 with 15 more deaths.Three casualties each were reported from Hisar and Faridabad, two fatalities each from Rewari and Panchkula and one death each from Gurugram, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Jhajjar and Jind. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-more-succumb-1-566-fresh-cases-in-haryana-165043
03-11-2020||Rohtak||Congress, INLD accuse govt of distributing LPG cylinders||Congress leaders have accused the BJP-JJP government of distributing free LPG cylinders in Baroda to influence voters.The party has alleged that a police officer has been campaigning for the ruling combine’s candidate. The Congress has accused the BJP government of bribing voters with cash and liquor as well.At a press meet on Monday, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Hooda said complaints had been lodged with the CEC and other authorities concerned. Rohtak MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra said the BJP nominee had admitted that LPG cylinders were being distributed.Can’t influenceBJP leaders have stooped so low, but voters in the constituency cannot be influenced with such cheap tactics. —Bhupinder Singh Hooda, LOPPanipat: Abhay Chautala, INLD general secretary, filed a complaint with the CEC. The party earlier filed a complaint about the misuse of the government machinery after enforcement of the model code of conduct.Sonepat: District Electoral Officer and DC Shyam Lal Poonia refuted the allegations. He said after receipt of a complaint on Sunday about distribution of LPG cylinders in three villages, a team of the flying squad was sent, which found no wrongdoing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-inld-accuse-govt-of-distributing-lpg-cylinders-165044
03-11-2020||Parveen Arora||Government needs 66 acres more to upgrade Karnal aviation club||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 2The requirement of land for expansion of the Haryana Institute of Civil Aviation, Karnal, has changed again and now the club will be developed in 172 acres for which the department requires additional 66 acres.The government already owns 106 acres and to meet the requirement, it needs additional 66 acres, but farmers have given consent for only 38 acres.In 2014, the additional land requirement was 18 acres, which was revised to 28 acres, later to 280 acres, and again to 55 acres, but now it has finally agreed on 66 acres.Clarify ratesThe Centre had introduced a land acquisition Act, but it is not being followed by the state government in this project. We are in the favour of development and we have agreed to provide our land for the aviation club if the government adheres to the Central land acquisition Act, but the government should clarify how much land it requires and how much it will pay. —Bhavneet Singh Kaliana, Resident of kulvehri“The aviation club will be upgraded in 172 acres for which we need 66 acres more. A couple of farmers have given conditional consent that their remaining land should also be purchased, which has been accepted,” said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav. He said the rates were negotiated by the revenue authorities and also justified as the collector rates.The DC said the case of land acquisition had been sent to the state government for final approval after which the work would be started.The announcement to upgrade the aviation club was made in 2014 by CM Manohar Lal Khattar for which the Civil Aviation Department had sought consent from farmers of Budha Khera, Kulvehri and Newal. The runway would be extended to 5,000 ft from 3,000 ft at present.The expansion of the club has been hanging fire for several years as farmers have been reluctant in offering land on the e-Bhoomi portal. Still some farmers whose land is adjacent to the club are reluctant in offering their land as they are not happy with the process being adopted by the government to acquire the land. Farmers said different requirements of land for the project had been made at different times, which has confused them.Bhavneet Singh Kaliana, a resident of Kulvehri, said the Centre had introduced a land acquisition Act, but it was not being followed by the state government in this project. “We are in the favour of development of district and we have agreed to provide our land for the aviation club if the government adheres to the Central land acquisition Act,” he said, adding that the government should clarify how much land it requires for the project and the rates as well.Inderpreet Singh Ahuja, another farmer, said the government was seeking land for the upgrade of the aviation club, which was also one of the means of transport like roadways and railways.“If it can implement the land acquisition Act in the state for roadways and railways then why not for airways,” he questioned. “The Act says the market value would be decided as per Section 26 of the Act, according to which the rates of immediate neighbouring villages are also considered to determine the market rate, but the state government is not considering that fact,” he said.Ahuja alleged that there was no provision for the rehabilitation in the direct purchase policy of Haryana. “We will approach the court if the government forcefully acquires the land of farmers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-needs-66-acres-more-to-upgrade-karnal-aviation-club-165045
03-11-2020||Nitin Jain||Ambala’s sex ratio at birth 1K again||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 2Ambala has done it again. After topping the state in the annual sex ratio at birth (SRB) in 2019, the district has scored SRB of 1,000. In September, 948 girls and an equal number of boys were born in Ambala district.It is not the first time this year that the district has brought cheer to the girl child. In February, Ambala recorded SRB of 1,000 with 852 girls and boys each.Officials figures compiled by the district administration revealed that except in June and July, when the SRB dipped to 835 and 892, respectively, Ambala had maintained SRB of over 900 since January.According to the civil registration system data, the district registered SRB of 921 in August, 911 in May, 917 in April, 927 in March and 906 in January. As far as cumulative SRB was concerned, it never dipped below 900 this year. The cumulative figure stood at 925 in September, 915 in August, 914 in July, 918 in June, 930 in May, 935 in April, 941 in March and 947 in February. Complimenting the authorities concerned, Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma called upon them to take it forward and ensure that Ambala retained the top position in the state this year as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambalas-sex-ratio-at-birth-1k-again-165046
03-11-2020||---||HAU to install 1-MW solar power plant||Hisar, November 2To conserve the environment, Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) will soon ensure functioning of electrical appliances through solar energy.A university spokesman said a power purchase agreement had been secured between HAU, Sukhbir Agro Energy Limited and Haryana Renewable Energy Development Agency.Under this, one MW solar power plant will be installed in the university. The entire cost of setting up the plant will be borne by the company. This will save the university more than Rs 65 lakh annually and the university will get electricity at about Rs 3.33. After the solar power plant is set up, the university will generate 13.70 lakh units of electricity annually.Vice-Chancellor Samar Singh said setting up a solar power plant was an important step towards environment protection. It will be installed on the roofs of all buildings of the university and after this the rate of electricity per unit to the university will also be reduced because so far the cost of electricity per unit from Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam is about Rs 6.40.The PPA was signed in the presence of the VC, Estate Officer and Chief Engineer Bhupendra Singh, Sub Divisional Officer Somvir Gehlavat and Sukhbir Agro Energy Limited CEO Khalid Nadeem and Deputy Manager Anil Yadav. University’s Estate Officer and Chief Engineer Bhupendra Singh said this would be for the first time that such a solar power plant was being installed on a government building in the state as the electricity generated from this plant would cost Rs 3.33 per unit. “Earlier, wherever government buildings had solar power plants, the electricity rate per unit has been expensive,” he said.He said the company would take care of these plants and for the next 25 years it would run and maintain the plants. On completion of the 25-year period, the plant would become the university property.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hau-to-install-1-mw-solar-power-plant-165047
03-11-2020||---||5 killed as vehicles collide in Kharkhoda||Panipat, November 2Five persons, including three women, were killed and 10 others were injured as two vehicles collided on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway today.The injured have been referred to the PGIMS, Rohtak. The victims were on their way from Baba Mohan Das Dham in Kholi of Rajasthan to Ukasiya village in Meerut district of Uttar Pradesh. As they reached near Pai village on the KMP expressway, a vehicle hit their pick-up. The police and highway ambulance reached the spot and rushed the injured to the Kharkhoda CHC.The deceased have been identified as Munni (25), Sunesh (35), Mamta (36), Kalu (23) and Brijpal of Kaidwa village of Meerut. Besides, a two-year-old child among 10 injured was reported to be in a serious condition.Kharkhoda SHO Bijender Kumar said five persons were killed, while some sustained injuries in an accident on the KMP today afternoon. “The matter is under investigation,” he added.Injured referred to Rohtak PGIThe injured have been referred to the PGIMS, Rohtak. The victims were on their way from Baba Mohan Das Dham in Kholi of Rajasthan to Ukasiya village in Meerut district of Uttar Pradesh. As they reached near Pai village on the KMP expressway, a vehicle hit their pick-up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-killed-as-vehicles-collide-in-kharkhoda-165048
03-11-2020||Jhajjar||Farmer crushed to death in Jhajjar village||A 46-year-old farmer, identified as Satbir Singh, was crushed to death by a speeding car, near Matanhel village here on Saturday evening.The incident took place when Satbir was coming back to his home from his farms. The car hit him when he was walking along the road. The driver fled from the spot after the incident. A passerby rushed the victim to the Civil Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-crushed-to-death-in-jhajjar-village-165049
03-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||Dushyant Chautala for separate capitals for Punjab, Haryana||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 2Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said it would be better if both Haryana and Punjab agreed on Chandigarh as a Union Territory and make their independent capitals and Benches of High Courts.He said this on being asked that it had been 54 years since Haryana came into existence but it still did not have an independent capital, its own High Court and was yet to get the rightful share of the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) canal waters.He said the state government would open an academy in each district headquarter to train elected representatives of the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs). They will not only be trained in the functioning of the PRIs, but also be made aware of social welfare schemes of the government so that they could ensure the benefit of the scheme to the last person, he added.Claim on CHANDIGARH NOT BENEFICIALIf we leave (claim on) Chandigarh, I don’t think it will benefit Haryana. But if both states make Chandigarh a UT like Delhi and form separate independent capitals and HC Benches, it will benefit them. —Dushyant Chautala, Dy CM“The PRI representatives need special training to be aquatint about functioning of the PRIs and knowledge about utilisation of funds for the development of their village. So, the academy will train them in all aspects so that they don’t face any problem in discharging their duties,” the Deputy CM added.He said the BJP-JJP alliance government was in favour of empowering the panchayat system so it was trying to ensure 50 per cent reservation for women and one to eight per cent reservation for backward class in the PRIs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dushyant-chautala-for-separate-capitals-for-punjab-haryana-165050
03-11-2020||Gurugram||Minor missing for 21 days in Rewari||A Rewari-based family of a minor girl missing for 21 days has approached the police, accusing a Muslim youth of “love jihad”.As per the complaint filed by the girl’s mother, her 16-year-old daughter has been missing for 21 days and the boy, too, has been absconding since then. She alleged that a woman from a Muslim society lured her into his love trap then took her away.“My daughter is missing since October 11. She has been trapped by a Muslim JCB driver. He had been forcing her to marry him despite she being a minor,” she said.An abduction case has been lodged and the police are conducting raids to find the girl.“We have received information about the disappearance of a minor girl since October 11. A boy working for her family is also missing. We have registered a case and are trying to trace the girl first,” said Virender Singh, in charge, Khol police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-missing-for-21-days-in-rewari-165052
03-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti to stage dharna on Nov 7||Tribune News ServiceRewari, November 2The AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti has announced to stage a day-long dharna at Jawahar Lal Nehru Park on November 7 to mount pressure on the state government for providing the residents of Majra and Bhalkhi villages here with Rs 50 lakh per acre as compensation for their land offered for the proposed AIIMS project. It is also demanding the laying of the foundation stone of the project at the earliest and has threatened to intensify the stir if the demand is not met.“More than 350 acres of land was offered by the residents of Majra and Bhalkhi villages for the AIIMS project and they are demanding Rs 50 lakh per acre while the state government has offered to pay Rs 30 lakh per acre which is much less than the market value. Hence, the samiti has decided to sit on dharna on November 7,” said samiti spokesman Rajender Singh Nimoth.A five-member team of the Central Government had inspected the proposed land in Majra and Bhalkhi villages on October 1 and found it suitable for the project.The nation’s 22nd AIIMS project was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Kurukshetra in February 2019. Initially, the project was executed at Manethi village but later it was shifted to Majra due to non-availability of adequate land there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aiims-sangharsh-samiti-to-stage-dharna-on-nov-7-165053
03-11-2020||---||Woman’s body found hanging from tree||Jhajjar, November 2The body of an unidentified woman was found hanging from a tree at a closed factory on Jhajjar Road in Bahadurgarh town here on Monday.The body had been kept at a mortuary in the Civil Hospital while the police have started the investigation. No case was booked till the filing of the news.The incident came to the light when someone spotted the body in the factory and informed the police, which rushed to the spot. Later, a team of forensic experts also visited the spot and lifted some samples from there.Sunil Kumar, investigation officer, said efforts were under way to identify the body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/womans-body-found-hanging-from-tree-165054
03-11-2020||Karnal||Man held for murdering Karnal woman||The police have claimed to have solved the murder mystery of a middle-aged woman whose semi-naked body was found on Novelty Road around two months ago.The police have arrested a painter in this connection, who confessed to the crime that the woman had allegedly refused to make physical relation with him, due to which he had killed her by attacking her with brick and stick. The accused has been identified as Tinku of Janakpuri in the city.Harjinder Singh, in-charge, detective staff, said the CCTV footage had played a vital role in tracing the accused. They found the footage from a shop in the old grain market, in which a clear picture of the accused was captured when he was carrying the woman on his shoulders.They had to work very hard to trace the accused in the vicinity. On the intervening night of September 4 and 5, the police found a body of a woman, after which they started the probe. The victim is yet to be identified, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-murdering-karnal-woman-165055
03-11-2020||Karnal||High drama at Mini-Secretariat as woman consumes ‘poison’||High drama was witnessed on the premises of the Mini Secretariat when a 33-year-old widow fainted after allegedly consuming some poisonous substance over police inaction on her complaint related to a property dispute with her brother-in-law and sister-in-law.Later, after treatment she claimed that she had mistakenly consumed “wrong” medicine.As per information, Bali, a resident of Faridpur, has filed a complaint with the Gharaunda police against her brother-in-law and sister-in-law over a property dispute. She was the second wife of her husband and has two kids aged 7 and 10 and her husband has two kids with the first wife. After her husband’s death, she had a dispute with her brother-in-law and sister-in-law over property.She approached the SP to inform that no action was taken on her complaint. When she stepped out of the lift, she fainted and was taken to a hospital. The police said she might have consumed some poisonous substance downstairs.SP Ganga Ram Punia said she told the police that she had mistakenly consumed some medicine as she remains ill. “The investigation is being conducted in her complaint against her family members over the property dispute,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-drama-at-mini-secretariat-as-woman-consumes-poison-165056
03-11-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||VAT scam: Year after CM’s order, FIRs yet to be filed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 2Despite CM Manohar Lal Khattar approving registration of FIRs against excise and taxation officials and bogus firms in the multi-crore VAT scam last year, cases have not been registered in Gurugram, Kaithal and Panipat.In Sirsa alone, FIRs were lodged against four officials and firms on October 28 this year, though orders were issued on November 8, 2019.In Gurugram, as per a letter from the excise and taxation commissioner to the deputy excise and taxation commissioners (DETCs) on November 22, 2019, the CM had approved registration of FIRs against 29 dealers of the district, unidentified public servants and others. But nothing happened despite a reported loss of Rs 500-Rs 1,000 crore to the exchequer. About 10 officials could also be booked here.“The vetting is going on. Soon, the FIRs will be lodged,” said DETC (east) SS Siwatch.In Kaithal, there are 23 cases of three firms. Here too, the commissioner had written to the DETC for registration of FIRs on November 8, 2019. In Panipat, there are 23 cases of bogus firms.The allegations pertain to issuance of registration certificate to bogus dealers, non-adherence to department’s guidelines for issuance of ‘C’ and ‘F’ forms and no checking of usage of previously issued forms.Haryana Lokayukta had constituted an SIT under IGP Shrikant Jadhav after receiving a complaint from Satbir Singh of Kaithal. After receiving similar complaints from other parts of the state, the scope of the SIT was widened and it carried out a fact-finding exercise in other parts of the state.The SIT report found out how big companies, traders and developers in connivance with department officials filed bogus VAT returns or evaded tax. It claimed fraud of Rs 10,000 crore across the state.Rs 10K-CR LOSSBogus returns by department officials and firms in the multi-crore VAT scam last year led to Rs 10,000-cr loss to state exchequer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vat-scam-year-after-cms-order-firs-yet-to-be-filed-165057
03-11-2020||Nitish Sharma||Low demand, high input cost bane of Ambala industry||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 2Lower demand coupled with higher input cost continues to be a major cause for concern for the local scientific apparatus manufacturers, who have already been struggling to tide over the challenges posed by the Covid pandemic.They apprehend that it would take a couple of years to revive the industry.A scientific instrument manufacturer said, “More than 1,500 small and big units in Ambala employ about 20,000 people. The Covid-induced lockdown has brought these units on the verge of closure. A majority of them have fired the staff because of suppressed demand and high costs.”Sanjay Gupta, president of the Ambala Scientific Instruments Manufactures Association, explained the reason behind the sorry state of affairs. “The bulk of the apparatus is purchased by educational institutes and engineering colleges. Since colleges were closed because of the Covid-induced lockdown, the demand remained low.”Covid exacerbated situation in districtThe bulk of scientific apparatus is purchased by educational institutes and engineering colleges. Since colleges were closed because of the Covid-induced lockdown, the demand remained low. —Sanjay Gupta, Prez Ambala scientific instruments manufactures associationHe said pointed out other problems: rising transportation and input costs. “The cost of electric components has increased by 20 to 50 per cent, but the industry is no position to raise the prices of products. The units are taking orders on old quotations. Higher input cost has eaten into our margins,” Gupta said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/low-demand-high-input-cost-bane-of-ambala-industry-165058
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Varsities to open on Nov 16||The state government has decided to open government colleges and universities from November 16, while online classes have been started from Monday.Giving information about this, an official spokesperson said in view of the needs of college and university students, the state government had decided to open government, government-aided, and private colleges and universities on November 16, following the standard operating procedures. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/varsities-to-open-on-nov-16-165059
03-11-2020||---||Youth killed, another hurt in road mishap||Jhajjar, November 2A youth was killed and another suffered injuries when their motorbike collided with a truck on Birdhana Road here on Monday evening.The deceased has been identified as Ajay of Rohtak’s Bohar village, while the injured as Shakti of Jhajjar’s Bhapdoda village and has been admitted to the PGIMS, Rohtak. The police have recovered two pistols and some live cartridges from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-killed-another-hurt-in-road-mishap-165060
03-11-2020||---||With Rs 2,563 cr, GST collection up 66%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 2By collecting Rs 2,563 crore as the state GST in October, Haryana has registered an increase of a record 66 per cent over Rs 1,544 crore collected during the corresponding month last year.This is 10.25 per cent increase in GST collection registered at the national level, as Rs 1,05,155 crore was collected in October this year against Rs 95,380 crore recovered last year.Sources in the Excise and Taxation Department said though the increase registered by all states was not immediately available, the increase of 66 per cent was likely to be the highest among all states.As far as the total collection of all three types of GSTs (central, state and integrated) is concerned, Haryana registered an increase of 18.7 per cent by collecting Rs 5,433 crore in October this year against Rs 4,578 crore last year.Posting a GST collection of over Rs 1 lakh crore for the first time in the past eight months has signaled the signs of recovery.In September, the total collection of GST in the country was Rs 95,480 crore against Rs 91,917 crore in the corresponding month last year – an increase of 3.88 per cent.The GST collection registered a negative growth during April, May, June, July and August – the five months after the lockdown.Highest Among StatesSources in the Excise and Taxation Department said though the increase registered by all states was not immediately available, the increase of 66% was likely to be highest among all states||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-rs-2-563-cr-gst-collection-up-66-165061
03-11-2020||Amilestone board installed by the Public Works Department near Ambala Central Co-operative Bank||Broken board risk to commuters’ lives||UHBVN must restore practice of accepting chequesThe decision of the UHBVN to do away with cheques but insist on bank demand drafts for the payment of power bills has resulted in hardships to consumers. The bills can forewarn of penalty if a cheque is dishonoured. The new chairman of the UHBVN must restore the practice to accept payments by cheque. —Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaMC apathetic to stray animal menaceAfter resuming its long-stalled drive to catch stray animals, the Hisar Municipal Corporation team members captured a few heads of cattle. However, the drive was suspended suddenly without giving any plausible reason. Due to the MC apathy, the city is again teemed with stray cattle, adding to multiple problems. The district administration should come out with a permanent solution to the menace. —Baljeet S Deep, HisarMigrants living in pitiable conditionOutside the entry gate of Ambala City’s Sector 9, one can see some migrant families living in a pathetic condition. They even lack the basic facilities. Their huts covered with clothes are unable to bear the impact of wind or rain. Many higher officials of the administration and rich people commute on this route daily but the plight of migrants has failed to catch their attention. Moreover, all adults are casual labourers, who seldom get work, and their meagre income is too less to feed large families. Amid the pandemic and with the cases rising, their medical check-up and providing them basic facilities is the need of the hour. I hope some NGO or the administration will come to their rescue. —Gian P Kansal, AmbalaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/broken-board-risk-to-commuters-lives-165081
03-11-2020||Rohtak||Haryana Day celebrated||Online training programmeKurukshetra: Professor MM Goel, retired from Kurukshetra University, said, "We require minimalism to take care of our needs by using minimax strategy (minimising the possible loss) by decision rule as the worst case with professional ethics." He was addressing the participants of the second online short-term training programme (STTP) sponsored by AICTE at the Panipat Institute of Engineering and Technology (PIET), Samalkha, concluded on Monday. His topic was "needonomics for sustainable development goals (SDGs) 2030". Dr Akhilesh Mishra programme coordinator delivered the welcome address. Prof Goel said there was a close relationship between decluttering and lifestyle-based on needonomics for reviving the economy suffering from recession and achieving SDGs. "We need to stop wastage of food and grains to ensure zero hunger," said Prof Goel.Assistant registrar given farewellFaridabad: The Staff Welfare Association of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised a function to accord a warm farewell to Rajpal Singh, who retired from the post of assistant registrar in the academic branch of the university. Singh joined the YMCA Institute of Engineering on December 1, 1983 and rendered 37 years of continuous services at various university departments which include accounts, purchase and academic. He was given a warm farewell at a function organised in the university which was attended by Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar, Registrar Dr SK Garg, faculty and staff members of the university. They wished him a healthy and prosperous post-retirement life.Expert talk organisedYamunanagar: Training and placement cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, organised an expert talk on "start creating your wealth from today-a step towards success in life". Rajinder Singh Vohra, coordinator, training and placement cell, introduced the speaker and presented the theme of the talk. The expert of the talk was Dr Amit Joshi, director, Guru Nanak Khalsa Institute of Technology and Management, Yamunanagar. He explained in detail about what was the appropriate time to start planning for creation of wealth, various strategies of wealth creation and importance of financial planning in the life of a person. Principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang, welcomed the speaker and Dr Alok Goyal, dean of Commerce faculty, extended a vote of thanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-day-celebrated-165082
