03-12-2020||Karnal||Groom chooses tractor instead of Mercedes for his ‘barat’ in support of farmers’ protest||Everyone wants to make their weeding day special and spend lots of money to make it unique, but in Karnal a youth, Sumit Dhull, a resident of Sector 6 in the city, drove a tractor to his wedding venue to support farmers’ protest against the three agriculture related acts.He left the decorated Mercedes car behind at home and took a tractor as his wedding vehicle.“I belong to a farmer family and I stand by the farmers who are protesting against the acts, so I’ve decided to choose tractor instead of decorated Mercedes,” said Dhull before leaving from his residence.His maternal uncle Surinder Narwal said all arrangements were made to leave barat in decorated vehicles, but Sumit asked to change his wedding vehicle to a tractor.“It is his little attempt to show solidarity with farmers,” he said.He said that Dhull along with his wife would also go to protest site to extend support to farmers on Friday.
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||BJP ally JJP seeks rollback of cases against agitating farmers||The BJP's coalition partner JJP on Thursday demanded the withdrawal of cases registered in Haryana against farmers who participated in “Delhi Chalo” march against the Centre's farm laws.Jannayak Janta Party leader Digvijay Singh Chautala said the cases against farmers must be withdrawn to ensure that the situation does not worsen and no mistrust is created between farmers and the government.“We will talk to the Chief Minister and Home Minister and tell them to withdraw cases against farmers so that situation does not worsen and any kind of mistrust is not created,” Chautala told reporters.“This is our party's stand on the issue. To protest peacefully is the fundamental right of the farmers,” he added.The JJP has also been facing the opposition's fire for not walking out of the alliance on farmers' issue and "clinging to power".Haryana Police had booked state Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni and several farmers on the attempt to murder and rioting charges in Ambala.Hundreds of farmers were booked on charges of rioting, participating in unlawful assembly, obstructing public servants from discharging their duty, damaging public property and violating various provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in Ambala, Panipat, Rohtak, Kaithal, Sirsa and other districts of the state a week ago.The Congress had claimed that over 20,000 farmers in Haryana have been booked by police for various violations during the “Delhi Chalo” march.Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala had condemned the BJP-JJP government for placing boulders, multiple steel barricades, getting patches of roads dug, using water cannons and tear gas shells to thwart farmers' march.Replying to a question, Digvijay Chautala exuded confidence that “dialogue process which has started between the government and farmers is moving ahead in the right direction and we are hopeful that it will bear positive results”.He said as far as crop MSP was concerned, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has already made his stance clear by saying that the day he feels there is a threat to it, he will quit his post.The JJP had on Tuesday suggested that the Centre should give a written assurance to farmers that the minimum support price system would continue.Chautala, however, evaded a question on suggestions by the Congress and other opposition parties that the JJP should walk out of the alliance with BJP.“The issue on which we are briefing you today is farmers' agitation," he said, evading the reply.He, however, said farmers' unions were keeping their demands and other issues before the Centre “point to point” and JJP's top leadership led by its national president Ajay Singh Chautala were following all the developments very closely. He also said the JJP was hopeful that the issues of the protesting farmers would be solved soon and they would soon return to their homes.To another question, Digvijay Chautala, who is also the president of Indian National Students Organisation, said SAD stalwart and former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal is a great farmer leader and he respects the feelings that prompted him to return his Padma Vibhushan award.The Akali veteran on Thursday returned the award in protest against the Centre's new farm laws.“He is the biggest farmer leader, who struggled with Chaudhary Devi Lal for farmers' cause. Somewhere, he (Badal) is also feeling sad about the situation which has come up (on farmers' issue and subsequent protests near Delhi's borders),” he said. PTI
03-12-2020||Rohtak||Farmers charge cell phones from tractors; brought bikes from Punjab||Farmers camping at Tikri-Bahadurgarh have completely prepared from Punjab. For the past five days, they have been charging their mobile phones by using the batteries of their tractors.They brought their motorbikes to get to one point to another point, since a stretch of 10 km between the Bahadurgarh bypass to Tikri border, Delhi is jam-packed with tractor-trailers, buses, and other vehicles.They have set up a backup team at their village which ensures the delivery of essential items for protesting farmers."Cell phone is the only way, here, to get updates about the agitation, and the direction from top leaders. Since we knew that there would be no electricity connection at the dharna spot to charge cell phones, hence, we created charging points at our vehicles. We charge the phone and power bank at night from the tractor's battery while the battery is charged by keeping the tractor started. This mechanism is being adopted by the majority of the farmers,” said, a protesting farmer, Jasprit Singh Walia.Significantly, several farmers are using electricity from poles installed on the highway to charge their phones and power banks.Magar Singh of Muktsar said, that a 10-km long stretch of the highway from Bahadurgarh to Tikri border was jam-packed with tractor-trailers, buses and other vehicles of the farmers.“Hence we are using two-wheelers not only to go to one point to other but also buy medicines, eatables and other essential things from Bahadurgarh town as you cannot move in the four-wheelers through road blockade,” he said, adding, that hundreds of farmers had brought two-wheelers with them.Sukhdev Singh from Sangrur added that a backup team has been set up village-wise.“We daily update the team members about the agitation and also apprise them of our need about essential items like medicines, milk powder etc. The teams send the village youths here to deliver the items here. The youths then replace those who want to return,” he added.Amit Nain, a young farmer, informed since the dharna spot was spread over 10 km hence two vehicles were being used to make the farmers updates from the latest development about the agitation.
03-12-2020||CM releases book on ex-Dy CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar releases book on ex-Dy CM Dr Mangal Sen||Rohtak: Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday released a book named ‘Dr Mangal Sen- Rajnitik Evam Samajik Nayak’ published by Dr Mangal Sen Chair of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in an online programme on the occasion of his death anniversary. Paying tributes to former Deputy CM, BJP stalwart and noted social worker late Dr Sen, Khattar said he made a sterling contribution to the socio-economic development of the state. He was a popular mass leader, who won the Vidhan Sabha elections from Rohtak seven times. Khattar announced a grant of Rs 11 lakh from his discretionary quota to promote research, studies and other activities related to Dr Sen. MDU Vice Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh said the university was committed to taking the inspirational message of life and times of Dr Sen to the masses. He said two more books on Dr Sen were in the pipeline.Student induction programmeHisar: An online valedictory function of the student induction programme organised for new BTech students of the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, has concluded. Prof Tankashwar Kumar, Vice Chancellor of the university, was the chief guest of the valedictory function. He said learning was as important as qualifying the exams and getting a degree. Learning leads to creativity and creativity gives birth to innovation, which further motivates a person to become an entrepreneur. He also motivated the students to strictly follow three social values in their life i.e. punctuality, brotherhood and respect for their parents and teachers.Gita fest brochure launchedKurukshetra: The brochure for the International Gita Mahotsav was launched by Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice Chancellor, Kurukshetra University. He said due to the global pandemic of Covid, the 5th International Gita Seminar Festival is being organised online this time. He said apart from being a religious book, Gita was a philosophy of life that any nation could develop by adopting it. “The solution to current problems is in this wonderful book. Every person in the world should imbibe it, adopt it in their life and cooperate with their own development and that of the poor,” he added. The KU is all set for the online international seminar to be held on December 21 to 23 to commemorate the International Gita Festival.Webinar on electrical engineeringHisar: The training and placement cell of the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, in association with the electrical engineering department held a webinar-cum-industry interaction programme. Sandeep Bhardwaj, working as quality manager in the Manitou Group, was the keynote speaker of the webinar. He interacted with the second and third year students of BTech on the topic “Latest trends and career avenues in electrical engineering”.
03-12-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Haphazardly parked vehicles block traffic movement||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comHaphazardly parked vehicles block traffic movementThe main road of Shahabad Markanda from the police chowki to GT Road is broad enough to facilitate commuters but due to lack of civic manners among the public, there is always a traffic jam. The area of Shiv Mandir market opposite to two schools is in total chaos when the schools are open. People, especially teenagers, do not show any concern while parking their bikes or cars. The vehicles are parked haphazardly without caring about the movement of traffic. There is no traffic police to regulate the rush. The authorities are requested to look into the matter. Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaState needs to reduce carbon footprintThe state government must make sure that all efforts are put in place to reduce carbon footprints i.e., emission of greenhouse gases which leads to increase in earth's temperature. It happens due to burning of fossil fuels, construction activities, electricity, heating, vehicular and industry emissions etc. For e.g., even the LED TV left on standby-mode leads to increase in the carbon footprints. Citizens/industry etc must be made aware of its pitfalls by all the concerned state government/private institutions so that the carbon footprints can be minimised at the individual, industry & society level. Ramit, Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaLight on during the dayWhile going to Gurugram city it has been observed time and again that streetlights near Rajiv Chowk underground bridge are on during the day. Yesterday too, I saw that the lights were on. The authorities concerned need to take action and see that the lights are not left on during the day. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramKeeping air clean must be each one's priorityIt was highly intriguing to observe that the usual bursting of crackers did take place till late night in Panchkula to celebrate "Gurpuarb" on November 30. Notably, the NGT had earlier imposed a complete ban on the bursting of crackers till November 30. However, the Haryana Government had allowed the two-hour lee-way (from 8 to 10 PM) solely for Diwali day. We should work effectively towards controlling the city's air pollution and this should always be the top priority for each one of us. SK Gupta, Panchkula
03-12-2020||---||Rs 40.62L theft at LIC branch in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, December 2As much as Rs 40,62,470 were stolen from the safe of the office of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), HUDA, Jagadhri.On the complaint of the branch manager of LIC, Anil Kumar Goyal, a case was registered against unknown persons under Section 381, 406 and 420 of the IPC, yesterday.The complainant said Rs 42,62,716 had been kept in the safe of the LIC branch, situated in Sector17 of HUDA, Jagadhri, at about 5.30 pm on November 27.
03-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Three die in road mishap in Gurugram||Gurugram, December 2A woman and two children died in a road accident on Pinangwa-Luhinga Kalan road in Nuh district.The incident took place around 9.30 pm on Tuesday when Jamalgarh village resident Pappu was returning home along with his wife Jebuna, 6-year-old daughter and 8-year-old nephew. It was near Jakh village that a tractor hit their bike. While, Pappu got injured, the woman and the two children died in the accident and the driver of the tractor managed to flee the spot. An FIR has been registered at Punhana police station.
03-12-2020||Hisar||JJP leader from Sirsa booked for extortion||The police have registered an extortion case against a JJP leader from Sirsa district.The accused, Nirmal Singh Maldi, had contested from Sirsa on the JJP ticket in the last Lok Sabha poll. He had also contested the state Assembly election from Kalanwali reserved segment on the ticket of Haryana Lokhit Party.The complainant, Gurpreet Singh of Maldi village, alleged that Nirmal called him to his house for a meeting on August 1, where he met a girl whom he introduced as Monika Sharma. He said Monica exchanged phone numbers with him and they started exchanging messages.After sometime, Nirmal called Gurpreet and said Monica’s brothers got to know about their relationship. He said they were criminals and could kill him. Nirmal said he could settle the issue and sought Rs 8 lakh for the purpose. The complainant said when he refused to give the money, the woman lodged a false police complaint against him. Gurpreet said Nirmal had also extorted around Rs 30 lakh from another person by honey trapping him.The police have booked Nirmal under Sections 384, 387, 506 and 34 of the IPC. — TNS
03-12-2020||Nitish Sharma||Project of hop-on-hop-off bus service in Kurukshetra put on back burner||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, December 2The ambitious hop-on-hop-off tourist bus service project, which was prepared on the directions of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, seems to have been put on the back burner. The Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) and the district administration, in August, had come out with a proposal of starting the bus service for tourists and devotees who visit the holy city.The board had planned to introduce four to five buses with automated guide system in English and Hindi languages, LED screens and literature so that tourists could be informed about the sites. It had also planned to issue subsidised passes to devotees and ply the buses on a 27-km-long route covering all sites, including Brahma Sarovar, Sannihit Sarovar, Srikrishna Museum, Gurdwara Chhevin Patshahi, Tirupati Balaji temple, Mahabharata war formation, Jyotisar, Buddha Stupa, Harsh ka Tila, Panorama Museum, Kalpana Chawla Planetarium and other major spots from 8 am to 8 pm.Sources in the KDB said, “The project was sent to the state government for final approval, for which an early approval was expected as the project was prepared on the CM’s directions, but there has been no further development so far and it seems the project has been put on the back burner. Even in 2017, a special tourist bus service was started in Kurukshetra by the CM, but it was stopped within a year.”Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary of the board, said, “Efforts are on to promote tourism in Kurukshetra for which different plans are being chalked out. A proposal regarding the hop-on-hop-off bus service has been sent and is with the government. Due to the pandemic, the number of tourists is low and we are expecting that the government will give an approval to the project soon.”
03-12-2020||Yamunanagar||Two die in road mishap in Yamunanagar||Two persons were killed when their motorcycle was hit by a tipper near Bhukhri village on the Jagadhri-Dadupur head road today.The deceased have been identified as Dinesh Kumar (22) of Garhi Banjara village and Saurabh Sharma (28) of Berthal village of Yamunanagar district.On the complaint of Gaurav Sharma of Berthal village, a case was registered against unknown tipper driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC at Jagadhri Sadar police station today.The complainant said his brother Saurabh and his friend Dinesh were going towards Jagadhri town from Kharwan village side.He said when they reached near the bridge of Dadupur-Nalvi Canal in Bhukhri village, their motorcycle was hit by a tipper at about 10.45 am. They died on the spot. — TNS
03-12-2020||---||Yoga to be part of school curriculum from next session in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 2The state is set to include yoga in the school curriculum as a subject in all government schools from the next academic session commencing April 1, 2021. The decision, which aims to inculcate the habit of yoga among the students right from the beginning, would also make the state perhaps the first in the nation to make yoga as a part of studies in the schools.This was informed at a meeting of the Haryana Yog Parishad held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here on Wednesday.Several other significant decisions were also taken at the meeting which was also attended by Health and Home Minister Anil Vij and yoga guru Ramdev, who is also the state brand ambassador for the promotion of yoga and ayurveda.It was informed at the meeting that apart from moral education, yoga was already being taught to the students from the academic session 2016-17. But, taking a step ahead it has been decided to make it a compulsory or optional subject in the school curriculum and the Department of School Education has constituted a committee for the purpose. It was also informed that the subject curriculum would be designed in a way that it would have both theoretical and practical content on the pattern of physical education so that besides education, students could also get yoga training.Khattar said the government’s aim was to take yoga at the grassroots and for this, yoga and vyayamshalas and other adequate infrastructure are being made available at village-level.The Chief Minister also directed the Development and Panchayats Department to submit a proposal within a week for setting up 1,000 more ‘yogshalas’ in the state.It was also decided in the meeting that an international-level meditation yoga centre would be set up at Shri Krishna AYUSH University, Kurukshetra, which would give the holy city a distinct identity.On pattern of physical educationThe subject curriculum would be designed in such a way that it would have both theoretical and practical content on the pattern of physical education so that besides education students could get training in yoga. The government also decided to set up 1,000 more ‘yogshalas’ in the state
03-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Person defamed, family member, close relative can file case, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 2In a judgment liable to change the way defamation cases are decided by trial courts, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the person aggrieved by a defamatory statement must have an element of personal interest. He should either be the person defamed or family member or near relative in case of a deceased person.Justice Sanjay Kumar, Punjab and Haryana High CourtShould be aggrieved personA sub-section of Section 199 of the CrPC made it clear that no court should take cognisance of an offence punishable under provisions of the IPC except upon a complaint made by a person aggrieved by the offence. This provision, therefore, mandates that the complaint be made by a person aggrieved. Referring to the law on the issue, Justice Sanjay Kumar asserted that a sub-section of Section 199 of the CrPC, dealing with prosecution for defamation, made it clear that no court should take cognisance of an offence punishable under provisions of the Indian Penal Code except upon a complaint made by a person aggrieved by the offence. “This provision, therefore, mandates that the complaint be made by a person aggrieved,” Justice Kumar asserted.In his detailed order, Justice Kumar stated that Section 320 of the CrPC permitted the compounding of the offence of defamation, but only the person defamed could agree to the same. Pointing at “explanation 1 to Section 499 of the IPC” on the issue, Justice Kumar added that the section made it clear that only the family members or near relatives of the deceased person, against whom imputations had been made, could claim to be persons aggrieved.Justice Kumar turned to a Division Bench judgment of the Patna High Court in the case of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh versus Bihar and another, wherein it was observed that generally, the person aggrieved was only the person defamed. An exception had been made in case of a deceased person, but the persons aggrieved in such a case were limited to his family members and near relatives, whose feelings would be hurt by the defamatory statement and none else.Justice Kumar observed that the Division Bench, in its order, relied upon a Supreme Court judgment. Among other things, the judgment made it clear that trial and conviction would be void and illegal if a magistrate took cognisance of offence of defamation on a complaint made by one who was not an aggrieved person.
03-12-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court quashes plaint against ex-MP Raj Kumar Saini||Chandigarh, December 2More than two years after a Rohtak court summoned former MP Raj Kumar Saini in a defamation case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday quashed the complaint. The case revolves around alleged remarks made by the former MP against former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s grandfather Chaudhary Matu Ram Hooda.Justice Sanjay Kumar quashed subsequent proceedings, including the summoning order, after holding that the “complaint was deficient and tainted in its very inception and was, therefore, not maintainable”.Justice Kumar held that the complainant was not a family member or near relative of late Matu Ram and could not unilaterally assume unto himself the status of aggrieved person under provisions of the CrPC.Justice Kumar observed that the summoning order showed that the complainant contended before the magistrate that he fell within the definition of a person aggrieved as his family was closely related to late Matu Ram.Justice Kumar noted that this claim appeared to have been based more on ideological considerations rather than any actual relationship and there was no averment in the complaint indicative of any familial relationship.The petitioner was seeking quashing of a complaint dated April 18, 2018, and order dated June 13, 2018, passed by the Rohtak Judicial Magistrate First Class, summoning him for offences under Sections 499 and 500 of the IPC on the complaint filed by Sant Kanwar.
03-12-2020||---||Certificate issued without testing, case filed||Faridabad, December 2The Regional Transport Authority (RTA) has lodged an FIR against the local pollution under control centre (PUC) for allegedly issuing a certificate to a private commercial vehicle without testing it.The RTA has also issued show-cause notices to as many as eight other PUC centres for violating the norms.Jitender Gahlawat, RTA secretary, said a case was registered under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 188 of the IPC and Section 15 of the Environment Protection Act against the PUC centre located at a petrol pump on Faridabad-Gurugram Road.He said a drive to check the irregularities and violation of the norms had been launched in the district. “A raid conducted by a team led to the disclosure of the violations at this PUC centre.” Gehlawat said a notice had also been issued to eight other such centres located in various parts of the city, which had been found flouting the rules of operating a PUC centre. “A strict legal action will be taken against the violation of the pollution norms,” he added.
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 32 succumb; 1,607 cases in Haryana||With 1,607 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 2,37,604 on Wednesday. The death toll went up to 2,488 with 32 more deaths. Gurugram reported a maximum of 498 cases, followed by Faridabad (263), Ambala (77) and Hisar (76).Gurugram and Faridabad reported a maximum of five deaths each, followed by Rohtak and Hisar (4 each), Bhiwani (3), Panchkula, Yamunanagar and Jhajjar (2 each) and Ambala, Karnal, Rewari, Sirsa and Palwal (1 each). — TNS
03-12-2020||---||Mansa protester dies at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border||Jhajjar, December 2Another farmer from Punjab died during the agitation at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Gurjant Singh (72) of Bachaona village in Mansa district. His was the third death at the border during the agitation.Sources say Gurjant was taken to the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh on Tuesday after he complained of pain in the abdomen. As his condition was critical, doctors referred him to the PGIMS, Rohtak.The farmer was admitted to the PGIMS at night. He died on Wednesday when his family was bringing him back to Bahadurgarh.
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Congress questions JJP’s support to Haryana govt||Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday questioned the Jannayak Janta Party’s continued support to the Khattar government, which, he said, employed every method to thwart the voice of farmers protesting against the new farm laws. He asked JJP MLAs to listen to their conscience and withdraw support from government.Randeep S Surjewala, Cong leaderBrute force usedThe CM and his deputy have emerged as villains in the farmers’ struggle. The farmers were marching peacefully towards Delhi. To stop them, the state dug up highways, put up barbed wires and obstacles, and used water cannons.“Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala have emerged as villains in the farmers’ struggle. The farmers were marching peacefully towards Delhi. To stop them, the state government dug up national highways, put up barbed wires and obstacles, and used water cannons,” Surjewala told the media here.Meanwhile, state Congress chief Kumari Selja and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda also called upon the JJP, Independent and “farmer-friendly” BJP MLAs to leave the “anti-farmer-labour” government. — TNS
03-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Ludhiana farmer hit by vehicle in Pipli dies||Mandi Ahmedgarh, December 2A young farmer of Jhammat village in Payal subdivision of Ludhiana district, who had been participating in ‘Delhi Chalo’, died following a road accident at Pipli in Haryana on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.Baljinder Singh Golu (34), only male member of peasant family of Jhammat was taken by the Haryana Police to a private hospital at Pipli where he succumbed to injuries sustained after an unknown speeding vehicle hit the motorcycle he was riding.Declaring him a martyr, village panchayat and NGOs of the region have demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and a job for his widow, besides the waiver of institutional and private loans. Pritpa Singh Jhammat, the village sarpanch, said Golu had been active in the “Delhi Chalo” since November and was on way back to meet his family on motorcycle when tha accident occured.
03-12-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Rumblings within JJP as MLAs want proactive role in protest||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 2The farmers’ protest has set off rumblings within the JJP, with certain MLAs advocating a proactive role in the agitation.Restive MLAs are adopting a wait and watch policy in the backdrop of the party’s ambivalent policy. While the party leadership wants the BJP-led Central Government to find an amicable solution immediately, party legislators are at their wits’ end about extending active support to the farmers.Sources said certain MLAs had been advocating a more proactive role for party leaders in the farmers’ agitation as the party had championed farmers’ rights from the beginning.The party’s reluctance to support the farmers’ agitation might cost the party dear as a major chunk of its voters were from the farming community, the sources asserted.An MLA said since almost all parties, except the BJP, had thrown in their lot with the agitating farmers, it was becoming untenable for party legislators to defend the farm Acts at public forums.At least two JJP MLAs, Jogi Ram Sihag from Barwala and Ram Karan Kala from Shahbad, had publicly expressed solidarity with the farmers and condemned “atrocities” on farmers by the Haryana Police.However, JJP president Ajay Chautala had been following a safe line of action, asking the Centre to give a written guarantee on the MSP.
03-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||Jind villagers’ sweet surprise for agitators||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 2The farmers agitating at the Delhi borders in Sonepat and Bahadurgarh were in for a sweet surprise on Wednesday. Karsola villagers in Jind’s Julana block prepared and sent ladoos for them.The villagers collected funds through donations and started a community kitchen to prepare ladoos. The villagers dispatched 10 quintal ladoos for the farmers at the Tikri border in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh town, while equal quantity of the sweets will be delivered at the Singhu border in Sonepat district on Thursday.Narender Lathar, a local, said a group of youths and elders had decided to supply ladoos to the farmers as they usually have a sweet tooth.“Since other requirements like milk, food and clothes are being taken care of by other people, we decided to chip in with something sweet.”Lathar said the villagers were donation generously for the purpose.Ishwar Singh, an elderly person of the village, said in all, 10 halwais were working round-the-clock since Tuesday and the group of youths was assisting them in preparing the ladoos.
03-12-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Ahead of talks, farmers harden stance||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 2The farmers’ protest against the three farm laws continued at the Singhu border on the NH-44 for the sixth day on Wednesday.The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee decided to intensify the protest and demanded a special session of Parliament to repeal the three farm laws.Darshan Pal Singh, Farmer leaderBlame corporatesWe have given a call for an agitation against the Narendra Modi government and Ambani, Adani and other corporate houses. Farmers across the country will protest and burn effigies of the government and corporate houses on Saturday.Darshan Pal Singh, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union, said they rejected the invitation of the Union Government on Tuesday because it did not invite four members — Shiv Kumar Kakkaji, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Yogendra Yadav and NN Bhola.“We have foiled the government’s plan to divide farmers. It had to add the names of three farmer leaders except Yadav as we condemned it,” Pal said.The joint committee decided to send seven to 10 pages on all sections of the three farm laws, as demanded by the Union Government on Tuesday.“The Union Government should call a special session and repeal the three farm laws. The movement will not be limited to the Singhu and Tikri borders, but will choke the national capital,” said the farmer leader.“We have given a call for a movement against Narendra Modi government and Ambani, Adani and other corporate houses. Farmers across the country will protest and burn effigies of the government and corporate houses on Saturday,” he said.Shiv Kumar Sharma said the movement would continue till the government revoked the three farm laws no matter how much time it took.Ranjeet Raju from Rajasthan said hundreds of farmers had moved towards Delhi to support the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border.Kavita Kurudanti from Karnataka said women had been supporting farmers. Pratibha Shinde of Maharashtra said farmers in her state were also supporting the farmers’ protest and thousands of farmers would protest against the farm laws and electricity amendment Bill across Maharashtra on Thursday.SIDELIGHTSDharna outside hospital continuesJhajjar: The dharna by Punjab farmers outside the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh entered the second day on Wednesday. They are demanding a martyr status for Gajjan Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana who reportedly died of cardiac arrest during the agitation on Sunday. Their other demands include a government job for one of the members of Gajjan's family. “We will not take the body until our demands are met,” one of the protesters said. Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, said Gajjan’s postmortem could not be conducted on Wednesday as well.Two Jind khaps extend supportHisar: Two khap panchayats of Jind — Darhan and Binain khaps — which have influence in about 50 villages, have extended support to the protest and decided to join the stir. The Darhan khap, based in Uchana, which is represented by Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, said it was time to take a tough stand on issues concerning farmers.Traffic flow on Nh-44 down by 50%Karnal: The farmers’ protest on the Haryana-Delhi border has reduced the traffic flow on the NH-44 by more than 50 per cent. As per the data collected from the Bastara toll plaza in the district, around 18,000 vehicles crossed the toll between Karnal and Delhi in the last 24 hours in comparison to 40,000 to 42,000 vehicles prior to the blockade.
03-12-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Chief Minsiter flying squad busts fake call centre in Gurugram||Gurugram, December 2The CM flying squad busted a fake call centre here in a raid conducted on Tuesday night. While the owner of the call centre is on the run, 26 men and women were detained and two persons, partners of the owners, were arrested during the raid. The centre was being run from a rented house in Sector 27 here.The accused duped US nationals using their social security number obtained through pop-ups. They have duped more than 500 foreigners of more than Rs 2 crore in the last two months.Seven hard disks have been recovered from the call centre and an FIR has been registered at the Cybercrime police station.Gurugram CM squad DSP Inderjeet Yadav said a raid was conducted, in collaboration with the local police, after getting a tip-off that a fake call centre was being run at Sector 27. When the team reached the spot, around 28 employees were busy on computers and laptops.Majority were busy making calls in English using their headphones and working on their computer systems. They did not possess any valid OSP (Other Service Providers) licence from the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement related to their work. The call centre was being operated from last two months, said the police.The police detained 26 persons and arrested two partners of the call centre, who were identified as Anurag Tiwari and Kirti Kumar Keshav of Jind district. While, mastermind of the call centre Lokender of Ahemdabad managed to flee the spot.“We are conducting raids to nab the mastermind. The arrested accused will be produced in a city court by Thursday,” said Yadav.
03-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Wary farmers on night vigil at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 2The deployment of six companies of the Rapid Action Force (RAF), five of the Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) and 2,400 local police personnel notwithstanding, farmers from Punjab have been keeping a vigil at the Bahadurgarh-Tikri border for the past five nights. The objective is to guard their belongings.Some farmers said their mobile phones, purses and other belongings had been stolen during the night, claimed Sukhvinder Singh, a farmer from Barnala (Punjab).Hundreds of tractor-trailers, buses and cars are parked on either side of the 10 km stretch between the Bahadurgarh bypass and the Tikri border. For every 25 vehicles, a team of five youths has been constituted.Jaspreet Singh of Sangrur district said, “We have no faith in the state government, which ordered the police to lob tear gas shells and used water cannons on us in cold conditions. So, the responsibility of guarding our belongings rests on us. The ‘thikri pehra’ (community policing) will continue till the protest ends.”The “thikri pehra” starts at 8 pm and ends at 4 am.“At night, we keep taking rounds of the road and check on vehicles. If we see any suspicious person, we question him and send him packing. We also help stranded commuters find an alternative route,” said Hakam Singh Walia, another farmer from Punjab. He further said as the Centre was on the defensive, it would try to create some mischief and sabotage the peaceful protest. “Our objective is to defeat the nefarious designs of the Centre.”
03-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Industry suffers amid blockade||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 2With the blockade at Singhu and Tikri borders, industrial units dealing in agricultural implements, pharmaceutical products, hardware and packaging have been affected. Industrial activity has taken a hit as transportation has come to a halt.Furnished material is not being dispatched and raw material is stuck on the roads. As per industrialists dealing in agricultural implements, equipment worth crores is lying in industrial units. They fear that orders may be cancelled if the situation persists.“I have to send agricultural implements to various states and abroad, but the blockade has halted delivery of equipment and arrival of raw material, due to which production has been affected,” said Ravi Beri, senior vice-president of the Karnal Agricultural Implement Manufacturers Association.“Around 10 trucks loaded with material are parked in godowns, waiting for roads to be cleared,” he said. “Most implements are for use during the wheat season. With each passing day, the season is nearing its end. Roads should be cleared for giving passage to vehicles,” said another industrialist dealing in agricultural implements.Manoj Arora, president of the HSIIDC Welfare Association, Karnal unit, said industrialists had been suffering losses worth crores due to the road blockade. “We understand that farmers have issues. The government must listen to them and resolve the issues at the earliest,” he said.“Vehicles are parked on both sides of the National Highway-44. We are waiting for material while those who have placed orders are waiting for the goods. We had to face huge losses during the lockdown and now, the protest was causing losses,” said another industrialist.
03-12-2020||Nitin Jain||Finally, re-carpeting of broken roads begins in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 2Finally, the work has begun on re-carpeting of broken roads in Ambala Cantonment. The re-carpeting work will be done at a cost of around Rs 4 crore, which is part of a special grant of Rs 7.5 crore released by the state government for improving condition of roads, streetlights, development of parks, construction of nullahs and renovation of public places in the town.The work began after Home Minister Anil Vij, who represents Ambala Cantonment, took note of the bad condition of roads in the town.Sharing details, Vij said he was committed to providing the best civic amenities and infrastructure to residents. “Since certain roads in the town have developed cracks and potholes, the special grant will help repair and re-carpet the broken roads,” he said.Vij, who also holds the Local Government, Health, Technical Education, Science and Technology portfolios, said 13 major roads would be covered under the project.The major roads to be re-carpeted included Staff Road to Fountain Chowk in Sadar Bazaar at Rs 71 lakh, IDBDI Bank to JCI Chowk in Main Rai Market at Rs 78 lakh and Swaran Jayanti Park to Lal Kurti Chowk at Rs 23 lakh.
03-12-2020||Jhajjar||Farmers plan to seal all Delhi entry points||Agitating farmers camping at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border have chalked out plans to seal all nearby entry points to Delhi.“After talking to local people, we have identified various roads being used by commuters as alternative routes for going to Delhi from Jhajjar, Rohtak and surrounding areas. We plan to block all these routes as and when our committee asks us to do so. We have done our groundwork,” a farmer said.The routes identified by farmers include Bahadurgarh-Jharoda-Najafgarh road, Badli-Dhansa road, Jargadpur chowk-Mundela road, Balor-Kair road, Gubahan-Bakargarh road, Devarkhana-Galibpur road, Badsha-Galibpur road and Luksar-Mundela road.The farmers maintained they were also contemplating getting support of residents of villages concerned so that the strategy could be executed effectively, if the government doesn’t accept their demand. “We are prepared to seal all entry points to Delhi to mount pressure on the Centre, but are waiting for directions from our top leaders in this respect. Till then, we will continue to camp at the border and raise slogans against the Centre,” said Purushottam Singh Gill, a leader of BKU (Lakhowal).Another farmer leader said two more dharna spots had been finalised on the Bahadurgarh bypass to step up the agitation against farm laws.Meanwhile, All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) activists, led by its vice-president Inderjit Singh, took out a march from Bahadurgarh (Sector 9) bypass to Tikri border.
