03-10-2020||Chandigarh||25 more COVID-linked deaths, 1,188 fresh cases in Haryana||Haryana reported another 25 fatalities on Saturday, raising the death toll from COVID-19 to 1,450 while 1,188 new cases pushed the infection tally to 1,32,576 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.Of the new deaths, four each were reported from Jind, Panchkulaand  Hisar; three each from Yamunanagar and Sirsa; two each from Rohtak and Ambala while a fatality each was recorded in Panipat, Rewari and Gurugram, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases included Gurugram (277), Faridabad (134) and Hisar (116).The number of active cases of the novel coronavirus in Haryana stands at 12,868 while the state has a recovery rate of 89.20 per cent, the bulletin said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-more-covid-linked-deaths-1-188-fresh-cases-in-haryana-150535
03-10-2020||Chandigarh||Borrowings and liabilities cross Rs 12K crore in Haryana; revenue receipts down by 28 per cent||Amid COVID and economic slowdown, the borrowings, and other liabilities of Haryana government has crossed Rs 12,000 crore at the of August this financial year. The revenue receipts have shrunk up to 28 per cent in comparison to last year.The borrowing and other liabilities (net) this year, till August, has reached Rs 12,075.06 crore while Rs 9,966.80 crore was recorded last year during the same period.So, there is a jump of 21.2 per cent.According to CAG’s month-wise provisional figures, the revenue receipts of the state government were Rs 20,078.10 crore at the end of August while they were Rs 28,078.83 crore during the corresponding period last year.There is a dip of 28.5 per cent.The Goods and Services Tax (GST) was down by over 31 per cent as only Rs 5,341.68 crore was earned while it was Rs 7,750.62 crore in the corresponding period of 2019.There was a major fall in earnings from Stamps and Registration as only Rs 1,099.47 crore was earned though it was Rs 2,731.17 crore in the corresponding period of 2019.There was a dip of 59.7 per cent.This year, the land registration was halted too for some time after allegations of corruption had surfaced on the part of revenue officials.The Sales Tax collection, which includes earnings from the sale of petrol and diesel, had come down to Rs 2,830.67 crore this financial year while last year the earnings were Rs 3,618.28 crore.There was a shortfall of 21.8 per cent.The state’s excise duty had fallen by 16.3 per cent as only Rs 2,572.42 crore was collected this year till August.The non-tax revenue, which includes collections from mining, transport, External Development Charges (EDC), was down by 59.8 per cent as only Rs 975.50 crore came, though Rs 2,426.69 crore was earned in the corresponding period last year.The recovery of loans and advances was dismal at just Rs 87.03 crore while it was Rs 5,224.30 crore last year.“The tax revenue during the lockdown in April and May was just Rs 1,305.40 crore and Rs 3,608.38 crore respectively. But for June, it jumped to Rs 7,007.21 crore and for July it further rose to Rs 10.376.51 crore. It was Rs 14,624.26 crore in August. So, the recovery is on way," said a senior official in the finance department.GST Compensation:As per provisions in Goods and Service Tax (Compensation) Act, 2017, the states are assured of their revenue at 14 per cent compounded growth rate over the base year revenue 2015-16 for loss of revenue arising on account of GST implementation for a period of five years.Due to the inadequate balance in the Compensation Fund, the admissible bi-monthly GST compensation has so far not been released.According to figures submitted before the Parliament last month, Haryana had received Rs 1,461 crore as GST compensation from the Centre in 2017-18 and Rs 3,916 crore in 2018-19. For 2019-20, the state was given Rs 6,617 crore. However, from April to July of 2020-21, the release of Rs 5,841 crore is due.During the 41st GST Council meeting in August, the states were given options to meet their compensation shortfall from market borrowing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/borrowings-and-liabilities-cross-rs-12k-crore-in-haryana-revenue-receipts-down-by-28-per-cent-150507
03-10-2020||Palwal||Man rapes and impregnates 17-year-old daughter in Haryana's Palwal; booked||The police booked a man on Saturday for allegedly raping his teenager daughter in Palwal district, Haryana.The accused is yet to be arrested.A spokesperson of the police department revealed, that the matter surfaced after the 17-year-old victim lodged a complaint with the women police station on Friday, that her, 45-year-old, father had been sexually assaulting for the last three years, which has resulted in four-month pregnancy.Claiming, that her mother died four-years-ago, the victim informed the police, that her father started sexually exploiting a year after her mother's death and had been threatening to kill her if she resisted or told anyone about the matter.A hunt has been launched to arrest the accused after the medical examination of the victim, said the police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-rapes-and-impregnates-17-year-old-daughter-in-haryanas-palwal-booked-150496
03-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Two held for betting in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 3The Gurugram Police claimed to have busted a betting racket being run from the Sushant Lok area of the city.Two members of gang were nabbed when they were betting on an ongoing IPL match, police said, adding that one LED TV, four mobile phones and Rs 8,000 cash were recovered from their possession.Acting on a tip-off, a police team of crime unit, Manesar, raided a house in Sushant Lok where two people were busy in betting, said police.When police entered the house, they saw one of the two talking on phone and other making notes in a register while a cricket match was aired on an LED screen in front of them.The accused were betting on an ongoing IPL cricket match, claimed the police.The accused have been identified as Tarun, a resident of Madanpuri, Gurugram, and Nawab Ali, native of West Bengal.An FIR has been registered against the duo under sections 13, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act at Sushant Lok police station, the police added.“The accused were produced in a city court today where they were granted bail. We are trying to arrest others involved in the act,”  said police spokesperson Subhash Bokan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-held-for-betting-in-gurugram-150489
03-10-2020||Colors’ upcoming show Molkki throws light on the prevalent custom in Haryana where because of the skewed sex ratio||Colors’ upcoming show Molkki is about bride-buying custom prevalent in Haryana||Priyal Mahajan plays the role of Purvi and Amar Upadhyay plays Virender. Commenting on this Amar says, “The concept of Molkki is unique, powerful and something that has never been shown on television before. As Virender Pratap Singh, I am playing a larger-than-life character. He is a very strong and serious person whose life undergoes a drastic emotional change when Purvi becomes a part of it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/colors-upcoming-show-molkki-is-about-bride-buying-custom-prevalent-in-haryana-150388
03-10-2020||Panchkula||Charred body found in car at Morni||The partially charred body of a man was found inside his gutted car near Mandhana in Morni here around 2 pm today. The body, found on the driver’s seat, was identified as that of 42-year-old Rajesh Kumar from Housing Board Colony in Sector 26.He was a private professional. According to the police, Rajesh had left his house yesterday afternoon for getting his car serviced in Mani Majra.When his family tried to contact him in the evening, his number was switched off. The family, thereafter, alerted the police. The gutted car was spotted during patrolling in the area by a PCR vehicle.The police said they had no clue about why the victim went to Morni. The victim’s body was shifted to the mortuary at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, for a postmortem.Police officials have not ruled out the murder angle.“Prima facie, it seems the car ran off the road, hit a tree and caught fire. However, we are waiting for the postmortem report, which will clear the air,” said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/charred-body-found-in-car-at-morni-150275
03-10-2020||Panchkula||Khattar launches mobile water testing lab van||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today launched the “Swachhata Pakhwada” campaign from Sector 5 here on Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary.The campaign will be observed from October 2 to 17 across the state. Special focus would be given on the cleanliness of sewerage systems and de-silting of ponds by the civic bodies. The Haryana Chief Minister also paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversaries.He urged the people to take a pledge to keep their surroundings clean and join hands with the government to achieve the objective of the Swachh Bharat Mission.Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta was also present on the occasion.Khattar also launched a state-of-the-art mobile water testing laboratory van, which is equipped with a multi-parameter system containing analysers, sensors, probes and instruments based on colorimetric and electrochemistry.The mobile water testing laboratory will be an effective mode of surveillance of drinking water quality in the rural areas of the state.He also spoke about the contribution of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri to India’s freedom struggle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-launches-mobile-water-testing-lab-van-150280
03-10-2020||New Delhi||1.97L MT paddy procured in Haryana, Punjab, UP||As much as 1,97,136 MT has been procured from Punjab, Haryana and UP till October 1 in the 2020-21 kharif marketing season, the Agriculture Ministry said today. The total number of farmers benefitted are 15,705 and the MSP outflow is Rs 372.194 crore. The pace of paddy procurement will pick up in a week’s time, it said.Meanwhile, the 2020-21 cotton season also started yesterday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-97l-mt-paddy-procured-in-haryana-punjab-up-150053
03-10-2020||The power junction box outside Sector 7 on NH-73 in Panchkula speaks volumes about the reckless and indifferent attitude of the city's Electricity Department. Notably||Dangerous Power junction box in Panchkula||SK Gupta, PanchkulaOpen senior citizen cell in Panchkula tooThis refers to a news item that appeared in The Tribune, that 'Gurugram gets senior citizen liaising cell'. With senior citizens emerging as the most vulnerable post unlock, the Gurugram police have constituted a special cell. This move is good and a step taken in the right direction. Beyond the physical threat Covid, there are numerous problems facing senior citizens in Panchkula, including domestic feuds etc. So, I, request, the Panchkula police to start such liaising cell for the senior citizen. The aim should be to provide access to senior citizens. This will help them a lot.Vidya Sagar Garg, GurugramWild growth nuisance for residentsThere is huge wild growth on non-constructed plots around houses in Sector 9 HSVP, Ambala City. This HSVP is responsible for clearing bushes and wild growth. People are living in appalling conditions because dangerous and poisonous reptiles can be seen moving around in the area and it can also become a den for illegal activities. Officers never visit the area. We hope the authorities concerned will set things right. Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityNo space to move aroundDue to the reconstruction of the main road of Kurukshetra, the road parallel to the railway line from Jangra Dharamshala to the main bazar is the only alternative route for thousands commuters from Professor Colony, Azad Nagar, Shanti Nagar and Didar Nagar areas, but half width of this road is permanently encroached upon by shopkeepers. There is hardly any space for the movement of vehicles resulting in accidents and quarrels daily.The MC is sleeping over the matter for years. Is there any solution with the administration?Dr Ravinder Malik, KurukshetraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dangerous-power-junction-box-in-panchkula-150347
03-10-2020||Karnal||Gandhi Ullas Saptah organised||Webinar on Unnat Bharat AbhiyaanPanipat: Bhagat Phool Singh Mahila Vishwavidyalya in collaboration with the National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra (Coordinating Institute Unnat Bharat Abhiyan) organised a webinar on NEP 2020 and Unnat Bharat Abhiyan. Delivering the presidential address on this occasion, Women's University Vice-Chancellor Prof Sushma Yadava said the gap between urban and rural India could only be bridged by providing all facilities at the village level. She emphasised on replicating the university society interface created by Bhagat Phool Singh Mahila Vishwavidyalaya across India, so that the traditional indigenes knowledge available with the local society could be used for research in the universities.‘Nanotechnology the way ahead’Yamunanagar: Department of Physics of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar organised an international webinar on "Nanotechnology the way ahead". College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said the webinar was aimed at exploring the vast reach of nanotechnology field. He reiterated the policy of the college and vision of the management under the guidance of Sardar Bhupinder Singh Jauhar and president Sardar Randeep Singh Jauhar for the promotion of advanced education in the college with technology and modern infrastructure. The webinar was joined by Dr Indira Kapoor, Prof SK Chakravarty, Professor Dr Mahavir Singh of Himachal Pradesh University Shimla, Professor Mahavir Singh, Dr Khalid Mujasam of King Saud University, Saudi Arabia, Dr Professor Shyam Kumar, Prof Santosh Kurra, Dr MP Aggarwal, Prof Bal Krishan and Dr Meenu Kapoor.Tributes paid to Gandhi, ShastriRohtak: Musical and floral tributes were paid to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversary on Friday at Maharshi Dayanand University. Floral offerings were made on the portrait of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri by MDU Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh. The VC said that, "We all must take inspiration from the life of these two inspiring icons." He said the message of cleanliness, self-dependency and self discipline of Mahatma Gandhi is quite relevant in these challenging times of Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gandhi-ullas-saptah-organised-150346
03-10-2020||Sanjay Yadav ---||Air quality worsens in Gurugram, ban on construction looms||Gurugram, October 2 As air quality continues to deteriorate in the Delhi-NCR region as farmers have started burning stubble, the Municipal Corporation has decided to implement the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) in the city from October 15.  This means ban on all construction activity across the NCR once the Air Quality Index (AQI) crosses the 500 mark (severe level). As of now, the use of diesel gensets will be banned in the first week after October 15. The MC said the city had been recording an AQI between 51 and 100 (moderate level) these days, but the situation would worsen because of stubble-burning. The decision left realtors rattled. They said they were already reeling under heavy losses because of the Covid-induced lockdown. The construction remained suspended from March-end, when the lockdown was imposed, till July. When the construction resumed, realtors faced a massive labour crunch. Many projects were in operation with only 50 per cent labour strength.  “The real estate is ruined. We face the side-effects of stubble-burning. The authorities should exempt builders from the GRAP. We understand environment is important, but so is our livelihood,” said Pawan Rao, a local builder of new Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/air-quality-worsens-in-gurugram-ban-on-construction-looms-150182
03-10-2020||---||Haryana rolls out witness protection scheme||Chandigarh, October 2 With the government notifying the Haryana Witness Protection Scheme-2020, an institutional mechanism has been put in place to protect witnesses appearing in different courts across the state. Under the scheme, the witnesses, including immediate family members, will be able to avail the benefit of the protection of identity, change of identity and their relocation for their safety during the pendency of the trial. A “threat analysis report” of the witness will be prepared by the respective district police heads followed by the preparation of the “witness protection order” by the competent authority headed by the District and Sessions Judge concerned. Thereafter the “witness protection order” will be implemented by the “witness protection cell” headed by the DCPs/SPs at the district level and the ADGP (Law and Order) at the state headquarters. Now, the witnesses have been categorised into three categories. The first category will cover those witnesses where the threat extended to their life or their families during investigation and during and after the trial. The second category comprises those witnessed where the threat extended to safety, reputation or property of the witnesses and their family. The last category will be of those witnesses where the threat extended to their intimidation and harassment. Meanwhile, an elaborate safety mechanism for the witnesses has also been put in place for their safety. This includes that the accused and the witnesses don’t come face-to-face during investigation and the installation of security devices such as CCTVs, alarms and security doors at the home of witness. Escort to and from the court, holding of in-camera trials, usage of the specially designed witness court rooms, expeditious recording of depositions during trial are some other protective measures for the witnesses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-rolls-out-witness-protection-scheme-150183
03-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Expedite probe against cops in murder case: HC to Kurukshetra SP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Kurukshetra Superintendent of Police to expeditiously carry out an inquiry against “defaulting official” in a murder case, where an application allegedly submitted by the victim was found attached in the police file, but not placed before the court.Accused had applied for regular bailThe matter was placed before Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi’s Bench after the accused filed an application for grant of regular bail in an FIR registered on November 13, 2018, for murder and other offences at the Pehowa police station in Kurukshetra district.Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi has already asked the SP to take appropriate action against the defaulting police officer/official and issue appropriate instructions for avoiding such a lapse in future.The matter was placed before Justice Tyagi’s Bench after the accused filed an application for grant of regular bail in an FIR registered on November 13, 2018, for murder and other offences under Sections 323, 302, 506 and 34 of the IPC at the Pehowa police station in Kurukshetra district.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that further investigation in the matter was sought regarding the alleged application submitted by the victim after the examination of all prosecution witnesses.Taking note of the submission, Justice Tyagi on a previous date of hearing observed that the application alleged to have been submitted by the victim was found attached in the police file but was not placed before the court till plea was made for further investigation purportedly on the conclusion of the prosecution evidence.Justice Tyagi had further observed that the matter, apart from other aspects, also involved negligence/misconduct on the part of the police officers concerned. As such, the SP was directed to find out when, to whom and by whom was the application submitted; when and by whom was the application attached in the police file; whether any reference to the same was made in the zimnies; and why was the original application, if submitted to the investigating officer, not made part of the judicial file.As the case came for resumed hearing, Justice Tyagi ordered the petitioner’s release on bail after taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the case, the nature of accusation, the evidence against him and the likely delay in disposal of the matter because of Covid outbreak.Before parting with the case, Justice Tyagi observed the inquiry was said to be still pending. “The Kurukshetra SP is directed to expedite the inquiry and to submit report before this court,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/expedite-probe-against-cops-in-murder-case-hc-to-kurukshetra-sp-150184
03-10-2020||---||Youth held for minor’s rape||Hisar, October 2A 15-year-old girl was raped by a neighbouring youth at a locality in Hisar district. The police have arrested the youth after registering a case on Friday.The victim, a class IX student was asleep in her house when the youth entered the house and forcibly took her to the bathroom in her house at 3 am on October 1. The girl raised an alarm as the accused sexually assaulted her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-held-for-minors-rape-150185
03-10-2020||Ambala||2 more held for attack on ADC-led team||The police have arrested two more men in connection with the attack on a team of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) led by Additional Deputy Commissioner Preeti on September 18 near the district’s Panjokhra village, where illegal mining was in progress.The accused have been identified as Baldev Singh and Sonu of Ambala. They were produced before a local court, which remanded them to judicial custody.Now, 20 accused have been arrested in the case. The police had registered a case of attempt to murder, assault, rioting, causing hurt, obstructing government officials in discharging their duty and criminal conspiracy at the Panjokhra police station. Preeti, who is also the RTA Secretary, had escaped unhurt, her official vehicle was damaged and one of her staff members had sustained injuries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-more-held-for-attack-on-adc-led-team-150186
03-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar man duped of Rs 11 lakh||A couple allegedly duped a man of Rs 11 lakh in the name of sending him to Australia.On the complaint of Harpreet Singh of Kheri Rangdan village, a case was registered against Vikram and his wife Sweta of Yamunanagar under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC at the Farakpur police station yesterday.The complainant said he wanted to go to Australia on visitor visa in 2018. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-man-duped-of-rs-11-lakh-150187
03-10-2020||---||Regularise admissions of Rohtak BHMS students, govt tells Centre||Rohtak, October 2 The Haryana Government has urged the Union Ayush Ministry to regularise the admissions of 49 third-year students of 2016-17 batch of bachelor of homoeopathic medicine and surgery (BHMS) course at a Rohtak-based homeopathic college. The admissions of the said students of JR Kissan Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital in Rohtak were abruptly cancelled last year after they had studied for three years. The Haryana Government had constituted a committee comprising the Additional Chief Secretaries of the departments of Medical Education and Research and Health to look into the matter.  In a letter to the Secretary, Union Ministry of Ayush, the Additional Chief Secretary (Department of Medical Education and Research), Haryana Government, has requested that the admissions of the 49 students be regularised with the permission to appear for their exams. “Otherwise, the students of the 2016-17 batch be shifted to some other college in a neighbouring state/UT with directions to the college authorities to return the proportionate fees for the remaining period in the best interest of the students,” the letter states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/regularise-admissions-of-rohtak-bhms-students-govt-tells-centre-150188
03-10-2020||---||CM Manohar Lal Khattar launches Gram Darshan||Chandigarh, October 2Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday digitally launched ‘Gram Darshan’, which will allow accessibility to data of development projects of 6,197 gram panchayats of the state. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was also present on this occasion.“With the launch of Gram Darshan, the details of the completed, ongoing and required development projects of every village in Haryana will be digitally available. Anyone sitting at home anywhere in the world will be able to see the details of any gram panchayat,” said the Chief Minister. He said that it was the vision of the state government that every village in Haryana should have its own website so as to ensure that villagers, especially the youth, should know the details of various developmental schemes and projects being allocated and run for their village. During the inauguration, both the CM and Deputy Chief Minter acted with the sarpanches, panches and gram sachivs of various villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-manohar-lal-khattar-launches-gram-darshan-150189
03-10-2020||---||Farm fires: Legal action likely against 11 Kaithal farmers||Karnal, October 2The Kaithal Agriculture Department has recommended action against 11 farmers for alleged stubble burning.Kaithal Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh said: “The department has written to the Regional Officer of Haryana Pollution Control Board for the legal action.”He said burning of stubble was prohibited in the state and action would be taken against those found involved in the illegal act that led to pollution. He said the defaulter might be jailed for six months or slapped a fine of up to Rs 15,000 or both under Section 188 of the IPC. The DC said 496 custom hiring centres (CHCs) had been established in the district for the management of stubble. As many as 145 centres are in Ghula block, 101 in Siwan block, 106 in Kaithal block, 18 in Dhand block, 44 each in Pundri and Rajond block, and 38 in Kalayat block.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-fires-legal-action-likely-against-11-kaithal-farmers-150190
03-10-2020||---||75,000 intoxicating tablets seized, 2 held||Kurukshetra, October 2Two men have been arrested in connection with a haul of 75,000 intoxicating tablets seized on Thursday.The accused have been identified as Kishor Kumar, who operates a medical store in his native village Khanpur Kolian, and Sushil Kumar, a medicine supplier from Kurukshetra.On a tip-off, the police accosted Kishor’s car on the Ladwa-Pipli road on Thursday and seized 15 boxes containing 5,000 intoxicating tablets each from him.The stock of tablets was produced before drug control officer Ritu Mehla, who, in her report, stated “as per label claim, Microlit contains Diphenoxylate Hcl. It falls under the NDPS Act”. During preliminary inquiry, Kishor said he had bought the tablets from Sushil.The accused were booked under Sections 21-C and 29 of the NDPS Act at the Thanesar Sadar police station. They were produced before a local court, which sent them to a two-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/75-000-intoxicating-tablets-seized-2-held-150191
03-10-2020||Parveen Arora||Haryana Govt budges, allows UP farmers to sell produce at Karnal border||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 2The state has finally allowed the sale of Uttar Pradesh paddy in Karnal, ending days of uncertainty for farmers. For this, the district administration will establish a temporary purchase centre in Mohidinpur village situated on the Haryana-UP border.The state government took the decision after the district administration submitted a proposal in this regard.The marketing board has started re-carpeting a road that leads to the purchase centre, installing lights and constructing toilets. The centre is expected to be functional in a couple of days.Arhtiyas’ associations have been asked to inform farmers in UP to bring paddy to the makeshift centre after October 5. A schedule in this regard has been released. Besides, registered rice millers have been asked to start procurement.In its September 30 edition, The Tribune had published a news story “Haryana ban on outside crops negates Centre’s free market policy”, highlighting that farmers of UP who wanted to sell their produce in Karnal and Panipat were stopped by the police.“To help UP farmers, we are setting up a temporary purchase centre at a stadium in Mohidinpur village. The government has approved our proposal. I visited the site on Friday and directed market committee officials to ensure all facilities there,” said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.Meanwhile, a day after arhtiyas called off their strike, the district witnessed speedy paddy procurement on Friday.Till evening, around 22,000 MT of paddy was procured out of 40,000 MT that has arrived in 13 purchase centres of the district. Till Thursday evening, only 627 MT was procured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-budges-allows-up-farmers-to-sell-produce-at-karnal-border-150192
03-10-2020|| ---||Swachh award for Haryana||Chandigarh, October 2  In the ‘Swachh Bharat Divas’ programme organised on the occasion of the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Haryana bagged the first prize in the category of ODF Plus Villages among the states in the country today.  The Ministry of Jal Shakti and Union Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation awarded Haryana under the ‘Gandagi Mukt Bharat’ campaign.  Besides, Haryana has also has secured the third position in the ‘Swachh Sundar Samudayik Shauchalaya’ category. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of Development and Panchayat Department and Rural Development, today received the award virtually from Shekhawat and Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria. On this occasion, Rattan Lal Kataria lauded the work being done by the Haryana Government under the Swachh Bharat Mission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/swachh-award-for-haryana-150193
03-10-2020||---||Agriculture officer held for graft||Hisar, October 2An agriculture development officer (ADO) has been arrested after he demanded 25 per cent commission from farmers from compensation for damaged crops in the village.A farmer of Rohtas of Badhya Rangran village lodged a complaint that his wheat crop during the rabi season 2019-20 got damaged due to waterlogging. He said he had got his crop insured under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana and thus was expecting to get the compensation on the basis of the girdawari report, which assesses the loss.The farmer, however, said the ADO Balwinder Nehra demanded a 25 per cent commission from the compensation in lieu of reporting crop damage. The accused told the farmers that he would report the crop damage of only those farmers who agreed to pay the commission to him. The complainant said he refused to strike a deal with the ADO and thus the crop damage in his field was shown as nil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/agriculture-officer-held-for-graft-150194
03-10-2020||---||Covid test cost capped at Rs 1,200 in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 2With 1,476 fresh Covid cases and 23 deaths reported on Friday, the state Health Department has reduced the RT-PCR test rate from Rs 1,600 to Rs 1,200.No private laboratory can now charge more than Rs 1,200 for the RT-PCR test while the cost of the rapid antigen test and IgG-based ELISA test has been kept at Rs 650 and Rs 250, respectively. Non-adherence to the rates fixed can invoke penalty under Section 188 of the IPC.Meanwhile, three deaths each were reported from Panipat and Hisar, two each from Faridabad, Gurugram, Karnal, Yamunanagar, Fatehabad, Jind and Charkhi Dadri and one each from Ambala, Palwal and Panchkula.A 65-year-old woman from Dabua Colony and 75-year-old man from Sector 16 in Faridabad succumbed to the viral disease.The maximum fresh cases came from Gurugram (261), followed Faridabad (157), Hisar (117), from Rohtak (101), Jind (99) and Yamunanagar (96).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-test-cost-capped-at-rs-1-200-in-haryana-150195
03-10-2020|| & pti||Rs 25 lakh liquor from Haryana seized in Uttar Pradesh||Noida/Chandigarh, October 2Whiskey worth Rs 25 lakh being illegally transported from Haryana to West Bengal was seized in Greater Noida by the UP Police, officials said on Friday. They added that two men who were injured in a gunfight with security personnel were arrested.Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Rajesh Kumar Singh said around 350 cartons of liquor (Imperial Blue) were seized from a truck which was going from Ambala to Kolkata. “The liquor seized is estimated to be worth Rs 25 lakh,” he said.The officer said the truck was intercepted in Dadri police station area late on Thursday night after a gunfight broke out between the policemen and the two accused, who got hit on their legs.“The accused got injured in retaliatory firing and were taken to a hospital for treatment before being taken into custody,” DCP Singh said. The liquor cartons were hid in between pieces of gypsum in the truck, he said.Those held have been identified as Hardeep Kumar, a native of Fatehgarh district in UP, and Haakim Yadav, who belongs to Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, the police added.Inquiries in Haryana revealed that Imperial Blue, also known as Seagram’s Imperial Blue manufactured in India by Pernod Ricard, is being bottled in Ambala by NV Distilleries Pvt Ltd.Based in Rajpura town of Punjab, NV Distilleries, also have a unit at Badhauli village of Ambala district.The Tribune contacted Shiv Kumar Sinha, executive vice-president (sales and marketing) of NV Distilleries, for his comments on the liquor seized in Greater Noida, but he disconnected the call after listening to the question.He did not respond to repeated calls.However, the distilleries’ website claims Imperial Blue is being bottled in its Ambala plant.An officer of the Excise and Taxation Department said Imperial Blue whisky is bottled at NV Distillery Pvt Ltd in Badhauli and another distillery in Dera Bassi. Then, the liquor is supplied to the depots in Ambala, Chandigarh and Gurugram. The liquor for Haryana is supplied from Ambala and Dera Bassi and, for Chandigarh, liquor is supplied from Dera Bassi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-25-lakh-liquor-from-haryana-seized-in-uttar-pradesh-150196
03-10-2020||---||MSP must help farmers get out of debt||There are about 11 crore farming households in India. Of these, 67 per cent own less than one hectare of land. What does that really mean in terms of farm income? One hectare produces about 50 quintals of wheat in Punjab, but it would yield only about 35 quintals in the badly irrigated zones in Uttar Pradesh. At today’s MSP rates, that means a Punjab farmer would make about Rs 1 lakh per hectare in the wheat-producing season, while a farmer from the arid-zones of UP would end up with Rs 70,000.Now, we need to remove their costs to get the profit they would make per hectare. Ironically, the comprehensive cost of producing wheat — as calculated by the government — is lower in Punjab than what it is in UP. So, the Punjab farmer would earn a profit of about Rs 35,000 from a hectare of wheat, while the UP farmer would make only about Rs 15,000.Remember, this is the entire household’s income from agriculture over six months. So, a farming family with less than one hectare of land in Punjab will make just about Rs 6,000 per month, while the small farming household in UP will get a monthly income of just Rs 1,250.Even that is only if the farmers manage to get the minimum support price (MSP) that the government has announced. As the Shanta Kumar Committee reported in 2015, only about 5.8% of agricultural households in India were able to access APMC mandis and get MSP for their produce. Sixteen years ago, the National Commission for Agriculture had recommended that there should be a regulated mandi for every 80 square km, but as of 2017, the national average was one mandi per 434 square km. Even a well-covered state like Punjab has one mandi per 118 square km.This means farmers in most states are entirely at the mercy of local private traders or arhtiyas. In fact, even in Punjab and Haryana, where farmers take most of their produce to the APMC mandis, arhtiyas have a massive role in agricultural marketing. They charge large commissions for supposedly helping farmers find buyers, even when farmers take their crop to the mandis on their own, offload them and government procurers are already present to buy the produce.The Modi government’s new farm bills are supposedly meant to break this iron-grip of the traders and commission agents. By allowing farmers to sell outside the APMC mandis, the government intends to introduce competition amongst traders and help farmers get better prices.This is sheer wishful thinking that is based on a fundamental — perhaps deliberate — misunderstanding of how the farm economy works in India.As farming has become mechanised and heavily dependent on high-yield variety of seeds, heavy fertiliser and pesticide use, input costs in agriculture have risen dramatically. Before the green revolution, when farming was largely dependent on local seeds variants and natural fertilisers, lot of agricultural operations existed outside the sphere of market transactions. Modern farming techniques increased the dependence on the market and monetised agriculture.These processes — high input costs and monetisation — have made the farmer dependent on credit right from the beginning of the agricultural season. When India’s banks were nationalised, 51 years ago, one of the objectives was to increase farm credit. Till this day, small farmers find it difficult to get credit from the organised banking system. An RBI study last year said that 28 per cent of agricultural credit is still provided by the moneylenders, traders and relatives. When it comes to small farmers, nearly 60 per cent have no access to bank loans.It is here that the local traders enter the picture. They are the key source of loans for small farmers. They give it immediately and without any collateral. That is why they not only charge high interest rates, but also tie the farmers to an entire web of obligations. A 2014 study by Sukhpal Singh of the Punjab Agricultural University gives us a clear picture of how this system works, by making farmers dependent on all input purchases from the arhtiyas and their associates. The study showed that arhtiyas and their associates supplied 77 per cent of seeds, 12 per cent of fertilisers, 95 per cent of pesticides, 98 per cent of fuel and lubricants and all of the animal feed that was bought by the farmers. The arhtiyas supplied over 70 per cent of all inputs bought by farmers.As part of the loan agreement, farmers were also made to buy household consumption items from these arhtiyas and their associates. The study showed that over 31 per cent of all domestic goods bought by farmers were supplied by shops owned by arhtiyas or by traders connected to them. Finally, farmers had to sell their product through these arhtiyas and they were paid only after the traders had deducted the loans they had extended. It would appear that the arhtiyas are the problem. But the real reason these traders and commission agents have flourished is because of the farmer’s need for finance. The institutional banking system has failed small farmers and high input costs have pushed them into the arms of the local trader-cum-moneylender.One could argue that big corporates will solve this problem by not just providing capital, but also making inputs cheaper through backward linkages with suppliers and bringing in efficiencies of scale. However, if the organised private sector was so great, what stopped big private banks from entering the space and providing easy credit to small farmers? Why has the government not even pushed public sector banks to break this control over finance that gives immense power to local arhtiyas?It beggars belief that a smart politician like PM Modi doesn’t know this. PM-Kisaan and various interest-subvention schemes are an acknowledgement that the real problem that ties farmers to arhtiyas is that the MSPs don’t give them enough earnings to get out of their perpetual state of indebtedness. The answer to the kisan’s problems is higher MSP that gives 50 per cent more than the ‘comprehensive’ cost of production, subsidised inputs, public investment in rural infrastructure, more mandis across the country, and easy credit from institutional sources.The Modi government’s decision to let corporates solve India’s agricultural problems is a political choice determined by its own vote calculations. But that is an entirely different story, that I will tell another day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/msp-must-help-farmers-get-out-of-debt-150138
