04-06-2020||---||SC asks Delhi, UP, Haryana to prepare plan for smooth movement in NCR||New Delhi, June 4As lakhs of commuters face problems in crossing Delhi borders adjoining Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Sonepat and Faridabad during COVID19 lockdown, the Supreme Court on Thursday asked the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to consider having a common pass system for NCR for smooth inter-state movement.A Bench headed by Ashok Bhushan asked them to hold a meeting with the Centre’s help to explore the possibility of “one policy, one portal” for movement within the Delhi-NCR.It asked them to take a decision in a week after the Centre submitted that it was for the states concerned to decide on inter-state movement.The direction came on a petition filed by Gurugram resident Rohit Bhalla highlighting the plight of commuters. He said Delhi-NCR should be considered as a single region and Delhi’s borders with Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Sonepat should be opened.Terming the UP and Haryana administrations’ decisions to restrict movement for permissible activities in NCR through “blanket orders of sealing borders without reasonable exceptions” as illegal, he said it violated citizens’ rights.The top court asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to take instructions as to how to resolve the difficulties faced by commuters in NCR due to restrictions on inter-state movement.The Bench said there was a recommendation that suggested a common pass for the entire NCR region.The restrictions violated MHA’s May 1 guidelines which allowed traffic movement for permissible activities, Bhalla alleged.
04-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||State Nodal Officer for COVID-19 tests positive for virus; new appointed||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 4Dr VK Katyal, Senior Professor and Head of the Department of Medicine, Rohtak PGIMS, was given the charge of the State Nodal Officer for COVID-19 after the former officer tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday.The PGIMS Medical Superintendent, Dr MG Vashishth, has also been quarantined as he had come in contact with the former State Nodal Officer.The PGIMS director, Dr Rohtash Yadav, said in the given circumstances, the charge of the Medical Superintendent had been handed over to Dr SS Lohchab, Dean (Academic Affairs), University of Health Sciences (UHS).As many as 110 persons who were in contact with the former State Nodal Officer, who is also a Senior Professor at the PGIMS, were traced by the Rapid Response Team.Of the 110 persons, 41 doctors/officials/employees of the institute, found to be under high-risk, have been quarantined.In another significant step taken to segregate COVID and non-COVID facilities at the institute, it has been decided that COVID-positive patients would now be admitted to the Trauma Centre directly.In an official statement issued on Thursday evening, PGIMS Deputy Medical Superintendent Dr Sandeep said the samples of suspected COVID patients would not be taken at C-Block anymore.“The samples of only those patients would be taken at C-Block who are referred by the PGIMS Emergency Wing, indoor wards and flu clinic,” he maintained.Dr Varun Arora, in charge of the PGIMS Public Relations Department and COVID Control Room, said the 41 staffers of the institute, who had been quarantined include, two doctors and seven employees of the Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, 14 doctors of Anaesthesia Department, three doctors/officials of the Medical Superintendent Office, two doctors and six employees of the PGIMS Director’s office, three doctors/employees of the UHS Vice-Chancellor’s office and three doctors/staffers of the COVID Control Room.
04-06-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Sarpanch, aides ‘attack’ police team in Gurugram village; 3 cops injured||Gurugram, June 4A village sarpanch and his accomplices have been booked for allegedly attacking a police team late Wednesday night.They allegedly also held a policeman hostage and tried to run him over with their car. A PCR vehicle was badly damaged in the attack.The incident was reported from near Berka village where the accused were allegedly trying to grab a piece of land and police reached there following a call from a watchman. An FIR has been registered at Bhondsi police station.According to the police, a land dispute was going on between Berka village sapanch Ballu and builder firm Central Park. Ballu allegedly recently threatened an aide of the builder firm on WhatsApp and an FIR was registered against him on June 2.Around 11 pm, a security guard at Central Park called police and claimed that the sarpanch with his accomplices were trying to grab land and also threatening him. A police team of four reached at spot in a PCR van. The sarpanch and others allegedly attacked the police team and damaged the PCR van. In the attack, three cops were injured. Two of them managed to run from the spot, while the attackers nabbed head constable Harbir.“First they tried to run over me with a Scorpio and then held me hostage in a room. They snatched my mobile and wallet. They made a humiliating video and also thrashed me before I fled,” head constable Harbir said in his complaint.Following the complaint an FIR has been registered against the sarpanch and others under various sections of IPC, including attempt to murder and snatching, at Bhondsi police station.“We are conducting raids to nab the accused. Our three men were injured and head constable Harbir is under treatment in hospital,” said inspector Bhartender, SHO of Bhondsi police station.
04-06-2020||Rohtak||Youth drives auto-rickshaw to finance own studies; teaches underprivileged kids too||As the saying goes, when the going gets tough, the tough get going. While many workers lost their jobs due to the ongoing lockdown, there are some like 22-year-old Sumit who evolved themselves according to the circumstances and changed tack to survive and support their family during the difficult time.Sumit’s family shifted from Petwar village in Hisar district to Rohtak in 2016 owing to financial constraints. He started driving an auto-rickshaw to finance his studies and support his family.As he was unable to use his auto-rickshaw to ferry passengers owing to the lockdown, he started using it to sell vegetables and supply goods for local shopkeepers along with his brother to earn livelihood. “I have completed my B.Com and am pursuing a course in Cost and Management Accounting. I am also preparing for competitive exams to get into a government job,” says Sumit, who also spares time to teach underprivileged students.As holding of regular classes was not possible due to the lockdown, he started teaching his students through mobile phone and WhatsApp.“Whatever be the circumstances, we should continue to work in whatever way we can. The time is tough, but I hope that things will improve,” says the youth, who has already become a role-model for his students who come from humble backgrounds.
04-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||In pictures: Roads turn white as heavy rain, hail lash Chandigarh, Panchkula||Heavy rain accompanied by hailstorm lashed Chandigarh and its neighbouring areas on Thursday afternoon, leading to a drop in temperature and bringing much-needed relief from the heat.The hailstorm lasted over 15 minutes.   The ground turned white as it was covered by hailstones. The traffic movement was also affected in several parts of the city as two-wheeler riders were seen running for cover.  Panchkula and Mohali areas of the tricity also witnessed showers. However, several parts remained dry.
04-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||COVID effect: Rohtak records 67 per cent fall in GST collection||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 4The lockdown has taken a toll on the collection of the Good and Service Tax (GST) with the district witnessing more than 67 per cent fall in tax collection in April as compared to the previous year.The district has a total of 14,450 dealers registered under the GST Act, of which merely 3,537 have filed their monthly return in April.Interestingly, only 2,257 among them have not paid any tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services.As per official information, the district had received a total Rs 45.52 crore as GST in April 2019, while the figure is Rs 14.94 crore in April 2020, describing a sharp dip in the tax collection of Rs 30.58 crore as compared to the previous year.“The considerable dip in the revenue collection in April is the fallout of closure of business activities due to lockdown and the relaxation given to the GST taxpayers in the filing of monthly GSTR3B return till June 30 for the month of February, March and April this year. In Rohtak, 80 per cent of total GST collection comes from 390 top taxpayers and of which, 228 taxpayers have not yet filed the return,” said SK Bodwal, Deputy Commissioner of State Tax, Rohtak.He maintained the filing of return is mandatory for each registered dealer every month hence taxpayers are requested to file the return and pay the GST.“Since the government is passing through a financial crisis hence the revenue collection will help it come out of the situation. The customers should get the bill for every purchase to ensure levying of the GST,” Bodwal added.Vijay Gupta, acting president, Haryana Vyapar Mandal, said COVID-19 situations had adversely affected the business not only in Haryana but also across the nation hence a majority of the GST payers would file the return up to June 30. That was the reason behind the sharp dip in the revenue collection in April, he added.
04-06-2020||Palwal||Coronavirus: Haryana reports death, 15 new cases, tally rises to 2,969||Haryana, on Thursday, reported one death and 15 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s toll to 24 and case tally to 2,969.Palwal reported the 10 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 89. Palwal recorded more cases after a gap of few days. Nine new cases had surfaced on June 1. All the cases have been traced as contacts of the positive cases detected earlier, according to health officials. The new cases have surfaced from Likhi village (3), Dudhola village (3), and one each in Mitrol, Huda Sector 2, Krishna colony and Hodal. A significant number of cases in Palwal have been reported in people who work in the NCR region—Faridabad, Gurugram and Delhi—and commute from neighbouring towns daily, claims Civil Surgeon Dr Brahmdeep Singh.A total of 48 patients have been discharged after recovering so far in Palwal.A 49-year-old man of Karan Vihar colony in Karnal died of COVID-19 at KCGMC late Wednesday night. He was brought to KCGMC at around 7 pm with stomach and lung infection.Earlier, he was taken to a private hospital and was referred to KCGMC, but the family members took him to another private hospital. Later, he was taken to KCGMC.During treatment, he died and his sample was taken which came as positive, said the health authorities.It is the second death in the district due to COVID. Earlier, on April 5, a 58-year-old a resident of Rasin village had died at PGIMER in Chandigarh.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said that the patient had a travel history to Bhadurgarh, where he was working. He used to come to Karnal on weekends, he added. He was being cremated.According to the Health Department, he came to Karnal on Saturday and took his wife to a private hospital for a check-up on Sunday. Later in the evening, he had a sore throat and fever. He took medicine from a medical shop and after feeling better he went to Bhadurgarh on Monday, where he developed a stomach infection, said the health authorities.After coming from Bhadurgarh on Tuesday, he was taken to a private hospital near Madhuban on Wednesday. Later, he was taken to another private hospital by the family members.Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Civil Surgeon, said that apart from him, four more persons have tested positive in Karnal. Among them, one each from Nilokheri, Arjun Gate, Meera Ghati and Balaji Colony. With these cases, the number of positive cases has reached 74 in the district.A 24-year-old man of Katal village in Panipat also tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 66 cases in the district.
04-06-2020||---||Kaithal double murder case cracked, 2 arrested||Chandigarh, June 3  The Kaithal police have arrested two persons and solved a blind murder case in which two persons were burnt alive. A police spokesperson said on the intervening night of May 20 and 21, it was reported to the police that two persons — liquor contractor Om Parkash of Kurar village and cook Bhagat Singh of Nepal — were burnt alive in a liquor vend at Balu village of Kalayat subdivision in the district. On receipt of this information, the police registered a case and immediately started the investigation by constituting different teams. The Kaithal SP had also announced a reward of Rs50,000 for giving any information leading to the arrest of the accused. The police teams based on intelligence and other inputs arrested two accused, identified as Sandeep, alias Deepu (28), and Gurmeet (32), both residents of Jakholi. During their interrogation, the accused confessed to the crime, saying they used to help Om Parkash at his liquor shop and got food and liquor in return. But due to some conflict time and again, a rivalry arose with the contractor following which they took this extreme step. The accused later fled the scene of crime. Both of them were evading arrest in separate theft cases too, which are being investigated further. A case has been registered and the accused taken on four-day remand for intensive interrogation.
04-06-2020||Kurukshetra||Open ‘Meri Fasal’ portal, demand farmers||As a large number of farmers are yet to get their registration done for sunflower and maize crops at ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has asked the government to reopen the portal so that farmers could get their registration done.  BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The government has announced the procurement date for sunflower seeds but a large number of farmers are yet to get their registration done as the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal is closed. The government should reopen the portal.” Meanwhile, the BKU has called for another meeting on June 5. — TNS
04-06-2020||Yamunanagar||Boulders’ auction fetches Yamunanagar administration Rs 80 lakh||The Yamunanagar administration on Wednesday auctioned boulders weighing 18,324 metric tonnes (MT). These were mined illegally from the Yamuna by the mining mafia and seized by the Mines and Geology Department, Yamunanagar. The auction of this consignment of boulders has fetched revenue of Rs80.61 lakh to the Mines and Geology Department. Sources said Mining Officer, Yamunanagar, Ashok Kumar and the Special Enforcement Team — formed to stop illegal mining in Haryana — had found huge quantities of boulders stacked at 15 places in Tajewala village of Yamunanagar in March. On the direction of the higher authorities of the Mining Department, a detailed inquiry was conducted by a committee comprising an Assistant Mining Engineer, Sonepat, and Mining Officer, Yamunanagar. The report of the committee made it clear that the 18,324 MT of boulders were unclaimed, illegally mined and stacked by unknown persons. Therefore, being government property, the Mining Department had decided to dispose of this consignment through auction. “On the direction of Deputy Commissioner, Mukul Kumar, an auction committee headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner-cum-Nodal Officer Pratima Chaudhry was constituted to auction the boulders,” said Ashok Kumar, Mining Officer, Yamunanagar district. Haridev Kamboj, Executive Engineer, Water Works Division, Dadupur, said the reserve price of the consignment was fixed at Rs41,22,900, but a private bidder bought it for Rs80.61 lakh at the auction today. — TNS
04-06-2020||Hisar||Downpour damages Hansi park infrastructure||The first spell of rain on Monday night damaged the infrastructure of the newly constructed park near the historical Prithviraj Chauhan Fort in Hansi town.  Sources said the park was developed at a cost of Rs2.20 crore, which was opened for the public in winter. Spread on about 3 acres, adjoining the Amti Lake and the Hansi fort, known as Prithviraj Chauhan Fort, the park was developed with the purpose to promote tourism in the town. Social activist Satish Kumar said it was a long-pending demand of the locals. Meanwhile, Municipal Council chairperson Vinod Saini said it seemed that sub-standard material was used in the construction work and the contractor would be held accountable for the damage. — TNS
04-06-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Act against witnesses who fail to turn up: High Court to courts||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 3 Laying down guidelines for subordinate judicial officers in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on the summoning of witnesses in criminal matters, the Punjab and Haryana High Court, among other things, has said that prosecution or defence evidence cannot be closed without initiating appropriate action against defaulting police officer failing to secure the presence of witnesses after the issuance of the process by the court. Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi of the HC also made it clear that courts were duty bound to take action against summoned witnesses who fail to appear without a lawful excuse. In his 46-page judgment in a criminal case, Justice Tyagi asserted that the court could generally not decline assistance sought by the prosecution or the accused for securing the presence of prosecution or defence witnesses. It could, in fact, not insist upon the production of evidence by the prosecution or the accused on its own. He said the court was duty bound to initiate appropriate action against the police or any other officer of a law enforcement agency for failure to execute the process issued by it for securing the presence of the witnesses. The action against the defaulting officer/official was required for ensuring requisite compliance with its order and due execution of the process issued by the court. It was also required to look into the reasons for non-compliance, take requisite remedial steps and make sincere efforts for ensuring compliance with its orders and due execution of the process issued by it. “If the court allows the application and issues the process for securing presence of witnesses but they fail to appear, the court is duty bound to take action against the witnesses for their failure to appear in court without any lawful excuse,” Justice Tyagi asserted. The court was also required to secure the presence of the witnesses by issuing coercive process for their examination in the case and could not close the prosecution evidence on the ground of failure of prosecution or defence to produce them, Justice Tyagi said. Referring to the statutory provisions, Justice Tyagi added sufficient powers had been given to courts to compel attendance of the prosecution or defence witnesses for their examination or production of documents or any other thing.
04-06-2020||---||Aarogya Setu must for interstate bus travel||Chandigarh, June 3The state government has issued standard operating procedures (SOP) in accordance with the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs regarding the interstate travel in the Haryana Roadways buses. The passengers intending to travel interstate must carry their identity proofs and tickets in either electronic or physical form. The bus staff as well as passengers must have the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones.Giving details, an official spokesperson said it must be ensured that the staff and passengers were free of Covid symptoms. If any such person shows symptoms aboard, he or she must be immediately de-boarded and sent home and those who came in contact must be home quarantined for 14 days. He said the passenger strength on a bus should not exceed 30-35. The buses should be fully sanitised. Besides, sanitiser bottles must be kept inside the buses and used by the staff from time to time. He said everyone must wear masks and carry sanitisers with them.He said the passengers should follow the Covid protocol by maintaining physical distancing and not spitting inside or outside the bus. Thermal screening of all passengers must be ensured by the staff. PPE kits are a must for the staff.Social distancing mandatory in marketsChandigarh: The standard operating procedures issued by the state government have called for social distancing in market areas within the municipal limits. An official spokesperson said all permitted shops other than that of essential goods could open from 9 am to 7 pm. Social distancing should be strictly maintained. TNS
04-06-2020||Faridabad||Border checks irk Faridabad commuters||Commuters are facing inconvenience owing to partial checking of vehicles moving from Faridabad to Delhi. Though the Faridabad police on Tuesday lifted all restrictions for the traffic coming from Delhi, the movement of vehicles toward the national capital is yet to be fully restored. The police are still checking passes of commuters entering Delhi in the morning and evening, it is reported. “I found cops on the Faridabad-Delhi border checking passes and valid documents of commuters around 8.30 am today, but there was no such check around 4 pm,” said Vineet Kumar, a resident of the Badarpur area of Delhi. He said no information had been disseminated about the status of border opening by the authorities concerned. Manoj, a local resident who was turned away this morning at the Badarpur border, said he got an e-pass made to make sure he was allowed entry into Delhi tomorrow. — TNS
04-06-2020|| ---||After High Court order, Faridabad administration to restart food drive for migrants||Faridabad, June 3 The district administration has announced the re-launch of the food and ration relief programme for stranded migrant labourers in the district.  The decision comes in the wake of the directions issued by the Punjab and Haryana High Court to the state government to supply food and ration to migrants.  The order came in response to a PIL filed by the ‘National Campaign Committee for Eradication of Bonded Labour’ (NCCBEL), an association working for the workers’ rights, recently. Pradeep Dahiya, Administrator, HSVP, and nodal officer of the Prepared Food and Ration Programme during the lockdown period, said that while the district authorities did their best to provide prepared food and ration to the stranded and migrant workers, the machinery would again take up the drive to locate the migrants in order to provide the food and ration under the DRT (Distress Ration Token) scheme launched by the state government.  Revealing that while a total of 45,956 persons had already been benefited by the DRT — meant for those who had no ration cards or not covered under the PDS scheme — he said another 25,000 persons would be covered soon.  Reacting to the charges levelled in the PIL, Dahiya claimed that prepared food packets were delivered daily to the areas or spots where the migrants were lodged or residing. For this, three centralised kitchens were operated till May 29.
04-06-2020||Mukesh Tandon---||Told to stop, man drags Panipat cop 200 metres on car bonnet||Tribune News Service Panipat, June 3 A special police officer (SPO) was dragged for almost 200 metres by a speeding car near Eight Marla Chowk of Model Town in Panipat on Wednesday.  The SPO, Jogender Singh, sustained injuries and was admitted to a private hospital. The car driver also hit an e-rickshaw whose driver also sustained injuries and has been referred to PGIMS, Rohtak. The Model Town police have registered a case.  City traffic zone-2 in charge ASI Ravinder Kumar in his complaint to the police said a car driver came with his speeding car. “Home Guard Surender directed him to stop the car, after which he turned his car towards Model Town and hit SPO Jogender Singh and dragged him on the bonnet of the car,” he said.  The police and commuters tried to stop the car but the driver with the SPO on the bonnet dragged him for approximately 200 meter towards Easy Day Chowk in Model Town.  As he reached near Ravindra Hospital, he hit an e-rickshaw due to which the e-rickshaw driver and the SPO fell on the road and both of them sustained injuries.  Meanwhile, the car driver managed to flee the spot.
04-06-2020||---||Online portal for MSMEs||Online portal for MSMEs Chandigarh, June 3 The Haryana Government has launched a dedicated portal, ‘Haryana Udhyam Sahyog’, to capture the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) grievances in obtaining loans. The portal aims to enable MSMEs to take maximum benefits under the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ economic package. An official spokesman said understanding the severity of challenges posed by the Covid pandemic, the portal aimed to help the MSMEs in facing financial duress. — TNS
04-06-2020||Sushil Manav---||Private labs in Delhi not sharing information, Centre told||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 3 With as many as 18 private labs based in Delhi testing samples of people living in Gurugram, Faridabad and other NCR districts without concurrence of the state health authorities, Haryana has written to the Centre for issuing instructions to these labs as their act is affecting surveillance activities for the management of Covid. Haryana has witnessed a sudden surge in Covid infection with cases almost doubling in a week — from 1,504 positive patients last Thursday  to 2,954 today. Most of these new cases have come from Gurugram and Faridabad with many of those positive for Covid getting tested from these private labs. Though Haryana’s Covid tally stood at 2,954 today, the health authorities confirmed that the number on the ICMR portal was much higher as the state authorities have not accounted for some cases because of lack of proper information from the labs. In a letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, the Haryana Home, Local Bodies and Health Minister has said that many of the residents of districts in proximity to Delhi avail diagnostic services from private labs situated in Delhi. However, these labs are either not sharing the reports with the authorities concerned on time or sharing it without full details of patients, resulting in delay in contact tracing and surveillance activities besides creating mismatch in data on the ICMR portal and the S3 portal of the government. Vij has requested Vardhan to ask the ICMR to issue directions to these labs to share the information of Covid-positive cases with the civil surgeons concerned of Haryana in a time-bound manner so that timely surveillance activities can be initiated to further stop the spread of Covid. Vij’s letter comes a day after Director General of Health Services, Haryana, Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj wrote to the ICMR and National Centre for Disease Control highlighting the issues regarding incomplete entries in the ICMR data.
04-06-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir---||CAT dismisses Fatehabad ex-DC’s plea against transfer||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 3 The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on Wednesday dismissed the application of Haryana cadre IAS officer Ravi Prakash Gupta, who had challenged his transfer from the post of Fatehabad deputy commissioner. Gupta, who is 100 per cent visually impaired, had filed the application for the cancellation of the order, whereby he was transferred from Fatehabad DC to the post of Director General, Swarna Jayanti Haryana Institute of Fiscal Management, on May 18. Gupta had taken various grounds for the invalidation of the transfer order. First, it was a violation of the cadre rules having been passed before the completion of two years of service and second, the state had not given any reasons for passing the transfer order. The Haryana Government pleaded that in order to curb Covid spread, the Centre had issued detailed guidelines to all state governments to take every possible effective measures and the big responsibilities were given to the district administration and the officers posted at the helm of the affairs to take necessary steps. In the order, a Division Bench of Sanjeev Kaushik, Member (Judicial), and Ajanta Dayalan, Member (Administrative), observed: “A government servant holding a transferable post has no vested right to remain posted at one place or the other, he is liable to be transferred from one place to the other. Transfer orders issued by the competent authority do not violate any of his legal rights. Even if a transfer order is passed in violation of executive instructions or orders, the courts ordinarily should not interfere with the order; instead affected party should approach the higher authorities in the department.”
04-06-2020||---||302 new cases, tally nears 3K||Chandigarh, June 3With 302 fresh Covid cases, which is the highest so far in a day, Haryana’s tally reached 2,954. The state has been setting a new record every day for the past three days.On June 1, the state had recorded 265 cases, which was the highest figure till that day, but on June 2, as many as 296 cases were registered.Today, the fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (132), Faridabad (69), Sonepat (28), Mahendragarh (28), Karnal (10), Hisar (8), Ambala (8), Rohtak (7), Nuh (6), Panipat (1), Panchkula (1), Fatehabad (1), Bhiwani (1), Kaithal (1) and Kurukshetra (1).Gurugram has recorded the highest number of cases (1,195) so far, followed by Faridabad (487), Sonepat (261) and Jhajjar (103). These four districts form 69.3 per cent of the total cases of the state.With the recovery of 20 patients, the total numberof discharged reached 1,089 today. However, the recovery rate fell to 36.87 per cent from 40.31 per cent as the cases are mounting. The doubling rate at present is six days.In Mahendragarh, the new cases included a prisoner. While three patients belong to Narnaul, one each hails from Mahendragarh, Nasibpur Jail, Nangal, Jarwa Dhani, Satnali, Israna and Chittroli village. Five cases belong to Khod village, two each to Kanti, Saidpur and Kakral villages and one each to Majra Khurd, Jairpur, Rambass Kanina, Sihor, Dhani Jindran, Nangal Kalia and Mosampur.The fresh cases in Karnal included three kids of a Covid-positive couple of Ashoka Colony in Madhuban; a 55-year-old woman and a four-year-old child of Prem Nagar Chaura village; a 72-year-old woman of Jalmana; 27-year-old man, his 20-year-old wife and his one-year-old daughter, who are residents of Sanjay Nagar Barsat; and a 47-year-old woman of Kaimla village. Besides, a jail inmate of district jail, who is a resident of Yamunanagar, got confirmed for Covid. He was arrested under the Wildlife Act.Rohtak’s fresh cases included those from Rithal village, Kabulpur village and Jagdish Colony. Among the new cases in Nuh included two from ward 5 and 10 of Taoru respectively and one each from Bissar Akabarpur, Rehna and Bhirawati village.A four-year-old boy in Kaithal who had returned with his patents from Mumbai tested positive. He has been kept in the isolation ward at the civil hospital here and would be soon sent to Agroha medical college for treatment.A 42-year-old man from Amin village of Kurukshetra, who had visited the PGIMER, Chandigarh, and a private hospital in the district for a liver-related disease, tested positive.
04-06-2020||Jhajjar||Property dealer murdered over monetary feud||A property dealer,Surender, alias Hundra (28), of Barahi village, was murdered by three assailants over a monetary dispute in his office in Linepar locality in Bahadurgarh town on Tuesday.  On the complaint of Surender’s younger brother Jitender, the police booked Mohit, Amit and Bholu of the same village  under Section 302 of the IPC and Arms Act. Jitender said Mohit and his brother Amit had borrowed Rs6 lakh from Surender six months ago. They used to threaten Surender when he asked for the money. “The trio attacked Surender with a knife and fire arms and fled when I intervened.” Three teams have been formed to nab the trio. —TNS
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana schools to reopen in July, colleges in August||Haryana has decided to start teaching work in schools from July and will reopen colleges and universities from August.Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Haryana Minister for Education, said that since the Ministry of Home Affairs in its Unlock-I guidelines had permitted reopening of the schools in July, the state government had decided to open them.“We will reopen schools in a phased manner by starting teaching work for classes 10, 11 and 12 from July 1, for classes 6, 7, 8 and 9 after 15 days and for the primary classes in August. The classes will be held in shifts so that half the students of a class attend the first shift and the rest come in the second. We are yet to decide on the timings of the shifts,” said the minister. — TNS
