04-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Hisar MP Brijendra Singh tests coronavirus positive||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 4BJP MP from Hisar Brijendra Singh has tested positive for Covid. Singh, who had toured his constituency on Wednesday, had fever for a couple of days, following which he got himself tested for Covid yesterday. He has been found positive for Covid in the test report received today.In a video-message, the MP has asked his party leaders and workers, supporters and other people, who had met him at Hisar on Wednesday, to seek medical advice and get tested for Covid if they had any symptoms.“Please don’t take Covid pandemic casually. I request all of you to exercise restraint, take precautions and follow the three-pointed advice of maintaining physical distance, using face-masks and washing hands regularly,” he says in the message.
04-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak PGIMS begins plasma therapy to treat Covid patients||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 4Healthcare professionals at Rohtak PGIMS have started giving convalescence plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients admitted at the institute.“We have started giving plasma therapy to the critical patients at the PGIMS. Studies from Europe and USA have indicate that it benefits the Covid-positive patients in recovering from the disease,” said Prof O.P.Kalra, Vice-Chancellor, University of Health Sciences, Rohtak.Dr V.K.Katyal, Senior Professor and Head of the Department of Medicine at the PGIMS, who heads the multidisciplinary team formed for the treatment of Covid-19 patients at the institute, said a 32-year-old man from Bahadurgarh town in Jhajjar district with serious Covid disease was in a critical condition and had been requiring 50-60 litres of oxygen per minute.“The patient was not responding to different lines of treatment. We infused convalescent plasma donated by a person who has recovered from Covid three weeks ago to the said patient last evening. The patient has shown signs of improvement after the administration of plasma therapy,” revealed Dr Katyal.He said a record of the persons who have recovered from Covid disease was being maintained and they would be encouraged to donate plasma to help the critical patients recover from the disease.“We will launch a ‘Donate Plasma’ campaign shortly as the recovered patients can save the lives of many seriously ill Covid patients,” the doctor stated.He asserted that the constitution and efforts of the multidisciplinary team had made a substantial difference in the survival of these patients, with the mortality rate of seriously ill Covid patients coming down from 79 per cent to 30 per cent.
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||NIA files chargesheet against Bihar man who made hoax bomb call to IGI airport||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) filed a chargesheet against a 28-year-old man from Bihar for a bomb hoax he allegedly cooked up in August last year to stop his girlfriend from boarding a flight to Kuwait.Nasrudeen, a migrant worker from Bihar who stitches bags for a living at a workshop in Chennai, had allegedly phoned Delhi Airport Call Centre saying that his girlfriend, Jabina, who was booked on a flight to Kuwait in August 2019 had been carrying a bomb. Bomb Threat Assessment Committee later dismissed the call as non-specific, and allowed Jabina, a woman from Chennai, to fly out on August 10.He faces charges under the Anti-Hijacking Act, 2016. The case was to come up for hearing at Panchkula’a NIA court on July 3, but has now been put off to September 11 because of the ongoing coronavirus health crisis.Nasrudeen met Jabina in Chennai in May 2017 and began a relationship with her, and later even moved into the house that she shared with her mother Kathoon Bee and younger sister Karishma. The chargesheet said Jabina, a divorced mother of two, wanted them to do better financially---a source of constant arguments between the couple.  In July 2019, when Nasrudeen returned to Sitamarhi in Bihar for about a month, Jabina approached a travel agent Yasin Ahmed asking him to arrange for her to find work in the Middle East. He put her in touch with another agent, Shaukat Ali from Vilupuram in Tamil Nadu.Jabina then applied for work permit through Ali and found employment as a housemaid in Kuwait. She was to fly to Bengaluru from Delhi and from there to Kuwait via Dubai on August 8, 2019.Jabina informed Nasrudeen of her plans when he called her, prompting him to come rushing to Chennai on August 8.When he realised that she had left home for Bengaluru, he allegedly called the control room at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport to claim that Jabina and her three other female companions were carrying a bomb with them.The chargesheet said that he boarded a train to Delhi, where his sister lived, the same day.The Bomb Threat Assessment Committee then raised their security checks and offloaded Jabina, but allowed her to travel two days later after they found nothing.Meanwhile, Nasrudeen was booked in Gurugram and arrested on August 15.The NIA said in their chargesheet that Nasrudeen’s call led to panic at the Indira Gandhi International Airport and disrupted functioning.
04-07-2020||Rohtak||No annual inspection of private BEd colleges in Haryana, DHE issues directives||In a significant development, the Department of Higher Education (DHE) has stopped the annual inspection of self-financed B.Ed colleges. It has also authorised them to approve admissions on its own level at the third counselling. There are more than 490 private B.Ed colleges across the state. As per the new directives, the inspection would be conducted after every five years, but the data regarding the infrastructure, faculty, etc, has to be submitted online every year by December 31. The data has to be shared on an online web protal/MIS link—whih would be created by the DHE. The college would have to shared it with the affiliated university through a link.The aim of these decisions is to bring transparency by making all the data available, and to avoid corrupt practises. In the order, the DHE said the first, and the second online counselling for admission for B.Ed and M.Ed courses would be conducted by the university while colleges concerned would be allowed to take admissions—on it own—during the 3rd counseling—which would be conducted from October 15 to October 31. The order also clarified that no admission would be made after October 31, so that the  academic calendar of university/NCRE/UGC is adhered to.The Haryana Self-Finance Private Colleges Associated has hailed these decisions, stating that it would not only prove instrumental in curbing the inspector, but would also ensure transparency as everything will be available on the online web portal.  “Annual inspection was a sword that always remained hanging on the head of private colleges as the inspection committee many times deliberately used to highlight minor deficiencies to mount pressure on the colleges. Even, teachers of the university concerned had to spend considerable time in carrying out the inspections. Now, they will be able to devote this time to teaching,” said, chief of the association, Satish Khola.Khola maintained the private colleges had been raising the demands for a long time as the system was being followed already in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and several other states.
04-07-2020||Ravi S Singh||Centre hails Haryana’s fast-paced implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 4The Centre has hailed Haryana Government's fast-paced implementation of its flagship programme of providing piped potable water connections to every rural household under the Jal Jeevan Mission, but leaned on it nonetheless to keep the momentum going.Following his letter to Haryana Chief Minister, a few days ago, for speedy completion of works under the JJM, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat pressed the issue yet again during a video-conference with ML Khattar on Friday.The video-conferencing was on a range of water related issues and sanitation, besides implementation of the JJM.Shekhawat suggested to the state government to constitute village water and sanitation committee of Gram Panchayat (in each village) with a minimum 50 per cent of women members on it.The proposed committee will be tasked with responsibility for planning, designing, implementing and operating and maintaining of in-village water supply systems. Also, Shekhawat stressed that all villages have to prepare Village Action Plan (VAP) which essentially will comprise of development/ augmentation of drinking water sources, water supply systems, grey-water re-use and operation and maintenance component.  Appreciating the initiatives of Haryana in grey water management through the waste stabilisation ponds popularly known as "five-pond system", Shekhawat  urged to adopt similar approach for managing household waste water and domestic waste for every village, so that the state emerges as a role model in creating such ‘Swachh Gaon’.Khattar assured that all households of the state would be provided with tap connections by 2022.Sources said during the discussion with Shekhawat, Khattar asserted that Haryana would be among the leading states to accomplish the ambitious target of providing tap connection to every rural household, ahead of the national deadline of 2024.Out of 28.94 lakh rural households in Haryana, 18.83 lakh (59.36%) households have already been provided with Functional Household Tap Connections (FHTCs).Out of the remaining 10.11 lakh households, seven lakh households will be covered during 2020-21.The JJM is centrally sponsored programme. The state concerned makes a matching contribution to the fund provided by the Centre. Launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15 last year, it aims to provide piped water connection to every rural household in the country by 2024.
04-07-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||120 Punjab cops to tighten noose on liquor smuggling from Haryana||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 3Cases on the riseCases of inter-state liquor peddling are on the rise in the region, as 593 cases were registered under the Excise Act and 499 people were arrested in Bathinda and Mansa in the last two monthsThe spike in liquor smuggling cases from Haryana could also be attributed to cheap liquor prices in the stateA special police team has been constituted to keep a check on inter-state liquor smuggling from Haryana in the bordering areas of Bathinda and Mansa in Bathinda Range.Bathinda Range IGP Jaskaran Singh said: “There is zero tolerance policy against inter-state liquor smuggling from Haryana. A team of 120 police personnel has been deputed in the district to plug smuggling routes from Haryana.”The IGP said: “The team has been told to conduct surprise raids instead of holding static nakas on the link roads with Haryana.”Cases of inter-state liquor peddling are on the rise in the region, as 593 cases were registered under the Excise Act and 499 people were arrested in Bathinda and Mansa in the last two months.The spike in liquor smuggling cases from Haryana could also be attributed to cheap liquor prices in the state. Despite continuous patrolling, bootleggers are able to smuggle liquor into the state primarily from Sirsa and Dabwali in Haryana.A police official said: “Nobody will dare to smuggle liquor through routes where check posts have been set up. Those involved in the trade are well aware of the internal link roads that lead to Bathinda.”Another cop said with a number of link roads connecting Haryana with Punjab, it had become tough for them to check every vehicle. However, they were still at it. There were 14 routes to enter Punjab from Haryana, and another route via a drain, the cop added.
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four more die; tally crosses 16K mark in Haryana||With 494 fresh cases, including four employees of two hospitals, the Covid tally reached 16,003 today.With four deaths, the number of fatalities went up to 255.In Faridabad, a 46-year-old man from Shahi Complex, a 58-year-old man from Mujesar, a 46-year-old person from Sector 23 and a 74-year-old man from Sehatpur succumbed to the virus.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (156), Gurugram (130), Sonepat (46), Rewari (38), Nuh (20), Jhajjar (16), Rohtak (15), Panipat (14), Sirsa (10), Mahendragarh (9), Karnal (8), Palwal (7), Charkhi Dadri (6), Ambala, Kurukshetra and Kaithal (4 each), Hisar and Jind (3 each) and Panchkula (1).Meanwhile, 672 persons were cured in the last 24 hours. — TNS
04-07-2020||Sushil Manav||80% Covid cases in June, most in five NCR districts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 3Owing to proximity to Delhi and frequent movement of people from the Capital, five NCR districts of Haryana have been responsible for a sharp spike in the number of Covid cases in June. The number of cases increased from 2,356 on June 1 to 14,548 by the month-end.The number of cases crossed the 16,000 mark today, with 16,003 people infected, as per the bulletin issued on Friday, with the toll reaching 255.Five districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Jhajjar and Rohtak — have become a cause for concern for the Health Department as these accounted for 76 per cent cases and 83 per cent deaths in June. These districts witnessed a seven-fold increase in cases and 14-time hike in deaths in June.“The number of deaths in the five NCR districts was 14 on June 1, but rose to 197 by June 30. The cases in these districts in the beginning of June was 1,653, which rose to 11,122 by June 30,” said a senior official.Among the five NCR districts, Gurugram and Faridabad had emerged as the worst-hit. Gurugram had 903 cases with four deaths on June 1, which increased to 5,347 and 91, respectively, by June 30.Faridabad had 392 cases with eight deaths on June 1, which shot up to 3,733 and 77, respectively, by June 30. As June began and the unlocking process was set in motion, Sonepat had 211 cases, Jhajjar 101 and Rohtak 45, which rose to 1,208, 261 and 573, respectively, by June 30.In terms of deaths, Sonepat, Jhajjar and Rohtak were on one, zero and one, respectively, when the month started. The figures climbed to 18, four and seven, respectively, by June 30.While the number of cases and deaths rose, the number of patients recovering from the disease also witnessed a spike in June. The recovery rate went up from 45 per cent on June 1 to 69 per cent at the end of the month.Health Minister Anil Vij said the spike in the five districts was entirely due to movement of people from Delhi, who had been bringing infection to the state.“Till the time of the lockdown, we were saved and the number of cases as well as fatalities was under control. Since the unlocking process started, people from these districts were moving to and from Delhi frequently. The infection is bound to multiply,” Vij said.
04-07-2020||Panipat||2 women held for cops’ murder||The police on Friday arrested two women for their alleged involvement in the murder of two policemen in Butana area of Sonepat district.The accused, identified as Sushila and Asha of Butana village, were produced in court, which sent them to two-day police remand.The police are conducting raids to nab their accomplices Vikas and Neeraj.The women were present along with accused Amit and his associates Sandeep, Vikas and Neeraj when they allegedly murdered SPO Kaptan and constable Ravinder on June 30. Amit was shot dead by the police team the same day in Jind. Sandeep was arrested on Wednesday. — TNS
04-07-2020||---||Legal hurdle in way of college principals’ promotion removed||Chandigarh, July 3A legal hurdle in the way of further promotions of college principals in Haryana was removed today after the petition on which the stay orders were passed was dismissed as withdrawn by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The stay order was passed about a fortnight back on a petition by Bansi Dhar Yadav and other associate professors alleging contempt of court in a promotion matter. Going into the background of the matter, their counsel had alleged non-compliance of order passed by the High Court on January 24.Disposing of the matter without commenting on the claim or the entitlement of the petitioners, the High Court had on that date directed consideration and decision on their claim made in a legal notice in this regard in September last year.Their counsel had added that the respondents — in utter disregard to the orders passed by the High Court — did not take any action in the matter even though there were clear-cut directions to take the decision within three months.“More than five months had already elapsed, but the respondents have shown no progress in the matter and have been sitting over the matter though the petitioners are regularly visiting the respondent office from time to time till date,” he had added.As the case came up for resumed hearing before Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu, the state counsel pointed out that a speaking order had already been passed on June 22 by the competent authority in compliance with the HC order. It was under challenge through another writ petition and was pending for August 19. Faced with the situation, the counsel for the petitioners expressed his wish to withdraw the present contempt petition.
04-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Impossible to have vaccine by August 15, say experts||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 3Medical experts feel that the August 15 deadline fixed for the launch of the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is impracticable as human trials will take at least three to six months.“The urgency to develop a Covid vaccine cannot be overemphasised in the circumstances prevailing across the globe, and we also wish that it is made at the earliest. Nonetheless, the presumption that it will be launched in a month or two seems to be more of wishful thinking,” says Prof (Dr) Dhruva Chaudhry, Head of the Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine at PGIMS, Rohtak.Dr VK Katyal, Senior Professor and Head of the Department of Medicine at the University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, also maintains that the human trials for the development of Covid vaccine would take at least three months.
04-07-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad gangster killed in encounter||A gangster, carrying a reward of Rs 50,000, was killed in an encounter with the police in Ghaziabad district of Uttar Pradesh on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as Bablu, alias Ganja (34), a native of Faridabad.He was wanted in more than 10 incidents of loot and rape, mostly carried out on highways where the police presence was minimal. He had been on the run since 2014, the police have said.Bablu was wanted in three cases of rape in Palwal and Mewat districts and that of loot in Uttar Pradesh, the police have said. He was active in Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr and Aligarh districts of UP.Around 11.30 pm on Thursday, the police received a tip-off about Bablu’s presence near Tappal village of Ghaziabad district. — TNS
04-07-2020||Parveen Arora||International shooter Anish fires from home, aims for Olympic gold||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 3Making the most of the Covid-induced lockdown, international shooter Anish Bhanwala has been practising for three hours daily at a makeshift mini-shooting range in his home here.His aim is to win a gold medal in the next year’s Tokyo Olympics.The Olympics were to be held this July and August, but for the Covid pandemic, the games have been postponed by a year.“I have developed a shooting range at my home. I practise for three hours shooting at my 10 m range daily. Though I compete in the 25 meter rapid fire pistol event, daily practise keeps me focused,” said Bhanwala.‘I PractiSe for 3 hours daily’I have developed a shooting range at my home. I practise for three hours shooting at my 10 m range daily. Though I compete in the 25 meter rapid fire pistol event, daily practise keeps me focused. —Anish Bhanwala, International shooterBesides shooting, he devotes two hours to fitness. “I do yoga, meditation, and cycling to keep myself fit. Yoga helps me improve my concentration,” he said.Bhanwala had won a gold medal in the 2018 Commonwealth Games in the 25 m rapid fire pistol event and became the youngest ever gold medallist of India at the CWG. “I am fired up to do my best in the Olympics,” he added.His sister, Muskan, is also a shooter and his mentor. Both siblings had won gold medals in Junior World Cup. They have won more than 70 gold medals at international and national events.Their family has always been supportive. Bhanwala’s father Jagpal Singh said, “We have become habitual of the noise when he practises.”
04-07-2020||Nitish Sharma||Soon, Ambala MC to provide ‘doorstep service’ to residents||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 3‘Toll-Free No. Will Be Issued for Applicants’Commissioner Parth Guptaadded, “We have also decided to keep the procedure paperless, hence the documents will be uploaded on the system of the corporation, through a tablet and the applicant can also make payment through the digital mode. After the procedure is completed, the certificates or receipts will be sent through Postal Department.”People living under the limits of the Ambala Municipal Corporation are all set to get birth certificates, death certificates, and no objection certificates at their doorstep from the corporation by just booking an appointment and paying a service charge of Rs 100.As per the information, the corporation has engaged a private firm for providing the service and soon the project will be launched under which the residents will be able to book an appointment for the service required.The MC aims to reduce crowd at its windows and generate revenue. Out of Rs 100 charged, the corporation will get Rs 15 while all expenses will be made by the firm engaged.Speaking to The Tribune, Parth Gupta, Commissioner, Ambala Municipal Corporation, said “The corporation has already been offering online services, but a very few people avail the benefit. Still a large number of people visit the corporation to get the birth certificates, death certificates and different no objection certificates and pay taxes. To provide quick and better services, we have decided to launch the “door step service”. Apart from the regular fee, the applicants will be required to pay Rs 100 for the services.”“Soon a toll free number will be issued on which the applicants will be able to register their appointments. They will be informed about the documents required and then the employee of the firm will visit the houses of the applicant. We have also decided to keep the procedure paperless, hence the documents will be uploaded on the system of the corporation, through a tablet and the applicant can also make payment through the digital mode. After the procedure is completed, the certificates or receipts will be sent through Postal Department,” he added.“The doorstep service will not only be beneficial for the public but for the corporation as well. It will help the corporation in generating more revenue. The crowd will decrease at the corporation windows and the monitoring will be easy. The corporation offers 13 services, initially the project will be started with three service, including birth certificates, death certificates and marriage registration service, and then the remaining services will be included. The applicant will require to visit only once in case of marriage registration,” the Commissioner said.
04-07-2020||Nitin Jain||Sites shortlisted for Ambala airport||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 3More than a year after the district administration gave approval for a domestic airport in Ambala Cantonment, it has shortlisted a site for the project.The requirement is to acquire at least four acres in the vicinity of Indian Air Force (IAF) station, the air strip of which will be used as the runaway for the upcoming airport.In June last year, the Centre had approved a domestic airport in Ambala Cantt under the Udaan 3.0 scheme.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma led a team of district, civil and revenue officials to visit the proposed sites on Friday and evinced interest in acquiring land in Garnala, Barnala and Dhankaur villages, and military areas, which are in the close proximity to the IAF station.“We visited a vacant military land which is close to the IAF station. If the Army and IAF authorities agree, the land can be used for the project,” the DC told The Tribune after conducting the visit.He said as per preliminary projections, at least four acres were required for the construction of the terminal building. “If more land is available, more facilities will be added to the airport.”The DC also met sarpanches of Garnala, Barnala and Dhankaur villages and urged them to pass resolutions in their panchayats to offer vacant land for the airport.“We also met private landowners and asked them to voluntarily offer their vacant land, for which they will be paid as per the market rate,” he said, adding that the district administration would issue a land acquisition notice for the finalised land.
04-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Elderly woman ends life in Gurugram||Gurugram, July 3‘Committed Suicide Due To Illness’The police handed over the body to her kin after a postmortem examination.A 85-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide last night by hanging herself. Her body was found hanging with a ceiling fan in her room this morning. A suicide note was recovered by the police where she claimed that she was tired of her prolonged illness. The police handed over the body to her kin after a postmortem examination.According to the police, the deceased has been identified as Parvati Narayam, a native of Chennai. She was living with her family at Bestech Park View Society, Sector 49. She was suffering from mental illness too. The police reached on spot and found a suicide note, which was written in Tamil language.“As per the suicide note, she committed suicide due to her illness. We are investigating other aspects as well”, said Inspector Shahid Ahemad, SHO of the Sector 50 police station.
04-07-2020||Nitish Sharma||Fear of Covid spread hits tea-sellers hard in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 3Shauki (in his 40s), who has been running a tea stall on Nicholson road in Ambala Cantonment for the past over 12 years, is among those whose work has been badly affected by the Covid pandemic.Though banks are already in operation, and other offices where he used to supply tea has also resumed their operations after the relaxations given by the government, the tea-seller is still not getting many orders due to the fear of contracting Covid.“A majority of the customers were employees who work in banks here and other offices, but due to the Covid scare a large number of people have started preparing tea in the offices or they bring it from their homes. Earlier, I used to earn Rs 1,300-1,400 a day by selling tea and biscuit packs, and had three helpers, but now, the earning has dropped to Rs 200-300 a day and the helpers have also left.”“Though we get ration through the ration depot, there are other expenses, for which we need money. I live in rented accommodation and haven’t paid the rent for the past three months. I have four children and they all study in private schools and the schools are also seeking fee but I don’t have any money to pay the schools. During the lockdown period, I have used all my savings and the things are getting difficult for us”, he said.Similarly, Satish Kumar (in his 60s), another tea-seller on the MC road, said, “Offices where I used to supply tea are in operation, but the fear of contracting Covid is keeping my customers away. I have been running a tea stall for over past 25 years and I was earning sufficient for my family, but now, I have been getting just Rs 200-300 a day. My rent and electricity bills of the past three months are pending. There were many customers who used to clear their bill at the end of the month but due to the lockdown, nearly Rs 14,000 got stuck. I didn’t have money to start the stall again so I had to borrow money and luckily I got some support from my siblings. If the situation remains the same, it will become difficult for people like us to survive.”
04-07-2020||---||Departmental inquiries to be held via video-conferencing||Chandigarh, July 3In view of the ongoing Covid pandemic, the Haryana Government has decided to conduct the ongoing departmental inquiries against state government employees through video-conferencing.The office of the Chief Secretary today directed the administrative secretaries, DCs and all inquiry officers empanelled by the state government to resort to video-conferencing for the speedy disposal of such pending inquiries.Currently, various departmental inquiries are being deferred since March 24, when the nationwide lockdown was imposed, as witnesses and the accused are unable to attend the inquiry committee proceedings physically due to the Covid threat.Scores of departmental inquiries are pending against delinquent employees as the accused and witnesses are unable to travel to Chandigarh due to a variety of reasons. The state government has empanelled retired IAS and HCS officers, a majority of whom are based in Chandigarh and Panchkula, to conduct these inquiries.Now, various departments, under which the inquiries are being conducted, will appoint coordinators to facilitate the appearance of the accused and the witnesses before the inquiry officer through video-conferencing.The departments concerned will make suitable arrangements for conducting the inquiry proceedings through video-conferencing in consultation with the National Informatics Centre(NIC).The order said the presiding officer of the Revenue Court may also conduct the court proceedings through video-conferencing. They will comply with the draft model rules “Rules for video-conferencing in courts” circulated by the Punjab and Haryana High Court to all districts and sessions judges in the state vide letter dated May 21, 2020.Covid threat has stalled proceedingsCurrently, various departmental inquiries are being deferred since March 24, when the nationwide lockdown was imposed, as witnesses and the accused are unable to attend the inquiry committee proceedings physically due to the Covid threat.
04-07-2020||---||Haryana government protecting liquor, drug smugglers: Abhay||Ambala, July 3Senior INLD leader Abhay Chautala today accused the state government of protecting drug smugglers, liquor smugglers and kidnappers. Addressing party workers, he said there was not a single village in the state where the drug trade was not going on.“A ‘thug-bandhan’ is running the government in the state. During the lockdown, social organisations were providing ration, but there was no shortage of drugs. ‘Chitta’ was being sold openly. The government gave protection to ‘chitta’ suppliers,” Abhay said.“Liquor smugglers, kidnappers and ransom seekers enjoyed protection. I will seek a reply during the next Assembly session as I have evidence,” he said.He claimed that the BJP-JJP government had been taking anti-farmer decisions and farmers were being cheated at grain markets across the state.“Mustard is grown in 12 districts. During the lockdown, it was the duty of the government to pick the crop from the fields and ensure minimum support price for farmers. Mustard was procured from Rajasthan on low rates instead,” Abhay said.“Farmers faced difficulty in selling wheat too. The government has been asking farmers to replace paddy with maize, but they are being forced to sell maize for between Rs 700 and Rs 800 a quintal,” he added.
04-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram cops book SFJ’s Pannu||The police have booked Gurpatwant Singh Pannu of the Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) for making pro-Khalistan calls online. A complaint in this regard has been lodged at the Bhondsi police station. According to a complaint by Anand Kumar, incharge of the technical division at the STF headquarters, Pannu had sent a recorded audio-visual message from US numbers, accusing the government and people of Haryana of being inimical to the interests of Sikhs and Punjabis. “In his message, Pannu has exhorted Sikhs in Haryana to register for a referendum to be held on July 4. He is also inciting ill-will and hatred against people of Haryana,” read the complaint. — TNS
04-07-2020||---||Science teacher   deputed as EO shifted back||Mahendragarh, July 3Within two weeks of transferring Vijay Kumar as Executive Officer (EO) of the Municipal Council, Narnaul, it shifted him back to his parent department.Kumar, a Trained Graduate Teacher (Science) at Government Middle School at Malokhra village in Palwal district, was posted as the EO on deputation against a vacant post for a period of one year. SN Roy, Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Local Bodies, had issued the order on June 19.The posting of a science teacher on the post of EO trended on social media, with some questioning the intention of the department. A senior leader was behind Kumar’s transfer to Narnaul, sources say.They add the department shifted Kumar back because of the brickbats the department was receiving on social media.Kumar could not be contacted in spite of repeated attempts.
04-07-2020||Parveen Arora||No customers, dhabas along NH-44 on brink of closure||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 3The Covid pandemic has hit the business of dhabas along the National Highway (NH)-44 badly as most of them hardly get any customer in a day, thus reaching on the verge of closure.The district authorities have allowed the dhaba owners to operate their business with a seating capacity of 50 per cent at a time, but people have been avoiding outside food due to Covid. ‘Unable to meet expenses’We have closed our restaurant as there is no customer these days. If we start operations, we will have to bear the expenses of waiters, cooks and power, besides others. —Vedpal, General Manager of a dhaba on nh-44To check the ground reality, The Tribune correspondent took a round of the NH-44 and found that barring one or two dhabas, more than 50 were without customers. People were hesitating even to stop their vehicles at dhabas, which earlier used to be full with customers prior to the enforcement of the lockdown.As per the dhaba owners, when people are afraid of eating out, there is no hope for revival. Kewal, a dhaba owner, said it had become very hard to survive in this crisis as people were not visiting dhabas. “We are not able to recover the expenses that we are incurring daily,” he added.Another dhaba owner, on the condition of anonymity, said he was looking for a buyer for his property along the NH-44 as he cannot bear the losses. He said the government did not extend a helping hand to this industry. “To run a dhaba along the NH is a costly affair and we have kept our places shut for around 70 days. In the last 20 days, we have not got many customers,” he added.
04-07-2020||---||Youth beaten up, shot at  in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, July 3A youth, Mukesh (23) of Shanti Colony in Yamunanagar, was brutally beaten by a group of youths with wooden sticks and iron rods in Jagadhri town on Wednesday.The attackers allegedly opened fire and a bullet hit the youth in the leg. Also, a video of the severe beating of the youth went viral on WhatsApp.On the complaint of the victim’s friend, Deepak Kumar of Shanti Colony (Chitta Mandir area), Yamunanagar, a case was registered against several persons and unknown persons under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) 307 (attempt to murder) and under the Arms Act at the Sector 17police post, HUDA, on July 2.Jasbir Singh, incharge, police post, HUDA, said the investigation of this case was handed over to the CIA-II, yesterday.The complainant said they had a quarrel with Munish Kumar and Pravesh on some issue on June 25.He said after the quarrel the enmity began with them and Pravesh, Kala, Naved, Sandeep and Soyal quarreled with him and Mukesh on June 29. He said during the quarrel he and Mukesh received injuries.“On July 1, Mukesh, Kartik, Vishnu and I came to Civil Hospital, Yamunanagar, riding on two motorcycles to take medicine. After sometime, when we came out of the Civil Hospital, several youths were standing outside the gate of the hospital. They were in a car and several on motorcycles. They started chasing our motorcycles,” alleged the complainant.He added, “When we reached near Gymkhana Club, Jagadhri, they caught Mukesh. They fired a bullet on him which hit his leg. They severely beat him with wooden sticks and iron rods. We managed to escape from there. We reached the Rampura police post, and informed the police about the incident,” the complainant said. He said later, they took Mukesh to the Civil Hospital for treatment.
04-07-2020||---||Panipat couple robbed of Rs 7 lakh at home||Panipat, July 3Four unidentified robbers looted around Rs 7 lakh and a gold ring after holding an elderly couple hostage in their house here on Wednesday night.The robbers were captured on a CCTV camera installed at a building nearby. They tied Charan Das and Kartari Devi and fled with the booty. The police registered a case.
04-07-2020||A piece of land along the Manas drain near Sector 20||Waste being dumped in drain||Funds being misusedFUNDS are being misused by replacing the concrete paver blocks on the western street of this colony. Luckily, the work could not progress as a barrier has been erected due to tracing of Covid patient in a house in the street. It seems either the funds in the Municipal Council are overflowing or corruption is rampant. Responsible officers/ public servant should be taken to task. —Om Parkash and Ashok Vij, Amargarh colony, KaithalMosquitoes breed in clogged drainBLOCKED drain is a cause of trouble as dirty water gathers in front of my house and also at an agricultural field. Sewer water gets mixed with the crops which can become a cause of spread of severe diseases. The accumulated dirty water is also a breeding spot for mosquitoes and flies and thus can also lead to spread of vector-borne diseases such as malaria, chikungunya, dengue and cholera etc. The concerned authorities must look into the issue and get the repair work done. —Sameer Bakshi, kambasi village, Ambala
04-07-2020||Ambala||Two die, five injured in separate road mishaps||Minor among 2 held in doctor’s extortion caseThe district police have arrested another woman, Rajni, and a minor girl involved in an extortion case, said the officials here on Friday. A Home Guards volunteer among three persons had already been arrested on the charge of extorting Rs 4 lakh from a doctor. According to the police, Rajni was sent to 14-day judicial remand by a local court while the minor girl was sent to observation home in Karnal. TNSOne held for assaultThe district police arrested and later released on bail Ajay of Mahesh Nagar here in a case of assault, said the officials. According to the police, Amit Kumar of Babiyal near here had reported that the accused along with his two other accomplices assaulted him and his friend Kuldeep and threatened them with dire consequences. TNS
04-07-2020||Tohana (Fatehabad)||Student raises funds for hospital||Students bring laurels to collegeYamunanagar: The results of MSc Chemistry semester I and III have been declared by the Kurukshetra University via online mode. Dr Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college, said the students of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, had performed excellently bringing laurels to the college like previous years. He said in semester I, Upasana, Harkirat, Kanika, Harshimran and Shivani Devi got first, fourth, eighth, ninth and tenth positions respectively. He said in semester III exams, Yashu Verma, Neha Saini, Shweta, Vishali Saini, Khushboo, Sakshi and Diksha got first, second, fourth, fifth, seventh, ninth and tenth positions respectively. Dr Sunita Sharma, head of the department of Chemistry, assured the students for every possible help in future.DAIS webinar series concludesYamunanagar: The DAIS webinar series organised by Guru Nanak Khalsa College in association with the Mandate Project concluded here. Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang, principal of the college, said the DAIS foundation was a collective vision of a closely-knit team to work with the youth, communities and institutions for improving their lives and enabling them to do the same for others. "The series conducted on the topics of sustainable business and environment, human rights in India, entrepreneurship in the 21st Century, and UN75 Dialogue on 'Ensuring gender equality through education'," said Dr Kang. Amit Sinha of Guru Nanak Khalsa Group of Educational Institutions addressed the participants. The Principal inaugurated the webinar series and welcomed the guests of the programme Dr Alok Goyal, Dr RS Walia, Dr RS Vohra, Pradeep Sharma, an alumnus of the college and Director, International Affairs, Rana University, Afghanistan, Keshav Gupta, founder of the DAIS and Harsh Bedi.Webinar on AI, roboticsSirsa: A webinar on artificial intelligence (AI) and robotics was conducted by Vihaan Khurana, a Class XII science student of Sawan Public School, Sirsa. In the webinar, Vihaan drew attention towards many aspects related to AI and robotics. He conducted a live session on his website www.robotiks.org and explained with the help of PPT and video and talked about applications which are beneficial in surgery, defence, agriculture and industries. He talked about the importance of this field and how can it make an impact on career of students. He gave tips to start positively with this field. A total of 537 people attended the webinar. Around 250 people were awarded certificates for attending the webinar. At the end of the webinar, Vihaan also answered the questions of the people. According to the feedback of the attendees, they were completely satisfied and learnt a lot. The recorded version of the webinar is available on his website. He said anyone interested in this field can visit his website and get information about the subjects or ask questions about them.
04-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||21 FIRs for sanitiser, mask overpricing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 3The Haryana Food and Civil Supplies Department has lodged 21 FIRs and issued 766 challans to wholesale and retail druggists for over-pricing of masks and hand sanitisers over the past four months.Cracking downOn March 13, the Centre had included masks and hand sanitisers under the Essential Commodities Act and empowered states and UTs to regulate their production, quality and distribution.As the matter of fake sanitisers and their over-pricing has reached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the states of Haryana and Punjab and UT Chandigarh have been directed to submit action-taken reports by July 6.As many as 1,762 wholesale drug dealers and 12,810 chemists have been inspected. Seven FIRs have been lodged in Mewat, five each in Faridabad and Rewari and two each in Panipat and Gurugram. Maximum challans (176) have been issued in Faridabad. “The challans are for minor offences and for the major ones. FIRs have been registered,” said PK Das, Additional Chief Secretary.
