04-08-2020||---||Sirsa girl gets 35th rank in Civil Services||Hisar, August 4A Law graduate from Delhi University, Kanchan hailing from Sirsa town has got 35th rank in the Civil Services examination.Daughter of a chartered accountant Anil Singhla, Kanchan has aspired to become an IAS officer since her school days.She has started preparing for the Civil Services during her final-year of the law degree in Delhi. This is her second attempt as she has been selected in the Railway Personnel Services in her first attempt last year.Kanchan has completed her initial schooling from Sirsa and then went to Panchkula to where she completed her matriculation and 10+2.She pursued law after schooling and completed her LLB from the National Law University, Delhi.Kanchan said peace of mind and hard work are the key to her success in the examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sirsa-girl-gets-35th-rank-in-civil-services-122084
04-08-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat ||Faridabad's Ashima Goyal secures 65th rank in Civil Services exam||Tribune News Service  Faridabad, August 4Ashima Goyal (26), a resident of Ballabgarh town, has done the district and the state proud by securing 65th rank in the country in the UPSC exam, result of which was announced on Tuesday.  Daughter of a cyber café owner, Ashima made it in her second attempt. An alumna of the IIT Delhi, she had joined the ICICI bank in 2017 after doing B.Tech and M.Tech (Bio-technology). “I was determined and wanted to do something different and left the job after a year to prepare for the Civil Services again as I did not get adequate time for studies,” she told The Tribune.Claiming that she did not take any coaching, Ashima said exchanging notes and ideas and suggestions with her friends helped a lot. The first attempt made by her in 2018 also proved helpful in identifying the problem areas, she said, adding that the support of her family, including her parents and friends, helped her achieve the target.“Though I was confident to clear the exam this time, I did not expect a rank below 100,” she added.“She devoted nine to ten hours daily for the studies and the family was proud of her,” said Mitra Sen Goyal, her father, who runs a cyber café in Ballabgarh.The family resides in Vijay Nagar locality of Ballabgarh. Mool Chand Sharma, state Transport Minister, who is also the MLA from Ballabgarh visited the family and congratulated Ashima for her feat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabads-ashima-goyal-secures-65th-rank-in-civil-services-exam-122070
04-08-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Sonepat’s Pradeep Singh tops UPSC exam||Tribune News ServicePanipat, August 4Pradeep Singh, an undertraining officer of the Indian Revenue Service, has topped the Civil Services examination, the result of which was declared on Tuesday by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC).Pradeep says he wants to contribute to the country’s education sector.Pradeep, who hails from Tewri village in Gannaur of Sonepat district, cracked the exam in his fourth attempt and belongs to a farmer family.Also read: Hisar engineer gets 174th rank in Civil Services examTalking to The Tribune, Pradeep said: “It is an unbelievable and unexpected moment for me. It is a very pleasant surprise and I had not expected that I would be the first ranker. I am feeling very happy and my family and friends are also very happy.”“My father, Sukhbeer Singh, is a former sarpanch of the village and has always motivated me. Due to his motivation and my determined preparation, I was able to achieve the goal to become an IAS officer,” he added.“I have put in a lot of effort. After getting selected in the IRS in 2014, I had taken the exam again in 2015 but could not crack it. I took the test again and topped it. It is a wonderful experience,” Pradeep says.Holding a Bachelor of Engineering (Computer Science) degree from DeenBandhu Chhotu Ram University for Science and Technology, Murthal, Sonepat district, Pradeep was selected as an Inspector in the Income Tax Department through SSC in 2015 and has served there for four years.“My father motivated me and I started preparing for the UPSC examination. I cracked it in 2018 and bagged 260th rank and joined as an IRS officer. I am, at present, under training at the National Academy of Customs, Excise and Narcotics in Faridabad,” Pradeep said.“I want to work in the education sector and will work to provide the benefits of the government schemes to the deprived people and who are left behind due to poverty, so that they can come into the mainstream by education and can play an important role in the development of the country,” Pradeep said.The UPSC topper, in his message to the students, said: “If I can top the Civil Services examination, then anyone can crack it. Anyone can get success. One only needs to be focused and have strong determination.”Sukhbeer Singh, Pradeep’s father said it was an unbelievable moment for their family and his dream had come true.Pradeep’s mother, Sheela Devi, is a housewife; his elder brother, Ajit Singh, is a mechanical engineer and working in the insurance sector while his younger sister has completed MSc Maths this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepats-pradeep-singh-tops-upsc-exam-122063
04-08-2020||Deepender Deswal||Hisar engineer gets 174th rank in Civil Services exam||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 4A mechanical engineer from IIT Bombay, Aprajit Lohan, resident of Hisar’s Sector-14, has secured 174th rank in the Civil Services examination 2019 result in his first attempt.Aprajit (24) has completed his studies from a public school in Hisar and got a good rank in the IIT-JEE exam. He recently completed his engineering from IIT Bombay.His maternal uncle, Rajpal Nain, informed that Aprajit has been a brilliant student throughout his school and college.“He decided to prepare for the civil services after completing his engineering degree. It’s a big achievement that he got such good rank in the examination in his first attempt,” he said. Nain informed that Aprajit’s sister is an MBBS and MD. His father Suresh Lohan is a lawyer while his mother is housewife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-engineer-gets-174th-rank-in-civil-services-exam-122041
04-08-2020||---||Rs 5.78 lakh looted from Canara Bank branch in Haryana’s Bhiwani||Chandigarh, August 4A group of robbers on Tuesday looted Rs 5.78 lakh cash from a Canara Bank branch in Rewari Khera village, Bhiwani district, Haryana.The masked youths were armed and opened fire to scare the bank staff and customers.Three of them entered the bank and snatched the cash from the bank’s cash counter and rushed outside where the fourth accomplice was waiting in a car. The armed guard was not present in the bank at the time of the incident.DSP Virender Singh rushed to the spot and began the investigation.The bank official stated that the accused had snatched the cash on gunpoint and fled, the DSP said.The incident occurred at around 11.30 and has been captured on the CCTV.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-5-78-lakh-looted-from-canara-bank-branch-in-haryanas-bhiwani-122028
04-08-2020||Hisar||Covid tally crosses 1,000-mark in Hisar||Hisar has become the ninth district in Haryana to cross the 1,000-mark of coronavirus patients as the tally here reached 1,012 on Monday night. Ten persons have died due to the infection in the district.The district had recorded 232 cases of COVID 19 by the June 30. However, there was a sudden spike in cases in July as the number of infected persons went up by more than three times to put the tally at 724.The positive cases continue to increase every day as 56 cases have been detected in the first three days of August. Significantly, health officials including doctors and paramedical staff, have also got infected recently in the civil hospital and the Medical College in Agroha where the COVID Care Centres have been set up by the administration.The health officials though maintained that there have been little chances of community spread in Hisar as contact tracing has been going on vigorously. A wedding has been the super spreader as around 120 cases were detected in the chain that emerged from it last month.Civil Surgeon Ratna Bharti said that by Tuesday night, the district has 304 active cases while 698 persons have been discharged after treatment besides the death of 10 persons due to the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-tally-crosses-1-000-mark-in-hisar-122005
04-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||BJP, Congress leaders woo women on Rakshabandhan||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 3No rush at bus stand Former BJP minister Manish Grover and supporters of Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda on Monday came forward to provide free travel facility in auto-rickshaws to women on the occasion of Rakshabandhan.Notably, the state government had stopped free travel for women in roadways buses this year due to Covid. Deepender’s supporters under the aegis of ‘Team Deepender’ claimed to have arranged 50 auto-rickshaws for the purpose while Grover said they had hired 10 pink auto-rickshaws driven by women in the city.“The state government stopped the free bus service for women on this Rakshabandhan hence MP Deepender Hooda decided to ensure free auto facility to women so that they could travel in the city without any inconvenience,” said Hemant Bakshi, one of the coordinators of ‘Team Deepender’.Senior Congress leader Raghuvir Singh Saini, who flagged off the auto-rickshaws in the morning, said 50 vehicles plied on different routes in the city till 5 pm.Criticising the state government for its move, he said it had put financial burden on women while charging travelling fare from them in a situation when people were struggling to make both ends meet.Meanwhile, Grover said besides providing free travel facility to the people, the move also aimed at helping those women who run pink auto-rickshaws in the city to arrange their livelihood. “We hired 10 such auto-rickshaws for two days i.e. Sunday and Monday, to boost their morale in this time of crisis,” Grover said, adding that the women tied him rakhi and he also gave them shagun in return.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-congress-leaders-woo-women-on-rakshabandhan-121830
04-08-2020|| ---||Class X, XII toppers tie rakhi to Dabwali MLA||Chandigarh, August 3  Dabwali MLA Amit Sihag on Monday visited the homes of 10 girl toppers of secondary and senior secondary examinations of his constituency who tied rakhi to him.  This also included Amandeep Kaur of Lohgarh village, who got second rank in the state in Class XII arts stream.  Sihag said, “I am influenced by their zeal of doing something big in their lives. I wished them best in their lives and urged their parents to keep encouraging them.”   “I will keep interacting with these girls. It is my target that girls of our constituency should also reach at top positions in the administration,” he added.  Most of the girls had expressed their desire to pursue technical education, he added   He announced that he would felicitate all toppers of Classes X and XII of his constituency on August 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/class-x-xii-toppers-tie-rakhi-to-dabwali-mla-121831
04-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||Students sans Net told to use common service centres in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 3The Department of Higher Education has directed all teaching and non-teaching employees to come to college from August 4 to initiate the admission process for the coming academic session.Principals have been asked to make a timetable for the college and to ensure that 70 per cent classes are conducted online. The remaining 30 per cent classes will be conducted offline when the situation normalises.Interestingly, those students who do not have hardware and Internet connections have been told to use the nearest common service centres (CSCs) for online classes when the fact is that no such facility is available at the CSCs.“More than 25 per cent of the college students residing in villages could not join the online classes during the lockdown as they didn’t have smart phones and Internet connections. Teaching these students online will remain a big challenge in the coming session as well in the absence of smart phones with the Internet facility,” said a college lecturer.Rohtak district has 250 CSCs and free Wi-Fi facility is available only in 10 CSCs located in villages. The CSCs are being run by private persons under the Digital India programme. These are access points for the delivery of essential public utility services, social welfare schemes, healthcare, financial, educational and agriculture services in rural, remote and urban areas of the country. “The CSC operator uses his/her personal computer or laptop to provide the service to the people and charges a nominal fee from them. Why will he/she allow the students to use the equipment for online classes in place of doing his/her primary job?” said an official associated with the CSC programme.He maintained that free Wi-Fi facilities were at present being provided to 10 CSCs under a government scheme for rural development. The facilities will be extended to 139 gram panchayats in the coming days, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-sans-net-told-to-use-common-service-centres-in-haryana-121832
04-08-2020||Nitin Jain||Rs 124-cr AMRUT project to quench Ambala’s thirst||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 3A new water supply project with an outlay of Rs 123.97 crore has been approved under the AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) to quench the thirst of Ambala Cantonment residents.‘Work to start soon’The project will ensure potable water to all households by connecting all homes with tap supply in my constituency. The formal nod has been accorded and soon the project work will be started. — Anil Vij, Home MinisterUnder the Centrally sponsored project, 22.4-km-long pipeline will be laid to augment the canal water supply from present 38 to 58 millions of liter per day (MLD), a senior government functionary said here on Monday.The project, which local MLA and Home Minister Anil Vij had got approved from the Centre, will cover the municipal limits of Ambala Cantonment by adding 20 MLD water through new underground water pipeline from Adomajra to Ghaseetpur.The Ambala Cantonment was among the 18 municipal towns of Haryana selected for coverage under the AMRUT scheme.As per the plan, as many as 25 development projects estimated to cost Rs 344.26 crore were to be undertaken in Ambala Cantonment during the current five-year plan.The projects include water supply, sewerage and septage management, drainage, urban transport, green spaces and parks. While the maximum outlay of Rs 176.47 crore had been earmarked for sewerage and septage management, Rs 37.04 crore was for drainage, Rs 37.5 crore for urban transport and Rs 17.2 crore for developing green spaces and parks.Initially, the outlay for the water supply scheme was earmarked Rs 76.05 crore but Vij got Rs 123.97 crore approved for the augmentation of potable water supply here.Recently, thousands of residents of 19 villages and far-flung areas in Ambala district had got tap water supply, first since Independence after the Rs 38-crore scheme fetched canal water all the way from 31-km to quench the thirst of the consumers.The villages and areas that had got the potable water supply included Babial, Krishna Nagar, Basanti Mata, Kuldeep Nagar, Daleepgarh, Paras Nagar, Saini Nagar, Harish Nagar, Mamata Vihar, Rana Complex, Shyam Nagar, Rajinder Nagar, Aggarwal Complex, Naseeb Nagar, Bharat Nagar, Moti Nagar, Vijay Nagar, Vashisht Nagar and New Dayal Bagh.With this, the residents living not only on the ground floor but also the first and second floors have started getting drinking water supply.Vij said the scheme was mooted way back in 2000 on his persistent efforts in view of the depleting groundwater level and many areas of Ambala Cantonment deprived of potable water supply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-124-cr-amrut-project-to-quench-ambalas-thirst-121833
04-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||CID chief wants report on PhDs secured from outside Haryana||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 3After the Department of Higher Education (DHE), the Crime Investigation Department (CID) has sought a report from its district office into the PhD degrees obtained by extension lecturers at government colleges from universities of other states.Sources said ADGP Alok Mittal, CID chief, had directed the Rohtak office of the CID to gather details about the cases and submit a report at the earliest. On getting the directive, CID officials had started contacting their sources to collect the information. They might also approach those who had lodged complaints with the DHE and demanded a high-level probe into the matter.The issue had been in the limelight since ever the DHE directed college principals to verify the correctness of PhD degrees of extension lecturers obtained from universities outside Haryana in accordance with University Grants Commission Regulations.The principals had been asked to submit a report about the name of the university from where the lecturers pursued PhD, details of their enrolment, course work, classes and examinations with dates. Over 2,000 extension lecturers had been working at government colleges across the state and over 500 had obtained PhD degrees from outside the state, which were now under the scanner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cid-chief-wants-report-on-phds-secured-from-outside-haryana-121834
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||1 held with drugs worth Rs 1 cr||In a major breakthrough, sleuths of the Special Task Force (STF) have seized 35 kg charas and 5 kg opium in a Bolero vehicle in Sonepat district.One person, carrying the contraband in the vehicle, has been arrested. The value of drugs seized, being smuggled from Uttar Pradesh, is around Rs 1 crore in the international market. A police spokesperson said the team, present near the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal toll plaza, got a tip-off about drugs being smuggled in a vehicle. They laid a trap and after some time, signalled the Bolero to stop for checking. Inspection of the vehicle led to the seizure. A case under the NDPS Act was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-with-drugs-worth-rs-1-cr-121835
04-08-2020||Gurugram||Out of job, 3 men start fake currency racket, arrested||Having lost their jobs due to the Covid lockdown, three former Swiggy delivery boys were nabbed for making fake currency.They were caught with fake currency notes of Rs 100 and Rs 200 with a face value of Rs 19,000. They offered 5,000 fake notes for a price of Rs 1,000. The police have recovered two printers from them.According to the police, the accused have been identified as Sanjiv and Ritik, both residents of Jhajjar, and Bhavishya hailing from Sonepat. During the lockdown, they returned to their villages. When the lockdown was lifted, they could not get their jobs back. So, they decided to make money through fake currency. They took a room on rent in Sahib Kunj Colony in the Palam Vihar area and started printing fake currency a few days ago.On a tip-off, a constable was sent as a decoy to their room on Monday. He met one of the accused and gave him some signed notes to exchange. After receiving a signal from him, the Sector 10 crime unit conducted a raid and nabbed the trio.“The accused revealed they got the idea of printing the fake currency from YouTube,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/out-of-job-3-men-start-fake-currency-racket-arrested-121836
04-08-2020||---||Three of family killed in mishap||Jhajjar, August 3A couple and their 13-year-old daughter were killed when a heavy vehicle hit the motorcycle they were riding on near Maaraut village here today. The accident took place on the Jhajjar-Chhuchhakvas road.The deceased were identified as Om Prakash, his wife Sushila and their daughter Manisha, residents of Dhanaunda village in Mahendragarh district.They were going to Sushila’s parental house in Badli village to celebrate Rakshabandhan when the mishap took place.The trio died on the spot. The police sent the bodies to the Civil Hospital for the post-mortem examination.Man, son die in accidentPanipat: A 40-year-old man and his seven-year-old son were crushed to death, while his wife sustained injuries on Monday in a road mishap near the toll plaza on the NH-44 here on MondayThe deceased have been identified as Prem Kumar of Behrampur village and his son Happy. Kumar was a teacher in a private school.He, along with his wife Manisha, son and six-month-old-daughter Nitya, went to his in-laws’ place in New Biholi village on Sunday to celebrate Rakshabandhan.On their way back, a truck hit Kumar’s motorcycle. Prem and his son died on the spot, while Manisha sustained serious injuries.Nitya, who was in Manisha’s lap, escaped unhurt. The truck driver, however, managed to flee.The police sent the bodies to the General Hospital for the post-mortem examination. A case has been registered against the truck driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-of-family-killed-in-mishap-121837
04-08-2020||---||Nod to Rs1,304 cr plan to prevent stubble-burning in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 3Scheme for BPL women tomorrowThe state will also start a scheme to provide fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder to children between 1 and 6 years in anganwadi centres, and pregnant and lactating mothersTo prevent stubble-burning in the state, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has approved a Rs 1,304.95 crore comprehensive plan for the crop residue management. The Centre has provided Rs 170 crore to the state under this plan this year.Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, said here on Monday the state government had submitted to the Centre an annual action plan to the tune of Rs 639.10 crore under the scheme “Promotion of Agricultural Mechanisation for In-Situ Management of Crop Residue”.The plan entails in-situ and ex-situ management of crop residue as well as enforcement measures regarding prohibition on stubble-burning.Kaushal said the state government had been taking all possible measures for the management of paddy straw in-situ (in the field), including distributing equipment for the crop residue management, establishing Custom Hiring Centres and dedicated control room at the state headquarters at the Directorate of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare.Besides, an incentive of Rs 100 per quintal is being provided to non-basmati growers for the crop residue management within seven days as per the direction of the SC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-to-rs1-304-cr-plan-to-prevent-stubble-burning-in-haryana-121838
04-08-2020||---||11 colleges to be opened soon in Haryana||Panchkula, August 3The Haryana Government will open 11 new colleges shortly and become the first state to have a college within a radius of 15 km.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced this here today while laying the foundation stone of a college in the Morni area of Panchkula district during a function at the Government Postgraduate College here. He planted saplings and urged people to protect the environment.‘97 colleges in five years’In all, 97 colleges opened in the state in the past five years. The country’s first Skill Development University was opened at Dudhola in Palwal district. Thousands of youths are pursuing skill education at the university. — Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterKhattar said 10 colleges were to be announced initially, but on a request by Minister of State for Women and Child Development Kamlesh Dhanda, one more college would be opened at Rajod village in the Kalayat segment.He said the government aimed to set up a college within a radius of 10 km. He told the people to inform the state government if there was no college within a radius of 15 km in any area so that appropriate action could be taken.The Chief Minister said 97 new colleges had been opened in the state in the last five years. He said the country’s first Skill Development University had been opened at Dudhola in Palwal district. He said thousands of youths were pursuing skill education at the university.Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said the day was historic for Panchkula as there was no college in the inaccessible region of Morni hills.Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria said significant work was being done under the Nal Se Jal Scheme of the Centre. He said under this scheme, tap water would be delivered to every house by 2024.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said a plan had been prepared to open 1,000 playschools in the state before the announcement of the New Education Policy. He said focus was being laid on improving the health and education of children. He said 98 Sanskriti Model Schools were being opened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-colleges-to-be-opened-soon-in-haryana-121839
04-08-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana to take call on new academic session by August 15||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3The Haryana Government will take the final call on the start of the next academic session by August 15.In fact, taking the consulations with all stakeholders to the final stages, the Higher Education Department has asked principals of government colleges, government-aided colleges and self-financing colleges to send their views on the commencement of the 2020-21 academic session by August 5.Hemant Verma, Deputy Director (Coordination), Higher Education,on Sunday invited suggestions on the “online delivery of lectures after the admission process is over and also in the post-Covid scenario, when the classes become normal”.Meanwhile, the principals have also been asked to send suggestions on the “online, digital delivery of lectures and the use of means to enable the system of online and offline mode of delivery of lectures” by August 5”.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said the state government would strictly follow the instructions issued by the Union Government on safety of all stakeholders, including students, teachers and other staff, while taking a decision on the opening of the higher education institutes in the state.A senior official said depending on the suggestions received from the principals, various options, including online academic session, as interim measure, would be explored by the state government.As part of the Unlock 3.0 guidelines, the Union Government has already ordered the closure of all schools, colleges and universities across India till August 31. All colleges, universities and schools in Haryana have remained shut after the lockdown was imposed in March to control the Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-take-call-on-new-academic-session-by-august-15-121840
04-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Nuh meat suppliers halt delivery to cities in protest||Gurugram, August 3Accusing the state government of apathy following the thrashing of a Ghasera resident on the suspicion of carrying beef, residents of Ghasera, Nuh, Ferozpur Jhirka, Nagina, Punhana, Bhadas, Shah Chokha and Shikrawa villages have stopped meat supply to Faridabad, Gurugram, Palwal and Delhi, leading to shortage at meat shops.‘Security concern’Beaten up in police presence, Lukman is struggling for life. Nobody from the government has visited his family. We will not restore the supply of meat till we are assured security and the accused are given an exemplary punishment. — Chaudhary Ashraf, Ghasera sarpanchScared for their life, meat transporters have demanded exemplary punishment for over 12 accused and compensation for the family.“Our vehicles are not moving. We are buffalo meat suppliers to many parts of the NCR. Of late, we have been under constant threat from cow vigilantes. They don’t give two hoots because of government patronage,” said Chaudhary Ashraf, sarpanch of Ghasera village.“Beaten up in police presence, Lukman is struggling for life. Nobody from the government has paid his family a visit. We will not restore supply of meat till we are assured of security and the accused are given an exemplary punishment. If no action is taken within a few days, we will even stop supplying milk,” he said.The Qureshi community, traditionally involved in meat supply, called for a mahapanchayat to discuss the matter. Congress leaders of the area met the family.Lukman (27) of Ghasera was attacked by a group of men while he was on his way to deliver buffalo meat at a shop in Sadar Bazar here. The incident was filmed. The suspects assaulted the victim, while police personnel remained mute spectators.The Gurugram police have suspended four personnel, including an SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nuh-meat-suppliers-halt-delivery-to-cities-in-protest-121841
04-08-2020||---||7 more fall prey, 654 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 3With 654 cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 37,173 today. Seven deaths pushed the toll to 440. Four deaths were reported from Panipat, two from Kurukshetra and one from Bhiwani.A 64-year-old man died in Karnal. He was a resident of Singra village and was being treated for prostate cancer at the PGI in Chandigarh. The death was yet to be included in the state health bulletin.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (170), Panipat (106), Panchkula (60), Rewari (50), Gurugram (43), Hisar (33), Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar (27 each), Sonepat (25), Karnal (20), Sirsa (17), Palwal (15), Jind (14), Fatehabad (10), Ambala and Jhajjar (9 each), Kaithal (7), Mahendragarh (5), Nuh (4) and Bhiwani (3).In Rewari district, 33 cases were reported from Rewari, 10 from Bawal, six from Kasola and one from Nahad village. Hisar crossed the 1,000 mark in cumulative cases.Meanwhile, 780 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of discharged patients to 30,470, with a recovery rate of 81.97 per cent.Doctor bookedHisar: A Covid-positive doctor was booked for violating the guidelines and going to an institute in Dehradun to take admission in MS (Surgery). He has been booked under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC. He allegedly gave a false undertaking in the institute that he did not come in contact with any Covid patient. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-more-fall-prey-654-fresh-cases-in-haryana-121842
04-08-2020||We are thankful to the Haryana Government for regularising a number of colonies in and around Ambala||Ambala colony Lacks proper infrastructure||Prof AK Watal, Ambala Cantt3rd ACP not paid to stenosIn Public Health Department, Haryana, steno-typists (Hindi) are not being granted the third ACP for the past many years even after completion of 30 years of regular and satisfactory service by them. They have been given the first and second ACPs after the completion of 10 and 20-years of service. It is due to the lack of communication between the Public Health Department and Finance Department. It is shocking that the steno-typists who have made political pressure on the officers concerned have been given the third ACP. The Finance Department Haryana should act and resolve the matter at the earliest.Madan Lal Bansal, YamunanagarReconstructed road a bane for residentsThe recent reconstruction of the Railway Road in Kurukshetra at a cost of Rs 9 crore is a glaring example of how "poorly designed civil works" by engineers can become a problem for residents. Instead of constructing a proper drain, the level (height) of the existing road was raised from one foot to two feet to ensure that there is no waterlogging during rainy season. However, this run-off has resulted in submerging hundreds of houses and shops. While the residents are worried about the spread of water-borne diseases, primary-school children are the worst sufferers as they have to wade through standing waters to get to their schools. The authorities concerned should take action at once and rectify the problem.Vijay Sabharwal, KurukshetraRoads waterlogged post rainOn Saturday morning, it rained for 20 minutes, but the entire city was flooded and it was nearly impossible for the people to move around at some places. It is an annual feature and the administration is well aware of the problem the residents face, but in the name of preparations, practically nothing is done on the ground, so the people continue to suffer like this every year.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-colony-lacks-proper-infrastructure-121849
04-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Short-term course completed||National webinar organisedKurukshetra: "Implement Atamnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan flawlessly by adopting the Ambedkar's canons of public expenditure in terms of 'faithfulness, wisdom and economy in execution," opined MM Goel, a retired professor from Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra while addressing a national webinar organised by the department of economics, Jain Deemed University, Bengaluru, on the topic 'Atamnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan: Opportunities and Challenges'. "We should avoid over emphasising on 'vocal for local' and be a little diplomatic and use the wisdom for 'glocalisation' meaning thereby think globally and act locally for promoting Vasudhiava Kutumbakam (the world is one family) as the Indian ethos," Goel emphasised.Last date for admission in MScKurukshetra: IThe department of microbiology, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, has started the admission process and the last date for the admission in MSc microbiology course is August 7. Dr Neeraj Kumar, chairman of the department, told that department was established in 1995 and currently it is offering two years MSc programme with annual intake of 50 seats and PhD programme. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, admission to MSc microbiology for the current session will be made only on the basis of merit of qualifying exam. The department is well equipped with all basic and advanced facilities to carry out the state-of-art research. “Considering recent innovations and rapid growth of microbiological approaches and applications in human and environmental sustainability, the MSc microbiology curricula is designed to enlighten the students in the basics of microbiology to recent developments. A unique feature of the curricula includes both theory and practical course for each papers and project training of two months in research institutes or industry ,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/short-term-course-completed-121852
04-08-2020||Ambala||Canter overturns, 3 killed||Labourer dies after fallA labourer died after falling at a construction site in Baldev Nagar, near here. The victim, identified as Bhag Singh of Patiala, sustained serious injuries. He was taken to the PGI in Chandigarh, where he succumbed to his injuries. The police booked the construction contractor. TNSMan commits suicideA resident of Naraingarh reportedly ended his life following an altercation with his wife. The deceased was identified as Raj Kumar alias Raju. The police registered a case and launched investigation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/canter-overturns-3-killed-121853
04-08-2020||Chandigarh||In Haryana, unreliable antigen kits used for one-third tests||Haryana ramped up testing by the extensive use of rapid antigen kits in July despite the fact that in more than one-third of the positive cases they have been giving incorrect negative reports.Official data of the state Health Department reveals that of the 3.48 lakh tests conducted in the state in July, 1.42 lakh used rapid antigen kits.While the overall positivity rate in the state was 5.7 per cent on August 2, only 3.7 per cent of those tested by rapid antigen kits were found positive. Of the 44,080 people tested by rapid antigen tests in Gurugram, the district with highest number of cumulative cases, only 1,239 (2.8 per cent) tested positive. In contrast, 8,020 of the 71,688 people who were tested by RT-PCR technique were found positive, making the positivity rate 11.18 per cent.Similarly, of the 29,693 tested by rapid antigen tests in Faridabad, 2,014 (6.8 per cent) tested positive. And, of the 45,305 people who were tested by RT-PCR technique in that district, 6,988 were found positive with a positivity rate of whopping 15.42 per cent.“The governments, not only of Haryana but also of some other states like Delhi, have switched to rapid antigen tests only to pat their back by claiming that the infection rate has come down. But many of the cases shown negative by the rapid antigen tests are in fact false negatives,” said sources, who didn’t want to be identified.Even the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has admitted that the rapid antigen tests may give false negatives and hence those testing negative have to be confirmed through RT-PCR, which is considered the gold standard for the detectionof coronavirus.“Those who test negative for Covid-19 by the rapid antigen test should be definitely tested sequentially by RT-PCR to rule out infection, whereas a positive test should be considered as a true positive and does not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test,” said an advisory issued by the ICMR last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-haryana-unreliable-antigen-kits-used-for-one-third-tests-121730
