04-05-2020||Ambala||Ambala records highest single-day spike, sees 23 new cases||Ambala reported 23 new coronavirus cases, officials said---the highest single-day rise yet for the district.The development took the district tally to 37.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said 16 migrant labourers employed at the site of an upcoming residential complex for doctors in Ambala Cantonment Civil Hospital campus and two of their supervisors were among those infected.Another new patient was a woman doctor on outpatient duty at Ambala Cantonment Civil Hospital and four of the remaining came from different villages around Ambala Cantonment.Some 150 labourers were currently engaged at the construction site. They had all tested negative a week ago, the doctor said.“Today, 16 of them along with their two supervisors tested positive after showing symptoms,” Dr Singh.Construction has stopped at the site, which has now been sealed off as a containment zone.All new patients have been taken to isolation wards at Mullana hospital.The district has so far reported two deaths from 37 infections.Eleven people have been declared cured in the district while one patient from Tharva village in the district is currently undergoing treatment at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, where his condition is believed to be currently stable.Meanwhile, most shops and commercial establishments in the district kept open on Monday morning, although the absence of an official notification from the district administration over easing of lockdown caused some uncertainty among both traders and customers.Shops near Ambala Cantonment Civil Hospital were asked to close following the influx of COVID-19 patients.
04-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Heaps of wheat lie on roads in Rohtak, get wet due to untimely rain||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 4Thousands of quintals of wheat produce has been lying on roads, in open spaces and agricultural fields at many villages in Rohtak district due to shortage of storage space at the grain markets and purchase centres in the district.Large quantities of wheat lying in the open got soaked in the recent spell of rain, posing multifarious problems to farmers, arhtiyas and procurement agencies of the state government.Dimple Budhwar, president, Rohtak Grain Market Arhtiyas Association, stated that anticipating rain, they had covered the wheat lying in the open with plastic sheets (tirpals), but many sheets were blown away by the thunderstorm.On the other hand, the Rohtak Deputy Commissioner, RS Verma, puts the blame for the wheat produce lying in the open on the arhtiyas.“Owing to their greed, the arhtiyas accepted much more wheat than they could handle. They asked even those farmers to dump their produce at the grain markets who did not have the requisite token/gate pass. The wheat bags were not stacked inside the sheds, owing to which these get soaked in rain,” he maintained.The Deputy Commissioner stated that the licenses of seven arhtiyas had been cancelled and action would be taken against those indulging in such irregularities.A survey carried out by The Tribune, on Monday, revealed that heaps of foodgrains were lying on the road in Madina village, located on the Delhi-Fazilka National Highway; on the Rukhi-Ghilor stretch of the old Rohtak-Gohana road; and in open spaces and agricultural fields in several other villages of the district.Inquiries made in this regard indicate that this had become a perennial problem for farmers as well as arhtiyas, who continue to struggle to ensure the safekeeping of wheat and protect it from rain, dust-storm, unscrupulous elements and stray animals year after year.“Farmers and arhtiyas face grave inconvenience due to the acute shortage of storage space at the local grain markets and purchase centres. We have been apprising the state authorities of the matter, but no concrete steps have been taken in this regard,” laments Preet Singh, president, Rohtak district unit of the All-India Kisan Sabha.
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana cadre IAS officer resigns, cites 'personal safety on government duty' as reason||A 2014 batch IAS officer of Haryana cadre on Monday resigned from the prestigious service citing “personal safety on government duty”.Rani Nagar, currently posted as Additional Director, Social Justice and Empowerment, and Additional Director, Archives, sent her resignation to the state chief secretary with a request to forward it to the competent authority in the Central Government for acceptance.pic.twitter.com/Wunp4ihfy4  The copies of the resignation letter were also sent to the President, the prime minister, the governor and the chief minister.Also read:Coronavirus: Haryana reports 10 new cases, state tally rises to 526As cases peak, Hooda bats for maximum testing‘HelpMe’ app gets 2.23L downloads, 1.5L queries Nagar, in a Facebook post last month, had expressed her desire to resign from the service ‘after the lockdown’ and go back to her native place in Uttar Pradesh. She had cited issues related to her safety. Nagar currently lives with her sister in Chandigarh.It may be recalled that in June 2018 Nagar had levelled harassment charges against a senior IAS officer, who was then posted as additional chief secretary, animal husbandry and dairying. She was working as an additional secretary, animal husbandry and dairying at the time. However, the senior officer had vehemently denied the charges.
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 73 new cases in its biggest spike yet||Haryana on Monday reported one death and 73 new coronavirus cases on Monday---the biggest single-day rise the state has seen yet.The development takes taking the state's case tally to 510.A 55-year-old man died at ESI Hospital in Faridabad on Monday a morning, hours after he was tested positive.The development takes Haryana’s death tally to six and the district’s death tally to two.Ambala reported 23 new coronavirus cases, officials said---the highest single-day rise yet for the district. This number included 16 labourers engaged at a construction site, two of their supervisors and a woman doctor on outpatient duty at Ambala Cantt Civil Hospital.The development takes Ambala district's tally to 37.Karnal, which went without reporting any new cases for 21 days, reported two new cases---a development that throws a spanner in the works for the district, which was expected to turn into a green zone on Monday. One vegetable vendor and a grocery shop owner tested positive a in random sampling. Jhajjar reported 11 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 53. Nine of the 11 cases are related to a vegetable market in Bahadurgarh, while the two others are family members of a COVID-positive pharmacist working in Delhi.Gurugram reported 11 new cases on Monday, nine of whom were vegetable vendors, officials said.
04-05-2020||Our Correspondent||5,200 boxes of liquor seized||Sonepat, May 3A team of the Special Task Force (STF) seized 5,200 boxes of illicit liquor from three trucks parked outside Hans Dhaba on National Highway-44 near Murthal in the district late Friday night.STF incharge Inspector Satish Deswal said three persons were also arrested — Manjit Singh of Ajrabar in Patiala district, Devender of Dera Bassi and Balinder of Mubarakpur in Mohali district.They confessed to smuggling Indian-made foreign liquor valued at Rs3 crore from Dera Bassi to in Delhi. A case has been registered.
04-05-2020||---||Will ensure stranded reach home: Khattar||Chandigarh, May 3TO BE TRANSPORTED BY SPECIAL TRAINS, BUSESThe government is committed to ensuring that all agricultural workers and migrant labourers stranded in the state reach their homes in a safe and systematic manner at the earliest.This was stated by Chief Minister, Manohar Lal Khattar here today in a video-conference with office-bearers of six labour unions and presidents of labour cells of five political parties.It was decided during the meeting that labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh would be sent to their homes in buses.It was also decided that workers from Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh would be sent by special trains from different stations in Haryana.It was pointed out that the return of migrant labourers from other states, who were relatively less, would be ensured through special trains from New Delhi.There was consensus that industrial labourers should be encouraged to assist in early reopening of their units as far as possible.It was decided that district-level committees under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioners would be set up to review the progress of disbursement of salaries to workers, especially in small and medium units.The Chief Minister asserted that there was no plan to cut down on 17 per cent dearness allowance being paid to government employees.He stated that there would be no discrimination in ASHA and anganwadi workers in distribution of PPE kits among members of official teams engaged in screening work in containment zones.
04-05-2020||---||Nodal officers appointed for migrants’ movement||Chandigarh, May 3The Haryana Government has appointed IAS officer TL Satyaprakash as state nodal officer for coordination with various state governments to facilitate inter-state movement of migrant workers.Besides, senior IAS officer Anurag Rastogi will be the state nodal officer for coordinating with Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Punjab, while Ajay Tomar will coordinate with Rajasthan. Satyaprakash will also be the nodal officer for Karnataka. While Mohammed Shayin will coordinate with Kerala and Tamil Nadu, Ajit Balaji Joshi will coordinate with Gujarat, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand.Amna Tasneem will be the nodal officer for HP, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and North East states.Meanwhile, to facilitate stranded persons and migrant workers for inter-state movement (both inward and outward) in Haryana, the state government has launched a web page https://edisha.gov.in/eForms/MigrantService for online registration of the migrant workers who wish to return to their home states.In order to register a request for inter-state movement, inward and outward of Haryana, the migrants have to register themselves on web page https://edisha.gov.in/eForms/MigrantService. Secondly, if anyone wants to register on the app, then he or she will have to download ‘Jan Sahayak Helpme’ from Google Play Store and provide all necessary details.Required assistance can also be sought from helpline nod 1950 and 1100.WEB PAGE FOR ONLINE REGISTRATIONTo facilitate stranded persons and migrant workers for inter-state movement (both inward and outward) in Haryana, the state government has launched a web page https://edisha.gov.in/eForms/MigrantService for online registration of the migrant workers who wish to return to their home states
04-05-2020||---||Farmers to launch campaign on Facebook||Kurukshetra, May 3Amid the lockdown, demanding farm loan waiver the farmer unions have decided to use social media platforms to raise their demand and launch a front against the government.The farmers union will be using Twitter and Facebook on May 5 and May 8, respectively, to start their ‘Kisan Karja Mukti’ campaign. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Bains said “The farmer unions have collectively decided to raise the issue of farm loan waiver. Progressive farmers and educated youths are going to help the farmers in this campaign. We have asked farmers to open their social media accounts so that they could take part in campaign. The farmers will tag all the ministers and political parties in this campaign.”BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The declining return in the agriculture sector has pushed the peasantry into a financial crisis. No political party is serious towards the farming community and all the parties are working for their vested interests. The BJP and Congress are just faces, the country is being ruled by the corporate, and that is why no action is taken against corporate. If the government can give relaxations to corporate houses in repaying of loans and can also write off or waive off their loans then it should waive off farm loans too.”Charuni said, “We have talked to several farmer leaders across the country, and we will jointly launch this campaign. The farmer unions will use hashtag “kisan karja mukti” on May 5 on Twitter at 4 pm to raise the demand, and then on May 8, at 6 pm, the farmer leaders will go live on facebook to express their views.”We don’t want to violate the lockdown guidelines or disturb the system during Covid stress hence we decided to use social media.
04-05-2020||
||Rain, storm damage wheat in Hisar||Hisar, May 3 Wheat stock lying in the open at purchase centres in the district got damaged due to the rains that lashed the region on Sunday evening. The district has 23,33,847 quintals of total wheat stock, of which 14,70,078  quintals is yet to be lifted from the grain markets and the purchase centres.  According to information, a 12-year-old boy died when a wall collapsed on him in Ellanabad region of the Sirsa district due to the storm. The farmers will have to suspend harvesting for next couple of days, while the procurement agencies will also not be able to collect the produce due to moisture in the grain.  The reports from the region revealed that storm has also uprooted trees and electricity poles at some places and disturbed the power supply. The IMD has also predicted thunderstorm accompanied with light to moderate rain, lightning and gusty winds in parts of Sirsa, Fathehabad, Jind, Hisar, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Kaithal, Jhajjar, Rohtak, Mahendergarh, Rewari, Mewat, Palwal, Gurugram, Faridabad districts and adjoining area during for today evening. Hailstorm at isolated places is also likely over parts of Sirsa, Fathehabad, Hisar districts and adjoining areas, the warning from the IMD said.
04-05-2020||---||No paddy on panchayati land in eight blocks||Chandigarh, May 3Farmers in eight blocks of seven districts in northern Haryana will not be able to cultivate paddy on the panchayati land. The principal secretary, Development and Panchayat, has conveyed the decision, apparently taken to check depleting water table and enforce crop diversification, to the DCs concerned.Sources said the decision would be applicable to the panchayati land which is to be put to auction or whose lease was to be extended. The blocks which had been put in the ‘restrictive list’ for paddy cultivation included Assandh (Karnal), Pundri (Kaithal), Narwana (Jind), Thanesar (Kurukehetra), Ambala-1 and Saha (Ambala), Radaur (Yamunanagar), and Ganaur (Sonepat).In fact, the decision seems to be a continuation of the pilot project of crop diversification to discourage paddy cultivation announced by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in May last year. The project, which was implemented in seven above blocks except Saha provided for certain incentives, including Rs 2,000 cash reward per acre for shifting to non-paddy crops such as maize and pulses. Meanwhile, AICC communication in charge Randeep Surjewala termed the decision as another conspiracy by the Khattar Government against the farming community.Gurnam Singh Charuni, president of the BKU (Haryana), termed the decision as illogical saying that such one-sided decisions would not fetch desired results. “The state government should offer incentives for farmers to diversify from wheat and paddy rather than imposing dictatorial decisions on farmers,” he said.‘Restrictive list’Assandh (Karnal), Pundri (Kaithal), Narwana (Jind), Thanesar (Kurukehetra), Ambala-1 and Saha (Ambala), Radaur (Yamunanagar), and Ganaur (Sonepat)
04-05-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Online classes don’t click in Nuh, 2 lakh students affected||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, May 3Online teaching may have become the order of the day amid lockdown, but not in the state’s backward Nuh district, home to over 2 lakh students.Online classes have so far been a non-starter due to constraints such as lack of smartphones, cable and DTH-enabled TV sets, poor network, erratic power supply and students helping out it in family farms. The Education Department and private schools have no choice but to wait for the lockdown to end.“I am in Class X and will be taking the boards this year. We have had no class till now. Nobody in my family has a smartphone, so I cannot attend an online class. It’s the same for majority of children in my village. My school said classes will remain suspended till May. I am scared how will I study for the boards,” said Nafisa of Shikarkawa village in Punhana block.Class VIII student Rashid of Karhera village too does not have a smartphone and is helping out in the family fields all day. “This is the harvesting season. I have to help my father in our fields as we have no labour. My schoolmates and I are in the fields the entire day. We have no money to get a smartphone. We will go to school and study as when it opens,” he said.While the Education Department is trying to keep things going with EDUSAT, progress is poor. “A majority of students in rural areas do not have phones, laptops or computers. Nuh has only 1,300 registered DTH and cable connections, so how do we reach out to students? We are managing the online system in some schools but it’s a challenge to even get it started in rural areas,” said DEO Suraj Bhan.A teacher of one of Nuh’s private schools said they were being pressured to conduct online classes so that the school could collect fees from students. “I arranged a laptop and tried to get students on board, but most of them did not join the class saying they had no phones or network in their area. We are now being asked to go to their homes and get things set up,” she said.
04-05-2020||---||Four Sonepat doctors test positive for Covid||Panipat, May 3Four doctors have tested positive for Covid-19 in Sonepat district over the past 24 hours.One of them is from the Sonepat General Hospital, while three are junior doctors from Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan, according to DC Dr Anshaj Singh.Principal Medical Officer Dr Adarsh Sharma said a medical officer of the Health Department was deputed at the Janki Das Memorial Hospital in Sector 14. He was on duty in the isolation ward there. His samples were taken on Friday and the report received on Saturday late night.Three junior doctors, deployed in the isolation ward at Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan, also tested positive on Saturday night. They have been admitted to the isolation ward.Their contacts were traced and samples taken. All of them have tested negative for Covid-19, said Dr Renu Garg, Director, BPS Medical College.All four doctors, who tested positive on Saturday night, were asymptomatic.Besides the four doctors, 16 women have also tested positive for Covid-19 over the past 24 hours, thus taking the case count in the district to 47.
04-05-2020||---||Industrial activity to restart today||Chandigarh, May 3Industrial activity is set to restart in non-containment zones across the state tomorrow. According to new guidelines, IT industry will be allowed with 33 per cent staff in red zone, 50 per cent in orange zone and 100 per cent staff in green zone till May 10.Similarly, general industry will be functional with 50 per cent staff in red zone, 75 per cent in orange zone and 100 per cent in green zone. Besides, e-commerce firms will be allowed to deliver essential goods in red zone, all goods with 50 per cent staff in orange zone and all goods with 75 per cent staff in green zone.“All industrial units shall mandatory apply on the saralharyana portal by providing necessary details in order to generate requisite passes for their staff. All inter-state movement of goods and cargo, including empty trucks, will be allowed,” the guidelines stated.
04-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Villagers in Jhajjar dig up roads to stop ‘Covid carriers’ from Delhi||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, May 3Villagers have dug up interior roads leading to Delhi in several bordering villages under Badli and Bahadurgarh sub-divisions of Jhajjar to stop cross-border movement as the district emerged a Covid hotspot with 42 cases in one week. Similarly, several inner roads connecting Gurugram district with the National Capital have also been dug up.The roads were dug up by the village gram panchayat, reportedly at the behest of the district police which identified 34 interior roads in 14 bordering villages that were being used to commute to Delhi in a clandestine manner. These villages include Soldha, Ladrawan, Khairpur, Mukandpur, Issarheri, Siddhipur, Bamdoli, Badhsa, Lohat, Dariyapur, Badli, Majri, Gubhana and Luksar.Soldha village Sarpanch Jogender said 60 of his villagers working with Delhi Police, Municipal Corporation Delhi and hospitals used to travel to Delhi for work every day.Shri Bhagwan, husband of Issarheri village’s sarpanch Poonam, said seven roads leading to Jhadoda, Mitrau and Kair villages of Delhi had been dug up in the village while barricading had been put up on the Issarheri-Surkhpur border by both Haryana and Delhi police.Krishan of Luksar village said three roads of his village leading to Mundhela and Bakargarh in Delhi have been dug up. “People do not hesitate to engage in brawls when we resist their movement. Police should start patrolling to check the movement.”Jhajjar SP Ashok Kumar said the roads had been closed to check entry of outsiders without a valid reason. “The action was taken on getting information about cross-border travelling on these interior roads. Inter-state nakas have been set up at 10 crucial border points while several others have also been barricaded to check public movement.”
04-05-2020||Sushil Manav||5K tests & counting, BPS College plays key role in Covid battle||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3While Pt BD Sharma Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, is playing a stellar role in Haryana’s Covid battle, BPS Medical College for Women at Khanpur Kalan in Sonepat has also made a tremendous contribution by testing over 5,500 samples so far.The college’s Virus Research and Diagnostic laboratory (VRDL) was approved for Covid tests on March 13 with a capacity of 120 tests a day. However, it has been giving output of over 400 tests a day by using sample pooling technique ever since the need arose to scale up testing in the state.From March 13 to March 31, the lab tested 154 samples, while 87 more were tested from April 1 to 7, 326 till April 14 and a as many as 861 tests were conducted from April 15 to April 21. The cumulative number of tests stood at 5,241 on the evening of April 30 and a whopping 453 were performed in 24 hours, taking the total to 5,573 by Friday.The number of samples tested in BPS Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan, is second only to PGIMS-Rohtak that has conducted over 10,000 tests.Associate Professor of Microbiology Dr Sarita Yadav, who has been designated Principal Investigator of the VRDL, said a staff of 15 has been working since the lab started, but some like Dr Sandeep, Manisha, Pankaj and Reeta had been working round-the-clock.Dr Yadav said the lab has been testing nasopharyngeal swab samples of suspected Covid patients based on real-time Reverse-Transcript Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). The laboratory technique combines reverse transcription of RNA into DNA (in this context called complementary DNA or cDNA) and amplification of specific DNA targets using polymerase chain reaction (PCR).“In the first step, we extract RNA from the samples manually. This is the stage when laboratory staff is at risk of contracting infection since they are handling the samples directly. Hence, this part of the test is done wearing personal protection equipment. This step requires three hours,” explained Dr Yadav.Pool testing a game-changer
04-05-2020||---||Centre to review districts every week||Chandigarh, May 3The government is working on bringing the health and economic conditions of people back on track and is taking important steps in this direction.Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora gave directions regarding lockdown 3.0 to all Deputy Commissioners, Superintendents of Police and other senior officers during the crisis coordination committee meeting today.She said as per directions issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, curfew would be imposed in the state from 7 pm to 7 am from May 4 while movement of traffic would be permitted during the day.She made it clear to the officers that their districts would be reviewed every week by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs.Additional Chief Secretary for Home Vijai Vardhan said to ensure social distancing in special trains for migrant labourers to send them to their respective states, only 1,200 labourers would be allowed per train. A day before departure, they would be kept close to the station so that they could be screened, he said.Director General of Police Manoj Yadava directed Superintendents of Police to ensure seamless management of traffic and sporting of masks in cars. He said anyone spitting in public places should be fined as per rules. He said truck drivers returning from long-distance trips from outside the state should be screened at police check points.
04-05-2020||Karnal||Waive holding charges, rice millers urge government||Rice millers have requested the state government not to levy holding charges as they won’t able to deliver custom milled rice (CMR) to the government till the wheat season ends. They have stated that due to the lockdown, transportation has been halted and the government has converted their rice mills into wheat purchase centres, where labour has been assigned work.“We have delivered around 60 per cent CMR to the government, but are unable to deliver the remaining rice,” said Vinod Goel, senior vice-president of the Haryana Rice Millers and Dealers Association. — TNS
04-05-2020||Sushil Manav||In six days, Covid cases go up by 50%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3TB  MACHINE NOW TESTS COVID SAMPLESAuthorities claim the CB-NAAT’s output is four samples an hour, which is faster and will thus ramp up testingKarnal Civil Surgeon Dr Ashwani Ahuja said trial of the CB-NAAT machine after changing its cartridge was successfulWith this machine, capacity to test samples has increased to around 400 a day in Karnal, he said — Parveen AroraThe sudden spike in the number of Covid cases in the state during the past one week notwithstanding, the Haryana Health Department seems unperturbed and maintains that this is due to increased testing.From 294 positive cases last Tuesday evening (excluding 14 Italian nationals), the number increased sharply to 437 as of Sunday, an increase of 50 per cent in just six days. Fourteen more persons tested Covid-positive on Wednesday, 23 on Thursday, 27 on Friday, 25 on Saturday and a whopping 56 on Sunday. Also, two new deaths were reported during these six days.Many of those who tested positive were from Bahadurgarh town of Jhajjar who contracted the infection from Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi or from other NCR towns that too have some connection with the National Capital.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, Haryana, however, said the spike was largely because of increased testing of samples after screening of high-risk individuals in the state.“This higher number of cases is on account of inclusion of a large number of groups in the sampling. Vegetable vendors account for a large chunk of cases. Frontline health workers, police, sanitation and pharmacy workers, depot holders, journalists and newspaper vendors are also being covered in this sampling since their possibility of coming in contact with an infected person is high on account of the nature of their job,” said Arora.He said besides these, people found with symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) during intensive screening were also being covered.Data provided by the Health Department in its daily bulletins shows that from 26,148 RT-PCR (real-time reverse-transcript polymerase chain reaction) Covid tests till Wednesday, Haryana has been able to perform 35,278 tests till Sunday – an increase of 9,000 tests in six days.This higher number of cases is on account of inclusion of a large number of groups in the sampling. Vegetable vendors account for a large chunk of cases.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health DepartmentGiven the fact that it takes nearly two days for the reports to come, the number of tests during these days is even higher as till Monday, the state had performed only 22,993 tests.“CB-NAAT machines used to diagnose drug-resistant tuberculosis have been put to test Covid samples and we have procured special cartridges for the same. Four such machines will be put to use at Civil Hospital, Panchkula, and the rest in government medical colleges at Karnal, Khanpur Kalan in Sonepat and Nuh,” explained Arora.
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Government mulls variable cess on liquor: Dy CM||To compensate pockets and institutions adversely hit by the Covid pandemic, the Haryana Government is considering imposition of a variable ‘Covid cess’ on liquor.This was stated by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala here today. With revenue taking a hit due to the lockdown, Dushyant said, “Since society sees liquor as a ‘sin product’, the government is considering a new Covid cess for revival of those areas or those institutions which need support.”Since society sees liquor as a ‘sin product’, the government is considering a new Covid cess for revival of those areas or those institutions which need support. Discussions are on. A fixed cess is not possible.Dushyant Chautala, Deputy CMIn reply to the question on the cess the government is considering, he said, “Discussions are on. A fixed cess is not possible.”The Deputy Chief Minister indicated that the cess could be anywhere between Rs 2 and Rs 20, mentioning that it would be on percentage basis.While stating that no decision had been taken on the opening of liquor vends, Dushyant sought suggestions on whether these should be opened or delayed further.“Proper social distancing will be maintained at the vends when these are opened,” he said. The state government has also sought report from Deputy Commissioners on whether vends should be opened or not as the Covid situation varies from district to district, he said.Maintaining that the stock of warehouses involved in liquor distribution was checked thrice, he said that irregularities were found at 53 places for which FIRs had been registered and fines imposed.Dushyant said that the state government had rolled out relaxations from April 20 for industry. “The industry will be given more relaxations in two phases of May 4 to 10 and May 11 to 18. However, these will be given with more strictness than the MHA guidelines so that our industry is revived on the one hand, while on the other, we are able to check Covid spread,” he said.While maintaining that procurement was proceeding smoothly and more grain had been procured in comparison to previous years despite labour shortage, he said that the criticism of the Congress had no takers since this was crisis time and urged the Opposition to refrain from playing politics.Hitting out at AICC media in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala for his criticism of the Khattar government on the recent hike in fuel rates, Dushyant said, “He should look up his dictionary and find an apt word for the three hikes affected by the Congress government in Rajasthan if he calls a minimal hike of Re 1 as ‘Jazia tax’.” — TNS
04-05-2020||---||Experts caution against risks of anti-malarial drug||Rohtak, May 3Several medical experts have warned against the indiscriminate use of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for the prevention or treatment of coronavirus as it may cause life-threatening health issues, including heart disorders and convulsions.Safety-monitoring and critical appraisal pertaining to the adverse drug reactions (ADR) of certain anti-malarial, anti-HIV, anti-influenza and antibiotic medicines being administered to Covid patients is being carried out by the Department of Pharmacology of PGIMS-Rohtak as a part of a national study.“The department is among the ADR Monitoring Centres under the Pharmaco-vigilance Programme of India, a flagship programme of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare being spearheaded by the Indian Pharmacopia Commission (IPC),” said Dr MC Gupta, Head of the Department of Pharmacology and Coordinator of the programme.It may be pertinent to mention that anti-malarial drug HCQ, anti-HIV drugs lopinavir and ritonavir, anti-inflammatory drug oseltamivir and antibiotic drug azithromycin are being given for prevention and/or treatment of Covid.“As per the data collected by us, some of the patients who are taking HCQ have reported mild disorders like nausea, vomiting, headache, watery eyes and diarrhea, but the drug has the potential to cause life-threatening health issues like heart disorders and convulsions,” said Dr Gupta.The medical expert cautions that if HCQ has to be given to a patient for prevention or treatment of Covid, it should be administered under the prescription of a competent physician and in compliance with the relevant guidelines of the ICMR.
04-05-2020||Ambala||Ambala man arrested for giving shelter to foreigners||The Ambala police have arrested an Ambala resident for providing shelter to nine foreign nationals, including eight of Nepal and one of Sri Lanka, during the lockdown period.The suspect has been identified as Mohammad Nazim of Shivpuri colony. He was produced before a court which sent him to judicial custody. A case was registered at Mahesh Nagar Police Station on April 2. The nine foreign nationals, related to Tablighi Jamaat, have already been arrested and sent to judicial custody. They were on their tourist visas but were indulged in missionary activities.Police spokesman said Mohammad Nazim has been arrested for providing shelter to foreign nationals during the lockdown. — TNS
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown relaxations could be fatal, warns Vij||3,700 HARYANA RESIDENTS ABROAD On sending migrants from Haryana to other states, he said, “The Railways has told us that if the origin and destination states agree, then a non-AC sleeper class train could run which would take 1,200 persons in one trip.”Expressing concern over relaxations announced by CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday, Health Minister Anil Vij, who also holds the charge of home ministry, said easing of lockdown restrictions could be “fatal”. “I am scared that such relaxations could be fatal. Being the Home Minister and Health Minister of the state, I am saying this,” he said.On Saturday, the CM announced that all markets and shops would be opened, provided they follow social distancing strictly, industrial activity would be allowed in all three zones — red, orange and green — with conditions. Government buses would ply at 50 per cent capacity in green zones, barber shops, spa-saloons, autos and taxis will not be allowed in the red zone and movement of individuals for non-essential services will be allowed from 7 am to 7 pm.On opening of shops, Vij said, “When we are opening shops and markets, how we can stop anyone. I don’t know at what level the decision has been taken. But I am scared about it. My doctors and nurses are getting infected. My concerns are rising. When your health staff has started getting infected in big numbers...” Vij’s comments came on the day when the state witnessed the highest spike in Covid-positive cases, as per health bulletins. The state is going through a third wave of Covid cases where a number of cases were being reported due to infection spread from Delhi. — TNS
04-05-2020||Ravinder Saini
||Isolated after Covid duty, doctors, nurses read books, watch TV||Tribune News Service Rohtak, May 3 Resident doctors and nursing staff taking care of Covid patients at Pt BD Sharma PGIMS are being quarantined at Tilyar Tourist Complex here for 14 days.  This is being done as a safety measure to check the spread of Covid as the doctors and nurses are exposed to Covid patients. Sources said eight doctors and 12 nurses have so far completed their quarantine period successfully while four doctors are — at present — under quarantine at Tilyar Tourist Complex.  Two of them had been deputed at the isolation ward set up for Covid patients while two others were working at the observation ward at the PGIMS. “We are spending quarantine time studying, watching TV, using internet and talking to family members and friends over the phone. Though several doctors and nurses are quarantined here, we do not meet one another. If we need to talk to someone, we do so over the phone following the quarantine protocols,” said Dr Vaibhav hailing from Mahendragarh. Dr Renu, another doctor, said they were feeling relaxed after the hectic work at the Covid ward. “We have books to read. There is a TV in the room for getting updates on Covid, watching films and other programmes,” she added. Dr Dhruv Choudhry, State Nodal Officer for Covid and head of pulmonary and critical care medicine at PGIMS, said the doctors and other staff working in the Covid ward are required to go under isolation after one week of taking care of Covid patients. “The doctors and nurses rejoin duty after the isolation period of 14 days,” he added. Dr Deepak Jain, Associated Professor at the PGIMS, said the doctors and nurses were being quarantined as a precautionary measure. “Sample for Covid test is taken if anyone develops Covid-like symptoms. Otherwise, they start working again after the quarantine period,” he added. Ashok Chopra, manager at Tilyar Tourist Complex, informed that 11 rooms had been booked for doctors and nursing staff of PGIMS. “Though our restaurant is closed due to the lockdown, food is being cooked especially for doctors and nurses staying here so that they do not have any problem,” he added.
04-05-2020||htak||Youth nabbed for parents’ murder||A couple of Pakasma village in the district have been bludgeoned to death, allegedly by their son. A dispute over money is stated to be the reasons behind the murder. The deceased have been identified as Brahmjit and Sumitra. Their bodies were found lying in Naunand village, near Pakasma, on Sunday. The police registered a case and arrested the couple’s son Pawan alias Boda (26). He is unmarried and used to live with his parents. Sampla SHO Kulbeer Singh said Pawan bludgeoned his parents to death with an iron pipe and confessed to the crime.  Sumitra’s brother Ram Mehar said, “Pawan had an altercation with his father at the grain market on Saturday and he kept on threatening him with dire consequences.” —TNS
04-05-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana initiative to map villages goes national||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3Haryana’s trail-blazing project of mapping villages to create a record of rights for “abadi” (inhabitant) areas using drone survey has gone national soon after its completion in Karnal’s Sirsi village while 75 villages are halfway through.Haryana’s initiative and its blueprint have been adopted by the Centre after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his interaction with panchayati raj representatives on April 24, announced launch of Svamitva scheme for demarcation of land in rural areas on the lines of the state’s project.It emerged during the survey that there was no record available for the inhabited area in villages. We pushed for this since it will empower villagers, who will be able to leverage their property for loans and other financial assistance and allow better planning in villages.Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterIn a letter to CM Manohar Lal Khattar, Union Minister for Agriculture, Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Narendra Singh Tomar wrote the state’s experience in mapping Sirsi helped the Centre formulate its plan. The project began in March last year.“It was a new concept since the ‘lal dora’ area had never been mapped before and the record of agricultural land had not been updated for nearly 70 years,” explained Lt Gen (retd) Girish Kumar, Surveyor General, Survey of India (SoI).Beginning from scratch since there were no boundaries on the ground in inhabited areas, the SoI, with the cooperation of the panchayat and in consultation with villagers, demarcated the land of individual households with white chalk, which could be captured by the drone. This was followed by a second meeting with the gram panchayat to identify every household and finalise the record.Close to the heart of the Chief Minister, who monitors progress of the drone survey and mapping on a monthly basis, this project, now adopted by the Centre, will be carried forward in Haryana and villages of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
04-05-2020||---||Man, woman commit suicide||Karnal, May 3A 24-year-old man and 20-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by jumping before a goods train in the wee hours today near Gharaunda railway station.The deceased were identified as Krishan Kumar, a resident of Jai Singh Colony in Gharaunda, and Sangeeta of Taraori. The police suspect it to be a case of love affair as both were relatives and married to different persons.Sangeeta was the niece of Krishna’s wife and she got married around two months back. As per police, Krishan went missing on April 28 and Sangeeta on Saturday evening. Both were found dead on Sunday on the railway tracks.Tara Chand, SHO, GRP Karnal, said they committed suicide by jumping before a goods train. They have conducted proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.
04-05-2020||---||Varsity staff to take half pay||Palwal, May 3The staff of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU) at Dudhola village in the district have agreed to wait six months to receive half of their salary in view of the Covid pandemic.With the staff strength of 54, the salary amount per month comes to around Rs10 lakh.A spokesperson of the university said the decision was taken at an online meeting this morning. Stating that while VC Raj Nehru has agreed to defer taking his full salary for six months and donating his three-month salary to the CM Relief Fund, the other staff have agreed to wait six months to receive half of their salary.Earlier, the 250 member staff of JC Bose YMCA University here had announced to give one-day salary to the tune of Rs 25 lakh to the CM Relief Fund. The university had also provided cash help of Rs 2 lakh to the district administration.
