04-04-2020||---||Mewat medical college in Haryana converted into exclusive Covid hospital||Chandigarh, April 4Ramping up its preparations to tackle the novel coronavirus, the Haryana Government has announced that Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College in Nalhar will now be an exclusive COVID-19 hospital.The college has a capacity of 600 beds.Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora shared this while presiding over the meeting of the Crisis Coordination Committee through video-conferencing here on Saturday.She directed the officers that the patients who are already admitted to the hospital should be immediately shifted to nearby hospitals after duly following all transfer protocols as per the guidelines. Apart from this, it should also be ensured that the availability and supply of adequate medical equipments including PPE kits, masks etc in this hospital. She directed that the officers should also ensure that exclusive COVID wards are made in the medical colleges and hospitals across the state.The Chief Secretary further directed that possibilities should be explored to convert the medical colleges into exclusively COVID hospitals. Private laboratories should be identified in each district which can be designated for COVID-19 testing and along with this, the availability of rapid testing kits should be ensured in every hospital and medical college, she added.The Chief Secretary directed that the order for rate capping of vegetables has already been issued and all Deputy Commissioners should ensure that the shops and street hawkers should not sell the vegetables beyond the capped rate. She further shared that the rate capping order should be widely circulated on social media so that people can be aware of the rates.  She directed that the officers should also ensure that the rate list is pasted outside the shops and on the carts of the street hawkers. She further directed that the rate capping of moong dal and mustard oil should also be done.She directed that in the districts and villages where the positive cases of COVID-19 had been reported, there the number of milkman supplying milk in those areas should be decreased and focus should be on increasing the supply of packed milk. She directed that the close watch should be kept on overcharging of any essential commodity. She directed that it should also be ensured that petrol pumps located on highways should remain open. She directed that proper monitoring of sadhus living in old dharamshala should be done and thermal scanning and social distancing of these sadhus be ensured.Meanwhile, during the meeting, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance Department TVSN Prasad was informed that to avoid overcrowding in the banks, the State Government has made a mechanism so that the beneficiaries coming to the banks withdraw their money in a staggered manner.
04-04-2020||---||Doctors, paramedics fighting Covid battle to stay in tourism resorts||Chandigarh, April 4Doctors and paramedics, who are fighting battle against Covid in Haryana, will be able to stay for free in tourist resorts of Haryana Tourism Corporation so that they can stay away from their families and to save them from exposure.On the directions of the State government, the Haryana Tourism Corporation has issued directions to the tourist resorts across Haryana that district administration be allowed to use the rooms of the resorts for lodging and boarding of doctors and paramedics who are fighting against Covid.“You are aware that Covid-19 has been declared epidemic by the government and in the present circumstances, doctors and paramedics, who have been fighting a battle against Covid pandemic on the frontline, are the most vulnerable groups. The matter was discussed with the higher authorities and it was decided that the district administrations be allowed to use boarding and lodging facilities free of cost at the tourist complexes across the state for doctors and paramedics so that they can stay separately after the duty hours without putting their family members at risk,” said a communication by the Managing Director of the HTC.Asking the staff to prepare the rooms, the MD has requested the civil surgeons to ask people to check the hygiene in the rooms.
04-04-2020||---||8 new coronavirus positive cases in Faridabad; 2 Bhiwani men also test positive||Faridabad, April 4Eight new cases were found Covid positive in Faridabad. With this the number of coronavirus positive cases in the district has gone up to 14.Of the eight new cases five are those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi, while three others are routine patients whose samples had been sent for testing.The result of 42 samples are still awaited. One patient has been discharged after recovery.2 Bhiwani men test positiveBhiwani: Two men, one each from Sandwa and Manheru villages, of the district have tested positive for coronavirus.The health officials rushed to the villages and were trying to locate the contacts of the persons found positive.Those found positive had attended the Nizamuddin event in Delhi.
04-04-2020||---||52 more from Nizamuddin meet test corona positive at Jhajjar’s Cancer Institute||Jhajjar, April 4As many as 52 more people, who attended the religious meet at Nizamuddin Markaj in Delhi and are isolated at National Cancer Institute (NCI) at Badsha village here, on Friday tested Covid positive taking the number of those affected with the virus to 106.In all, 120 such people were brought to the NCI from Delhi in three batches on Tuesday and Wednesday. As many as 54 among them tested Covid positive on Thursday while the report of 52 more suspected Covid patients was also found positive on Saturday, said Nodal officer for Covid at the NCI.
04-04-2020||---||Jhajjar woman ‘tears off uniform’ of woman constable, threatens to 'spread coronavirus’||Jhajjar, April 4A woman not only allegedly manhandled a woman constable but also tore her uniform when the latter tried to stop her for enquiry in Bahadurgarh town on Friday.The woman of Chhotu Ram Nagar also allegedly threatened to spread coronavirus.The women constables overpowered her and took her to the police station. A case under the IPC and Disaster Management Act has been registered against the woman on the complaint of constable Rekha posted at Women Police Station.The incident took place when constables Asha, Rekha and other cops were on duty at Sector 9 in Bahadurgarh to ensure lockdown.As per the complaint, the woman kicked Asha's stomach and manhandled her saying she didn’t care for the lockdown. She also threatened of spreading coronavirus.Sources said some other cops who were deputed there made a video of the incident. The video later went viral on social media in which the woman was seen manhandling and abusing the constable.Naresh Kumar, Investigation Officer, said a case against the woman had been registered.
04-04-2020||---||13 more coronavirus positive cases in Haryana’s Palwal, all Tablighi participants||Palwal, April 4Thirteen more Covid positive cases have been reported from Palwal.All positive cases are of the Tablighi Jamaat participants, who had come here on March 13.Earlier, three of the Jamaat participants, who are Bangladesh nationals, were also found positive.One person has been discharged after recovery. While 12 people have been booked by police, all positive cases have been admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital here.
04-04-2020||The police registered 26 FIRs against 42 persons in the district for violating the lockdown in the past 24 hours. A police spokesperson said all accused were later released on bail as per provisions of the regulations. He said the action was taken to curb the movement of residents who tend to ventre out of their homes without purpose and violate norms of social distancing. Challans were also issued against about 24 vehicles in this period. TNS||Faridabad 42 arrests, 26 FIRs in 24 hrs||Ambala Spare parts shops exemptedOwners of shops selling farm equipment parts and mechanics of these machines have been exempted from the lockdown. They have been allowed to run their shops so that machines can be repaired for the wheat harvesting season. DC Ashok Sharma said farmers, labourers working in fields, custom hiring centres and movement of combine harvesters were exempted from the lockdown. TNSBhiwani App for home delivery of goodsThe district administration has launched a mobile application, 'Bhiwani Bazaar', to deliver medicines, groceries and daily essentials at doorstep. This is the first government-developed app for home delivery of essentials in Haryana. DC Ajay Kumar said the residents could place the order on the app, by calling the vendor on the number provided or through WhatsApp. It can be downloaded from the Google Play store. The DC said no additional charges would be levied for home delivery. At present, 40 general stores, seven vegetable vendors, one milk supplier and 10 medical shops have been linked to the app. TNSFaridabad 4,000 homes sanitised in Sec 3The Residents Welfare Association (RWA) of Sector 3 here sanitised 4,000 houses in the densely-populated area. Association president Subhash Lamba said the drive was started on March 29 and all houses in the area would be sanitised in one week. He said the sector is one the largest residential pockets of the district and the state with around 10,000 houses. The five-member team lead by RWA secretary Rattan Lal Rana is following social-distancing norms and precautions, he said. TNSChd Crackdown on rumour-mongersTo tighten the noose around rumor-mongers spreading provocative and misleading messages regarding Covid on social media, Director, Information, Public Relations and Languages Department, PC Meena has constituted teams at the state and district levels. They will monitor Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, web portals, news channels and other social media sites to nip those involved in circulating fake news, spreading sensationalism and misinformation about Covid. TNS
04-04-2020||---||Businessmen with big power connections to get relief, says Khattar||Chandigarh, April 3Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday announced relief for industrialists, businessmen and others using big power connections, under which, if the consumption for 50KW is 50 per cent or less, then the fixed charges of the last and the present month will be waived.For high-tension connections larger than 50KW, the fixed charges up to a maximum limit of Rs 10,000 will be waived in the bill.The Chief Minister made this announcement while addressing the people of the state here on Friday. He also announced that the lockdown period will be considered ‘zero period’ for the contractors and they would be given rebate for the same.Khattar also urged industrialists, businessmen and traders to take care of the employees and laboures, and not ask them to leave their jobs or deduct their salaries. He said in the hour of crisis, everyone should stand together to fight against COVID-19.
04-04-2020||Panipat||ADA flouts civil services rule, suspended||The state government on Friday suspended an Assistant District Attorney (ADA) posted here after a video went viral on social media. During the suspension, his headquarter is fixed in the office of District Attorney, Karnal. As per the details available, a video went viral on social media on March 25 during the lockdown. In the 24-second video, there were talks on unknown issues between police officers on duty during the lockdown and the ADA. Taking stringent note over it, the government sought report from the DA and the Police Department. Following the reports, the Governor released suspension orders of the ADA on Friday. Besides, the competent authority has decided to chargesheetthe ADA for major penalty under Rule-7 of the Haryana Civil Services (Punishment &Appeal) Rules, 2016. — TNS
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||On Jamaat trail, cops track down 1,305||The Haryana Police have tracked down 1,305 Tablighi Jamaat attendees in 15 districts across the state, most of whom have been lodged in quarantine facilities.Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said a detailed plan was prepared and all district police units were pressed into action to track them down.He said clear directions were given that these workers constituted a high-risk group and should be handled carefully as per protocol. He said most of them were immediately sent to quarantine centres established in various districts.About 500 of them admitted to having visited Banglewali Masjid in the Nizamuddin area of south Delhi, also known as “Markaz”.Eight persons, three each from Palwal and Nuh and two from Ambala, have tested positive for Covid so far.The DGP disclosed that 106 Tablighi Jamaat attendees were foreign nationals who had been tracked down in Faridabad, Ambala, Panipat, Palwal and Nuh districts.Most of these foreign nationals were from Indonesia, Philippines, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Thailand. All of them were placed under quarantine and their passports confiscated. Five separate FIRs had been registered under the IPC and Foreigners Act in these districts.The DGP said 933 attendees belonging to various states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Bihar, who were in Haryana for Tablighi Jamaat work, had been tracked down.All of them were sent to quarantine centres or the mosques where they were found. Their samples were collected and sent for testing.The police also tracked down 266 attendees hailing from Haryana who had visited other states for Tablighi Jamaat work and returned to their villages during the last 10 days.They were placed under quarantine as well. They mostly belonged to Gurugram, Panchkula, Yamunanagar, Panipat, Nuh, Sonepat, Jind and Palwal districts.An interesting fact was that about half of those tracked down throughout the state were found in Nuh district. As many as 636 of them, including 57 foreign nationals and 528 from other states, were tracked in Nuh alone. — TNS
04-04-2020||---||Nine new cases in Haryana, tally mounts to 44||Chandigarh, April 3Nine new cases of Covid were reported in Haryana on Friday, taking the number of people infected with the virus to 44 in the state, according to a medical bulletin issued by the state government.The nine include five patients — four of whom are foreigners — who returned to the state after attending a religious congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Their passports have been confiscated.According to the bulletin, of the 44 patients, three belong to Kerala, two are from Maharashtra and one from Uttar Pradesh. While the Kerala patient has been undergoing treatment in Nuh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh patients have been admitted to hospitals in Gurugram. Thirteen patients, including nine from Gurugram, have been discharged so far. The state has already started a round-the-clock Covid Call Centre to assist people.5 cases in G’gram after 9 daysAfter no case in the pastnine days, five patients tested positive in Gurugram on Friday. These include a Tablighi Jamaati who had reportedly attended the Nizamuddin convention and was rounded up on Wednesday night. A man and son, who works in a Mumbai-based MNC and had returned in the last week of March, also tested positive. They are residents of Sun City. Two women as young as 22 tested positive too. They are reportedly employed in a renowned city hospital.Nuh reports 3 positive casesNuh district that had till date managed to keep the virus at bay, recorded three positive cases — all Jamaatis rounded up by the Health Department. District authorities have so far rounded up around 600 Jamaatis in Nuh of which nine were symptomatic and were isolated and tested. Three out of these have tested positive for Covid.Authorities have started the procedure of screening other Jamaatis currently in quarantine. District health authorities have prepared a contact trail of the trio and zeroed down on 16 persons who were in touch with them and is screening them. The Jamaatis reportedly spent 10 days in Palwal district after leaving Delhi before coming to Nuh and staying in local mosques.Farmer is Karnal’s 1st patientKarnal also reported its first Covid case from Rasin village in Gharaunda block. A 58-year-old man tested positive of the virus on Friday. Authorities said he has no travel history and is currently undergoing treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh. As per protocol, entry and exit points of Rasin village have been sealed and nobody is allowed to leave or enter the village till the completion of screening. Surrounding villages have also been sealed. Health check-up has been started in these villages, Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said.The Covid patient, a farmer, was admitted to Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) on March 25 following respiratory and diabetes-related issues. He was referred to the PGI on April 1 and before his referral, a sample was sent for Covid testing, the report of which is awaited, the DC said. “The PGI also tested him for Covid and his sample returned positive today,” he said.21-year-old Panipat nurse Covid-free, out of hospital
04-04-2020||---||Post death, Ambala Cantt locality sealed||Ambala, April 3The congested Timber Market in Ambala Cantonment, where the 67-year-old Covid victim lived, has been sealed. The family of the victim has been home quarantined after taking samples of 13 contacts, including four family members and a maid.The 67-year-old, who died at the PGI in Chandigarh, was the first Covid death in the state. At least 84 persons in the district who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in the Nizamuddin area of New Delhi had been identified.Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, said five mosques in Ambala had been screened, where these persons were traced. He pointed out that two of them had tested positive, with one being shifted to the PGI in Chandigarh in a critical condition.While eight others were quarantined at a facility, the rest were quarantined at mosques and places of stay, he stated. Members of the community were asked to stay at home, maintain social distancing and practise hand hygiene practices, he said.A total of 1,205 persons had returned from foreign countries and at least 5,000 migrants reached the district since the national lockdown began, officials said.According to official statistics, 882 international travellers were still undergoing home quarantine and 323 had completed the mandatory period without showing any symptoms. Seven symptomatic travellers were kept in isolation and 26 were being quarantined at a facility.
04-04-2020||---||Faridabad hospital begins Covid test trials||Faridabad, April 3The ESI Medical College and Hospital here has launched the facility of testing Covid samples on a trial basis.This hospital is the third government-run laboratory in the state to start the facility after BPS Medical College, Khanpur Kalan in Sonepat and PGIMS, Rohtak.‘Results to be out within 24 hours’The formal sample testing at the ESI hospital will start after a trial run, which will go on for next few days…. The hospital has been given 2 machines and 400 testing kits. Once functional, the lab will give the test results within 24 hours. — Health Dept spokespersonA spokesperson of the Health Department said to date, all samples were being sent to other authorised laboratories and the NICD laboratory in New Delhi.Meanwhile, Dr Ram Bhagat, Deputy Civil Surgeon and Nodal Officer, Corona, said of 60 samples sent for testing, the reports of 44 were expected to be received late Friday night. He said while a total of 169 samples had been sent for testing in the district so far, the results of 103 had been found negative. Dr Bhagat said of 1,088 persons under surveillance, 156 had competed the 28-day period.A total of six samples tested positive to date, of which five patients were hospitalised, while a 53-year-old woman has been discharged after being recovered.In Palwal district, the number of persons under surveillance has reached 534. Of these, 71 persons have competed the period of 28 days. Of the remaining 463 persons, 10 are Bangladeshi nationals. The reports of 44 samples of total 70 are still awaited. Of the total four positive cases reported so far, three are still under treatment, while one has been discharged after recovery.Ration distributed in PalwalDC Naresh Narwal said the Food and Supply Department distributed the ration for April among 94,790 ration card holders and 65,232 children enrolled in the anganwadi centres in the district.
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||CS: Ensure availability of safety kits||Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora on Friday directed the officers concerned to ensure the adequate availability of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits in each district and explore and identify the textile industries that can manufacture these kits.  She was presiding over a meeting of the Crisis Coordination Committee via videoconferencing here on Friday. Showing concern about doctors, paramedics and health workers, she said it should also be ensured that the availability of essential medical equipment was made for their safety. The CS said the availability of ventilators, PPE kits and oxygen cylinders in each hospital must be ensured. She directed that a supervisor should be deployed at private labs. The CS said the facility of telemedicine and mobile OPDs should be started immediately. — TNS
04-04-2020||---||Rs 36 L donated under ‘Adopt a family’ drive||Karnal, April 3The district-level account, opened under the ‘Adopt a family’ campaign to provide food to slum-dwellers, labourers and the needy during the lockdown, has received Rs 36 lakh within six days.People from different sections of society have donated money. They have also offered to distribute free ration to the needy.Under the campaign, kits comprising essential items such as rice, flour, pulses, vegetables, salt, turmeric, mustard oil and soap are being distributed to the needy families living within the limits of the Karnal Municipal Corporation. More than 5,000 such families have been identified.“We are thankful to the people of Karnal, who are contributing to feed the poor,” said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav. He said Nitin Life Science Ltd contributed Rs 10 lakh, Pratap Public School Rs 5 lakh, IMA Karnal unit Rs 2.5 lakh, and Parmod Gupta and Amrik Singh donated Rs 2 lakh each. Maharana Pratap Bhawan Society contributed Rs 1,51,500 to the account.
04-04-2020||---||Amid curfew; keep ashes at crematoriums, orders DC||Karnal, April 3Ashes of at least 42 persons are waiting for ‘moksha’ at the five cremation grounds in the city and one at Kunjpura village. Due to the lockdown, families of the deceased are not able to immerse these in the Ganga in Haridwar.As per information gathered from five crematoriums, 42 persons died during the lockdown and days before its enforcement. The number could be high as each village had its own crematorium. After the lockdown, people were not allowed to commute, forcing grieving families to wait for immersion of ashes.“My father Subhash Chandh Mehta died on March 25. Due to restrictions, we could not perform ‘rasam kriya’ and had to hold ‘shanti path’ at home. Since nobody can go to Haridwar, we have kept the ashes at the cremation ground in the village,” said Pardeep Mehta of Kunjpura."The issue has come to my notice and we have no problem in issuing vehicle pass. I am sure that they will not get any priest in Haridwar for immersing the ashes. I appeal to grieved families to keep the ashes at the crematoriums till the situation is back to normal," said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.
04-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Kareva wedding amounts to remarriage by widow: Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 3When Suman married her brother-in-law three years after her husband’s death, she diligently moved an application for stopping pension under a welfare scheme. After she was confronted with a recovery notice, Suman claimed that a Kareva marriage did not amount to remarriage. Her argument failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Kareva or ‘Chaddar Andazi’ is performed in case of remarriage by a widow. The future husband puts a “chaddar” or white sheet over the would-be wife’s head as part of the ceremony.A Division Bench of the High Court had already held that there was ample evidence available to suggest that “chunni” ceremony was a prevalent form of marriage. Even under customary law, certain customary forms of marriage, including “Chaddar Andazi”, hadbeen recognised.Appearing before Justice Gill’s Bench in the present case, Suman’s counsel sought the quashing of a memo dated November 17, 2017, calling upon the petitioner to deposit widow pension under the Haryana Pension to Widows and Destitute Women Scheme Rules, 1988-1989. The amount was sought on the grounds that she was not entitled afterher remarriage.The counsel, on the other hand, submitted that she was entitled to receive the pension despite her Kareva marriage. Elaborating, he contended that there was no bar in the scheme for release of pension to a widow who remarried subsequently. In any case, a Kareva marriage did not translate into remarriage.Justice Gill asserted that pension was released to the petitioner under a social security scheme which aimed to provide for women rendered destitute due to death, physical or mental incapacity or desertion by husband. There was nothing on record to indicate that the petitioner was a destitute.
04-04-2020||
||Panchayat secy’s body found in canal||Karnal, April 3 The body of a panchayat secretary, who went missing on April 1, was found in an augmentation canal near Madhuban on Friday.  The deceased has been identified as Harsh (35), a resident of Sector 7 of Karnal. The police suspect it to be a suicide case as the family members told them he was under stress. ASI Parveen Kumar, investigating officer, said Harsh went missing on April 1 and his I20 car was found on the banks of the augmentation canal near Madhuban on April 2. On Friday, his body was fished out from the canal with the help of divers. Harsh was posted as panchayat secretary in a village in the Kunjpura block.
04-04-2020||---||15,850 labourers in 228 relief camps, says Home Secy||Chandigarh, April 3To stop movement of migrant labourers, Home Secretary Vijai Vardhan on Friday said 15,850 migrants were putting up in 228 relief camps. He said 573 relief camps and shelter homes were set up in the state.Measures by copsVardhan, along with Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, and DGP Manoj Yadava, addressed a press conference on Friday. Vardhan said strict instructions were issued for hassle-free movement of vehicles to make adequate arrangement of cattle fodder in gaushalas.He said officers of the rank of Additional Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary and IPS officers were deputed as nodal officers in each district to ensure the availability of adequate stock of essential food items. No complaint of shortage of food items or overpricing was received from any district, he added.From March 25, when the lockdown was imposed, 4,539 cases of violation have been registered in the state. Out of these, FIR has been registered in 948 cases and 1,374 people have been arrested. Apart from this, in 5,401 cases either challan has been issued or vehicle impounded for violation of provision of the Motor Vehicle Act.Arora said as a result of the multi-pronged strategy, the Haryana Government was successful in averting the situation of stage-3 (community transmission). At present, testing laboratories were functional at PGIMS, Rohtak, and Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, Sonipat. Five private labs in Gurugram were approved and would start taking samples in next few days, he said. Labs were being set up at Nuh, Hisar, Karnal, Rohtak and Panchkula, he added.Arora said 7,346 beds were identified in 374 isolation wards set up in the state. Quarantine facility in 3,243 rooms or dormitories for about 14,000 persons was available. He said six government and government-aided colleges, and 25 government and private hospitals were asked to set up dedicated wards for Covid patients. Besides, ESIC Hospital, Gurugram, ESIC Hospital, Faridabad, and Medeor Hospital, Manesar, were made dedicated Covid hospitals. Efforts were made to make World College of Medical Sciences and Research, Jhajjar, a COVID hospital, he said.
04-04-2020||Deepender Deswal
||Hisar youth stranded in Dubai, mother seeks help||Tribune News Service Hisar, April 3 The mother of a 23-year-old youth, a resident of Banbhori village of the district, has appealed to the administration to help her son return to India. Her son Dinesh Jangra is stuck in Dubai amid the Corovanvirus outbreak and unable to return home due to cancellation of flights. Kamlesh Devi released a video on Friday that went viral on social media, wherein she sought help of the administration and the government. When contacted, she said her son went to Dubai on tourist visa on January 25, which was set to expire later this month. She said her son was stuck in the town without help and exhausted the money he carried with him. “We have been sending money to him as he is staying in a rented accommodation in Dubai. I have also contacted the authorities concerned in Delhi. They have sought some papers, but waiting for help,” she said. Village sarpanch Satibr Singh said he would take up the matter with the district administration to assist Dinesh in reuniting with his family. Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni said she deputed a tehsildar to look into the matter, so that the administration could help the family.
04-04-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Unaware, they’re unable to get aid from state govt||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 3Due to lack of awareness, a large number of migrant labourers who have been rendered jobless due to the lockdown have not got any financial aid announced by the state government for workers of the unorganised sector.A survey of Ram Gopal Colony, where many such jobless migrant workers live with their families in rented accommodation, revealed that most of them had not filled in forms for grant of government aid due to lack of awareness.“We do not have any source of livelihood as construction work has stopped. We have not received any financial aid from the government. We do not know what forms to fill in and from where we will get these,” said Balram, hailing from Hamirpur district of Uttar Pradesh who worked as casual labourer.Reema of Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh, a daily-wager, rued that they had been rendered penniless due to the lockdown and could not return to their native places as means of transport were not available.Migrant labourers Kamlesh, Lalit, Asaram, Bhaiya Lal, Hemlata, Har Gobind, Sunita, Akhilesh, Girija, Rajabai, Pancham Lal, Ranjit, Jagmohan and Paragi Lal also lamented that they had hardly any money or ration left and did not know how they would feed their children and themselves.As of now, the hapless migrants were surviving on food packets given by voluntary social organisations, though they did not know how long this would continue.The only silver lining was that owners of some of the premises where these labourers had been putting up were not demanding rent.“We understand their plight. In the given circumstances, they are unable to pay rent. Instead of pressurising them, we arrange food for them from different sources,” said Meenu, a widow who had rented out some rooms to migrant labourers and largely depended on rental income.
04-04-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat
||Inadequate food, lodging make migrants head home||Tribune News Service Faridabad, April 3 Around two lakh migrant labourers have either moved out or are on the move to reach their villages from the district in view of the lockdown. The lockdown has exposed them to the problem of existence due to the lack of food and money as there is no work. Sources in the industry and district administration claimed that while the district has between six and eight lakh workers and labourers in the unorganised sector, the majority of them are faced with the problem of money and food due to the lockdown. “While a large number of such families have already moved out in the past week, thousands are likely to follow in view of the problems of food and lodging during the lockdown, that is likely to get extended for a month or more,” said an official of the Labour Department on condition of anonymity. DC Yashpal Yadav said that a total of 20 relief camps with a total capacity of 2,000 persons have been set up and 40 officials have been deputed to oversee relief operations in all the 40 wards of the city. It is claimed that three to four lakh migrants are those who have a ‘pucca’ house here and have been settled in the city for the past over a decade.  They are unlikely to move out as they have permanent employment in industry or private companies whose managements or owners have pledged to give them salary for the lockdown period as per the instructions of the government. The migrants who are dependent on self-employment like driving rickshaws and three-wheeler autos or had been working as roadside vendors are faced with the problem of survival as they have no guarantee of income.  As several labourers residing in local colonies as tenants have been asked to vacate by their landlords, the facility offered by the administration is meagre in comparison to the population. DC Yashpal Yadav said that he has issued orders for restraining the house owners from seeking rent of their premises from the tenants for the next month due to the financial problem faced by the workers and employees. He said food packets (prepared food) and loose ration items like wheat flour, sugar and cooking oil were being provided to the poor in various localities by the district Red Cross, NGOs and social workers.
04-04-2020||
||Kurukshetra bans retail sale in veggie markets||Kurukshetra, April 3 The district administration has banned the retail sale of vegetables and fruits in the vegetable markets of Kurukshetra to avoid mass gathering. Though the administration has already asked people to not visit markets and practise social distancing, a large number of people throng markets during early hours of the day. The retail buyers will be able to purchase vegetables and fruits from shops from 10 am to 4 pm and they can also avail of home delivery and door-to-door service. Meanwhile, Kulbir Singh, nodal officer for an organisation providing door-to-door supply, said, “The response has been good. The only issue that we are facing is that people have the tendency of picking vegetables from the lot, but we don’t allow customers to pick vegetables for their safety. As a result, only a handful of people are placing orders for home delivery. It will take time, but we are hopeful that people will adopt the practice.” District Horticulture Officer Joginder said, “There are 17 farmer produce organisations in Kurukshetra, but only two have started delivery services. We are motivating others to come forward.”
04-04-2020||Yamunanagar||Two held for obstructing public servant||The police on Friday arrested two persons on the charge of obstructing a public servant from discharging duty. On the complaint of the driver of Constable Sushil Kumar, a case was registered against Jai Kumar and Pawan Kumar. The complainant said Farakpur police station SHO Mukesh Kumar was patrolling in the Joriyan Naka area on Friday. Sushil said he was driving the official vehicle and they saw a tractor repair shop open. “I went to the shop. Two persons were present there. When I asked them to shut the shop, they started misbehaving and manhandling me. The SHO came and they misbehaved with him,” he added. The police said the accused were arrested. — TNS
04-04-2020||Ravinder Saini
||Farmers arrive at relief shelters to find workers||Tribune News Service Jhajjar, April 3 The ongoing labour crisis has forced mustard and wheat growers to approach Covid relief camps for getting the labourers back. At least 150 such labourers were taken from these camps to various villages. Farmers were giving an undertaking to the police that they would provide them accommodation and food during the lockdown. More than 1,000 migrant labourers were staying at 52 relief camps in the district. “The harvesting of mustard is going on while the wheat crop has reached maturity stage. Farmers are facing acute shortage of labour as many have returned to their villages due to the lockdown and many others are stuck at various places following restriction in movement,” said Om Prakash, a farmer. He maintained that farmers were now contacting their labourers at relief camps to persuade them to return to work. Since labourers were not satisfied with arrangements at relief camps, they were not hesitating in going with farmers to earn, besides getting accommodation and food, he added. Dalip, a farmer, took 17 migrant labourers from a relief camp at the Government Senior Secondary School to his native village Kolapur. He said all these labourers used to come to his village every year for harvesting of rabi crops. “They were on the way to my village when the lockdown was announced by the Prime Minister. They first got stuck in Delhi and then at Bahadurgarh. The police brought them to a relief camp in Jhajjar,” he said. He maintained that he was feeling relaxed after several days of stress as labourers would harvest the mustard and wheat crops spread over 30 acres while he would provide them wages and essential facilities. Jhajjar SDM Shikha said the farmers were allowed to take the labourers back on the condition that they would provide them all basic facilities during the lockdown. She said the farmers had given an undertaking in writing to that effect.
04-04-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Troubles come in threes for farmers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 3The fast-approaching harvesting season is turning out to be a nightmare for farmers and the state government’s announcement to begin mustard and wheat procurement from April 15 and April 20, respectively, has added to their troubles.Farmers are desperately looking for farmhands to harvest the crop, worried about storing the grain, troubled by the increasing cost of holding on to the produce and the subsequent chaos that awaits them when the mandis are finally opened.“The procurement date announced by the government is far away. Farmers will be stressed out and exhausted way before that. The exodus of labourers from UP and Bihar is the most immediate problem. Harvesting will begin in a week and the government expects that my wife and I can handle the entire crop cutting by ourselves,” says Krishan of Kirmara village in Hisar, adding that they managed a few farmhands but the police sent them packing.“The government expects us to delay harvesting, store our grain till the mandis open and then give us a bonus of Rs 50. The farmer will be finished by the end of this harvesting season,” he says. He has planted wheat in 6.5 acres and mustard in 3.5 acres and says he requires at least 15 labourers for a week for the harvesting.With his wheat crop spread over 9 acres of which five acres is on contract, Vir Bhan Dhull of Jind’s Ikkas village says the farmers’ work and costs will be doubled on account of closed mandis. “We would take the grain from the farms to the mandis, sell it and be over with it. Under the new directions, we will harvest it, bring it home and take it to the mandis when these open. This means we will pay double labour. Add to that the increased cost of hiring farm hands. Against Rs 400, the few hands available are asking for Rs 700,” Dhull says.Storage of grain is also weighing heavy on farmers minds. With wheat growing over 32 acres, Amarjit Singh of Katlari village in Kurukshetra, does not know where to keep the grain till it can be taken to the mandis. “We will have to rely on a harvester to cut the crop. If the government gives us bags to store the grain, we might be able to manage. If not, we will be forced to explore options since saving the produce is our compulsion. The government has conveniently shifted the onus on to us and we have nowhere to go,” he laments, adding that the scene in the mandis, when these open, will be chaotic.Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurman Singh said they had written to the state government to bail out the farmer. “We suggested arhtiyas lift the produce from fields and the government give Rs 10,000 to the farmers to manage harvesting and storage and deduct this from the final payment among others. We are yet to hear from the government,” he said. He also shared his apprehensions over mismanagement likely when all farmers reach the mandis together to sell their produce. “This will be the worst crop season for the farmer as hewill pay more than he will get,” he said.Combines’ unavailability, rains hit harvesting
