04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Speed up work on big projects, Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant tells PWD||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Friday asked the Public Works (Buildings and Roads) Department to speed up work on big projects under it and ensure that these are completed in time.No excuse will be accepted if a project is delayed, Chautala added.Officers of the department and the construction agencies should ensure the completion of all these projects on priority so that people of the state can get the benefit on time, the minister said.The deputy chief minister, who also holds the portfolio of the Public Works (Buildings and Roads) Department, reviewed projects worth over Rs 100 crore of the department, an official statement said here.Chautala said construction agencies not completing work within the stipulated time period will be penalised.He assured that no project will get affected due to lack of funds.It was informed in the meeting that the Kunjpura-Karnal-Kaithal-Khanauri road from Chidav Mor to Kaithal would be widened from two-lane to four-lane, and this road is expected to be completed by March 2021. The Karnal-Meerut road will also be widened.The deputy chief minister expressed displeasure over the delay in construction of the Bhiwani bypass.He warned the agencies that they would be penalised if the work of construction of the four-lane Pinjore bypass, the government medical college in Narnaul area and that of Dr BR Ambedkar National Law University project in Sonepat is not completed within the stipulated time period. PTI
04-09-2020||---||PTI aspirants complain of discrepancies in selection exam||Rohtak, September 4Several aspirants for the posts of Physical Training Instructor (PTI) have complained of multiple discrepancies in the question-paper of the examination conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission on August 23 to select suitable candidates for the post.“There were some questions for which the correct answers were not given in the options, while there were more than one correct options for another question. Besides, there were grammatical/linguistic/factual mistakes in other questions,” says a candidate.Another candidate points out that previously, the exam used to be of 90 minutes and the total marks/questions were also 90. But this time, the duration of the exam was 75 minutes and the number of questions was 100.A number of candidates have got their complaints regarding the matter registered, seeking immediate redressal of their grievance.
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Highest single-day spike of 1,884 fresh cases takes Haryana’s COVID-19 tally to 71,983||With the highest single-day spike of 1,884 cases, and 19 deaths, the COVID-19 tally in the state reached 71,983 on Friday.Two deaths each were recorded from Faridabad, Rewari, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Kaithal while one death each took place in Ambala, Rohtak, Panipat, Hisar, Panchkula, Jhajjar and Yamunanagar. A 47-year-old male resident from Sector 37 and 71-year-old man from Parvatiya colony in Faridabad died. A 55-year-old woman of Deha Basti of Karnal city was also among the casualties.  The maximum cases came from Gurugram at 229, followed by Karnal (223), Faridabad (220), Panipat (138), Ambala (127) and Panchkula (127). The fresh cases in Ambala district included maximum 59 from Ambala City, 20 from Chaurmastpur, 19 from Ambala Cantonment, 10 from Naraingarh, nine from Barara, eight from Mullana, and two from Shahzadpur.  A total of 1,282 people got cured of Covid taking the tally of discharged cases to 57,171 with a recovery rate of 79.42 per cent. District-wise cases  District                Cases          Deaths                      Faridabad         13,338           176                     Gurugram          12,764          135                      Sonepat           4,845              41                      Rewari            3,845               23                    Ambala            4,235              37                     Rohtak            3,200              33                      Panipat           4,204              51                     Karnal            3,475               39                      Hisar             2,702                19                    Palwal            1,595               12                    Panchkula         2,799            25                Mahendragarh       1,970         1                      Jhajjar             1,374              18                      Bhiwani             1,581            12                  Kurukshetra         2,124         41                      Nuh                  805                14                     Sirsa                1,663              20                      Yamunanagar         1,991       25               Fatehabad            1,064         13                      Kaithal             1,312               13              Jind                781                   10                     Charkhi Dadri       316             1                      Total               71,983            759
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Authorities launch contact-tracing drive after 75 Covid cases detected at two Murthal dhabas||The Sonepat district administration has launched a massive contact-tracing drive after 75 workers at two popular eateries in Murthal tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Friday.Sonepat’s Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said sampling work has been initiated at other eateries also.Sixty-five workers at Amrik-Sukhdev Dhaba and 10 at Garam Dharam Dhaba had tested positive for coronavirus, following which both the eateries were sealed on Thursday till further orders, he told mediapersons.Both eateries are located in Sonipat’s Murthal and nearly 50 km away from Delhi.Murthal is known for its eateries which dot a stretch on both sides of the Ambala-Delhi national highway. People are seen stopping by for the famous “parathas” and other delicacies.The DC said in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, all the eateries had already been directed to maintain a register to record the number of visitors and their contact details.“On the basis of these, we are trying to contact as many as possible who have eaten food at these two dhabas during the past few days,” he said.Sonepat’s Chief Medical Officer Dr J S Punia said the majority of those infected at the Sukhdev dhaba were workers who had recently come from Bihar.“They all live in a colony near the dhaba and we are tracing and testing all of their local contacts. Moreover, we have also informed health authorities in Bihar about this and as the infected persons could have come into contact with many there as well,” the CMO told PTI over phone.Health authorities in Sonepat district appealed to those who may have eaten food at these two popular eateries during the past few days to watch out for any symptoms they may develop and isolate themselves.Asked how many people would have eaten food at these two eateries, health department officials in the district said these two eateries are quite popular, but to give any estimate would be difficult at this stage.The DC earlier told PTI that the Sonepat district administration had been running a special drive for the sampling of workers at the eateries and it was during this process that these cases were detected.In view of the pandemic, he said the district administration keeps carrying routine checks at eateries to ensure that they follow all norms and guidelines.Haryana on Thursday had reported its highest single-day spike of 1,881 coronavirus cases with 19 fatalities. Sonepat district reported 190 new COVID-19 cases, according to a state Health Department bulletin.As per the bulletin, Sonepat, which has so far reported 4,747 cases with 41 fatalities, is the third worst-hit district after Faridabad and Gurgaon. PTI
04-09-2020||Sushil Manav ||8% population in Haryana infected by novel coronavirus: Study||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, September 4 Sero prevalence study carried out in Haryana in the month of August has revealed that the overall sero-positivity of SARSCoV-2 in the state was 8 per cent, which means that 8 out of 100 people in the state might have already contracted the virus and recovered from the disease.Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij released the results of the survey through video conferencing on Friday.  The sero survey results have shown that urban population was affected more than the rural population, as far as the coronavirus infection is concerned. “The SARSCoV-2 sero-positivity observed in urban area is 9.6 per cent and in rural area is 6.9 per cent,” explained Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Health, Haryana. The survey has shown that the NCR districts are having high sero-positivity like 25.8 per cent in Faridabad (31.1% in urban and 22.2% in rural), 20.3 per cent in Nuh, 13.3 per cent in Sonipat (18% in urban and 10% in rural) and 10.8 per cent in Gurugram (18.5% in urban and 5.7% in rural).  A higher sero-positivity than the state average (8 per cent) is also noticed in some other districts, like Karnal 12.2 per cent (17.6% in urban and 8.8% in rural), Jind (11%), Kurukshetra (8.7%), Charkhi Dadri (8.3%) and Yamunanagar 8.3 per cent (5.9% in urban and 9.9% in rural). The districts of Haryana which are having lower sero-positivity than state average include Panipat 7.4 per cent (7.8% in urban and 7.2% in rural), Palwal (7.4%), Panchkula 6.5 per cent (3.7% in urban and 8.5% in rural), Jhajjar (5.9%), Ambala 5.2 per cent (7.1% in urban and 4.4% in rural), Rewari (4.9%), Sirsa (3.6%), Hisar 3.4 per cent (2.3% in urban and 4.4% in rural), Fatehabad (3.3%), Bhiwani (3.2%), Mahendragarh (2.8%), and Kaithal (1.7%). Vij informed that the sero survey was carried out with an aim to identify the penetration of COVID-19 at the community level and to monitor its transmission trends.Divulging further details, the Health Minister said: “The survey was conducted in all districts of Haryana in collaboration with the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.”  Samples of 850 persons from each district, including both urban and rural population, were included in the survey.“A nodal officer was designated in every district to monitor and supervise the sero survey activity. The Health Department is able to gauge the number of people affected by COVID-19 through this survey,” he said.  Giving out further details, Dr Usha Gupta, Director, Health Services, IDSP, said: “A stratified multistage random sampling technique was used. Total number of 16 clusters i.e. 12 rural and 4 urban clusters were randomly selected for taking samples.”“Blood samples were collected from selected individuals after taking written consent and then their sera were tested for IgG antibodies using ELISA test kit approved by Indian Council of Medical Research,” she said.  The said survey was one among the largest sero prevalence studies conducted in the country using ELISA testing.The data of the survey was collected by using SurveyMan App, which was finalised by Dr Arun Aggarwal, Professor, Department of Community Medicine and SPH, PGIMER, Chandigarh.This app helped in fetching the real time data of survey along with the location of survey team.“This IgG antibody testing method is not a diagnostic testing tool but it only provides information about past infection due to SARSCoV-2 in individual,” said Dr Usha Gupta.
04-09-2020||IT was intriguing to learn that Panchkula on Wednesday reported 135 fresh Covid cases across the district||Rising covid cases in panchkula worrisome||Need to protect wild animals from poachersTHE Bishnoi community in Fatehabad and Hisar districts is doing a commendable job for the protection and preservation of deer and blackbucks. The community not only keeps a vigil on the activities of hunters but also provides full liberty to these animals to venture out in their fields without caring for crop loss. Increased incidents of hunting of deer and blackbucks are posing a threat to the survival of these wild animals. In a recent incident, a blackbuck succumbed to bullet injuries in Hisar on Wednesday. People from all the communities should come up and play their role in the noble task. Besides, the government on its part should impose stringent laws to permanently put an end to these illegal activities. Baljeet Singh, HisarIllegal cut on road threat to commutersON June 24, I had highlighted the issue regarding an illegal road cut under the flyover on a highway in Narwana, but the indifferent NHAI authorities ignored it. A private bus on this point on Wednesday. Corrective measures should be taken immediately at the said point. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaBirds a threat to aircraft in ambalaBIRDS are a serious threat to aircraft in Ambala. The authorities should have taken cognisance of the issue after it was pointed out around a year back in a report. We hope the authorities will take prompt and strict action to provide a safe flying zone, as it relates to nation’s security. Gian P Kansal, Ambala cityWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
04-09-2020||Rohtak||E-governance to be promoted: MDU VC||Sainik School founder’s dayRewari: Sainik School celebrated its 13th Founder’s Day with cadets participating in the event from their homes through Microsoft Team and other online modes. The celebrations commenced with the screening of a short video on the genesis of the school. It was created and developed by Parveen Mishra, TGT Hindi. The school annual report was presented by Principal Soumyabrata Dhar. The cadets exhibited their versatility through various videos screened on the stage. Based on the achievements of six senior houses of the school in the session 2019-20, Subroto House was declared as the overall ‘Champion House’.Rewari varsity’s Registrar resignsRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) Registrar Dr Annapurna Sharma resigned from the post while citing unavoidable circumstances here. She had joined the IGU in December 2018. Annapurna is the daughter of former minister Ram Bilas Sharma. A farewell party was organised on the occasion wherein Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar extended best wishes to her.HAU announces exam datesHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Agricultural University, Hisar, has announced the examination dates for admission to postgraduate and PhD courses. An official spokesperson for the university said in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the examinations would be held online on September 6, 9, 12 and 16, while adhering to the social distancing norms. Candidates would be contacted on their mobile number and email id, if needed. “If a candidate does not submit the information sought by the university within the stipulated time period, he/she will not be allotted a seat in the first counselling,” he said. The dates for the second counselling will be issued separately. He said there would be no change in the terms and conditions related to admission and reservation in the university brochure.admission for int’l students beginsFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has invited online applications for admissions under the Foreign National Category to its various undergraduate and postgraduate courses upto September 15 for the academic year 2020-21. VC Prof Dinesh Kumar released the prospectus and admission schedule. As many as 15 per cent seats in engineering courses and 5 per cent in non-engineering courses have been reserved for foreign students. Separate hostel facilities have also been developed for international students. International Affairs Director Dr Shilpa Sethi said the university had got permission from competent statutory bodies to offer various courses in science, engineering, journalism and management. The eligible students may apply online by September 15. The prospectus is available at jcboseust.ac.in/foreign-students and students may contact on ia@jcboseust.ac.in. Candidates holding valid passport and citizenship of a country other than India or having OCI (Overseas Citizen of India) /PIO (Person of Indian Origin) Card and Children of Indian Workers in Gulf Countries are eligible for admission. She said NRIs or Indian citizens whose qualifying examination is from an international board or foreign university are not eligible under the category.Jagadhri schoolgirl best NCC cadetYamunanagar: Kashish, an NCC cadet from Dyal Singh Public School, Jagadhri, has been honoured as the best cadet and awarded a cash prize for her outstanding performance by Colonel Ajay Pal Kaushish, CO, 14 HAR BN NCC, Yamunanagar. Around 200 cadets from five districts participated in the activities such as map reading, firing, drill etc and underwent written test and interview. The cadet had also participated in centrally organised camps. Kashish aspires to join the Army. School principal Parul Kumar congratulated the cadet and wished her good luck.
04-09-2020||Deepender Deswal||Software glitches hit land registration in Hisar tehsil||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 3The Revenue Department restarted the registration of land deeds in tehsil offices on the new software three days ago, but even one registry was done in the Hisar tehsil.Difficult to get e-appointmentApplicants said that they encountered glitches while applying for the registration of land deeds. They added that the new software should be fine-tuned to ensure hassle-free functioning. The process of registration for e-appointment was halted, as the data of departments concerned were not updated. The applicants complained that even a plot of the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) was shown as an unauthorised locality during registration in Hisar.The Revenue Department has put in place a new software, interlinking various departments for the requisite clearance and the NOC of land during registration in the web application. The applicants need to get an e-appointment by furnishing the land details on the web portal for the issuance of a token for appointment of the deed registration in the tehsil office.Praveen Jain, president of the Sectors Association, said there were many shortcomings in the web application, HALRIS, due to which applicants were unable to get e-appointments on the portal.He added that there were many anomalies related to the name of the landowner and the measurement of land in the records of the Urban Local Body.The Hisar Property Dealers Welfare Association sad that there was a mismatch in the data of properties available on the web portal. “It has been found during land deed registration that the data of hardly any property with the Municipal Corporation are accurate. There are errors related to name or measurement of the property,” it said in a memorandum sent to the Deputy Commissioner today.Dinesh Sihag, secretary of the association, said the new system should not be operationalised until it was updated and made foolproof.District Revenue Officer Rajbir Dhiman said the web-based software had been introduced for the smooth functioning of the land registration process. He added that they had got a few complaints and forwarded them to the head office.
04-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Liquor contractor shot dead in Gurugram, friend injured||Gurugarm, September 3The contractor of a liquor shop was shot dead while one of his friends was critically wounded at Jatauli village in Pataudi block of the district late Wednesday night. The contractor received 17 bullets, while his another friend managed to save himself by hiding behind a wall. The police complaint accusing 12 persons states personal enmity as the reason for the crime. The contractor was attacked last year also. An FIR has been registered at Pataudi police station but no one has been arrested so far.According to the police, the incident happened in Jatauli village around 10 pm yesterday when contractor Inderjeet along with his friends Vishal and Vikram was returning home in a white Maruti Swift car after collecting cash from the liquor shop. When they reached Jatauli village some cows obstructed their way and they stopped. Meanwhile, six armed persons riding three motorcycles arrived there and open fired at them. After hearing gunshots, Inderjeet’s family members and villagers rushed to the spot and found Inderjeet and Vikram in the car shot several times and Vishal hiding behind a wall. They took Inderjeet and Vikram to the community health centre at Pataudi where doctors declared Inderjeet as brought dead. They referred Vikram to a private hospital in Gurugram. The police handed over the body to the bereaved family after a postmortem.“The contractor received 17 bullets. He died within minutes due to excessive bleeding,” said Dr Deepak Mathur, who conducted the postmortem.Jai Bhagwan, a relative of Inderjeet, stated in his police complaint, “Abhishek, Harender, Mohit, Sagar, Akhil, and Krishan, alais Gagan, committed the crime. Satender, alias Lala, Gagan, Sonu, Gobind and Vicky are also involved in the murder. Manjeet, a resident of Khandewla village, had threatened Inderjeet of dire consequences a year ago”.A case has been registered against 12 persons at Pataudi police station. “We have formed five special teams under the supervision of Pataudi ACP Beer Singh. The teams are conducting raids to nab the accused,” said Deepak Saharan, DCP, Manesar.
04-09-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma
||SPIO told to pay Rs 5K for incomplete info||Tribune News Service Yamunanagar, September 3 Taking note of the detriment suffered due to incomplete information, State Information Commissioner (SIC) Jai Singh Bishnoi has directed the State Public Information Officer (SPIO)-cum-Drug Control Officer, Yamunanagar, to pay Rs 5,000 as compensation to the appellant (complainant). Jai Chand Chauhan, an RTI activist, had sought information on several points, including samples taken from shops in the past two years and their results and about the posting tenures of some officers of the Drug Control Office here. As per the SIC order passed on August 10, the appellant  had filed the second appeal on April 29 on the ground that in response to his RTI application dated November 18, 2019, the SPIO provided incomplete information despite filling of the first appeal.  The appellant requested the SIC that the respondent be directed to furnish complete information to him. He also prayed for the initiation of penal action against the respondent and compensation for him. During the hearing, the SIC found that the information provided to the appellant was incomplete. He directed the SPIO-cum-Drug Control Officer, Yamunanagar, to provide complete information, as sought by the appellant through his RTI application within a month free of cost. “The respondent public authority, Yamunanagar, is directed to pay Rs 5,000 as compensation to the appellant under the RTI Act, 2005, preferably within a month, under intimation to the commission,” reads the order. Issuing a show-cause notice, the SIC also directed the SPIO to explain the reasons for the delay in providing even “incomplete information”. He was also told to submit his reply to the Commission’s notice by November 12.
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||69 ‘fake’ companies  detected||The Tax Research Unit of the Excise and Taxation Department Haryana has zeroed in on 138 new  taxpayers registered under the GST regime for their suspicious transactions.  An official spokesman said that these  suspicious taxpayers were further subjected to physical verification by the field offices of the department, which reported that 69 of the 138 cases were fake or non-existent.  He said that recoveries to the tune of  Rs 28.54 lakh had been affected and credit of Rs 31.63 crore to the 69 taxpayers had been blocked. The spokesman  said the verification of the records of these entities revealed that they had passed on credit amounting to Rs 1,182.23 crore. — TNS
04-09-2020||Gurugram||Doctor booked for spouse’s suicide||The police today booked a lady doctor for abetment of suicide after her husband, a doctor at Medanta Hospital, ended his life on Tuesday. The police said a case was registered on the complaint of the father of the deceased. Dr Sujit Kumar Shah (41) allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the balcony of his eighth-floor flat in Sector 47 here. Later, the police found a suicide note in which he held no one responsible for his death. Today, Sujit’s father  filed a complaint at Sadar police station stating that his son was mentally harassed by his wife and was in depression. — OC
04-09-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||JJP MLA from Tohana takes on govt over ‘errant’ electricity officials||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3The alliance between the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Haryana didn’t stop Tohana legislator Devender Singh Babli from training his guns on the government for “failing farmers of his area”.In a video posted on social media on Thursday, the JJP legislator went all out against the Manohar Lal Khattar government for failing to rein in “errant” Power Department officials, who, according to him, had been harassing farmers in the name of fines for unregularised electricity load.Babli said he received 15 to 17 complaints from farmers every time he visited his segment for two days in a week.The immediate trigger of the rant was the harassment faced by a farmer from Talwara village of the Tohana constituency on the pretext of undeclared power load.Babli said, “It seems a gang of extortionists is operating in my area. It picks on farmers and harasses them by imposing unwarranted fines… An official of the department was in the midst of imposing a fine on a farmer on the pretext of installing a 45 horsepower (HP) motor. The reality was the farmer had installed a 40 HP motor. In spite of furnishing bills for the pump and the approval from the Power Department, the official was not convinced. Only when the motor was taken out after about five hours, he backed off as the motor’s capacity was indeed 40 HP. Even then, the official tried to impose a fine on the farmer on the pretext of undeclared load claiming he was drawing more power than approved.”Babli told The Tribune farmers were unaware of the technicalities of power load. “I have flagged the nexus among power officials and rampant corruption in the department with CM Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala.”“No action has been taken. Every time I protest, some changes are made on the ground. But overall, the situation remains the same. Officials here (in Tohana) look for newer ways of ‘extorting’ money on the pretext of imposing fines,” Babli said.“I want a vigilance inquiry against a few officials who have retired and suspension of some in service. A strong message has to be sent out. I wonder who is protecting them and how they are able to wield their clout as nobody from the Chief Minister to Cabinet ministers are able to take action against them,” the legislator claimed, adding “nobody seems to have the authority to rein in power officials”.Sources in the department said there was a provision which provided for a farmer to apply for upgrading the power load, pay the fees and get the connection regularised.
04-09-2020||
||High Court imposes Rs 1,000 cost on Centre in Khemka case||Chandigarh, September 3 The Punjab and Haryana High Court today imposed a cost of Rs 1,000 on the Union of India for its failure to file a reply on a plea filed by Haryana’s senior IAS officer Ashok Khemka. In his main petition pending before the High Court, Khemka is seeking directions to consider him for empanelment at the level of Additional Secretary to the Government of India. Khemka is posted as the Principal Secretary, Science and Technology Department, Haryana. The High Court also asked the Union Government to file its reply within a week.  In his plea, Khemka had sought the summoning of certain records but the Central Government failed to respond. “This case has been taken up for hearing through video-conferencing. The counsel for the respondent – Union of India — prays for and is permitted to file a written statement within one week from today, subject to the payment of Rs 1,000 as cost,” observed the Division Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu. The case would now come up for hearing on September 15. Khemka’s counsel had earlier told the Bench that the petitioner having been successfully empanelled as Joint Secretary to the Government of India, sought his empanelment as Additional Secretary. However, the notification empanelling 31 IAS officers of the 1991 batch did not include the petitioner’s name.
04-09-2020||Parveen Arora||Survivors reluctant to donate plasma, fear getting infected||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 3The plasma bank at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, which was inaugurated by CM Manohar Lal Khattar on August 17, has witnessed a lukewarm response in donation of convalescent plasma, a component of the blood, from recently recovered Covid patients. So far, only six donors have come forward of the 2,198 recovered patients.The college authorities are struggling to convince potential donors by approaching them daily on phone and requesting them to donate plasma, but sources say majority of them are afraid of getting infected after plasma donation. Limited awareness among people is a major hindrance, they said.It is the state’s fourth plasma bank after Panchkula, Rohtak and Faridabad and the CM has appealed to the recovered patients aging 10 to 60 years to donate plasma. On the day of the inauguration, the CM had honoured four plasma donors after which two more came forward.“So far, only six recovered patients have come for plasma donation here. We are approaching recovered patients to show enthusiasm in saving the lives of others,” said KCGMC Director Dr Jagdish Dureja.“Plasma therapy has emerged as a lifesaver for Covid patients and each recovered person aging between 10 and 60 should donate plasma. One donor can help in two small units of plasma,” he said.
04-09-2020||Gurugarm||18 more jail inmates in Gurugarm +ve||A day after 18 inmates of the Bhondsi jail here tested positive for Covid, as many prisoners contracted the virus on Thursday. All 36 inmates have been placed under institutional quarantine in Sector 9-A here.A senior health official said, “The Covid spread in the jail is a cause for concern, hinting at lapses in adhering to guidelines. Initially, two inmates had tested positive. When other prisoners were tested, 34 more were found to be infected. They should have been isolated in the jail, and not in the quarantine centre.”“We are tracing contacts of the jail inmates. They must be quarantined inside the jail. We are waiting for the state government instructions,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Virender Yadav.Jail Superintendent Harender Singh could not be contacted in spite of repeated calls.Meanwhile, 37 NSG commandos, including a doctor, who tested positive in the past two days are under home isolation on the NSG premises in Manesar. — TNS
04-09-2020||---||2 Murthal dhabas sealed as 75 employees test positive||Chandigarh, September 3With 1,881 new cases of Covid reported on Thursday, which is the highest in a day so far, the tally crossed the 70,000 mark. So far, 70,099 persons have been infected by the virus. Besides 19 persons died, taking the toll to 740.Among the 1,881 new cases are 65 workers of Sukhdev Dhaba and 10 staffers of the adjoining Garam Dharam Dhaba, in Murthal (Sonepat).The Sonepat district administration has sealed the two eateries till further orders.Health teams collected samples of about 300 workers at Sukhdev Dhaba. Of them, 65 tested positive for Covid. Its owner had called his workers from Bihar in a bus four days ago and told the Health Department to conduct their tests.Sonepat DC Shyam Lal Poonia said, “A special testing drive has been launched in Murthal. All those working in eateries and hotels will be tested.”Meanwhile, three deaths each were reported from Karnal and Kurukshetra, two each from Gurugram, Ambala, Hisar, Yamunanagar and Jind, and one each from Sirsa, Panchkula and Faridabad.Most of the cases were reported in Gurugram (224), Sonepat (190), Faridabad (150), Panipat (128), Panchkula (128), Sirsa (115), Karnal (112), Hisar (111) and Kurukshetra (100).In all, 1,014 persons were discharged on Thursday. With this, the number of cured persons has reached 55,889; the recovery rate is 79.73 per cent.
04-09-2020||---||Haryana issues norms for shooting films||Chandigarh, September 3With Unlock 4.0 guidelines regarding the Covid pandemic already in place, the state government on Thursday issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and guidelines for film shooting.A government spokesman said that in view of the pandemic, all applications seeking permission for shooting would be received on the online portal. The initial approval will be granted by the Director General, Information, Public Relations and Languages Department. It will then be forwarded to the DCs.All set for actionAs per guidelines, all applications must include details about the location, number of shooting days and timings.The spokesman said the Deputy Commissioners would consult the police before granting permission. A copy of the permit will be endorsed to the police authorities for information and necessary action.He further said the duration of shooting would be restricted to the minimum possible time and not more than 50 persons would be present at the location. Moreover, shooting would commence only after all persons involved are thermally scanned and are found asymptomatic.Permissions will be given only for safe zones. Every film set will have one person recording the information about crew members and anti-contagion measures, the spokesman said.He further said social distancing norms would have to be followed by all except for the ones in front of the camera. Washing and sanitising hands would be mandatory for everyone before and after the shoot.
04-09-2020|| Yamunanagar||Mahapanchayat sans approval, man booked||A man allegedly held a mahapanchayat without obtaining permission from the local administration and in violation of Covid norms. On the complaint of Sub-Inspector Sandeep Kumar, a case was registered against Rajinder Valmiki, a resident of Chunna Bhatti Colony in Yamunanagar, under Section 188 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, at the City police station on Tuesday. The FIR reads that the mahapanchayat was attended by around 1,000 people. — TNS
04-09-2020||---||GST scam in Ambala gets bigger, 29 fake firms cause Rs 22-cr loss||Ambala, September 3The Goods and Services Tax (GST) evasion scam has got bigger and wider with at least 29 fake firms in the district causing over Rs 22-crore loss to the state exchequer coming to fore in the past nine months.The multi-crore racket involving trading of Rs 105 crore to evade the GST by floating fake firms was first unearthed here in November last.It got bigger in December with at least 17 more traders found causing tax losses to the tune of several crores of rupees to the exchequer.The Excise and Taxation Department had then detected transactions amounting to over Rs 13 crore made by these firms during 10 months of 2019, without paying tax but having claimed input tax credit of over Rs 2.35 crore.The latest three GST fraud cases were reported this week, wherein traders caused a loss of Rs 9 crore to the state exchequer. They had registered fake firms online and availed of input tax credit without paying the levy to the Excise and Taxation department.Though the police had registered FIRs under the IPC against the guilty trading firms — Ambe Trading Company in Ambala Cantonment and Sidhi Vinayak Enterprises — on the complaint of the ETOs concerned, no headway had been reported in the cases so far.“We had registered FIRs against the accused in all such cases and investigations were in progress to trace the guilty persons,” said a senior police official.
04-09-2020||
||Issue tender for artificial limbs for Panipat boy in 6 weeks: High Court||Chandigarh, September 3 More than nine years after a Panipat boy lost both his arms and a leg following electric shock, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the state of Haryana to issue within six weeks a tender for artificial limbs. Justice Sanjay Kumar asked Haryana Director-General, Health Services, to constitute a team of medical experts of orthopaedics. It, in turn, consulted experts from medical institutes before taking a decision on best viable artificial limbs that could be provided to the applicant-victim.  Justice Kumar added the consultations among medical experts could be conducted online due to Covid-19. “However, given the urgency in the matter of selecting and procuring new artificial limbs for the applicant, who is presently without upper limbs and has been so for more than a year now, the entire exercise should be completed as soon as possible so that a tender notification can be issued.... This exercise shall be completed with utmost expedition and the Director-General, Health Services, shall ensure that, in any event, the tender notification is issued within 6 weeks from today”. The applicant, 13, had suffered electric shock when he was just four. Both his arms and left leg had to be amputated. The order came after amicus curiae or friend of the court Anil Malhotra told the Bench that the boy was without artificial limbs for a year. His upper implants practically were rendered useless due to his physical growth over the years.
04-09-2020||Karnal||Wanted criminal, two others held in Kaithal||The Kaithal police have arrested three persons, including a wanted criminal, in several cases registered in Kaithal district. They were also accused of demanding ransom from a trader of Cheeka on August 1. The police have recovered a car, six illegal firearms and 55 cartridges from them. SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the accused are Jatinder, alias Jackie Bizana, from a village in Karnal, Anit, alias Nitin, of Bhana in Kaithal, and Rampal, alias Monu, of Rahra in Karnal. He said Jackie along with Amit, alias Lattu, of Rasina village had demanded a ransom of Rs 50 lakh from a trader of Cheeka last year. Now, he along with two of his arrested accomplices demanded a ransom from a trader of Cheeka on August 1 and threatened him of dire consequences. Jackie was wanted by the Kaithal police in six cases of murder and attempt to murder and carried a reward of Rs 25,000, the SP said.  Sawan said during preliminary investigation it came to fore that they had planned to commit two murders. “On a tip off, a team of CIA-1 tightened vigil near Ramthali. On seeing the police, they tried to flee but after being chased for three km, they were arrested with weapons. Jackie has admitted to plotting the murder of a resident in his village over a property dispute,” he added. — TNS
04-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Under-construction mall of ex-Dy Speaker Santosh Yadav’s kin sealed||Narnaul, September 3The Municipal Corporation has sealed an under-construction mall belonging to Lajpat Yadav, brother of former Deputy Speaker Santosh Yadav.Officials of the MC said the mall was being constructed in an unauthorised area and the mandatory approval for the building plan was not taken in addition to other permissions. However, Lajpat claimed that the action was taken due to some misunderstanding and he would appeal against it.The mall is located near Shashtri Nagar on the Mahendergarh road. For the construction of the mall, a map file was applied online and the work started in May last year. During verification, the map file was rejected last year, but the construction still continued. A team of the MC today reached the site and sealed the mall.
04-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Case registered over threats on Instagram||The police have booked unknown persons under Sections 386 and 506 of the IPC for allegedly threatening those associated with the mining business with dire consequences on Instagram in Yamunanagar. As per an FIR registered on the complaint of Constable Sarvajit Singh posted at the cyber cell of the district police, a post was uploaded on Instagram in the names of Kala Rana and Kala Jatheri on August 31. The post said persons associated with the mining business would have to work with them in partnership. “A person who will not work with us in partnership will be responsible for his death,” reads the post mentioned in the FIR. It is alleged that Kala Rana is a gangster, who is involved in several crimes and has been on bail for the past several months, and Kala Jatheri may be his aid. — TNS
04-09-2020||Panipat||Firm manager commits suicide in Sonepat, chairman booked||A manager with a real estate company reportedly committed suicide after consuming poison in Sonepat. The deceased has been identified as Naresh Kumar, a native of Rohini in New Delhi. He was working with TDI for the past 14 years.The police have booked DN Taneja, chairman of the company, under Section 306 of the IPC. Kumar’s wife in her complaint said her husband was on leave for 10 days, but was asked to report on duty on Monday. “Taneja abused my husband and mounted pressure on him to sign some documents, which he refused to do,” she said. Subsequently, he consumed poison, said the police. — TNS
04-09-2020||Hisar||Rs 42-crore dairy plaza to be set up in Hisar||The Hisar Municipal Corporation has got the administration’s nod to shift dairies to a dedicated plaza on the Bagla road on the outskirts of the town. The plaza will be set up on 50 acres at a cost of Rs 42 crore.  The town has 297 dairies and their owners will be issued over 400 plots at the plaza to set up dairies. MC officials said after the administration’s approval, they were working for the clearance of other technical approvals, while the work to raise the boundary wall and the allotment of plots would start soon. Meanwhile, MC engineer HK Sharma said they needed to take the possession of land and would remove encroachments. He added the boundary wall was likely to be raised at an estimated cost of Rs 6.65 crore. — TNS
04-09-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Despite resolution, MC paid firm Rs 16 cr||Tribune News ServicePanipat, September 3The Panipat Municipal Corporation (MC) allegedly made unverified payments of Rs 36.46 crore to a solid waste management firm. A sum of Rs 16 crore was released despite a House resolution in July 2019 to rescind the contract over the firm’s “poor functioning”, as per the information gathered by Samalkha-based RTI activist PP Kapoor.Panipat Mayor Avneet Kaur said it was “shameful” that the file of the resolution had gone missing.The MC failed to set up a project management unit (PMU), which was mandatory as per the tender agreement with JBM Environment Management. Bills were to be verified by the PMU before payment. Haryana had in 2017 signed the agreement with JBM as part of a solid waste management project in the Sonepat cluster. Panipat MC paid JBM Rs 36.46 crore for lifting garbage (February 2018-July 2020) and Sonepat MC Rs 2.11 crore (March 2018 - June 2020). “The MCs cleared the bills without verification,” alleged Kapoor. JBM’s Rajender Singh had claimed credit for Panipat’s 160th cleanliness ranking this year.
