04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 19 deaths, 1,602 new COVID-19 cases||Haryana on Friday reported 19 more deaths linked to the coronavirus, bringing the toll to 2,539, while 1,602 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 2,40,841, according to a bulletin.The new fatalities included four each from Gurugram, Faridabad and Hisar districts, the state health department’s daily bulletin said.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases included Gurugram (423),  Faridabad (336) and Rohtak (107).The number of active cases in Haryana stands at 14,329 and the state has a COVID-19 recovery rate of 93 per cent, according to the bulletin. PTI
04-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur ||Manesar land scam investigation ‘a classic case of pick and choose’: Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 4 CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh has termed the investigation in Manesar land scam as “a classic example of pick and choose” as some accused have been left out. While calling five more people as additional accused in the case, including present Home Secretary Rajeev Arora and former Director Industries DR Dhinga, who were left out by the Investigating Officer (IO) in the chargesheet, the court observed that reasons could be two-fold: “The IO was either adamant to extend benefit to the persons arrayed as accused or to extend benefit to the persons against whom there are clear cut and prima facie circumstances but have not been arraigned as accused”.The alleged scam pertains to purchasing land from farmers at meagre rates and then earning profits by getting it released in connivance with bureaucracy and politicians.  In its detailed order, the Court observed: “The IO has sought to introduce narrative which on the face of it gets contradicted vide documents/material on record.” The Court further said that the IO had chosen “to turn a blind eye to the role of some important public servants whose acts and omissions can be prima facie termed to be more culpable than the persons arrayed as accused in this case”.  The Court observed: “Such isolated instances are enough to bring the sobriquet of ‘caged parrot’ to the agency.”In case of Arora, the Court said that for want of prosecution sanction, there was no bar on prosecuting him for criminal conspiracy read with cheating.It directed the CBI to place the entire incriminating material against him before the state government for the sanction for trial against him under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Arora was MD, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), when land release orders were issued. The Court said that the conclusion drawn by the IO regarding deferment of announcement of award by the HSIIDC on the basis of letter dated June 20, 2007 of Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD), was clearly against the documents on record and “it apparently seems that the IO has chosen to turn Nelson’s eye to the actual state of affairs”. It concluded that Chief Town Planner, HSIIDC, Surjit Singh and MD, HSIIDC, Rajeev Arora “had taken a decision on their own to defer the award”.  “…facts apparent on record, which clearly reflect that through a devious design the office of MD, HSIIDC, and   Director, Industries and Commerce, made every attempt to delay the announcement of award which could ultimately lead to its final abandonment,” the Court observed. The IO, meanwhile, claimed that the HSIIDC and Industries Department made strenuous efforts for announcement of the award. The Court said that “a prima facie case for framing   charges against” accused former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and 32 others, including his three former Principal Secretaries – ML Tayal, Chattar Singh and SS Dhillon, for criminal conspiracy, cheating is made out.
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||INLD to join any SAD-led outfit to further farmers’ causes: Abhay Chautala||Asking the government to accept farmers’ demand to repeal the three recent central laws, the Indian National Lok Dal on Friday expressed its willingness to join any front floated by the Shiromani Akali Dal to further the tillers’ and other causes.The party also said it has asked its district presidents and other office-bearers to take party’s Kisan Cell members in tractor trolleys to Delhi borders to join and lend support to the agitating farmers.INLD senior leader Abhay Singh Chautala expressed his party’s willingness to join any SAD-led front sans the BJP and Congress in response to a query on speculations over forging such a front while addressing a press conference.“The SAD and INLD have already fought elections together (in Haryana). They are allies even today. If any such front comes up, the INLD will be part of it,” said Abhay Chautala.While asking the government to immediately accept farmers demand to repeal the three farm laws, Abhay Chautala, the younger son of INLD president and former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, also asserted that the party is “solidly behind farmers” fighting against the three laws.“The government should not linger on the matter. They should immediately resolve it by agreeing to the farmers’ demand to repeal the laws. The government must also give a written assurance on the MSP,” he said.Asserting that his party, founded by “farmers’ messiah” and former Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal is “solidly behind the farmers”, Abhay Chautala also took a veiled dig at the JJP, led by his elder brother Ajay Singh Chautala with the latter’s son Dushyant Chautala being the deputy chief minister in the BJP-led Khattar government in Haryana.“There are many who claim to follow the ideology of Chaudhary Devi Lal but they are clinging to power overlooking what farmers are going through,” he said.“They (JJP) are demanding the withdrawal of cases against farmers who were booked by Haryana police during their ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest, but they hesitate to withdraw support from the BJP with whom they are sharing power,” he said.“They have sold their soul and are a blot on Chaudhary Devi Lal’s name,” he alleged.In the news conference, he claimed his party had been opposing the farm laws right from the time they were promulgated as ordinances and later when they were passed by the Parliament.Talking about party’s instruction to its Kisan Cell leaders and workers to join agitating farmers at Delhi borders, he said, “We have asked them to take essentials like ration with them and ensure the farmers sitting on the protest do not face any difficulty.”   “Our party’s Medical Cell will also send a team of doctors and medicines. We have also decided to send blankets,” he added.Abhay Chautala also disclosed his decision to personally visit and meet farmers at sit-in sites at Delhi-Haryana borders.“In the next one or two days, I will also go and meet farmer leaders who are leading the stir. We have already extended our support to their protest. I will talk to them and ask them what more we can do to lend a helping hand in the present situation,” he said.“Our party is based on Chaudhary Devi Lal’s ideology, who always fought and stood up for their rights. Whatever responsibility the farmers’ leaders entrust us, we will discharge that willingly,” he said.Replying to a question, Chautala said he will not take another minute to resign as a legislative assembly member if farmers make such a demand when he meets them.To another query, he said he has strictly asked his party workers not to carry party flags or banners with them when they head to farmers’ protest sites.He also said it is the government’s duty to help the protesting farmers with medical facilities, provide them with blankets, cooking gas and other essentials.“But they are only making statements in the media and not doing anything on the ground,” he claimed.Replying to another question, he appealed to all political parties that they should rise above party politics and stand with farmers to lend strength to their agitation. PTI
04-12-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Congress to bring no-confidence motion against Khattar govt: Former CM Hooda||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, December 4Claiming that the state government had lost its ground over its stance in the ongoing farmer agitation, the state Congress would bring a no-confidence motion against the Khattar government.Making the declaration at a press conference held in the city, former chief minister and senior leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said they would seek a special assembly session from the Governor.“Three Independents who supported them have withdrawn their support. The coalition JJP MLA’s are openly speaking against them. We, even before the Barauda bypolls, had announced that the BJP government had lost grounds and now it is evident that the Chief Minister has even lost the confidence of his own supporting MLA’s. We are seeking a special session to test the confidence in the chair and address the farmer’s concerns,” said Hooda.He added that this motion will also make MLA’s affiliations public.“There are many who are issuing statements supporting farmers but still are with the chair. They will be unmasked,” he said.On being asked whether the Congress was in touch with the JJP MLA’s for support, Hooda said he would not tell everything on a concerned platform.Attacking Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for his recent statements issued in Gurugram claiming Haryana farmers did not join the agitation, Hooda said he did not have his facts right as his own government had lathicharged Haryana farmers in Peepli, picking them from homes a night before the planned march and has now booked them.Reacting to Agriculture and Farmer’s Welfare Minister JP Dalal’s statements about foreign funding being provided to farmers, Hooda said he should not just publicly apologise but also resign for humiliating every single farmer.“They are shivering in cold, sleeping on roads, eating in langars and are being brutally treated. Which part of agitation does have a hint of any foreign funding? Dalal, with his irresponsible comments, has humiliated farmers and he should resign for mocking the cause of people whose welfare he is responsible for,” Hooda said.“These people belong to no religion, no region no party they are just farmers and their demands need to be seen with just that perspective and not attaching any motives to their efforts. We totally support farmers and want the government to accept their demands,” he added.Hooda claimed that the future course of the party’s action in support of framers would be decided after the next round of talks tomorrow.
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal at most places in Haryana, Punjab||The minimum temperatures on Friday hovered above the normal limits at most places in Haryana and Punjab, officials said.At some places in the two states including Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab and Ambala, Karnal, and Kaithal in Haryana, fog reduced visibility early in the morning, Meteorological department officials said.The minimum temperature at Chandigarh settled at 10.6 degrees Celsius, up to three notches against normal.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 9.3 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal.Hisar registered a low of 7.9 degrees Celsius, down one notch while Karnal registered a low of  8 degrees Celsius.Rohtak (8.2 degrees Celsius) and Sirsa (10.2 degrees Celsius) recorded above normal minimum temperatures.Amritsar in Punjab recorded a low of 11 degrees Celsius, seven notches above normal while Ludhiana's minimum settled at 7.8 degrees Celsius, up to one notch while Patiala recorded a low of 9.4 degrees Celsius, up to two notches against normal.Pathankot (9.5 degrees Celsius), Adampur (7.9 degrees Celsius), Halwara (9.5 degrees Celsius) and Bathinda (9.6 degrees Celsius) too recorded above normal minimum temperatures, officials said. PTI
04-12-2020||Kaithal||Driver killed, 20 injured as bus rams into stationary vehicle in Haryana’s Kaithal||A bus rammed into a stationary vehicle on the Hisar-Chandigarh national highway near Kathwar village in Kaithal district on Friday, leaving the bus driver dead and 20 passengers injured, police said.The injured were taken to a government hospital here while one seriously injured passenger was referred to Chandigarh.Police said visibility was low due to fog in the morning when the accident took place. PTI
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||7 civic bodies go to polls on December 27||Elections to seven municipal bodies, including municipal corporations of Ambala, Sonepat and Panchkula, will be held on December 27.In a first, the State Election Commission has earmarked the last one hour of voting for Covid patients and persons having symptoms.Direct election to mayor’s post for 1st timeA direct election to the posts of mayor of municipal corporations and presidents of other civic bodies would be held for the first time.Announcing the election schedule here on Thursday,, State Election Commissioner Dalip Singh said the results would be declared on December 30.Mark the datesWhile the notification would be issued on December 4, nomination papers could be filed from December 11 to 16, he added.Besides Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat MCs, elections to the municipal council of Rewari and municipal committees of Sampla (Rohtak), Dharuhera (Rewari) and Ukalana (Hisar) would be held.A direct election to the posts of mayor of municipal corporations and presidents of other civic bodies would be held for the first time.The posts of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor and vice-president would continue to be filled through indirect elections from among councillors.Dalip Singh said voting would be held between 8 am and 5:30 pm, with the last one hour fixed for Covid patients and those having symptoms. Repoll, if any, would be held on December 29.The post of Ambala Mayor was reserved for women. The post of Sampla MC president was reserved for Scheduled Caste women. The post of Rewari MC president was reserved for backward classes.
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||It’s BJP-JJP  vs Congress||It is going to be the BJP-JJP combine versus the Congress in the municipal elections. Weeks after the Baroda byelection, political temperature is set to soar again with a direct contest between the ruling alliance and the main opposition party.Hectic political activity was witnessed in the state, with state Congress chief Kumari Selja declaring that the party would fight the elections on the party symbol. Digvijay Chautala said the election committee of the JJP would meet state BJP president OP Dhankar soon to finalise seat-sharing between the alliance partners. The BJP is already in election mode with the appointment of election in charge for civic bodies. Dhankar appointed election co-in charge for civic bodies on Thursday.The elections assume importance for the ruling alliance as it will like to avenge its defeat in the Baroda bypoll. The development claims of the government will be on test in the upcoming civic polls. For the Congress, it is perfect time to maintain its winning streak by exploiting the ‘anti-BJP’ sentiment in the wake of the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws.
04-12-2020||Gurugram||Inmate attempts suicide at Bhondsi jail||A prisoner allegedly attempted suicide at Bhondsi jail in Gurugram on Wednesday.The inmate has been identified as Surjit Kataria, a resident of Tek Chand Nagar in Gurugram. Surjeet’s wife however, has alleged harassment by the jail authorities. The prisoner has been undergoing treatment at a hospital. Jail’s Deputy Superintendent Sajid Khan on Thursday had informed the Bhondsi police and filed a complaint against Surjit to register a suicide attempt case. Besides, the jail administration has also filed a complaint against the other four prisoners for a conspiracy in connection with the case. “After the incident we explored the cctv footage which shows that it was the result of a conspiracy between Surjeet and four other inmates Vajir Singh, Inderjeet, Rakesh and Sonu. The incident was preplanned,” said Khan in his complaint. The officials said on November 29, a mobile phone was also recovered from Kataria’s custody.An FIR has been registered against all five inmates at Bhondsi police station, said investigating officer ASI Vinod Kumar. — TNS
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Govt to award employees for good work||The government has decided to establish awards at the state, district, and departmental levels for the employees/officers who have done commendable and innovative work related to good governance on the Good Governance Day (Sushasan Diwas) on December 25 (celebrated to mark the anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee).Meanwhile, the period of consideration for the award shall be 2019 and 2020. Sharing more details in this regard, an official spokesperson said the awards would be given in three categories i.e. social, economic and infrastructure sectors.
04-12-2020||Yamunanagar||For building plan nod, planting trees a must||The Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Municipal Corporation has made it compulsory to plant a sapling in a residential plot of above 100 sq yards for getting a building plan approval.The decision was taken at a meeting of the Municipal Corporation chaired by Mayor Madan Chauhan and Municipal Corporation Commissioner Dharmveer Singh.The meeting was held here on Wednesday and it was also joined by Executive Officer Arun Bhargava, Superintending Engineer Anand Swaroop, Senior Accounts Officer NK Batra, Executive Engineer Ravi Obroi and Chief Sanitary Inspector Anil Nain.“We have made it compulsory to plant a sapling in a residential plot of size above 100 sq yards to get a building plan passed from the Municipal Corporation,” said Mayor Madan Chauhan.He said they had taken the decision to increase the green cover in the twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri and to save the environment.He directed the Senior Accounts Officer that no payment should be made to the contractors until they submit all required documents for the payment to be made.He also asked the officers of the engineering wing of the Municipal Corporation to ensure quality of construction works being done in the twin cities.“We have constructed water harvesting plants at four places, including the offices of the Municipal Corporation and fire brigade. I have also asked the officers to set up more water harvesting systems in the near future,” said the Mayor.He further said he had also issued directions to make the land of the Municipal Corporation encroachment-free.
04-12-2020||Kurukshetra||Kurukehetra VC stresses on NEP||JC Bose Excellence AwardFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology here has announced to award ‘JC Bose Excellence Award’ in the field of research and innovation on the 162nd birth anniversary of Sir Jagadish Chandra Bose. The award will be conferred to the promising students, researchers and faculty members for their research and innovation that helps people in problem solving. This was disclosed by Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar at the award ceremony of IoT Start-up Challenge 2020. Prof Kumar said the award would be conferred in two categories, one for faculty members and the other one for students and researcher scholars. The university has also announced to provide incubation facilities worth up to Rs 3 lakh to the three innovative start-up projects of students which were declared as best in the IoT start-up challenge.Application date extendedRohtak: The date for applying to postgraduate programmes at Pandit Lakhmi Chand State University of Performing and Visual Arts (PLC SUPVA) has been extended to December 15. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh in the presence of senior faculty members. The university offers 14 undergraduate and four postgraduate programmes across four faculties. The decision is taken to provide more students the opportunity to apply for the programmes offered by the university. Similarly, the date for applying to newly started certificate and diploma courses at the PLC SUPVA has also been extended to December 15. A total of eight certificate and six diploma programmes are being offered by various faculties of the university. The programmes are open even for the university/college students, including PLC SUPVA, who can join them even while pursuing their regular degree programmes.Administrative office inauguratedKarnal: Kaithal MLA Leela Ram inaugurated the newly constructed administrative office, language lab and political science departmental library equipped with modern facilities at RKSD College here. Principal Sanjay Goyal formally welcomed him and informed him about the annual report of the college. President of the college and Rashtriya Vidya Smiti of the college Saket Mangal read a greeting letter written in his commemoration.
04-12-2020||Hisar||Data entry operators to get work randomly to check corruption||In an attempt to put a curb on corruption and bring in transparency at the Saral Kendra in the Mini-Secretariat, the Deputy Commissioner of Charkhi Dadri district has started reshuffling the work and duties of the data entry operators through computer randomisation in the office.The district administration has issued instructions for the use of the Vahan-Sarthi software on official computer in the office only during office hours on working days. The display boards showing fees and timelines for various works have been simplified and the help desk has been started at the Saral Kendra to guide and help visitors.The Deputy Commissioner, Rajesh Jogpal, said the administration had also set up right to service help desk, which ensured the swift and time-bound service to the visitors as per the provisions of the Right to Service Act. The DC said he had taken the measures for ushering in transparency in the official functioning as the state government had adopted zero tolerance policy against corruption.“The administration has taken steps to efficiency in delivery of services and in an unbiased manner. Earlier, there were complaints of biased attitude by some operators who dealt with the visitors at the saral kendras. Transfer of operators through computer randomisation ensures that no “favourites” are deputed at particular desks in the Saral Kendra”, he said adding that Charkhi Dadri is the first district in the state to transfer/depute computer operations through computer randomisation process.The data entry operators are employed through the District Information Technology Society who are deployed at the Saral Kendras across the state.The DC said the regular staff was also being trained so that they could be put on duty at the Saral Kendra. The transfer of employees within their office has been delegated to both the SDMs, he added.
04-12-2020||Ambala||Razing of illegal structures under way||Illegal structures continue to delay four-laning of the Ambala-Saha National Highway 444-A, work on which is progressing at a snail’s pace.After repeated notices failed to move the owners, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has begun demolition of illegal structures.It had been 18 months since work begun with much fanfare, but the snail’s pace at which it had been progressing was causing hardship to commuters. The much-delayed highway project had hit another roadblock, with illegal structures, overhead electricity lines and trees halting construction. The private firm undertaking the project had taken police help to raze over 110 obstructions in the form of concrete structures. The NHAI had earlier reminded the district administration to expedite shifting of overhead electricity cables and poles, besides uprooting nearly 3,000 trees. Taking note of the delay, DC Ashok Kumar Sharma formed a coordination panel to review progress on a weekly basis.
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||32 more deaths; 1,635  new  cases in Haryana||With 1,635 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 2,39,239 on Thursday. The death toll went up to 2,520 with 32 more deaths.Gurugram reported a maximum of 437 cases, followed by Faridabad (305), Sonepat (90), Rohtak (85) and Panchkula (73).Hisar and Jind reported a maximum of five deaths each, followed by Gurugram and Faridabad (4 each), Bhiwani and Jhajjar (3 each), Karnal, Rohtak and Charkhi Dadri (2 each) and Panchkula and Fatehabad (1 each).
04-12-2020||During ongoing farmers 'Delhi challo' march against three agri-related laws||Who will bear cost of damaged highways of Haryana?||Shift gents' urinal to another placeA gents' urinal at the entry point of main bazar of Nagori gate, Hisar, is a big hurdle for the passerby and unhygeienic too as it emits foul smell. Moreover, it is at a crowded place where people wait for their turn without any fear of Covid pandemic. The urinal should be shifted to another place to avoid the spread of Covid. — Promila Kumar, HisarPanchkula Civil dispensary in pathetic stateThe Civil Dispensary in Sector 8, Panchkula, speaks volumes about the poor show by the city administration. Notably, the paver blocks were recently laid here aimed at providing cleanliness and giving nice look to the area. But sadly, this portion was soon "dug out" to carry out some 'repair work', possibly the water leakage, but it was never restored to its original position. Was it not obligatory on the part of the agency concerned to re-level it? — Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaBuilding of model road good news for GurugramIt is very pleasing to hear that the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will build a model road between Bajhawar Chowk and Mayfield Garden and the said road will serve template for new roads and further it will have revamping of old road taking a cue from the best roads. Cycle track to pedestrian lane, indeed, it was urgently required for the city which is famous all over the whole world. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
04-12-2020||Jhajjar||Will seal Delhi if talks fail, warn farmers||Farmers camping at the Tikri border spent the day waiting for the outcome of the meeting of their top leaders with the Centre and contemplating the next course of action to seal all nearby entry points to Delhi if the meeting remained inconclusive.Punjab farmers discussed the issue with local leaders, who stressed taking the help of people residing nearby to execute the plan in an effective manner.“We will not only seal all entry points to Delhi, but also cut off supply of milk and vegetables from Haryana to the national capital. We have done our homework and are waiting for directions from our top leaders,” said Joginder Ghasi Ram Nain, state president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union.Nain said people residing in villages near the Delhi border and khap leaders were supporting the agitation and they would not face any issue in sealing the borders.“We will have no option but to seal all entry points to Delhi if the government does not give any positive response. The plan has been discussed with Haryana leaders, who are making preparations in this regard,” said Purushottam Singh Gill of the BKU (Lakhowal).Vikas Sisar, state president of the Bhartiya Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said 17 farmers’ organisations in Haryana were fully equipped to seal Delhi if Thursday’s meeting failed to bear any fruitful result.A team of medical practitioners from Bathinda led by Dr Mewa Singh Barar distributed free medicines among the farmers. Aam Aadmi Party activists from Mundka in Delhi organised a langar for the farmers.Sonepat: Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh reached the Singhu border on Thursday in support of the ongoing protest.Members of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh Haryana and Haryana Power Engineers Association, Bhim Army president Chandrashekhar Azad and Nihang Sikh groups led by Baba Balbir Singh reached the inter-state border to extend support.Amanjot Singh (67) of Sangrur said they would stay put till their demands were met. He said they had no problem in staying put as they had come with ration for six months and langar was available at adjoining gurdwaras.Mahenderjeet Singh of Jalandhar said they had come to save their livelihood and had been staying on the roadside for the past seven days for their rights.Gurnam Singh of Bathinda said the government should hear their demands as these were not for farmers alone, but for the common man as well.“The cold wave cannot deter us from our mission as we have been irrigating our fields in bone-chilling nights,” said Simranjeet Singh of a Patiala village.SidelightsTake back cases: JJPChandigarh: The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) on Thursday demanded the withdrawal of cases registered against farmers during the ongoing farmers' agitation. Addressing a press conference, JJP leader Digvijay Chautala said the state government must take back the cases. He said a delegation of the party would meet the Chief Minister and Home Minister in this regard.ZP member quitsHisar: A Zila Parishad member from ward 5 in Sirsa district, Sunita Jhorar, on Thursday resigned from her post in support of the farmers' protest. The Zila Parishad (ZP) member submitted her resignation to the deputy commissioner and urged the Centre to accept the demands of the farmers.Khaps back agitatorsSonepat: Members of the Antil khap arrived at Singhu border with 25 trolleys filled with dry ration. Hawa Singh Pehalwan, khap chief, said they would give all possible support to the farmers. Surender Dahiya, chief of Dahiya khap, said they had urged the government to resolve the issues athe earliest. Ashok Saroha, spokesperson of Saroha khap, said their president Randhir Singh had decided to support the protesters.
04-12-2020||Karnal||Karnal groom drives tractor to wedding||Everyone wants to make his wedding day special and spend lots of money to make it unique, but in Karnal, Sumit Dhull, a resident of Sector 6 in the city, drove a tractor to wedding venue to support the farmers’ protest. He left the decorated Mercedes behind at home.“I belong to a farmer family and I stand by the farmers who are protesting against the Acts. So I’ve chosen a tractor instead of a Mercedes,” said Dhull before starting from his residence.His maternal uncle Surinder Narwal said, “It is his little attempt to show solidarity with the farmers.” He said that Dhull and his wife would also go to the protest site to extend support to farmers on Friday.
04-12-2020||Rohtak||No dearth of funds, food as support continues to pour in||Farmers from Punjab camping at the Tikri border are fully equipped, as being claimed by them, to carry out the agitation for next several months as they have neither dearth of funds nor shortage of food.They have not only collected a huge amount of funds from their villages concerned but also rationed things like rice, flour, moong, sugar, diesel and petrol to stay put at the border for long. Even locals are providing vegetables, fruits, milk, lassi, sweets and other eatables to them. Significantly, the farmers have now kept their ration safe for future and are using those donated by locals daily.“The preparation for the protest started in November and we had collected over Rs 3 lakh funds from our village for it. The amount has been donated by land owners at the rate of Rs 150 per acre and Rs 40 per bigha,” said Gurlal Singh of Baliyan village in Sangrur district.Singh said a similar pattern was adopted by a majority of the villages in Punjab to collect the funds. “So far, we have spent some money from Rs 3 lakh for buying diesel. Other villagers are ready to donate more if needed, hence money is no issue,” he added.Jasvinder Singh from Muktsar said for the first two-three days, they spent the money for buying milk but now locals were providing them not only milk but also water, lassi, ladoos, halwa, jalebi, fruits and vegetables. Even langar was also being organised by the locals daily. “Hence, we are not using our ration for now. It has been kept safe for the time of crisis,” he added.Satvinder, another protester from Mansa, said “Many NRIs have also been in our constant touch and they want to donate money for the agitation but we have kept their offer on hold as every village committee has, at present, sufficient amount of money to meet their daily requirements,” he added.
04-12-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram diverts traffic to avoid bottlenecks||With farmers’ protests set to intensify, the police have fortified the city. As farmers are trying to reach Delhi through Gurugram borders, many entry points to Delhi have been closed.Key borders have been barricaded and major traffic diversions have been made. All these have led to massive traffic congestion on the city roads.The Gurugram police on Thursday issued advisory and made many diversions on city routes. As per the advisory issued by DCP, Traffic, DK Bhardwaj, to reach Delhi from Kapdiwas border, commuters will have to use the Pataudi-Jhajjar road only.Meanwhile, from Bilaspur chowk, commuters can only use Farukhnagar-Jhajjar road to reach Delhi. The u-turn has been allowed from Manesar chowk to KMP and from Khedki Daula toll plaza. The road for Farukhnagar-Jhajjar-Badli has been diverted from Hero Honda chowk. Commuters can take u-turn from Rajiv chowk and Shankar chowk to reach Delhi.
04-12-2020||Yamunanagar||Two held for forging mining bills||The police have arrested two persons for forging e-ravana documents and bills to transport mining minerals illegally from Himachal Pradesh to Haryana.Prithvi Singh, SHO, Chhachhrauli police station, said the accused Rizwan and Mustqeem Ahmed were arrested on Thursday and they would be produced in a court on Friday. On the complaint of Ravi Kumar of Tilak Nagar, a case has been registered against Rizwan Ali and Mustqeem Ahmed under various Sections of the IPC at Chhachhrauli police station on Wednesday. — TNS
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ghost buying plugged, 20% less paddy procured||Even as neighbouring Punjab has witnessed a significant jump of nearly 25 per cent in procurement of paddy this year, Haryana claims to have plugged ghost purchases this time, registering a dip of nearly 20 per cent in its procurement this time.Haryana ended its paddy procurement season with a purchase of 55.6 lakh MT of paddy against 64.71 lakh MT last year.How it was doneHaryana plugged ghost purchase not only by checking truckloads of paddy coming from the other states, but also by stopping pushing of extra paddy by its own farmers in the name of increase in productivity per acre“We have procured paddy of all farmers from our state who had uploaded details of their crop on the portal ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’. We have also procured paddy of farmers from the neighbouring states who maintained their accounts with arhtiyas in our state and had uploaded their crop details on the portal. But we have eliminated all ghost procurement which was prevalent during all these years,” said PK Das, Additional Chief Secretary (Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers Affairs), Haryana.As for paddy from the neighbouring states that generally comes to Haryana, Das explained that paddy from Punjab came to Ambala, Kaithal and Fatehabad, while that from Uttar Pradesh came to Karnal.Interestingly, Punjab recorded 133 per cent jump in procurement in Fazilka mandi this year. But paddy from there never comes to Haryana. “Fazilka (Punjab) and neighbouring Dabwali of Haryana are cotton belts. The state never receives paddy from those areas of Punjab,” Das said.The ghost purchases used to be of two types. One, some unscrupulous traders used to buy paddy from other states like Bihar and push it in the procurement system to earn windfall profits, putting unnecessary burden on the state exchequer.Two, some rice millers in connivance with government procurement agencies used to show more receipt of paddy for custom milling than actually received.The millers would then make good the difference by pushing paddy or cheaper rice brought from Bihar or other states.One MT of wheat brought from Bihar gives an unscrupulous dealer profit of Rs 5,000 to Rs 7,000, said sources.Haryana plugged ghost purchase not only by checking truckloads of paddy coming from the other states, but also by stopping pushing of extra paddy by its own farmers in the name of increase in productivity per acre.Das explained that the crop cutting experiments (CCEs) conducted by the state Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department every year to ascertain productivity per acre have found yield between 22 and 28 quintals per acre in various districts of the state.However, the state government took the production as 30 quintals per acre with an additional permission of 3 quintal for the purpose of procurement since the details of crops uploaded by the farmers on the portal mentioned the number of acres under a particular crop.There was dual checking for the truthfulness of information uploaded by the farmers through records of the Revenue Department and satellite imagery.
04-12-2020||Gurugram||Man gets life threat from gangster||A Faridabad interior designer has been threatened with dire consequences by an unidentified miscreant through a video call. The caller claiming to be Delhi gangster Neeraj Bawana told the designer that the interior designer’s father had given him the contract of killing him, his brother and sister-in law. The police have registered an FIR and a probe is on. — OC
04-12-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Faridabad police nab two UP gangsters||The Faridabad police have nabbed two sharpshooters of Uttar Pradesh’s Hitler gang, who were in the city to eliminate two members of Kaushal gang.A Swift car, Apache bike, a revolver, a country-made pistol, cartridges and a mobile phone were recovered from their possession. The police said both the shooters were hired by gangster Manoj of Mangaria and Ravi of Mujedi for contract killing.The kingpin of the Hitler gang, Mohit, alias Hitler, is a wanted criminal and carries a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head. He had shot dead two property dealers in UP’s Bulandshahar a few days ago.Acting on a tip-off, Sector 30 in charge Inspector Vimal Kumar on Wednesday conducted a raid in the Surajkund area and nabbed the duo, who were carrying weapons with them.The accused were identified as Gaurav of Bulandshahar and Rohit, alias Badel, Aligarh in UP. An FIR of carrying illegal arms was registered against them at Surjkund police station.During interrogation, the accused revealed that they were called by Manoj a few days ago. Manoj and Ravi provided them a flat in the Green Field area and in return, the latter gave them a contract for eliminating two persons. They were doing a recee in the area on a bike and car, but were nabbed by the police before they could succeed. Though the police have not officially confirmed yet but highly placed sources revealed that they had taken a contract to eliminate gangster Tek Chand and Narender, alias Ninder, who are close aides of Kaushal. Tek Chand had played important role in the murder of Faridabad Youth Congress leader Vikas Chaudhary and Ninder is a relative of gangster Ranvir Bhati.“The accused were produced in a court on Thursday and taken them on two-day police remand for questioning. Now we are conducting raids to nab gangster Hitler, Manoj and Ravi,” said Anil Yadav, ACP (Crime), Faridabad.
04-12-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Singhu border turns melting pot, farmers ready for the long haul||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 3Caste lines stand blurred, the edges around political ideologies have softened and physical boundaries of states are no longer divisive at the Singhu border between Haryana and Delhi, where protesting farmers are camping.Read also:Across age groups, farmers from Rajasthan, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh have come to join hands with their counterparts from Punjab and Haryana to campaign against the Central farm laws.United by intent, they are declaring this is their do-or-die battle and emphasising that a rollback is the only option available with the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre.“We are going nowhere, whether it takes six months or one year. The government has to take back its black laws. If the corporates take over the farming sector, we are doomed. We’d rather die here than stay silent,” says Kapoor Chand of Sangrur.One week into the agitation and their spirits are high, deriving strength from every tractor-trailer making its way to the protest site. “We didn’t come all the way from Punjab, breaking barricades and pushing our way through police deployment to go back after a token protest. We are here for the long haul,” Harnek Singh of Jalandhar says. While songs of valour blare from tractors on the stretch occupied by Punjab farmers, the Haryanvis are easily discernible in the crowd of colorful turbans by their hookahs, as they pass it around.From Malerkotla, 25 men of a minority community are busy making and serving sweet rice. “This fight is for the entire humanity. If the farmer suffers, all of us will be hit. So, 25 of us have come from our village to contribute our bit by serving sweet rice,” explains Haji Mohammad Jameel.Mohan Singh, a farmer from MP who is accompanied by 250 others, says the difference of culture has ceased to exist. “Nobody is a stranger. We are united by a cause,” he maintains. Farmers from Odisha led by Akshay Kumar have joined the protest and support from other states too is pouring in.The farmers are clear that the fight will be no cakewalk. Farming is their way of worship and this stir a pilgrimage.
04-12-2020||---||Protest against Khattar: Chandigarh police use water cannons on Punjab Youth Cong workers||Chandigarh, December 2The UT police today resorted to the use of water cannons to stop workers of the Punjab Youth Congress from marching towards the residence of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The police said around 11 am, a large number of Congress workers, led by Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon, marched from the Sector 15 office of the Punjab Congress headquarters to the Sector 3 residence of the Haryana CM to protest against “mishandling” of farmers in Haryana and Delhi.The police said during the protest, the workers broke barricades. Water cannons were used to stop them, but they managed to proceed towards the CM’s residence. However, they were stopped near the Sector 2/3 small chowk.The police have registered a case against Barinder Dhillon and others under Section 188 of the IPC at the Sector 11 police station.Some Youth Congress workers allegedly pelted journalists from electronic media with stones following which a scribe was injured.Capt condemns attack on scribesThe Punjab Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, has strongly condemned the alleged attack on some journalists by Youth Congress workers. He expressed regret that a scribe was hurt and promisedstrict action against the perpetrators of the violence. “You’ve to lead by example and uphold law,” he said.
04-12-2020||---||Haryana teachers try to gherao Khattar’s house, face water cannons, lathis||Panchkula, December 2Hundreds of primary teachers under the banner of the Haryana State Primary Teachers’ Association, who were marching towards Chandigarh to gherao Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s official residence over their demand for the implementation inter-district transfers, faced lathi-charge and water canons at the Panchkula-Chandigarh entry gate near the Housing Board light point today.The action by Chandigarh Police left several teachers injured, association representatives said while adding they were given first aid on the spot.A panel of teachers, which included association’s state president Tarun Suhag, was taken to the CM’s house by the police for a meeting to discuss their demands.After an assurance from CM’s OSD Bhupeshwar Dayal that the government will soon come up with a resolution, the association has withdrawn its protest for two days with a fresh warning of an indefinite sit-in outside Education Minister’s house if their demands are not met.Today was the second day of teachers’ protest. Yesterday, primary teachers had held a sit-in outside Shiksha Sadan in Sector 5.Though teachers’ representatives had met State Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar and Director General of Elementary Education, the meeting remained non-conclusive.As per protesting teachers, the Directorate of Elementary Education, Haryana, had on November 15 issued an order for the inter-district transfer of 2,544 primary teachers asking them to join their duties in respective districts by November 17.“Teachers complied with the government’s order and moved to places where they were transferred. However, to our utter surprise, the government came up with a fresh order on November 27 nullifying its earlier transfer orders. Teachers were asked to join back at their previous places posting and stay there till the completion of the present academic session (till March 31, 2021),” said Jitender Kundu, state vice-president of the association.
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s first women president Kanupriya joins farmers’ protest at Singhu border||Panjab University’s first women president Kanupriya has been protesting along with farmers at Delhi’s Singhu border. Talking about the agitation, Kanupriya said she had been taking part in farmers’ struggle ever since they gave a call for Punjab Bandh on September 25.Now in Delhi for five days, she talks about her political aspirations and reasons for stepping into the protest.“I do feel responsible for societies that stretch beyond Panjab University. This movement has brought economic consciousness among peasants, who are now fighting against privatisation and corporatisation,” said Kanupriya.“I joined the protest because the government maintains that these farmers have been misled. If you don’t have food security, there are more chances of war-like situation,” she added.“There’s no active politics than participating in people’s struggle. Many people have tried and failed. I don’t want to try a failed experiment,” she said. — TNS
