04-10-2020||  Chandigarh||Vigilance books former Urdu  Akademi Director for irregularities||For allegedly spending lakhs in the name of entertaining writers, irregularities in medical and travel bills and getting insurance done of his official car twice in a year, State Vigilance Bureau has booked former Director of Haryana Urdu Akademi , Narender Kumar.    There was a complaint against Narender Kumar, a resident of Panipat, as irregularities of Rs 15.07 lakh were revealed during an audit of the Haryana Urdu Akademi  for the year 2018. It was alleged that he along with some employees of the academy were involved.   “The FIR has been registered and investigations are going on,” said Director General, State Vigilance Bureau, PK Agrawal.  Multiple vouchers of same date for entertaining writers  An amount of Rs 14,009 was allegedly shown as spent on entertaining writers, which a driver Pramod Kumar claimed through a cheque on July 16, 2018. Two days later, on July 18, 2018, another amount of Rs 8,947 was cleared through a cheque, allegedly shown as spent on entertaining writers. It was issued in the name of messenger Kapoor Chand. However, he told that he never withdrew the money but on the instructions of then Director Narender Kumar, he had signed the bill, said the Vigilance Bureau.  Driver Pramod Kumar withdrew money through cheques for which two separate vouchers, dated July 18, 2018, of Rs 1,605 and Rs 27,436 respectively were issued, again allegedly shown as spent on entertaining writers. He had given back the amount to Narender Kumar, as per Vigilance Bureau.   Another voucher of same date showed expenditure of Rs 43,126 allegedly in the name of entertaining writers, for which then then Director Narender Kumar had received the amount in his own account. The Vigilance Bureau said the then Director couldn't give a solid reply on this allegation.  Another voucher of Rs 47, 590 was issued the next day, July 19,2018, cleared again allegedly in the name of entertaining writers. Again, driver Pramod Kumar withdrew the amount and gave it back to the then Director.  Pramod again withdrew Rs 40, 370 for which a voucher was issued, dated July 26, 2018, in the name of entertaining writers and giving shield etc. He gave the amount back to the then director.  Another amount of Rs 2,010 was withdrawn, again for entertainment of writers, through a voucher, dated September 7, 2018.  The audit said that such entertainment was not permitted.  A travel bill of Rs 1.02 lakh was reimbursed without permission from competent authority. No solid proof could be provided by Narender Kumar regarding this, said the Vigilance Bureau.  The official car's insurance was got done twice, one in April, 2018, and then in October, 2018. The vouchers for the payment of travel bill and for second insurance were of the same date.    A bill of Jagat Jewellers of Delhi for purchases of Rs 39,155 was also claimed. It was found cancelled in the record of the firm.  It was found that he allegedly got Rs 39,155 as medical reimbursement in his account, without permission from competent authority in July 2018.  Also, Rs 25,417 was allegedly spent on food and books which the audit termed as irregular.  According to the FIR, he committed a scam of Rs 1.89 lakh and Rs 1.21 lakh is due to be recovered from him.   He has been booked for criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery, criminal breach of trust under relevant section of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Prevention of Corruption Act. Narender Kumar couldn’t be contacted for comments.
04-10-2020||Gurugram||25-year-old woman gang-raped, brutally thrashed in Gurugram; 4 accused arrested||Four men allegedly gang-raped a 25-year-old woman and thrashed her brutally when she resisted in Gurugram's DLF Phase-2 on Saturday night.Gurugram police, after they were informed of the incident by a security guard, rushed the victim to a hospital and arrested all four accused from different parts of Gurugram in a night-long raid.The accused had smashed the woman's head.The accused, identified as Ranjan, Pawan, Pankaj and Gobind, all live in Chakkarpur area. Pawan is an office boy and all the others are delivery boys with Zomato and Swiggy.According to sources, the victim was allegedly picked up by Pawan from the Sikanderpur metro station for paid sex with two men around 1:30 am. He walked her to the property dealer's office in DLF phase-2 where he worked. The other three accused were already waiting there and they asked her to have sex with all of them. She refused and tried to flee. The men then brutally thrashed and gang-raped her. Her head was smashed against the wall, following which the accused fled the spot.“We got a call from a security guard around 1:30 about a woman with a bleeding head, in a dishevelled state, stumbling out of an office. We immediately reached the spot and rushed her to a hospital. The victim, in her complaint, claimed that she was forced to have sex the four accused, even though she had she said no.We immediately deputed special raiding parties and managed to nab the accused within two hours from different parts of the city while they were trying to flee. They are currently being interrogated,” said ACP Karan Goel.The incident has rattled the entire city and women activists have demanded quick and stringent punishment for the accused.“Thankfully, Gurugram police acted swiftly but we want exemplary punishment for the accused to ensure they understand that a no means no. We have moved to CP regarding same,” said Ranjana Saxena, a women's rights activist.
04-10-2020||---||Gang of thieves busted in Kaithal||Chandigarh, October 3The police have busted a gang of motorcycle thieves active in Kaithal and adjoining districts by arresting five of its members.The police have also recovered 20 motorcycles worth around Rs 4 lakh stolen from different parts of Kaithal, Thanesar and Pehowa districts.Giving this information here on Saturday, a police spokesperson said three members of the gang were arrested after extensive interrogation of a vicious accused on remand, while one member had already been sent to judicial custody on October 1.Before committing the crime, the members of the gang used to conduct recee and steal the bikes either by breaking the lock open or with the help of the master key.After interrogating one accused Ritesh, the police team had set up a checkpost on the intervening night of October 2 and 3 near Keodak and arrested three persons identified as Gokul, alias Sunny, Arun and Ankush.Earlier, the police had also nabbed Ajay and Ritesh with a stolen bike on the night of September 30.
04-10-2020||---||Palwal man booked for raping daughter||Palwal, October 3The police have booked a man for allegedly raping his teenage daughter in the district. The accused is yet to be arrested.A spokesperson of the Police Department said the matter surfaced after the victim, aged 17 years, lodged a complaint with the women police station on Friday that her father, aged 45 years, had been assaulting her sexually for the past three years, which resulted in a pregnancy of four months.Claiming that her mother had died four years ago, the victim told the police that her father started the sexual exploitation a year after her death and had been threatening to kill her if she resisted or told anyone about the matter.A hunt has been launched to arrest the accused after a medical examination of the victim, said the police.
04-10-2020||Gurugram||Betting racket busted, 2 held in Gurugram||The police busted an illegal betting racket being run from the Sushant Lok area, and arrested two members of the gang found betting on one of the IPL matches. A LED, four mobile phones and Rs 8,000 were seized from them.The accused have been identified as Tarun, a resident of Madanpuri in Gurugram, and Nawab Ali, a native of West Bengal. — TNS
04-10-2020||Our Correspondent||2 booked for stealing chain in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 3The district police have booked a couple for stealing a gold chain from a jewellery showroom.According to the complaint filed by Rakesh Goyal, owner of Giriraj Jewellers, located in Sadar Bazaar, on September 29 afternoon, a couple visited his showroom and wanted to buy a gold ring. They spent more than 30 minutes at the showroom.“It was late in the night when we counted the items in the showroom we found a gold chain weighing 55 gm missing. We reviewed the CCTV footage and found that the couple stole the chain when the salesman was busy showing them rings. We submitted the footage to the police,” Goyal said in the police complaint.An FIR has been registered at the City police station. The police said they were trying to nab the couple, who was identified yet.
04-10-2020||---||Two carjacking cases in Sonepat||Panipat, October 3Two persons were robbed of two cars, cash and some valuables at gunpoint in separate incidents in Sonepat on Friday.Complainant Deepak of Hanuman Nagar told the police that he was walking towards his car after leaving from a party when the bike-borne accused snatched away his car keys, Rs 10,000, his mobile phone, and subsequently sped away. The incident happened on the Sonepat-Delhi road near Fazilpur power house.In another incident, Ravinder Singh of Lakhu Buana village of Panipat told the police that two miscreants stopped his car near Hans dhaba along the NH-44, and robbed him of his car, Rs 20,000 and his mobile phone.Cases have been registered against the unidentified persons under the relevant sections of the IPC.
04-10-2020||New Delhi||COVID-19: Punjab, Haryana among states with most deaths in 24 hrs||Punjab and Haryana were among the 10 states that accounted for 84.1 per cent of the 1,069 deaths over the past 24 hours, Health Ministry data showed.While Punjab reported 50 fatalities, 23 deaths were witnessed in Haryana. With 424 deaths, Maharashtra led the high-fatality burden states, followed by Karnataka (125), Tamil Nadu (67), UP and Bengal (53 each), Delhi (37), MP (36) and Andhra Pradesh 31.The recoveries, meanwhile, are being fuelled by 10 states that account for 74.36 per cent of all discharged patients. These are Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, UP, Kerala, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Delhi and West Bengal. — TNS
04-10-2020||Ambala||2 killed in road mishaps in Ambala||An unidentified man was killed after he was hit by a bike near the motor market on Ambala-Rajpura Road. Also, Ram Singh, 42, of Saha near here was killed when a car hit him near Beehta village. The accused have been booked for rash and negligent driving. TNSMan arrested for murderParmal Singh of Naraingarh has been arrested in a murder case. Complainant Ravinder Kumar of Bara Gaon in Naraingarh reported that the accused and his accomplices had assaulted him, his cousin Rohit and uncle Hem Singh with swords and knives on September 21 with an intent to kill them. Hem Singh died on the spot. A court sent Parmal to three-day police custody. TNS2 more held for abductionThe police have arrested two more persons, Abhimanyu and Ajay, for allegedly abducting a man. Complainant Santokh Singh of Panjokhra told the police the accused had abducted him from the military forest area in Garnala village over a land dispute on August 12. The accused were sent to 14-day judicial remand. TNSWoman goes missingA woman, 28, was reported missing from her home in Saha near here. Brother of the woman Amit Kumar told the police that his sister had left home on October 1 and was missing since then. A missing person’s report had been lodged and search for the woman was underway. TNS27-year-old abductedA woman (27) was reportedly abducted in Ambala Sadar on October 1. Father of the woman Babu Ram alleged that Sonu had abducted his daughter after luring her on the false pretext of marriage. The accused had been booked. TNS
04-10-2020||Panipat||Bishnoi gang ‘targets’ cable operator in Sonepat||A cable distributor in Gohana of Sonepat got an extortion call of Rs 5 lakh from a member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.Manmohan of Ram Nagar in Gohana in his complaint to the police said he had a business of cable distribution. He received scores of WhatsApp calls on his mobile phone from September 30 night to October 1 morning. He received one of the calls and the caller demanded Rs 5 lakh extortion from him and threatened of dire consequences. The caller introduced himself as Deepu, a member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.The Gohana City police have registered a case against Deepu under various Sections of the IPCand began a probe into the matter. — TNS
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||1-kg opium seized from Punjab-bound truck||The police have arrested two persons carrying 1 kg of opium worth Rs 2.5 lakh in a truck loaded with pulses in Sirsa district.On Saturday, a police spokesperson said the accused had hidden the contraband in the truck that came from the Jhabra area in Madhya Pradesh and was supposed to go to Punjab. They were caught during a special checking after getting a tip-off by the CIA team from Uddham Singh Chowk under Ellenabad police station.The accused have been identified as Gurjeet Singh and Gurdev, both residents of Sirsa district.A case was registered against the duo under the relevant provisions of the NDPS Act. — TNS
04-10-2020||Rewari||Central team inspects new site for AIIMS in Rewari||A five-member team of the Central Government on Thursday inspected the proposed site for the nation’s 22nd AIIMS in Majra and nearby villages in the district.The team, led by Sunil Sharma, joint secretary, Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana, under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, also discussed various issues pertaining to the proposed site with local administrative officials and reviewed its progress. Two senior officers of AIIMS, Delhi, and a senior architect of the Centre were also part of the team.The AIIMS project was announced by PM Narendra Modi during his visit to Kurukshetra in February 2019 for Manethi village here but the district authorities did not find adequate land in consolidated manner for the project so it proposed a new site in Majra and surrounding villages.Meanwhile, Ved Prakash Vidrohi, spokesman for the Congress, said the visit of the Central team was nothing but an eyewash. “The BJP government has not finalised the site for the AIIMS project even 19 months after the PM’s announcement, which is a clear indication that the government is not serious about the project. It’s just passing time by carrying out such inspections so that locals don’t resist it by raising the issue,” Vidrohi added. — TNS
04-10-2020||---||Haryana saw 159 gangrape cases in ’19||Chandigarh, October 3Haryana has the second highest number of gangrapes in the country after Rajasthan, according to the National Crime Record Bureau’s “Crime in India” report-2019.Rajasthan reported 902 gangrapes, as registered under the IPC, while Haryana recorded 159 with 2.4 and 1.17 cases per lakh population, respectively. The calculations have been done on the basis of the number of crime incidents per lakh women population.In absolute numbers, Haryana is on fourth spot in gangrapes, while Rajasthan tops the list. With 301 cases, UP is on second spot and with 162 cases, Madhya Pradesh third. The neighbouring Delhi recorded 47 gangrapes in 2019, while Punjab 29 and Himachal four. J&K didn’t record any such incident.In 2018, Rajasthan had reported 556 gangrape cases, while Haryana 155.In rapes under all categories, four cases were reported daily in Haryana in 2019 and the total number of cases registered was 1,480 — a rise of 14.2 per cent from the previous year when 1,296 cases were reported.Haryana had 49 cases where repeat offenders were involved, which was also the second highest in the country with Madhya Pradesh topping the chart in this category with 52 such cases.There were 308 cases of repeated rape on same women in Haryana. In 97 per cent cases, offender was known to the victim.Besides, 1,117 girl child rape cases were registered under Section 4 and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act — a rise of 9.5 per cent from 2018.There were six cases of murder with rape, but they are being counted under the murder category, as the NCRB records the cases with multiple offences under that head that attracts maximum punishment.There were 14,683 crime incidents against women in Haryana in 2019 — a rise of 2.5 per cent from 2018. These cases also included 248 incidents of dowry deaths, 4,867 cases of cruelty by husband or his relatives, four cases of acid attack and 2,803incidents of kidnapping and abduction.Haryana recorded 108.5 crimes against women per lakh population, which is the fifth highest in the country. Assam was the most unsafe for women with 177.8 crime incidents against women per lakh population, followed by Delhi (144), Lakshadweep (115.2) and Rajasthan (110.4).In Haryana courts, the conviction rate in crime against women in 2019 was just 16.1 per cent and for crime against children, too, was 27 per cent, which points towards poor investigation.In crime rate of murder and dacoity cases, Haryana is ranked third in the country with 1,137 and 153 cases registered in 2019, respectively. As many as 84 murders took place due to love affairs and illicit relationships alone.In crimes against Scheduled Castes (SCs), there was a rise of 13 per cent in 2019 as the state recorded 1,086 cases, which included 221 rapes (under IPC), 101 child rapes (under POCSO Act) and 43 murders. The conviction rate in courts in crimes against SCs was just 22.3 per cent.
04-10-2020||---||Women self-help groups to take part in Surajkund fair||Chandigarh, October 3The government has come up with an initiative to empower women of the state by giving an opportunity to those connected with self-help groups showcase their talent at the Surajkund International Crafts Fair to be organised in Faridabad.The initiative will not only increase employment opportunities for the women but will also give new recognition and flight to their talent at the international level.In a meeting with officials through videoconferencing, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala focused on the constitution of self-help groups and making women self-reliant from the economic point of view. He also issued directions for ensuring the participation of self-help groups in next year’s Surajkund fair so that women from then state’s rural areas get an opportunity to showcase their talent at the global level.Dushyant said it was the endeavour of the government to increase employment opportunities for women in villages as well as cities so that their income could be enhanced. To meet this purpose, he directed the officials to form self-help groups in villages where they were not present and also activate these where they had already been constituted.The Deputy CM said the Chief Executive Officer would prepare the report after making the work plan for the constitution of groups in every village at the district level. He said by the formation of these self-help groups for women in every district not only the products manufactured in villages would be available in the market but also the rate of self-reliance in rural areas would increase from the economic point of view.Dushaynt said through this, women would play an important role in pulling the state out of economic downturn due to the lockdown.Dushyant also directed officials to establish a booth at the district level throughout the state for selling the products of self-help groups.
04-10-2020||---||‘Harassed’ by cops, Karnal youth commits suicide||Karnal, October 3A 23-year-old youth on Saturday allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his residence in Sadar Bazar in the city.The deceased has been identified as Deepu of Sadar Bazar. The family members refused to get the post-mortem done and took the body in an ambulance to the Mini-Secretariat, where they protested against the cops of the Sadar Bazar police post for harassing him to take this step.They alleged that Deepu was harassed by the Sadar Bazar police in a case of thrashing registered against his younger brother, who is absconding in the case. He was allegedly picked up by the police to know about the locations of his brother, however, he was released later on the request of their neighbours but he was in depression and took this step.Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia has sent two of the cops to the Police Lines over the allegations levelled by the family members. He has also handed over the inquiry to Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Rajiv Kumar.Divya, sister of the deceased, said Deepu lived in Delhi with his wife and daughter. He came to his native place to meet his family three days ago, but the police started harassing them and demanded money to give them relief in the case of thrashing registered against her younger brother, she added.“The family members said Deepu died after he hanged himself at his residence. The family members have been assured of justice by the SP while two police personnel — ASI Ravinder Kumar and Head Constable Vikram — have been sent to Police Lines. Following this, the family members gave consent for the post-mortem. The actual cause of death will be determined after the post-mortem report arrives,” the DSP said.
04-10-2020||Panipat||Panipat arhtiya gets extortion letters seeking Rs 2 cr||An arhtiya in Babarpur grain market of Panipat has received three anonymous letters in which some miscreant had demanded Rs 2 crore from him. He has threatened the arhtiya that if he fails to give the money, his elder son and grandson would be killed.The police have registered a case against the unidentified miscreant and began a probe into the matter.Shree Chand of Babarpur Mandi in his complaint to the police said that he found the first anonymous letter on September 14 in his godown in which the accused had threatened to kill his elder son and grandson and demanded extortion money amounting to Rs 2 crore from him.He ignored the first letter but on September 23, he went to his fields and found a letter hanging on the door of the room in the fields in which the suspect again demanded Rs 2 crore and told him to keep the money near the tubewell.He found the third anonymous letter on October 1 while he was on the way to his fields. When he reached near the tubewell, one Khushiram handed over him a letter which was lying on the way to his fields. In the third letter, the accused demanded Rs 1 crore. Then, the family members approached the police.Following the complaint, the Sadar police have registered a case against an unidentified person under Sections 387 and 506 of the IPC. — TNS
04-10-2020||---||Relatives of 20 INA soldiers in Haryana seek assistance||Rohtak, October 3In the past 10 days, descendants of 20 soldiers of Indian National Army (INA) led by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose have approached Shri Bhagwan Phogat, son of an INA soldier, who has been working hard for the past eight years to get the unsung heroes of the INA recognised.Bhagwan Phogat, Son of INA soldierRequests from Rohtak, HisarThe descendants from Rohtak, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad have given me details of their ancestors. They have requested me to find out their association with the INA in the records so that they could avail of the govt scheme.“The descendants belonging to Rohtak, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts have provided me details of their ancestors associated with the INA. They have requested me to find out their association with the INA in the records so that they could avail of the government scheme. This has happened due to The Tribune which published a story on my mission on September 21,” said Phogat (60) of Dhani Phogat village (Charkhi Dadri) who currently resides in Rewari city.He maintained the Centre had rejected a large number of applications moved by descendants of INA soldiers for ‘Swatantrata Sainik Samman Pension’ as the kin could not produce evidence about the association of their forefathers with the INA.All these rejected files are — at present — lying at the National Archives of India, which is a repository othe non-current records, Phogat added.“I have also identified 14 INA soldiers belonging to Rohtak and Jhajjar district who laid down their lives during World War-II. But their descendants are yet to be traced to move applications for pension. The widows of INA soldiers are entitled to pension. These soldiers belonged to Bhali, Sunaria, Bahu Akbarpur, Pilana, Nindana, Katesara villages of Rohtak and Kheri Khummar, Chimni and Bamdoli villages in Jhajjar,” he said.Phogat maintained that in the past eight years, he had identified 250 INA soldiers and traced their association with the INA in the records. All cases had been sent to the state government for pension.“A large number of soldiers of the then British army had joined the INA following the call given by Bose. Many of them attained martyrdom fighting against the British army. Several others had to face physical torture at the hands of the British who deliberately did not give any record to the kin of the martyrs,” he claimed.
04-10-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Covid hits Haryana’s fiscal health||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3Under the Covid shadow and economic slowdown, the borrowings and other liabilities of the Haryana Government crossed Rs 12,000 crore at the end of August this financial year. The revenue receipts have shrunk by 28 per cent when compared to the corresponding period last year.The borrowings and other liabilities (net) this year till August reached Rs 12,075.06 crore while these were at Rs 9,966.80 crore last year. So, there is a jump of 21.2 per cent when compared with the corresponding period last year.The total receipts of the government, both revenue and capital, amounted to Rs 32,247.42 crore. The borrowings are part of capital receipts.On the expenditure side, Rs 30,515.73 crore, which is 95.2 per cent of the total, alone has gone towards revenue expenditure which included salaries, pension, subsidy and interest payments.Revenue receiptsAccording to CAG’s month-wise provisional figures, the revenue receipts of the state government were Rs 20,078.10 crore at the end of August while they were Rs 28,078.83 crore during the corresponding period last year. There is a dip of 28.5 per cent.The Goods and Services Tax (GST) was down by over 31 per cent as only Rs 5,341.68 crore was earned while it was Rs 7,750.62 crore in the corresponding period of 2019.There was a major fall in earnings from stamps and registration as only Rs 1,099.47 crore was earned. It was Rs 2,731.17 crore in the corresponding period of 2019. There was a dip of 59.7 per cent. This year, land registration was halted too for some time after allegations of corruption had surfaced on the part of revenue officials.The sales tax collection, which includes earnings from the sale of petrol and diesel, had come down to Rs 2,830.67 crore this financial year while last year, the earnings were Rs 3,618.28 crore. There was a shortfall of 21.8 per cent.The state’s excise duty fell by 16.3 per cent as only Rs 2,572.42 crore was collected this year till August.The non-tax revenue, which includes collections from mining, transport, External Development Charges (EDC), was down by 59.8 per cent as only Rs 975.50 crore came. As much as Rs 2,426.69 crore was earned in the corresponding period last year.The recovery of loans and advances was dismal at just Rs 87.03 crore while it was Rs 5,224.30 crore last year.“The tax revenue during lockdown in April and May was just Rs 1,305.40 crore and Rs 3,608.38 crore respectively. But for June, it jumped to Rs 7,007.21 crore and for July, it further rose to Rs 10,376.51 crore. It was Rs 14,624.26 crore in August. So, the recovery is on the way,” said a senior official in the Finance Department.GST compensationAs per provisions in the Goods and Service Tax (Compensation) Act, 2017, the states are assured of their revenue at 14 per cent compounded growth rate over the base year revenue 2015-16 for loss of revenue arising on account of GST implementation for a period of five years.Due to the inadequate balance in the Compensation Fund, the admissible bimonthly GST compensation has so far not been released. According to figures submitted before Parliament last month, Haryana had received Rs 1,461 crore as GST compensation from the Centre in 2017-18 and Rs 3,916 crore in 2018-19. For 2019-20, the state was given Rs 6,617 crore. However, for April to July of 2020-21, the release of Rs 5,841 crore is due. During the 41st GST Council meeting in August, the states weregiven options to meet their compensation shortfall from market borrowing.
04-10-2020||---||Covid-19: 25 fatalities, 1,188 cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 3With 25 deaths and 1,188 fresh Covid cases having been reported in the past 24 hours, the Covid tally has climbed to 1.32 lakh.Of the deaths reported, Hisar, Panchkula and Jind topped the chart with four deaths each, Sirsa and Yamunanagar (three each), Ambala and Rohtak (two each) and Gurugram, Rewari and Panipat (one each).A 42-year-old man from Baniyawad in Ballabgarh also died on Saturday.The two persons who died in Ambala City had comorbidities.In the district-wise break-up, Gurugram reported the maximum number of cases at 277, followed by Faridabad (134), Hisar (116), Panchkula (70), Rewari (61), Rohtak (58) and Sonipat (55).Meanwhile, 1,542 patients recovered from the deadly virus in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered cases to 1.18 lakh. Over 250 patients are on oxygen support and 40 on ventilators.
04-10-2020||---||Class XII student on a mission against single-use plastic in Rewari||Rewari, October 3Every time, Nandini (17) receives her pocket money, she buys a variety of fabric of different colours and sewing material — not to make clothes for her, but to sew bags for people of her city.Her objective is to sensitise people against the use of single-use plastic.Nandini, Class XII studentInitial stepsOur house was under repair three years ago. Every day, I saw labourers bringing their food in polythene bags. I knew it was harmful for their health. So, I started sewing cloth bags for them.Inspired by her maternal grandmother, Nandini started making cloth bags three years ago when she saw labourers having their food from polythene bags.“Our house was under repair three years ago. Every day, I saw labourers bringing their food in polythene bags. I knew it was harmful for their health. So with the help of my mother, I sew cloth bags for them. That gave me a sense of satisfaction. In return, I made them promise me that they won’t use polythene bags in future,” the Class XII girl says. So far, she has distributed more than 10,000 cloth bags.Her mother and grandmother cut the cloth, while her 12-year-old cousin Harsh help her in sewing bags. “Harsh and I dedicate at least two hours every day to sew bags,” Nandini says.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and other ministers have appreciated her endeavour, while Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh visited her house when he learnt about her effort.
04-10-2020||Nitin Jain||Covid shadow on Dasehra celebrations in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 3Uncertainty prevails over the famous Ramlila and Dasehra celebrations in Ambala. For the past 160 years, the local artistes had been performing every year to massive crowds from far and near but this year the performance seems uncertain.Govt nod awaitedWith a few weeks left for Ramlila, the organisers and artistes have not even started rehearsalsThough organisers have applied for permission from the district administration, they are still awaiting the nodSources say the administration is awaiting directions from the state government before allowing permission to organisersWith a few weeks left for Ramlila, which begins 10 days prior to Dasehra, the organisers and artistes have not even started rehearsals, which used to begin more than a month in advance every year.The organisers had applied for mandatory permission from the district administration but were still awaiting the nod.“With Covid spreading rapidly and the number of deaths and positive cases on the rise, we are not sure whether we will be permitted to hold the annual show this year or not,” said Shri Ramlila Committee president Trilok Chand.The administration, sources said, was awaiting directions and guidelines from the state government on the issue before allowing or denying permission to the local organisers.“We had been busy doing rehearsals and making arrangements for the grand annual show these days every year but this time, we are afraid to act and arrange,” said Hargopal Verma, who had been enacting the role of Hanuman for the past over four decades.Pardeep Kumar, who had been playing the role of Sita for the past more than 30 years, said the zeal and craze among the artistes and organisers was missing this time as nobody wanted to risk their lives.“We will be holding the show only if the administration permits us to do so and that also as per the laid down guidelines,” said committee secretary KC Dheer.Ambala’s Ramlila and Dasehra celebrations, besides tableaux depicting the life of Lord Ram taken out in the town, had been famous across the region since ages and during the competitions between other leading organising towns, Ambala had always stood first.Committee general secretary SK Jindal said if the administration denied permission, it would be for the first time in history when the Ramlila and Dasehra celebrations would not be held in Ambala.“Since the celebrations involved a large number of artistes and spectators, we are not going to take any chances and will go by the directions of the government, which are still awaited,” said a senior official.
04-10-2020||---||Post curbs, Ambala’s scientific goods industry on revival path||Ambala, October 3Lifting the restrictions imposed since March and diversification of business have brought a ray of hope for the revival of Ambala’s famous scientific instruments industry, which was hit hard by the Covid lockdown.Besides, the rising clamour to boycott ‘Made in China’ goods had also served a heavy blow to the local industry, which was mostly dependent on Chinese items.The lifting of movement restrictions, permission to open the shops daily and conducting of competitive and university exams have revived almost one-third of some 2,500 big and small enterprises, recording an annual turnover of around Rs 2,000 crore before being hit by the Covid pandemic.Besides, diversification is the new normal for the scientific instruments industry. With educational institutions still lying shut, the demand of scientific instruments was yet to pick up.PPE kits, thermal scanners, face shields, face masks, fogging machines, sanitiser kits, dispensers, sodium hypochlorite solution used for sanitisation purposes, infra-red chambers, ultra-violet chambers, fume hoods and even gloves are some of the many items that the local scientific industrialists had started supplying in retail and wholesale market.With the competition getting stiff in the diversified field, local traders have started offering lucrative offers and heavy discounts on the bulk sale of such items.After remaining completely shut for almost three months, a majority of the micro, small and medium enterprises, including those dealing in scientific instruments, have resumed their operations in Ambala district for the past over two months. Over 15,000 migrant labourers, who were earlier working with these units and putting up in nearby areas, had also returned to work at the reopened units.Another dealer Satish Kumar said initially, the sales were good but with each passing day, the numbers were coming down.“We have started dealing in Covid preventive and safety items but the margin of profit is not much,” said another trader Vinay Jain.
