04-11-2020||Chandigarh||1,952 fresh coronavirus cases, 19 more deaths in Haryana||Haryana on Wednesday reported 1,952 fresh novel coronavirus cases taking the caseload to 1,74,082 while 19 more fatalities took the COVID-19 related death toll in the state to 1,836, official data showed.Of the fatalities, four were from Faridabad, three each from Gurugram, Hisar and Rohtak districts and two each from Rewari, Bhiwani and Jind districts, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Active cases in the state currently are 14,110 while the recovery rate was 90.84 per cent.A total of 1,58,136 patients have been discharged after being cured of the infection. PTI
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: 20 deaths in Sonepat; police suspect illicit liquor as cause||At least 20 people have died in the last three days in four different localities of Sonepat city in Haryana with police suspecting spurious liquor as the cause behind the deaths, officials said on Wednesday.“Around 20 people have died in the last three days... the families of the deceased have cremated them. However, police have sent four bodies for postmortem,” Sonepat Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Virender Singh told PTI over phone.“We are waiting for the viscera report of the four bodies,” he added.“We suspect the deaths have taken place due to consumption of spurious liquor,” he said further.The family members are not coming forward to report to the police about the deaths and its possible cause, Singh said.The deaths have taken place in Mayur Vihar, Shastri Colony, Pragati Colony and Indian Colony, the DSP said. — PTI
04-11-2020||New Delhi||Toxic Air: Ambala records country's worst air quality||At a time when stubble burning is at its peak, Haryana's Ambala city recorded the most noxious air in the country on Wednesday.According to the official data, seven out of 10 most polluted cities were in Uttar Pradesh and three in Haryana.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, Ambala logged the worst air quality at 452 micrograms per cubic meter, followed by Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad at 425, Baghpat at 420, Muzaffarnagar at 412 and Haryana's Fatehabad at 406.These top most polluted cities are followed by Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad, which recorded air quality of 389 micrograms per cubic metre, Hapur at 380, Meerut at 374, Haryana's Yamunanagar at 369 and Greater Noida at 368.According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences, the share of stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and other adjoining states in Delhi's air pollution was only 5 per cent for Wednesday, as against 40 per cent on Sunday. It is, however, slated to increase again due to shift in wind direction."Shift of wind direction for a limited period may bring the plume of smoke as upper wind speed is highly favourable. This may make a sudden jump in particulate pollutants for some time leading to a higher 24-hour average by Thursday. It is likely to increase the share of stubble-related intrusion by Thursday," said the ministry officials.A layer of smoky haze also lingered over Delhi-NCR on Wednesday, as air quality of the region hit 'very poor' levels at 343 micrograms per cubic metre due to contribution of stubble burning from the adjoining states and slow wind speed.Delhi's neighbouring regions – Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Noida and Greater Noida – logged 'very poor' quality of air, while Gurugram recorded 'poor' category air. Ghaziabad and Greater Noida's air quality remained the worst among all."Visibility in the region has dropped to 800m as against to 2,000m in the morning. There is a layer of pollutant in the atmosphere from the smoke emanating from stubble burning and local sources. There will be no respite for the next 2-3 days," said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department's Regional Forecasting Centre.Vijay Soni, scientist at the air pollution division of India Meteorological Department, told IANS that Punjab recorded 2,500 farm fires on Tuesday, whose smoke, combined with the low wind speed, had resulted in deterioration of air quality in the national capital and the surrounding regions."Transport of smoke caused by stubble burning in Punjab and air pollution are affecting India from north to south, even reaching the Arabian Sea," the European Union's Directorate-General for Defence Industry and Space said in a statement. IANS
04-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram woman executive shot at in a car||Gurugram, November 4A 26-year-old woman executive with an MNC was shot in the head by three motorcycle-born persons while she was travelling with a friend in a car.The three assailants intercepted the car, allegedly pulled out gun and asked her to lower the window pane. When she didn’t, they shot her and fled. The woman is in a critical condition in Medanta hospital. An FIR of attempt to murder has been registered at Sector 65 police station.According to the complaint filed by Sagar Manchanda, a native of Roorkie in Uttarakhand, he is engineer and working with a Gurugram-based MNC. His along with colleague Pooja Sharma went for dinner last night. After the dinner, they went for a drive in his car. After crossing the toll plaza they went his flat in M3M.“When we were returning, Pooja was driving my car. Around 11.15 pm as we were near Golf Course road, three masked men on a bike intercepted the car and stopped us. Two of them were holding pistols and came near the car. One of them asked Pooja to lower the window pane and when she did not do so, one of them fired at us. When Pooja tried to drive away they fired again and Pooja was hit in the head. I somehow managed to drive away the car after sitting on Pooja’s feet. I called police after reaching hospital,” Sagar Manchanda, friend of Pooja, told police.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against three unidentified accused under Sections 307 (murder attempt), 34 (common intention) of IPC and under Arms Act.“Our crime branch team is also investigating the matter. We are investigating with all angles, including some enmity, and picture will become clear soon,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.When contacted, Sagar Manchanda said Pooja’s condition is critical.
04-11-2020||Ravi S Singh||Punjab, Haryana, Himachal, J-K, Ladakh ahead of deadline to implement Jal Jeevan Mission||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 4Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have committed to the Centre to fully implementing its Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) and thereby achieving the Har Ghar Jal by 2022.The national deadline to fully implement the JJM is 2024. It seeks to provide piped water connections to every rural household in the country.The progress of JJM's implementation was presented by the National Jal Jeevan Mission of the Union Jal Shakti Ministry on Tuesday at a web-based conference of ministers and authorities relating to water in states and UTs.It was presided over by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Skngh Shekhawat and attended, among others, by Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar and Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria.Besides the fast depleting underground water in these states, the water in their several parts is contaminated. Studies in the past say Haryana tops among these states with regard to overall contamination, including with fluoride and dangerous arsenic acid.Reports also say Punjab's underground water table has high quantity of nitrate, cadmium and chromium (heavy metals).Ladakh is one of the world's most difficult mountainous terrains that present a severe challenge to lay water piped network and to maintain flow of water.The NJJM authorities kept up the focus on JJM during the Covid-19 onslaught.The conference was organised to discuss various issues including JJM's planning and implementation.Its focus was also on 100-day campaign to provide piped drinking water to country's every school and anganwadi centre.Addressing the conference, Shekhawat said JJM also creates employment opportunities for locals in rural areas.
04-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||On Day 2, Rohtak, Jhajjar government schools record 40% attendance||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 3Less than 40 per cent students turned up at government schools in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari districts on the second day of reopening of schools for the students of Classes 9 to 12 on Tuesday.The attendance was slightly higher today as compared to yesterday but majority of the parents still seem to be apprehensive about the Covid pandemic and are hesitating from sending their wards to school. However, social distancing and other Covid guidelines are being followed in the schools.More attendance in rural areasSources said government schools in Rohtak recorded 35 per cent attendance, Jhajjar 38 per cent and Rewari 39 per cent on Tuesday. The number of students in rural areas was higher than the urban ones.Sources said government schools in Rohtak recorded 35 per cent attendance, Jhajjar 38 per cent and Rewari 39 per cent on Tuesday. The number of students in rural areas was higher than the urban ones.“There is a difference of at least 20 per cent in the attendance of rural and urban schools. Many students of urban schools have started doing private jobs to help their poor parents financially. They will now rejoin the school after Diwali,” said principal of a government school in Rohtak.Parvati, a housewife, said: “My son is a student of Class 9. I will not send him to school till Covid vaccine hits the market as there will always be a risk of catching infection from other students.”A teacher said: “Earlier, students used to come on their own but now some parents are accompanying their wards to check if schools are following the Covid guidelines.”Jhajjar District Education Officer Braham Prakash said the schoolteachers were encouraging parents to send their children to school and they succeeded to some extent. “On Monday, merely 15 per cent students turned up, while the attendance rose to 38 per cent today. It is likely to increase further in the coming days,” he added.Rewari DEO Rajesh Kumar said they were concentrating on implementing standard operating procedures rather than enhancing the student strength. “Parents will start sending their wards to schools when they are satisfied with the arrangements and preventions being taken to fight Covid,” he added.
04-11-2020||Parveen Arora||Parents reluctant to send kids to school due to Covid scare||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 3With only a quarter of all enrolled students attending classes on the second day of the opening of government schools for three hours, it seems parents are reluctant to send their wards to schools amid Covid scare.As many as 9,402 students of Classes 9 to 12 of the 38,362 students in 177 government schools attended classes today. Yesterday, around 7,000 students had turned up for regular classes, which started after 230 days. The strength was low in private schools as well.The Nilokheri block reported a thin attendance of 1,031 students, while Karnal block reported 1,345, Indri block 1,450, Gharaunda 1,584, Assandh 1,738 and Nissing 1,754.District Education Officer Ravinder Chaudhary said: “Parents have to give consent before sending their wards to schools, but they are showing a lukewarm response. Teachers are trying their best to motivate parents, but they are still hesitant.”He said they were adopting all standard operating procedures recommended by the government. Proper hand sanitisation is being done at the school entrance, their body temperature is being checked with thermal scanner and face mask has been made mandatory for students as well as teachers, he added.However, parents are scared of their wards catching infection. “The physical classroom is much better than the virtual one, but I cannot take the risk of my daughter getting affected,” said Rajesh Kumar, a parent.Ramesh Kumar, another parent, said no doubt teachers were assuring the protocol was being followed, but the second wave of Covid was expected in coming days due to which he was not sending his ward to school.Umeet Singh Kalra, a teacher of Government High School, Ramba, said they were motivating parents to send their wards to schools.
04-11-2020||
||Four of family go missing in Karnal||Karnal, November 3 A middle-aged couple and their two sons, aged 20 and 18, went missing under mysterious circumstances from their residence in Sector 16 of the city.  They have left a note claiming that they were going to commit suicide as a woman was harassing the man  identified as Sunil Bhatia.  The family alleged that they had given Rs 3.5 lakh to a woman after borrowing from someone but instead of returning the money, she filed a police complaint against Bhatia. The police have taken the note into possession and started the investigation. As per the information, neighbours informed the police about the family being missing after which they opened the house and found a note.  Anil Kumar, in charge Sector 4 police post, said the women police station was investigating the harassment complaint against Bhatia.  He said efforts were being made to trace the family members.
04-11-2020||---||MLA ‘abuses’ agri official over procurement, audio goes viral||Palwal, November 3An audio has gone viral today in which one of the callers, claiming to be an MLA, is heard using “un-parliamentary” language with an official of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) over the problems in procurement of kharif crops in the mandi of Hodal, a sub-divisional town here.According to conversation, the MLA identifying himself as Jagdish Nayar, BJP MLA from Hodal, is heard to be talking of the complaints lodged by farmers and others concerned regarding the ongoing procurement and the corruption in the process and allegations of officials of the marketing board allegedly taking money. Nayar allegedly took to strong “un-parliamentary” language when the official on other side identified as Ramesh Goel, District Marketing Enforcement Officer (DMEO), contested the allegations and said the allegations were wrong and charges baseless.“The conversation turned ugly when I was abused and threatened by the MLA,” claims Goel.Describing the conversation between him and the MLA true, he said he had communicated the matter to the Chief Administrator, HSAMB, and the SDM, Hodal, as he felt a threat to his life.Claiming that the reason for the incident could be the inquiry report submitted by him to his office regarding the alleged irregularities in the procurement process at the district level and suspected that some persons involved in this could be close to politicians.The HSAMB had deputed him to keep a watch on the process and to submit a report on October 17.MLA Nayar was not available for comment. A person who attended his phone claimed that the MLA was busy in a meeting and was unable to take the call. Later, his number was found to be switched off. HSAMB Chief Administrator Sumedha Kataria said she had received the audio clip from Goel but no written complaint so far. Hodal SDM Sandeep Aggarwal also said he had not received any written complaint in this regard, though an audio was found to be viral.
04-11-2020||Nitin Jain||Shell out up to Rs 25K for using plastic in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 3The district administration on Monday launched a special drive against the use of single-use plastic in Ambala. The violators would be fined up to Rs 25,000.Those not segregating garbage at source would be liable to pay Rs 100 as fine and face legal action under the waste management rules. Aimed at making Ambala district ‘plastic-free’, the drive against single-use plastic and waste segregation was launched two months after spreading awareness and urging hotels, restaurants, shopkeepers and vendors to give an undertaking that they would not use single-use plastic.Action would be taken on not only those people found using single-use plastic, but also on those from whose premises or outside of whose property plastic would be recovered.The administration also resumed the novel rice-for-plastic drive to distribute free rice against waste plastic collected. DC Ashok Kumar Sharma asked civic bodies in the district to promote the anti-plastic campaign by making residents deposit waste plastic with the administration and get free rice equivalent to weight of plastic.The drive, which had been suspended due to Covid restrictions after evoking a massive public response, was restarted on public demand.
04-11-2020||Karnal||Karnal MC collects Rs 8 cr property tax in five days||The Municipal Corporation has collected Rs 8.05 crore property tax in just five days by organising special camps to assist people in getting benefits of the one-time rebate on interest on previous bills and 10 per cent on current property tax.The MC has established 11 special counters for the collection of property tax in various parts of the city between October 26 and 31. The MC has so far collected Rs 11.30 crore property tax of the total target of Rs 23 crore this financial year. The government has announced one-time rebate on interest on May 20 and fixed a date of July 31 and later extended it to October 31. As many as Rs 5,87,604 was deposited by the residents as property tax before the announcement between April 1 and May 20. A sum of Rs 1.32 crore between May 20 and August 31, while around Rs 3.15 crore was collected till October 25. “People showed enthusiasm in depositing their property tax,” said Vikram Singh, Municipal Commissioner. — TNS
04-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body marks probe into ‘fraudulent’ work certificates||The Gurugram Municipal Commissioner has marked an inquiry in the alleged use of fraudulent ‘satisfactory work’ certificates by some contractors to get payment released. The inquiry has been marked to Pardeep Ahlawat, Joint Commissioner of the MC, who will conduct the inquiry and submit a report within two weeks. As per the order issued on Monday, Municipal Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said the work had been executed in their wards is satisfactory on the perusal of these certificates, it was evident that neither name of the work was mentioned nor the date of issue was given in the certificate, which raised the suspicion of using one certificate repeatedly and hence the inquiry. “The inquiry officer will look into the matter and submit a report within two weeks. He will check all details of the bill raised for payment. He will physically check the execution of all works at the site. He will further verify the credibility and authenticity of the certificates issued by the respective ward councillors, including their signatures. All related files and documents will be provided by the office of Additionall Municipal Commissioner, MC. The inquiry officer will fix responsibilities of officers and contractors individually found involved ,” read the order. — TNS
04-11-2020||Mahendragarh||Ex-serviceman kills 1, ends life||A retired Army man committed suicide allegedly after shooting his neighbour in Nautana village here on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Fouji Ram Prakash alias Bablu (38) and Rajbir Singh alias Goli (26). — TNS
04-11-2020||Yamunanagar||Panchkula resident dupes doctor||A Panchkula resident allegedly duped a doctor of Jagadhri of Rs 10 lakh on the pretext of sending his daughter abroad. On the complaint of Dr Mahesh Sharma of Jagadhri, a case was registered against Rakesh of Panchkula under Sections 420, 406, 506, 120B of the IPC and Section 24 of the Immigration Act at City police station, Jagadhri, on Thursday. The complainant said Rakesh knew that his daughter had completed her MBBS. “Rakesh told me that he could send his daughter to the US and Rs 10 lakh was needed for this work. Believing him, I gave him Rs 10 lakh in two instalments,” alleged Dr Mahesh Sharma in his police complaint. — TNS
04-11-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Nikita murder: Police scan WhatsApp messages of protesters||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 3The police have started scanning WhatsApp messages exchanged among 32 accused arrested in connection with the violence on Sunday during a mahapanchayat at Ballabgarh to seek justice for 21-year-old Nikita Tomar, who was shot dead by a stalker and his friend last week.They suspect that hate and inflammatory messages exchanged on WhatsApp was one of the reasons for the violence.The persons found to have been involved in spreading hate messages were likely to be booked after an investigation, the police have said.Adarshdeep Singh, Additional Commissioner of Police (Headquarters), said that an initial scanning of the WhatsApp chat led to the conclusion that many of the messages regarding Nikita’s murder were inflammatory in nature. “The source of the messages is being investigated. Action might be taken against the WhatsApp group administrators who had sent the messages,” he said.He further said a team from the cyber cell was preparing a list of group administrators. “Messages aimed at creating disturbance on social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram are under lens,” the ACP said, adding the arrest of the accused could not be ruled out.The police have arrested 32 persons and booked more than 200 others for the mob violence and the attempt to block the New Delhi-Agra NH-44 soon after the Sunday mahapanchayat. In all, 10 cops were injured and some shops were damaged in the stone-pelting by the mob.
04-11-2020||Gurugram||Missing for 22 days, minor traced||The Rewari police have formed an SIT in the alleged abduction of a minor girl by a Muslim boy.The team has traced the girl and the boy to Gujarat and raids are being carried out in the state. Rewari SP Abhishek Jorwal said the teams were on the job and would nab the duo soon.It has been over 20 days that a 16-year-old girl went missing from the Khol police station area in Rewari district. On the complaint of the girl’s father, an FIR was registered under Sections 363 (abduction) and 366A (abduction with intention of marriage) of the IPC.The girl’s mother alleged the accused was a Muslim boy who worked as a JCB driver and lured her daughter and took her away on October 11. — OC
04-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Baroda  bypoll: 68% turnout, polling peaceful||Tribune News ServicePanipat, November 3Baroda voters participated in the byelection enthusiastically on Tuesday as 68 per cent voting was recorded till 6 pm. The fate of 14 candidates was locked in EVMs.Covid protocolsThe district administration made arrangements as per Covid protocols at all 280 polling booths. Voters were sanitised and given gloves before they exercised their franchise. Members of the polling party were in PPE kits.The counting of votes would be held on November 10 at BITS College in Mohana, Sonepat district. Polling passed off peacefully.As per officials, the mock poll started at the scheduled time. During the mock poll, eight EVMs were replaced. During polling, 13 EVMs were replaced due to technical snags. Polling started at 7 am, with the elderly, women and youth arriving at polling stations in the morning.Election observer Ram Lakhan Prasad Gupta, DC Shyam Lal Poonia and SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa visited polling booths to take stock of the situation. Poonia said polling might go up to 70 per cent as reports from polling booths were yet to be updated.Yogeshwar Dutt, BJP-JJP candidate, cast his vote at his native village in the morning. Cong booth agent files complaint
04-11-2020||Our Correspondent||DCP: Post Faridabad murder, rise in calls at women helpline||Gurugram, November 3Days after the murder of Nikita Tomar, there has been witnessed a surge in the daily registration of crime against women.Sources claim there has been a sudden surge in the number of women contacting the police stations and helpline numbers to report instances of eve-teasing, molestation and online and offline stalking. Majority of the calls pertain to cyber and phone stalking, they add.“The case has rung alarm bells both for women and families. They now understand that ignoring eve teasers and stalkers actually encourages them and it may lead to serious crimes. The number of calls on women’s helpline number has increased whereas many callers still wary of filing FIR want cops to call and warn the accused,” said a local DCP.Police commissioner KK Rao said they had already launched an initiative “Speak Up”.“The first step to deal with any crime is its timely registration. Women should approach us even at the slightest discomfort. This will stop problem there and then,” Rao added.Factory owner held for rapeYamunanagar: A factory owner has been arrested on the charge of raping a 28-year-old woman in Joriyan Naka here on October 17. A case was registered under Sections 342, 376 and 506 of the IPC on November 2. SHO Bhupinder Singh Rana said, “The police received the victim's complaint by post. As soon as we received the complaint, a case was registered.” TNS
04-11-2020||Nitish Sharma||BKU chief debunks ‘BJP supporter’ claim||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, November 3Even as polling was under way on Tuesday, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni appealed to voters in the Baroda constituency to vote for any party except the BJP.Charuni issued the appeal in a video after some BJP workers allegedly shared a photograph on social media, showing him with former Shahabad MLA and Chief Minister’s political secretary Krishan Bedi and his supporters, with claims that the BKU had extended support to the BJP in the byelection.“A meeting was held with Bedi and his supporters on Monday to resolve the issue of burning of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s effigy in front of Bedi’s house on Dasehra. There was some misunderstanding, which was sorted out. It came to our notice that some BJP workers shared Monday’s photograph and claimed that we had extended support to the BJP. Workers of the BJP are misguiding the public and trying to take advantage,” Charuni said.“The meeting was held to resolve the effigy burning issue and had nothing to do with the election,” he stated.
04-11-2020||Jhajjar||Man murdered in Jhajjar district||
04-11-2020||---||Ambala Cantt bank square to be Haryana’s first green building||Ambala, November 3Home and Health Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said the nine-storey building of the bank square, to be constructed at a cost of nearly Rs 90 crore in the Ambala Cantonment, would be the state’s first green building.MORE IN STOREBesides banks, there will be corporate offices, food court, underground parking, helipad, auditorium and several other features in the bank square buildingA 35-KLD sewage treatment plant and a 150-kW solar power generation system being constructed by the Haryana Police Housing Corporation will also be installedThe minister was addressing a gathering after the bhumi pujan ceremony, which was organised today before starting the construction work in Ambala Cantonment.Vij said “There are very few green buildings in the country and soon the upcoming Ambala’s bank square will be amongst those structures. Besides banks, there will be corporate offices, food court, underground parking, helipad, auditorium and several other features in the building. Availability of all banks under one roof will not only be convenient for customers, but also help in reducing traffic congestion in the busy markets. A 35-KLD sewage treatment plant and a 150-kw solar power generation system will also be installed in the bank square which is being constructed by the Haryana Police Housing Corporation and will be ready within two years.”On the occasion, the minister accused the Congress of ignoring the martyrs of 1857 revolt, and said “The Congress has always tried to take the entire credit for the freedom. It has ignored the martyrs of 1857 revolt. The revolt started at the Ambala Cantonment on May 9. A ‘Shaheedi Samark’ is being constructed in the Ambala Cantonment and we will try to get it inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A four-storey science museum is also being constructed here, and Ambala is going to be the next tourism hub.”The minister also informed that a tender had been floated for the Jagmag Ambala scheme in which nearly 12,000 new smart lights and around 3,500 poles would be installed at a cost of Rs 17 crore. The control room for the smart lights will be at the Municipal Council office. All drains of the Sadar Zone will be covered at a cost of Rs 23 crore. It is a big project and the first phase will start after Diwali. The tertiary care centre will also come into operation within two months.He said, “Such projects are introduced in smart towns. Though Ambala is not in the list of smart towns, I have brought all projects for Ambala to develop it on the pattern of a smart town.”The DGP, Managing Director of the Haryana Police Housing Corporation, RC Mishra, and Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma were present on the occasion.
04-11-2020||Karnal||NSS, NCC volunteers to monitor Karnal villages||Aimed at spreading awareness among farmers and check stubble-burning cases in the district, the administration has roped in 300 NSS, NCC volunteers to keep a vigil on villages. Besides, they will also hold awareness rallies to educate the masses about the menace. The volunteers will also be given appreciation certificates by the district administration. “We have roped in 300 NSS and NCC volunteers of various colleges to keep a check on violators as well as for spreading awareness. Appreciation certificates will also be given to these volunteers for their contribution in saving environment,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, D. With 967 stubble-burning cases, Karnal district is placed second in the state. Fines have been imposed of Rs 13.6 lakh on 559 farmers by the department, while FIRs have also been registered against 13 of them for burning stubble. The DC said they would honour the panchayats for their contribution in checking the stubble-burning cases. “There are several villages in the district that have worked a lot in checking the stubble-burning cases. Thal village has no case of stubble burning against 15 last year, while Bilona has three this season against 21 cases last year,” the DC added. He said 98 gram panchayats had been provided crop residue management equipment and farmers were availing its benefits. — TNS
04-11-2020||Gurugram||650 illegal jhuggis razed in Gurugram||A demolition drive was carried out on Saraswati Kunj Golf Course Road on Tuesday and as many as 650 jhuggis on 5 acres were razed and 10 properties sealed in the presence of 100 police personnel. DTP (Enforcement) RS Bath and his team carried out the drive on illegal slums and ongoing construction. Some residential houses conducting commercial activities illegally have been sealed.  During the drive, of 800 jhuggis, 650 were demolished. While some of these jhuggis were on the HSVP land but the team razed all.  Bath said illegal construction and slums in Saraswati Kunj were razed. “The enforcement team sealed 10 buildings where commercial activities were being held,” Bath said. — OC
04-11-2020||Jhajjar||Jhajjar bank robbery main accused held||The main accused in the bank robbery case has been arrested and Rs 2.20 lakh has been recovered from him, the police have said.On October 21, five masked men had robbed Rs 8.73 lakh at gunpoint from a branch of PNB in the district’s Machhrauli village.DSP Naresh Kumar told the media, “The main accused, identified as Aakash, alias Ashu, of Jhajjar, was arrested from the Jhajjar-Rewari road on Monday. A country-made pistol and two live cartridges were recovered from him.”Ashu is already booked in cases of loot, vehicle-lifting, carrying illegal arms and attempt to murder.“During the interrogation, Aakash told the police that of the 17 juvenile inmates who had escaped from Hisar observation house on October 12, three were involved in the bank robbery. One of them has been arrested, while raids are being conducted to arrest the other two,” the DSP said. The arrested juvenile, who was nabbed on October 30 after a brief encounter, was under treatment at the PGIMS, Rohtak, he said. — TNS
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||2-day House session likely||The Assembly session commencing on Thursday is likely to last two days. It will start at 2 pm on the first day.The next day, the session is expected to start at 10 am. The final decision about the programme will be taken during the Business Advisory Committee meeting slated before the start of the session.“All Vidhan Sabha employees, cops and MLAs will be tested for Covid. Seating arrangements will be the same as the previous session,” said Speaker Gian Chand Gupta.“Question Hour and calling attention notices will be allowed. Arrangements for mediapersons have been made at Haryana Niwas.”“We want an elaborate discussion on the three farm laws. No calling attention notice was taken up last time as the session had to be wound up due to Covid,” said CLP deputy leader Aftab Ahmed.“We were told that both the Speaker and the CM got Covid. This time, we’ll raise the registry scam and others that have taken place during the tenure of the present government.” “I’ll raise the BJP’s wrongdoing in the Baroda bypoll,” said INLD’s Abhay Chautala. — TNS
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||7 more succumb in Haryana||With 1,684 Covid cases, the overall state tally crossed the1.72 lakh mark on Tuesday.Seven deaths, including four from Rohtak and one each from Jhajjar, Karnal and Gurugram, pushed the toll to 1,817. — TNS
04-11-2020||Hisar||Online counselling on Nov 17||Two students write booksYamunanagar: Two students of Mukand Lal Public school, Sarojini Colony, Yamunanagar, Pratima and Agrim Goel have utilised the critical time of the lockdown by writing books. 'The invincible children', is the second book of 10-year-old Agrim Goyal. It's about five fearless children, who are determined to save a helpless dolphin. The emerging poetess, Pratima, Class X student brought out her ideology in 'Game of destiny-courtney', life and adventure' of a 14-year-old girl. Principal of the school Shashi Bathla congratulated them.Short-term course in physicsFaridabad: The department of physics of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has organised a short-term course on "Synthesis and characterisation of nanomaterials'. As many as 250 participants, including faculties, scientists, industry persons and research scholars from various colleges, universities, research laboratories and industries covering 6 states have attended it. Speaking on the occasion, Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said the online platform and the short-term courses like these have kept the momentum of learning going. The topic of the course has wide applicability across the fields from medical to energy harvesting.Personality development trainingRohtak: The Institute of Management Studies and Research (IMSAR) of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has commenced a two-week personality development training course for the final year students. Director, IMSAR Prof Raj Kumar said the two-week programme was focussed on increasing the employability of students through development of communication and inter- personal skills.
04-11-2020||The photograph shows the poor condition of a slip road near MDC-5 of Panchkula. While it connects the adjoining key commercial zone/various housing societies with the Chandimandir Cantonment area||Potholed road irks locals||SK Gupta, PanchkulaMake Karnal state capitalThe state has turned 54 years old. During this period, it has been moving on a continuous development path in every field like education, sports, commercial and industrial. Every Chief Minister made efforts to do a better job during their reign, but so far no government has been able to succeed in getting a separate capital and High Court of the state neither it has been able to resolve the SYL issue. Now, the BJP government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Centre and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in the state should not delay it anymore and by all means Karnal will be most suitable to become the capital.Shakti Singh, KarnalPanchkula civic body indecisiveThe civic body, it seems, is unable to decide as to what suits Panchkula best when it comes to maintaining cleanliness. What else can explain the uprooting of paver blocks that were recently laid on the back of the main post office premises in Sector-8? Who will bear the cost of such indecisiveness? Incidentally, the dustbins placed there to have gone missing.Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
04-11-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Firm tries to divert Yamuna, booked||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, November 3A mining firm, PS Buildtech Jathlana, has been booked for allegedly trying to divert the flow of the Yamuna by constructing an illegal bundh to undertake mining activities in MT Karhera village of Yamunanagar district.It is the second case of violation of the National Green Tribunal guidelines in the village in the past 15 days. On October 23, another mining firm — M/s Kawaljeet Singh Batra — was booked for attempting to divert the flow of the Yamuna.Jaswinder Singh Hooda, Sub-Divisional Officer, Radaur, said he along with junior engineers had visited the quarry in MT Karhera on September 21. It was found that PS Buildtech had tried to divert the natural flow of the Yamuna by making a bundh using sand, flouting the NGT guidelines.On the complaint of Hooda, a case was registered against PS Buildtech (Block-12) under Section 431 (damaging river, road or bridge) of the IPC and Section 45 of the Canal and Drainage Act, Haryana, at Jathlana police station yesterday.Dharampal Singh, SHO, Jathlana, said the Irrigation Department had provided them photographs of the obstruction by the firm.
04-11-2020||Palwal||Palwal minor gang-raped||Three youths have been booked for allegedly abducting and gang-raping a minor of a village in Palwal district of Haryana yesterday.Accused Vikram, a resident of a nearby village, is reportedly known to the victim. He came to the girl’s house yesterday while she was alone and asked her to accompany him on some pretext.He took the 17-year-old girl to an orchard where his two accomplices were already present. The trio then gang-raped the girl and fled. — TNS
