05-09-2020||Mukesh Tandon||District admn serves show-cause notice on Murthal’s Sukhdev, Garam Dharam dhabas||Tribune News ServicePanipat, September 5The district administration served show cause-notice on Sukhdev Dhaba and Garam Dharam Dhaba on national highway-44 at Murthal in Sonepat after 75 staffers of the two eateries were found COVID positive.Besides, the Deputy Commissioner along with a team of officers and police on Saturday evening visited Murthal to take stock of the situation at dhabas and directed owners to maintain the consumer register.Notably, 65 employees of Sukhdev dhaba and 10 of Garam Dharam tested positive for COVID on Wednesday evening and the eateries have been sealed on the direction of Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Poonia till further order.Show-cause notices have been served on two dhabas – Sukhdev and Garma Dharam -- by the Incident Commander for allegedly not adhering of the COVID guidelines, the DC asserted.Taking cognisance of the report published in The Tribune the Haryana Human Rights Commission on Friday sought a detailed action report from the DC, Sonepat, as well as from CMO, Sonepat.DC Shyam Lal Poonia along with SDM Vijay Singh, health team and police force visited Gulshan, Mannat, Haveli and other dhabas in Murthal on Saturday evening.DC Poonia directed dhaba owners to maintain the visitor register and maintain proper records of the consumers -- their name, address, mobile numbers and how many members came there to eat. Any consumer refusing to give details should not be allowed to enter in the dhaba, the DC directed.He also examined if the guidelines are being followed by the dhaba owners or not and also directed them to destroy the used masks properly. The DC warned them if masks were found lying in open or in garbage, stringent action would be initiated against dhaba owner concerned.DC Poonia told The Tribune that directions have been issued to the dhaba owners in Murthal today and the SDM and Civil Surgeon have been directed to hold a meeting of the dhaba owners over the COVID guidelines.
05-09-2020|| ||Hooda flays BJP-led Haryana Govt over dip in ‘Ease of Doing Business’ rankings||Chandigarh, September 5 Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda targeted the BJP government after Haryana’s decline in ‘Ease of Doing Business’ rankings.With Haryana falling 13 places to number 16 in the latest rankings, the government stands exposed and it has become clear to the people why Haryana has reached the No. 1 position in unemployment, said Hooda. The Congress leader said the BJP's six-year directionless rule had created a situation where far from new industries setting up base in Haryana, even existing industries were leaving the state.While the government is claiming that the state has attracted investment of lakhs of crores, the truth is that the industries working in the state are also moving to another state due to directionless governance and increasing crime in the state, he said.The Leader of Opposition said the government had organised ‘Happening Haryana’ in 2015 and it  claimed to have signed MoUs worth Rs 5.87 lakh crore, but in an RTI reply in 2019, the government admitted that only 4 per cent of the much-hyped investment actually came through and there had not been a significant increase over this period. Hooda said that during the Congress tenure, Haryana was in the No. 1 position in per capita investment and IMTs were opened across Haryana for industrial development of every part of the state.Today, the situation has become such that the industries are either forced to lay off workers or are thinking of moving to other states due to deteriorating conditions, he pointed out. The former Chief Minister said due to bad condition of the private sector and layoffs in the government sector, Haryana had reached No. 1 in unemployment and the youth of the state were forced to sit at home.Due to this, the crime graph of the state has increased and there has also been an unprecedented increase in the use of intoxication, claimed Hooda. He said that the declining business had also affected the state's economic condition, putting Haryana under the mounting burden of debt.The Congress veteran said the state government should consider this worrying situation and a strategy should be formulated to improve the business sentiment and the fiscal condition of the state.
05-09-2020||Ambala||'Can't stop someone from speaking truth': Haryana minister supports Kangana Ranaut, criticises Shiv Sena||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Saturday supported actress Kangana Ranaut. Vij criticised Shiv Sena leaders for reportedly asking Kangana not to return to Mumbai."Is it (Mumbai) anyone’s father’s state? Mumbai is a part of India and anyone can go there. Action should be taken against the people who issue such statements. You can’t stop someone from speaking the truth,” he said.“Where is the candle brigade that comes to the road on every issue, and why are they not returning their medals when she is being stopped from speaking,” the minister asked.Vij said: “Adequate security must be provided to Kangana and let her make the revelations freely. India is a free country, and she should be allowed to express herself freely".Earlier, Kangana took to the microblogging website, and revealed that Sanjay Raut had given her an "open threat".“Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?," her tweet read.
05-09-2020||Amit Bathla||6.5% residents in Panchkula infected, finds sero survey||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 4At least 6.5 per cent people living in Panchkula are estimated to have had contracted coronavirus and recovered from it, a sero survey conducted in the district has found. It is below the state average of 8 per cent.The positivity rated in rural areas is 8.5 per cent, while it is 3.7 per cent in urban areas of the district, found the survey. This is in contrast to the state average where the case count is higher in urban areas.As per the 2011 Census, Panchkula’s population is 5.61 lakh. As per the survey, Panchkula stood at 12th position in the state in terms of seroprevalence. Jhajjar, Ambala, Rewari, Sirsa, Hisar, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Mahendragarh, Kaithal and Rohtak districts have less seroprevalence than Panchkula.As many as 836 persons were part of the survey. The maximum 172 samples were collected from Sector 20, followed by 93 from Sector 16, 89 from Pinjore, 87 from Sector 26, 44 each from Kakrali, Kot, Ratpur Colony and Toda, 43 from Shyamto and 42 each from Chiakn, Kharkua and Rattewali.Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said, “Since the survey was conducted before a surge in Covid cases, we had low seroprevalence. In the second round of the survey, we expect sero positivity to go up.”On the rural-urban aspect, she said the infection firstly swept through villages, particularly located in the border areas. The pandemic eventually made its presence felt in urban areas. Socio-economic factors could have played a role, the CMO added.
05-09-2020||Ambala||Two held with opium in Ambala||Illicit liquor seizedThe police have arrested Parao resident Sushil Kumar, and Mahesh Nagar resident Rahul in a case of liquor smuggling and recovered 11 boxes containing 132 bottles of illicit liquor from their possession, officials said here on Friday. TNSMullana girl abductedA minor girl had been kidnapped on the pretext of marriage, the police said on Friday. Mullana resident Surinder Kumar had complained to the police that Suraj kidnapped his daughter on September 3 by luring her on the pretext of marriage. TNS
05-09-2020||Kurukshetra||NIT-Kurukshetra 51st in chemistry research||Webinar on new tech trendsKarnal: An online webinar series "New Trends in Technology" was organised here at RKSD College, Kaithal, by the department of computer science. Keynote speaker on "Cloud Computing" was engineer Arun Singla, lead consultant, cyber risk and security, Wipro India. The webinar was inaugurated by department head Anil Narula with the reception and presentation of all participants. Principal Sanjay Goyal welcomed the keynote speaker and explained the importance of cloud computing for students. Singla talked about the growing field of cloud computing, its related security, different aspects, its importance and limitations. He said: "Today's time does not require hardware to secure knowledge and data, but as a new technology, cloud computing has provided new and secure stores which are available free in limited quantity". The programme was coordinated by Prof Matish Garg.GJUST secures slot on global levelHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST) has secured 801-1,000 rank band with overall score between 25.1 and 30.1 in The Times Higher Education World University rankings, 2021, released by The Times Higher Education, London. In teaching sub-category, the university scored 29.5 with which it stands at 25th national rank. In citations sub-category, it scored 41.4 and got 18th rank at national level. In research, it scored 8.9 and 51st place at national level. The university has secured 19th rank under overall category in India. At international level, it has been ranked 481st in teaching category. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Avnesh Verma congratulated the university fraternity for the achievement. "The dream to see GJUST on the international platform is now taking real shape," the VC said.International webinar heldHisar: The bio and nano technology department of the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology conducted an international webinar series on biotechnology and life sciences. Experts from across the country and abroad gave presentations on emerging trends in biotechnology. Over 500 attendees from 16 states and UTs took part in the webinar, which was streamed live on Facebook. Its recording is available on YouTube channel of the department. The Department of Biotechnology, Government of India, had sponsored the webinar lecture series. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said, "We have practically transformed the Covid-19 pandemic into an opportunity of live interaction between students and experts from across the world." Prof Vinod Chhokar, chairperson, department of bio and nano technology, said the expertise of the speakers would benefit students in new dimensions of biotechnology amid current lockdown.
05-09-2020||Most of the footpaths here are either occupied by shopkeepers or remain covered with wild growth. Due to this||Footpaths encroached in Kaithal, pedestrians in peril||Satish Seth, Kaithal‘Take action against those wasting water’Despite several government notices, Panchkula residents waste potable water on washing cars and watering lawns. Though time and again the authorities concerned have been alerted, no action has been taken against anyone. In the absence of any deterrence or stern action, people continue to waste water. The only solution to this problem is that the authorities must discontinue water supply to such defaulters.Gopal Mittal, PanchkulaMonkey menace in NarwanaThere’s not even one residential or commercial area in Narwana where monkeys have not created nuisance. In the absence of any help from the administration, people have got iron grills and cages fixed in front and rear sides of their houses to stop the simians from entering their premises. This entails a lot of expenses and people are forced to bear it. Monkeys move in groups and now children are scared of playing outside. The administration should help people get rid of the problem. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
05-09-2020||Nitin Jain||6 families engaged in pigeon breeding near Ambala airbase shifted||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, September 4The district administration has shifted all six families engaged in the pigeon-breeding business in the vicinity of the Indian Air Force station in Ambala Cantonment.The action was taken after the IAF authorities took up with the state government and the district administration the issue of danger to newly acquired Rafale jets from birds and illegal constructions around the airbase. Unauthorised structures have mushroomed in the close vicinity of the IAF station over the years. Rough estimates state that over 8,000 persons are residing in over 1,000 structures built in the 100-metre prohibited radius of the airbase.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma along with the Air Officer Commanding (AOC) of the IAF station today reviewed the situation. He also chaired a meeting with the SDMs and the municipal council heads of Ambala Cantonment and Ambala City.Sharma told The Tribune that all six families engaged in the pigeon-breeding business had been shifted from the vicinity of the airbase and the existing ban on kite flying and private drones had been extended from 3-km radius to 4-km radius of the IAF station. Besides, the solid waste dump at Jadaut village in the close proximity of the airbase that attracted wild birds had been shifted. Forest and Wildlife Department officials had been directed to tackle the menace of wild birds flying in the area.Regarding illegal constructions, Sharma directed the district civil and police authorities to ensure that no fresh structure comes up in the prohibited 100-metre radius of the airbase. “We are deliberating on the issue of the existing illegal structures and will take action considering all aspects,” he said.He said that the Air Officer Commanding of the IAF station was satisfied with the action taken. He added that the recent communications from the IAF authorities were a routine exercise to formally inform the state government about the arrival of the new multi-role combat fighter aircraft here.On August 5, IAF Director General (Inspection and Safety) Air Marshal Manvendra Singh had written to Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora, seeking help in tackling the threat to Rafale jets from birds flying around the airbase in Ambala Cantonment. Subsequently, the Chief Secretary had ordered the officers concerned to address the issue while referring the IAF representation to the Urban Local Government Department.
05-09-2020||Parveen Arora||Two government schools to reopen after 6 months in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 4Date of opening not clearThe studies of Classes X to XII will be resumed after six months and a video of students and teachers showing how to adopt Covid norms will be shot thereThe date of the opening of the schools is not clear but the letter issued by the Directorate of School Education, Haryana, on Thursday, mentioned that a team of the department along with experts would visit these schools in a week to record the videoThe Education Department has decided to reopen Government Senior Secondary School, Nigdhu in Karnal, and Government High School, Bajidpur in Sonepat, with standard operating procedures (SOPs).The studies of Classes X to XII will be resumed after six months and a video of students and teachers showing how to adopt Covid norms will be shot there. The video will demonstrate the SOPs to be followed, which will be shown to the students of other schools in the state through EDUSAT to make them aware of the ways to maintain social distancing and how to curb the spread of Covid while studying.However, the date of the opening of the schools is not clear but the letter issued by the Directorate of School Education, Haryana, on Thursday, mentioned that a team of the department along with experts would visit these schools in a week to record the video.“In compliance with the Central Government’s guidelines for Unlock 4, preparations have to be done for the reopening of schools. The department had sought suggestions from parents and students of government schools in the state, and the students of the Nigdhu and Bajidpur schools and their parents showed the maximum interest. So, these schools have been selected for the resumption of classes and shooting the video,” the letter states.“We have received a letter from the Directorate of School Education for opening the school and shooting a video to be shown to school students and teachers across the state. It is a proud moment for us, our students as well as their parents,” said Dharampal, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Nigdhu.He said all students had to get a written consent from their parents before coming to the school. “We will ensure masks and sanitisers for all students along with thermal scanning before starting the school,” he added.
05-09-2020||Nitish Sharma||Online exam: KU  proctoring via Google Meet, WhatsApp||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, September 4Beat the cheatThe varsity has asked students of affiliated institutions and colleges to choose mode of their choice for the exam and submit their consent by SaturdayIn case, students opt for offline mode, they will be allowed to take the exam in their collegesIf they opt for online mode, they need webcam facility so that invigilation can be done through Google Meet or WhatsAppTo keep a check on cheating during the online examination, Kurukshetra University (KU) has decided to get the invigilation done through the Google Meet and WhatsApp video call.The university has asked students of affiliated institutes and colleges to choose the mode of their choice for the examination and submit their consent by Saturday. In case students opt for the offline mode, they will be allowed to take examination in their respective colleges. They will be provided question papers and answer book. If they opt for the online mode, they need webcam facility so that invigilation can be done through Google Meet or WhatsApp video call.Around 1.20 lakh students will take exams starting September 10. Speaking to The Tribune, controller of examination Dr Hukam Singh said, “There were complaints from students that they lacked facilities for online exam so we have given them options. They can opt for offline exam in which they will be able to appear in colleges for exam. To eliminate the apprehension of cheating during the online exam, the university has decided to get proctoring done online with the help of Google Meet or WhatsApp.”“Colleges and institutes have to keep the data of daily proctoring and the university can check and demand it within a period of three months from the conduct of the exam. A meeting has been held with the deans of departments of KU and principals of colleges in this regard and guidelines have been issued. The university will appoint observers for smooth conduct of the exams. There are 278 affiliated colleges,” he added.“The facility of opting for offline mode is for regular students of affiliated colleges only. Others will have to give exam through online mode and proctoring is compulsory for everyone,” he said.
05-09-2020||---||Notice to SPIO, Yamunanagar, for delay in providing info under RTI||Yamunanagar, September 4State Information Commissioner (SIC) Arun Sangwan issued a show-cause notice to the State Public Information Officer (SPIO)-cum-District Town Planner, Yamunanagar, for failing to provide requisite information to an appellant.Jai Chand Chauhan, an RTI activist, had sought information on related to the change of land use (CLU), workforce and facilities being provided to them in two factories in the Sasauli-Sudhail road area of Yamunanagar.As per an order passed by the SIC on August 17, 2020, the appellant through an RTI application on December 3, 2019, had sought information from the office of the SPIO.Finding no response, the appellant filed the first appeal on January 14, 2020, before the First Appellate Authority (FAA), which was decided on February 13, 2020.Failing to receive the requisite information, the appellant filed the second appeal on April 27, 2020, before the commission.After hearing the case, the SIC directed the SPIO to furnish complete information to the appellant free of cost.“In case, any of the points is not related to his office he will transfer the RTI application to the SPIO concerned, who will furnish the information to the appellant, as per the provisions of the RTI Act-2005,” reads the order.The order further reads, “A show-cause notice has been issued to the SPIO-cum-District Town Planner, Yamunanagar, asking him as to why a penalty of Rs 250 per day, subject to the maximum of Rs 25,000, should not be imposed upon him for causing an inordinate delay in this case.”The SPIO was also directed to submit his reply to the commission’s notice by today and be present during the hearing on September 17.
05-09-2020||---||Pollution board serves notice on 11 hotels in Panipat||Panipat, September 4No valid consentThe hotels are covered under consent management of the board under orange category and have not applied for consent to operate under the Water and Air Act as per the record of the officeThe notices to the hotels were served on August 17The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) served a show-cause notice on 11 hotels in the city under Sections of Water and Air Act allegedly for operating their hotels without valid consent from the pollution board.The HSPCB has served show-cause notices on 11 hotels, including Hive Hotel, Green Castle, Sunny Inn, Midtown, Regency, City Bright, Abhinandan Hotel, Shagun Residency, Comfort Inn guest house and My India Hotel.The notices were served for closure under Section 33-A of the Water (Prevent and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and 31-A of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1931.As per sources, the hotels are covered under consent management of the board under orange category and these hotels have not even applied for consent to operate under the Water and Air Act as per the record of the office. The notices to the hotels were served on August 17.The sources said only eight hotels in the city had valid consent from the pollution board to operate.Kamaljeet Singh, Regional Officer, HSPCB, said the notices to 11 hotels had been served under the Water and Air Act and for not having valid consent to operate, adding that action would be initiated accordingly.
05-09-2020||Hisar||22-yr-old woman poisoned in Fatehabad district, father, brother booked||A 22-year-old woman was allegedly killed and cremated secretly by her father and brother at Nagli village in Fatehabad district. The police have registered a case against the duo and started investigation.The police said Raju, a brother of victim Jyoti, complained to the police that his sister had gone missing on September 1 and was traced to Kaithal town the next day. He added that his father and other brother brought her back home at Nagli village and poisoned her to death.The complainant alleged that Jyoti’s body was cremated without informing other family members. The police said that the accused identified as Sahab Ram and his son Praveen had been booked and investigation started. — TNS
05-09-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Rights panel seeks report on 75 cases in Murthal dhabas||Tribune News ServicePanipat, September 4The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) on Friday took cognisance of a report published in The Tribune “2 Murthal dhabas sealed as 75 employees test positive” and sought a detailed action taken report from the Deputy Commissioner and the Civil Surgeon of Sonepat district.The HHRC observed that as per the report, 65 workers of Sukhdev Dhaba and 10 staff members of the adjoining Garam Dharam Dhaba in Murthal had been found Covid-positive.In its order, the HHRC said it was one of the eateries on the national highway that see a heavy footfall every day, especially people from Delhi NCR.“Though the district administration has sealed the two eateries, 75 cases from one place points out the negligence of the district administration,” the order reads.“It is the prime duty of the district administration to ensure safety measures and guidelines have been followed by dhaba and restaurant owners in order to check Covid spread, as it is a communicable disease,” the HHRC said.It sought a report from the Deputy Commissioner and the CMO with regard to action taken by them against the said dhaba owners as well as what preventive action had been taken by them to ensure safety measures and guidelines were followed by the other dhabas and restaurants.The HHRC directed them to submit the report within two weeks. The next hearing is on September 29.Shyam Lal Poonia, DC, Sonepat, said: “Officials have been directed to sanitise the two dhabas. Both eateries will remain sealed till all contract tracing exercise is completed. The reports of action taken will be submitted to the commission.”
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||1,884 new Covid cases, 19 deaths in Haryana||With 1,884 new cases of Covid reported on Friday, the highest so far in a day, the state’s tally reached 71,983. Besides, 19 people succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 759.Two deaths each were recorded in Faridabad, Rewari, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Kaithal, while one death each took place in Ambala, Rohtak, Panipat, Hisar, Panchkula, Jhajjar and Yamunanagar.Most of the cases surfaced in Gurugram (229), Karnal (223), Faridabad (220), Panipat (138), Ambala (127) and Panchkula (127).In all, 1,282 people were cured of the virus on Friday, taking the tally of discharged persons to 57,171. — TNS
05-09-2020||---||Infected cop ‘threatens to shoot’ health staff in Hisar||Hisar, September 4Video goes viralShe called her husband, who came out and threatened to shoot health officials if they dared to paste the posterA Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), who tested positive for Covid, reportedly stopped a team of the Health Department from pasting a home quarantine poster outside his house here on Thursday.The health team lodged a police complaint against DSP Pradeep Yadav.In the video, Yadav’s wife could be seen stopping health officials from pasting the poster outside her house. She called her husband, who came out and threatened to shoot health officials if they dared to paste the poster.Hisar SP Ganga Ram Punia said the police had received a complaint against DSP and the matter was under investigation.
05-09-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana government allows builders up to 2 more years to finish projects||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 4Additional costTwo more years to complete projects on up to 25 acres; projects on above 25 acres can avail of one more year10 per cent conversion charges for first-year extensionThe deadline for the projects on above 25 acres will be five yearsThe state government has allowed builders up to two more years to complete their residential and commercial projects, considering the economic downturn in the realty sector due to the Covid-19 pandemic.With new rules, the Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Area Restriction of Unregulated Development (Haryana Amendment) Rules 2020, coming into force, the change of land use (CLU) permission can now be extended up to two years.In the notification, AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning (TCP), has stated that now, the builders executing projects on land measuring up to 25 acres (for permission granted other than multi-storeyed buildings) will get three years — earlier it was two years.Similarly, for projects measuring up to 25 acres (for multi-storeyed buildings), the colonizers can take four years against current three years “for putting the land to permitted use”. However, the deadline for the projects on above 25 acres will be five years.Besides, the government will have the discretion to extend the permission by another year “if it is satisfied that the delay in the execution of works is beyond the control of the applicant”.However, these renewals will come at a price. While 10 per cent conversion charges will be levied on the first-year extension, the second-year extension will attract conversion charges at the rate of 15 per cent.
05-09-2020||Karnal||Karnal hospital turned into Covid facility||With a sudden increase in the number of Covid cases in the district, the authorities have declared Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) as a dedicated Covid hospital having a capacity of 500 beds. This means that all non-Covid indoor facilities at the KCGMC. These facilities will now be available at the Civil Hospital, said DC Nishant Kumar Yadav. He clarified the OPD would continue to function at the KCGMC. Earlier, the KCGMC was classified as a dedicated Covid Care Hospital with a capacity of 150 beds. — TNS
05-09-2020||---||e-auction of commercial sites in Faridabad gets poor response||Faridabad, September 4The first-ever e-auction of commercial sites proved a damp squib for the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF). Of the total 96 sites put on sale, the civic body could find buyers for only six sites.“The MCF took up the designated sale on August 19, but only a few buyers turned up. The civic body had expected an income of over Rs 25 crore,” said sources, who claimed that it was not only aimed at disposal of the sites lying unused but also to mitigate financial crisis faced by it. The six sites auctioned could get a revenue of just Rs 1.41 crore, which is only Rs 1 lakh more than the reserve price of Rs 1.40 crore. Three shops at Tikona Park in the NIT area, two shops in Sector 23 and another site in Sector 23 were sold.A total of 47 shops, 16 booths, 30 kiosks, two eateries and an educational institution had been put on auction. The total minimum cost of the sites was Rs 25 crore. As the highest reserve price of Rs 5.08 crore was for an educational institution in Sector-52 here, the lowest was Rs 12.44 lakh for a kiosk located in Sector-23.Claiming that the MCF was largely dependent on special grants and funds under the CM announcements to carry development works, an official said the civic body was unable to pay staff salary or clear outstanding power bills.Admitting a less than expected response, Bhupender Singh, a senior MCF official, said another tender to auction the remaining sites could be floated soon. The pandemic and the overall slowdown could be the reason, he added.
05-09-2020||Parveen Arora||332 villages of Haryana in red zone for stubble burning||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 4The Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has categorised fields in red, orange and green zones based on active fire locations detected by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) in the last paddy season. The exercise aims at reducing the number of stubble-burning cases during the upcoming paddy harvesting season.Villages with six or more active fire locations have been kept in the red category, while villages with active fire locations between two and five are in the orange zone and the villages with fire locations between 0 and one are in the green zone.The department has identified 332 villages in the red zone, 673 villages in the orange zone and 6,059 in the green zone. Now, the department with the help of panchayati raj, police, pollution control board, revenue and other departments will not only keep vigil on these villages, but also make farmers aware of how to properly manage stubble.“The department has categorised the villages on the basis of active fire locations detected during the lastpaddy season. The department will develop more custom hiring centres to assist farmers in proper management of stubble,” said Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director, Agriculture. Gram panchayatas with zero stubble-burning case will be honoured at the end of financial year 2020-21, he added.He said that it was a micro-level observation step of the department to check stubble burning. “Most of the staff of the departments will be deployed in the villages to check stubble burning. Besides, sarpanches, panches along with namberdars and panchayat secretaries will keep vigil on farm fire incidents,” he said, adding that farmers would be trained in effective stubble management.Dabas said that the HSPCB would get an FIR registered if any case of stubble burning was found.Strict vigil on cards to curtail practice
05-09-2020||Mahendragarh||3 of Anna gang held for attack on trader, BJP leader’s son||With the arrest of three youths, the district police claimed to have solved the cases of extortion and attacks on a trader and the son of a local BJP leader in Narnaul City here on August 27 and 28.The accused, Sombir of Umra village (Hisar), Rohit of Hansi and Rakesh of Dhanauta (Mahendragarh), are the members of Pradeep, alias Anna, gang. Anna belongs to Jharsha in Gurugram and the motive behind the crimes was to spread panic and extort money from people, said a police spokesman.“Rakesh was taking private coaching for competitive exams and came in contact with Anna two months ago. Rohit is a first-year graduation student and has a criminal case against him in Hansi, while Sombir is a mechanic in Tosham (Bhiwani), who met Anna through Rohit,” he said, adding that raids were being conducted to nab the kingpin.Rakesh and Rohit have been sent to jail and Sombir to three-day police remand. tns
05-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC puts Haryana on notice over PTI aspirants’ plea||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 4Want August 23exam quashedLess than a fortnight after an examination was held for appointing Physical Training Instructors (PTI) amid the rising number of Covid cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday put the State of Haryana on notice on a petition alleging paper leak and non-maintenance of secrecy.The notice by Justice Avneesh Jhingan came on the petition filed against the state, Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) and the Director, Elementary Education, by Jitender Kumar and 38 other candidates.They were seeking directions for quashing the examination held on August 23. Claiming that the mandatory procedure was not followed by the board and the seating arrangement was “biased”, the petitioners also alleged that even biometric attendance was not properly done.Appearing through videoconferencing, counsel for the petitioners Ravinder Bangar said the exercise was carried out in a “pick-and-choose manner”.Seeking 20 grace marks, Bangar added even the paper could not be completed on time in the absence of clocks in the halls. Besides, prior intimation was not given to the candidates before the completion of time for attempting the paper.Directions were also sought to the respondents for stay on the result of the written examination/final selection for the posts during the pendency of the writ petition on the alleged ground that approximately 15 to 20 per cent questions were either out of syllabus, were wrong, had erroneous answers, no answers or similar answers.Bangar also prayed for direction to the respondents to take legal action through the Director General of Police against the persons involved in the paper leak scandal. In alternative, directions were sought for handing over the probe to a special investigation team for exposing the scandal.In an attempt to substantiate his arguments, the counsel also referred to an FIR registered on August 23 at HTM police station in Hisar, while claiming that “a few persons were caught by the invigilators”.Bangar added some of the candidates entered an exam centre along with the answer key. They were not checked at the entry point. The contentions, he added, could easily be proved from the already installed CCTV cameras in the centres, unless the management deleted the recording.
05-09-2020||Faridabad||14 illegal structures razed in Faridabad||A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) Enforcement today demolished 14 illegal constructions in the revenue area of Bhopani and Nachauli villages of the district.DTP Naresh Kumar, who led the drive, said two residential structures, six shops, two dealers’ offices and four boundary walls or damp-proof course of large-sized plots that had come up illegally on six acres in two unauthorised colonies in these villages were razed. He added that while the drive against illegal constructions was going on since June, the department had brought down over 180 constructions in the past three months.He said notices and warning boards had been put up in the region, appealing people not to buy land or plots in unauthorised colonies carved out by the land mafia without obtaining the NOC from the department. — TNS
05-09-2020||Rohtak||Rally at Rohtak in support of JNU student||Locals rallied in support of Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal, who is in detention under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in New Delhi for over 100 days. Narwal is a native of RohtakAcademicians, students, women, social and human rights activists under the aegis of the Sadbhavna Manch, Haryana, assembled at Baapu Park and protested against the alleged curtailment of civil liberties and detention of activists who voice dissent.“Natasha is a PhD student at the JNU. She was arrested on May 23 in connection with the Delhi riots in February. Later, she and her colleagues were booked under the UAPA and lodged in Tihar Jail, where they faced harassment.Over 2,000 persons signed a petition seeking the release of Narwal and others. The petition was later mailed to President Ram Nath Kovind. TNS
05-09-2020||
||Teacher accuses Nilokheri MLA’s son of ‘framing’ her in extortion case||Karnal, September 4 A private school teacher, who had accused the school owner and a tehsildar of raping her, has now accused Nilokheri MLA Dharampal Gonder’s son of ‘trapping’ her in a false extortion case. The teacher and her husband have been booked for allegedly accepting Rs 7.25 lakh from the school owner in lieu of withdrawing the rape case. On August 21, she was arrested while accepting Rs 7.25 lakh from an aide of the school owner, the police had said. She was later released on bail. On Friday, she told the media that she never took the money and that MLA’s son Shiv Kumar Gonder trapped her in the fake extortion case. “Shiv Gonder pretended to be my well-wisher. I tied rakhi to him on Raksha Bandhan, but he backstabbed me,” she alleged. She said, “Shiv mounted pressure on me and my family for striking a compromise in the rape case. But I refused point-blank. So, he conspired against me. On August 21, one of his advocate friends called me and my husband to discuss the matter. When we refused to come to his place, he came to Karnal. Soon the police followed him and they arrested us on the charge of accepting money. We did not take money from anyone to withdraw the rape case.” Shiv, however, refuted the allegations. “I was in touch with the woman till August 10 on the request of her father and other members of the family to help her get justice. When I realised that she was interested in making money in lieu of withdrawing the rape case, I immediately backtracked,” he claimed. His father Dharampal Gonder said he had faith in his son that he would never do anything wrong.
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||8% in Haryana found Covid +ve||A sero prevalence study conducted across Haryana has found that the overall Covid positivity rate in the state stands at 8 per cent in August, implying eight out of 100 persons may have contracted the virus and recovered from the disease.Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij released the survey figures on Friday. The urban population has been found to be more affected than the rural one.“The SARS-CoV-2 (virus that causes Covid) sero positivity in urban areas is 9.6 per cent compared to 6.9 per cent in rural pockets,” explained Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary (Health).The NCR districts were shown having high positivity rate—25.8 per cent in Faridabad (31.1 per cent urban, 22.2 per cent rural), 13.3 per cent in Sonepat (18 per cent urban, 10 per cent rural) and 10.8 per cent in Gurugram (18.5% in urban and 5.7% in rural).A rate higher than the state average of 8 per cent was also noticed in districts like Karnal (12.2), Jind (11), Kurukshetra (8.7), Charkhi Dadri (8.3) and Yamunanagar (8.3). The districts having rate lower than the state average include Panipat (7.4), Palwal (7.4), Panchkula (6.5), Jhajjar (5.9), Ambala (5.2), Rewari (4.9) and Sirsa (3.6) (see table for bottom five districts).Vij said the survey’s aim was to identify Covid penetration at community level and monitor its transmission trends. As many as 850 samples were collected in each district.“The situation is much better in Haryana. In the first survey, Gujarat had an average of 17.68 per cent while it rose to 23.24 per cent in the second. In Delhi, it was 23.9 and 29.1 per cent, respectively. Mumbai slums recorded 57 per cent,” added Vij.
05-09-2020||Hisar||Whitefly: Haryana cotton growers fear losses||Cotton growers in Haryana fear heavy losses. The whitefly and other diseases have hit the crop cultivated over a record 7,38,000 hectares this kharif season. The farmers want a special girdawari to assess the losses.The crop in four districts — Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Bhiwani — has been infested with the whitefly besides parawilt and leaf curl. Uneven rainfall also caused much damage. While in some areas waterlogging ruined the crop, dry spells in other parts led to withering of plants, said Agriculture Department officials.They said the whitefly had caused extensive damage in Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa and Bhiwani districts. Sources claimed the losses incurred could be the highest since 2015 when the whitefly had destroyed almost 70 per cent of the crop. The farmers were then given Rs 967 crore as compensation. “The department will recommend a special girdawari to the state government,” said a senior official. A former Director of the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), Dr Dilip Monga, said that lack of awareness among farmers regarding crop management was also to blame for the damage.
