05-04-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Had no symptoms, was shocked: Sonepat’s Covid survivor||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, April 4When Tamanna Jain, 23, was tested positive for Covid-19 on March 19, her world came crashing down. “My first feeling was that of disappointment. I didn’t expect to test positive as I did not have high temperature, dry cough or any other symptom. But I reconciled to the fact and decided to fight the virus,” says Jain.The first Covid patient of Sonepat, Jain was discharged from Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women at Khanpur Kalan on Thursday after three consecutive tests came negative. Her family members welcomed her by showering flower petals on her.Pursuing Masters in Applied Physics at the University of Cambridge, London, Jain says she returned from the UK on March 18 and showed no symptoms of the infection. “However, on the university’s WhatsApp group, messages were doing the rounds that many returning from the UK had tested positive. As a precautionary measure, I opted for self-quarantine. But at night, I developed cough,” she says.The folowing day, her parents took her to the hospital. She told the doctors about her travel history. As she had cough and a sore throat, the doctors admitted her and tested her for Covid-19.Though shocked by the test report, Jain quickly regained composure and resolved to fight the virus. “My family members, doctors and sanitation workers in the isolation ward supported me which helped me recover fast. “I spent the 14-day period (from March 19 to April 2) in the isolation ward, drawing sketches, reading books and at times peeping out of the window,” she says, pleased to be back home with her near and dear ones, fully recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/had-no-symptoms-was-shocked-sonepats-covid-survivor-65828
05-04-2020||---||More exemptions for farming, allied activities||New Delhi, April 4The Centre is worried that exemptions to ensure farmers do not suffer from any adverse fallout of the nationwide lockdown are not percolating to field agencies.Lockdown BluesGovt has announced more relaxations for the sectorThese include shops of agri machinery, spares and repairTruck repair shops on highways and tea industry, including plantationHarvesting can be delayed till April 20, farmers toldHome Minister Amit Shah is monitoring this aspect on which depends the future of farmers and agriculture, say sources. The Ministry of Home Affairs has issued the fourth addendum to its notification, invoking the Disaster Management Act as per which shops of agricultural machinery, its spares (including supply chain) and repairs and shops for truck repairs on highways, preferably at fuel pumps, can remain open to facilitate transportation of farm produce. Besides, the tea industry, including plantations, can function with a maximum of 50 per cent workers.The ministry says it is the responsibility of the head of the organisation or an establishment to ensure the practice of social distancing norms and proper hygiene.The government advisory on precautions for harvesting and threshing of rabi crops and post-harvest, storage and marketing of farm produce also says farmers may delay wheat harvesting till April 20 without incurring any significant losses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/more-exemptions-for-farming-allied-activities-65816
05-04-2020||The Haryana Police have registered 38 FIRs against 36 persons for allegedly spreading fake news or rumours about Covid on WhatsApp and other social media platforms across the state. ADGP (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk said Home Minister Anil Vij had instructed the police to initiate stern action against those circulating fake and misleading information about the pandemic so that potential confusion and panic among the general public could be prevented. All such rumour-mongers have been booked under different Sections of the IPC and IT Act||38 FIRs over fake news||Karnal No liquor, Man ends lifeA man (38) committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance allegedly over not getting liquor here. The deceased identified as Sispal of Gurunanakpura was reportedly an alcoholic. In his complaint, Rohtash informed the police that his uncle was alcoholic. Sispal demanded liquor from Rohtash on Thursday but he was told that all shops were closed due to the lockdown. Later, Sispal consumed some poisonous substance in Mahavir Colony. He was rushed to a private hospital, where he was declared dead. TNSYammunanagar 2 booked for running factoriesTwo factory owners of Yamunanagar were booked for running their factories in violation of lockdown orders. On the complaint of Kehar Singh, security agent of Yamunanagar police, separate FIRs were registered against Brijesh and Gagandeep under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) at Farakpur police station. TNSChandigarh 3 IAS officers shiftedThe government has deputed KM Pandurang, Director, Town and Country Planning, in Sonepat for Covid control activities. Saket Kumar, Director, Industry and Commerce, Adviser and Special Secretary, Civil Aviation, and Ayush Director, has been given additional charge of Managing Director, Haryana Medical Services Corpn Ltd. Vijayendra Kumar, Principal Secretary, General Administration and Revenue and Disaster Management, has been posted as Principal Secretary, General Administration. DIG B Satheesh Balan, an IPS officer, has been deputed in Charkhi Dadri. TNSYammunanagarRs 21Lakh donated to relief fundThe management of Mukand Lal Educational Institutions donated Rs15 lakh to the CM’s Covid Relief Fund. General secretary Ramesh Kumar said the cheque was handed over to Education Minister Kanwar Pal. The management of Saraswati Educational Institutes, Jagadhri, also donated Rs5 lakh. Pawan Gupta of Jan Kalyan Samiti handed over a cheque of Rs1 lakh to Kanwar Pal as contribution to fund. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/38-firs-over-fake-news-65663
05-04-2020||
||Mewat college turns into Covid hospital||Chandigarh, April 4 Ramping up its preparations to tackle Covid, the Haryana Government has announced that Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College at Nalhar will now be an exclusive Covid hospital. The college has a capacity of 600 beds. Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora shared this while presiding over the meeting of the Crisis Coordination Committee through video conferencing here today. She directed the officers that the patients who are already admitted in the hospital should be immediately shifted to nearby hospitals after duly following all transfer protocols as per the guidelines.  Apart from this, the availability and supply of adequate medical equipment including PPE kits, masks etc in this hospital should be ensured.  She directed that the officers should also ensure that exclusive Covid wards are made in the hospitals and medical colleges across the state.  The Chief Secretary further directed that possibilities should be explored to convert medical colleges into exclusively Covid hospitals. Private laboratories should be identified in each district which can be designated for Covid testing. Along with this, the availability of rapid testing kits should be ensured in every hospital and medical college, she added. The Chief Secretary directed that the order for rate capping of vegetables has already been issued and all the Deputy Commissioners should ensure that the shops and street hawkers should not sell vegetables beyond the capped rate. She further shared that the rate capping order should be widely circulated on social media so that people could be made aware of the rates.  She directed that the officers should also ensure that the rate list is pasted outside the shops and on the carts of the street hawkers. She further directed that the rate capping of ‘moong dal’ and mustard oil should also be done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mewat-college-turns-into-covid-hospital-65640
05-04-2020||---||Haryana sees 26 new Covid cases in a day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 4A total of 26 Covid cases were recorded in the state today, with the total number climbing to 70. Palwal district recorded the biggest jump with 13 new cases, all Tablighi Jamaat attendees, testing positive.The total figure included 15 patients who had been discharged. The state now had 55 active cases. According to officials, Tablighi Jamaat members from other parts of the country who had entered the state before the lockdown accounted for a majority of the 26 fresh cases.The Health Department bulletin said Palwal had the maximum number of active cases in the state at 16, including the 13 reported today. Bhiwani and Gurugram reported two fresh cases each, it said.Of the 70 cases, the bulletin said, one person was from Nepal and 20 from other states. They comprised five from Tamil Nadu, three each from Kerala and West Bengal, two each from Telangana and Bihar and one each Punjab, Delhi, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra.A Rohtak woman who died at a Delhi hospital yesterday was not mentioned in the bulletin while the first casualty, a 67-year-old man from Ambala who died on Wednesday, was included today.Biggest jump in PalwalThe district set a new record when 13 persons were found positive in a single day. This pushed the tally to 17. Dr Barhmdeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the 16 positive cases had come from other parts of the country to take part in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation.He said they had been traced by the district administration after 12 persons were detected, three of whom tested positive on April 2. They arrived on March 13. He said 10 of the 12 persons were Bangladesh nationals and one each was from Bihar and Assam.He said 88 persons who came in contact with them were detected. The samples of 56 were sent for testing, 13 of which tested positive. All 16 patients were being shifted to the Government Medical College at Nalhar in Nuh district.A total of 274 persons who had come in contact with positive or suspected cases were identified. The samples of 70 persons were collected, 51 of which were found negative.A total of 465 persons were still under surveillance. A 68-year-old local resident, who was the first case, was discharged after recovery.8 cases in FaridabadThe number of cases in the district rose to 14, with eight more cases being reported. A spokesperson of the administration said five of them had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation.Three of them were local residents, including a couple residing in the Surajkund area who had come from Gwalior recently. The parents of the third patient, a local youth, had tested positive last week.He said the new cases were admitted to hospital and 42 persons whose reports were awaited have been quarantined and kept in isolation.Dr Ram Bhagat, Deputy Civil Surgeon, said 1,117 persons had been screened and 967 were still under surveillance. Of the 190 samples tested so far, 134 were found negative. A 53-year-old woman who had tested positive was discharged after recovery.Bhiwani reports two casesThe district reported its first two cases as one person each from Sandwa and Manheru villages tested positive. They were quarantined at the Civil Hospital in Bhiwani. They had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi.Health officials said they had traced 14 contacts of the patients and quarantined them. The two villages were sealed for outsiders and 50 houses adjoining the residences of the positive cases sanitised.Father-son duo positiveGurugram registered two positive cases, with a father-son doctor duo testing positive at a local hospital.First case in KaithalOne of the four Kaithal residents who returned from the congregation in Delhi was found to be infected.Rohtak woman Dies, 2nd death in HaryanaRohtak: A 72-year-old Covid-positive woman of Rohtak, who was suffering from multiple ailments, including hypertension, diabetes, electrolyte imbalance and kidney failure, died in New Delhi on Friday. As her condition did not improve, she was referred to Delhi. Dr Amit Mann, the Rohtak-based nephrologist at whose hospital the woman was admitted initially, said the woman had no history of foreign travel nor did she have any symptoms. Rohtak Civil Surgeon Dr Anil Birla said the woman’s son, who accompanied her, has tested negative, while her daughter was quarantined at her home here. TNSJamaat attendees returning after March 1 to be tested30 who attended Surat meet test negative||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-sees-26-new-covid-cases-in-a-day-65639
05-04-2020||Jhajjar||52 more test positive, tally rises to 106||As many as 52 more persons, who attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi and are isolated at National Cancer Institute (NCI) at Badsha village here, on Friday tested positive for Covid taking the number of those infected to 106. None of them belongs to Haryana. As they have been transferred from Delhi, they will not be counted in Haryana’s account. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/52-more-test-positive-tally-rises-to-106-65638
05-04-2020||Jhajjar||Jhajjar woman kicks cop, tears her uniform||A woman not only manhandled a woman constable, but also tore her uniform when the latter tried to stop her for inquiry at Bahadurgarh town here on Friday.The woman, identified as Sangeeta Singh, also threatened to spread Covid.The constable somehow overpowered her and took her to the police station. A case was filed against the woman on the complaint of Constable Rekha Rani, posted at women police station.The incident took place when Asha, Rekha and other police personnel were on duty at the Sector-9 turn in Bahadurgarh to ensure execution of lockdown guidelines.As per the police complaint, Sangeeta kicked Asha in her stomach and manhandled her, stating that she did not care about the government directives.Sources said other police personnel who were deputed there made a video of the incident on the cell phone. The video later went viral.Naresh Kumar, investigation officer, said a case was registered against the woman. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-woman-kicks-cop-tears-her-uniform-65637
05-04-2020||Karnal||12 contacts of Karnal’s 1st patient isolated||The first Covid-positive case in Rasin village in the Gharaunda block has brought the health authorities on their toes. They have identified 12 persons of his family and in his contact and sent their samples to the medical college at Khanpur in Sonepat.  These persons have been admitted in the isolation ward of the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC). Besides, the samples of three doctors and staff members, who came in his contact, have been collected and sent for further investigation. As many as 53 medical personnel have been quarantined. The department also screened the whole village having a population of 2,177 residents and found no symptoms.  Besides, the department has also screened all the residents of two adjoining villages, but no suspected case has been found in these villages, said Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Civil Surgeon. Karnal had managed to remain untouched by the virus till Friday and after witnessing the first case in the district, the Health Department has sent teams to the village for health check-up of all the residents. The authorities also sanitised the village on Saturday. “Apart from checking the health of residents, we got the whole village sanitised. The entry and exit points of the village will be closed for 14 days,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. He said that so far, they had collected samples of 74 persons. Of them, reports of 55 persons have come out as negative and one as positive. The reports of 18 persons is awaited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-contacts-of-karnals-1st-patient-isolated-65636
05-04-2020||---||Ambala death not due to Covid||Ambala, April 4A 31-year-old woman of Shekhupura village near here having flu-like symptoms died late Friday evening. However, her test result for Covid came negative on Saturday, said Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh.The woman had reported at Ambala City Civil Hospital on Friday with flu-like symptoms and was referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, in a critical condition but she died on the way. Later, her body was kept at the hospital mortuary and was released on Saturday after her sample tested negative for Covid, Dr Singh added.2 new suspected casesWith two fresh suspected Covid patients reporting on Saturday, the total count in the district has reached 69, the Civil Surgeon said.He said so far, at least 90 attendees of Markaj at a mosque in the Nizamuddin area of New Delhi had been tracked in different parts of the district, of which samples of seven had been collected and two of them had tested positive, two negative while the reports of three were still awaited.He said the district Health Department would collect the samples of all Markaj attendees in the district and send them for clinical examination. They had already been quarantined at hospitals or mosques/places, where they had been staying put after their return.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-death-not-due-to-covid-65635
05-04-2020||Kaithal||Complaint filed against Surjewala for violating lockdown orders||Senior Congress leader Randeep Surjewala seems to have run into trouble with a sanitisation campaign with his supporters in violation of prohibitory orders and disregard of social distancing norms.Rocky Mittal, state publicity adviser, handed over a complaint against the AICC media incharge to IGP Hardeep Singh Doon.Mittal claimed that Surjewala reached Model Town with a spraying machine attached to a tractor during the campaign though the area had already been sanitised.Demanding legal action, Mittal submitted that Surjewala and many of his supporters were seen without masks. Doon forwarded the complaint to the Kaithal SP for investigation and action as per the law.Reacting to the complaint, Surjewala said this was not the time for politics and everyone should join hands to fight Covid. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/complaint-filed-against-surjewala-for-violating-lockdown-orders-65634
05-04-2020||vinder Saini
||Jhajjar potters get order for 5K diyas, to distribute 2K free of cost among needy||Tribune News Service Jhajjar, April 4  Residents of Jhajjar district are enthusiastic about the call of lighting diyas/candles on the night of April 5 given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to dispel the darkness of the Covid pandemic. While two potter brothers — Sadhu Ram and Ram Lal — have made 2,000 earthen lamps to distribute free of cost among locals, several other people have come forward to provide diyas to those who are not in a position to buy those. The potters have got orders of readying 5,000 diyas.  “It is the first time when we are busy in making earthen lamps in April when pots, pitchers, jars, ‘surahi’ and earthen utensils are usually prepared. We had started receiving orders for ‘diyas’ on Friday morning when the Prime Minister called upon the people to light those at 9 pm on April 5,” said Sadhu Ram. He maintained they had adequate raw material to complete the orders. Meanwhile, they have decided to distribute 2,000 diyas free of cost in their locality and nearby residential areas. “We have readied 2,000 diyas and have also started distributing those. One diya each is being given to every house. Help is being taken from activists of various social outfits for distributing diyas in relief camps. The work to make 5,000 more diyas is being done on a war-footing to deliver the orders by this evening,” said Sadhu Ram. Rahul, a local lad who placed an order of 1,000 diyas, said he would distribute the earthen lamps among 300 slum families at Sector 6 here and members of the deprived section of society residing near Bhagat Singh Chowk here. Two diyas along with oil would be provided to each family so that they could also become part of the event on Sunday night, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-potters-get-order-for-5k-diyas-to-distribute-2k-free-of-cost-among-needy-65633
