05-08-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak court sets aside order to summon Meham MLA Balraj Kundu||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 5The court of Rohtak Additional District and Sessions Judge Ritu Y.K.Bahl today set aside an order pertaining to the summoning of Meham MLA Balraj Kundu in a criminal defamation case filed by former Haryana minister Manish Grover.The court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Ashish Kumar Sharma had earlier summoned the MLA to face trial regarding an offence under Section 500 of the IPC.“We had filed a revision petition against the summoning order. The Additional Sessions Judge allowed the revision petition and set aside the summoning orders issued by the lower court,” said Advocate Peeyush Gakhar, the counsel for Kundu.Advocate Rakesh Kumar Sapra, the counsel for the former minister, said they had a strong case and would move the High Court after receiving and examining the copy of today’s orders.    At a news conference convened at Rohtak on January 3, 2020, Kundu had accused Grover of indulging in rampant corruption during his tenure as minister and instigating violence during the Jat agitation for grant of reservation in February, 2016.  “Grover indulged in corrupt practices during his tenure as minister and minted money through his son and crony contractors, causing losses to the tune of hundreds of crores of rupees to the state exchequer. Certain IAS and HCS officers have also been involved in the open loot of public money, while the Chief Minister has been kept in the dark,” Kundu had alleged.Maintaining that the allegations levelled by the MLA were baseless and derogatory which had defamed him in public view, Grover later stated that he had got a legal notice served to Kundu to withdraw his defamatory and malicious remarks, but he did not apologise despite having got the notice, following which he filed a complaint before the court.While summoning the MLA, the CJM’s court had observed that the allegations levelled in the complaint prima facie constituted an offence under Sections 499 and 500 of the IPC against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-court-sets-aside-order-to-summon-meham-mla-balraj-kundu-122549
05-08-2020||Gurugram||Muslim traders in Sadar bazaar area shut shops as Gurugram is painted saffron||Out to celebrate the laying of foundation stone of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, various organisations went ahead painting Gurugram saffron for the day.While it remained a jubilant celebration in various pockets, tension gripped Jama masjid area in Sadar bazaar where a Nuh resident was brutally thrashed by a mob on suspicion of carrying beef a few days ago.Out to celebrate the ‘historic’ day, various Hindu outfits and local trader associations went ahead not just putting saffron balloons but even started playing high volume music today morning raising slogans against cow slaughter and empowered Hindu etc.Scared of a tiff, the local meat sellers and other traders chose to keep their shops shut.“We are still not out of shock of what happened that day. The man was thrashed brutally with hammers and police stood spectator at ‘naka’. The accused have not been arrested so we are scared of any crime of prejudice. We had a meeting and all Muslim traders decided to shut shops,” said Omar, a local meat supplier.“They started instigating us with music and slogans playing on loudspeaker. They even put balloons on our shops at night. We are not against anything but it’s our choice our shops. We approached our leaders and they asked us to avoid any trouble or controversy so asthey planned celebrations and marches we decided to shut shops,” added another trader Bismil Qureshi.“This is a regular feature in the BJP regime and day by day the humiliation and threat to Muslim community is rising even in a metropolis like Gurugram. There is no fear of law and communal crime is not taken seriously. The traders are scared as local Hindu outfits came toharass them and majority of times no action is taken. The recent attempted mob lynching has left us all scared and police should have been more cautious while allowing playing of instigating music or marches in the site where Nuh resident was attacked,” said Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/muslim-traders-in-sadar-bazaar-area-shut-shops-as-gurugram-is-painted-saffron-122538
05-08-2020||Hisar||Groom's father arrested after 100 of wedding party get diagnosed with COVID-19||Nearly 120 people tested COVID-19 positive after they attended a wedding function last month.The police arrested the man, who violated the COVID-19 guidelines, and organised the event for his son—this triggered the chain of infections in Hisar.The father of the groom was arrested by the police on Tuesday who got the bail from the court.The wedding function, organised by a jeweller's family on June 28 and June 29th, was attended by more than the permitted number of guests.Subsequently, the family members of the groom tested positive which set off a chain of coronavirus infections, prompting health authorities to register an FIR in the case.The contact tracing led to 100 people, which included the family members of bride and groom, visitors and workers employed in the function.One of their family members were admitted on July 2 after testing COVID-19 positive. Later, nearly 120 people tested positive or came in contact with these people.The district administration has formed a three-member panel to investigate social distancing violations.On July 16, police personnel lodged an FIR after this the police registered a case of disobeying a public servant (section 188 of the Indian Penal Code) as well as Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act (Punishment for obstruction) against unknown persons.The Health Department's contact tracing said that after scanning through videos and photos related to the wedding, it transpired that about 150-200 people were present at the wedding functions.The COVID guidelines have restricted the limit to 50 people, in an attempt, to enforce social distancing rules, and to curb the spread of COVID-19.The Health Officials said as many as 120 people, who attended the marriage, have tested positive.These included 86 people from Hisar, 22 people in Pilibanga town of Rajasthan, relating to the family of the bride and guests from Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hansi and Ganganagar towns.The jeweller, however, stated that they restricted the gathering at the wedding, and had did not sent invitations to their neighbours and relatives.“It was unfortunate that my family and some other people have tested positive for the disease. We followed the guidelines and also adhere to the physical distancing,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/grooms-father-arrested-after-100-of-wedding-party-get-diagnosed-with-covid-19-122531
05-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Health services restricted, Haryana infant deaths rise 46% in lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 4A whopping 46 per cent rise has been witnessed in the number of deaths of infants in Haryana between April and June this year compared to the corresponding period in 2019, information accessed under the Right to Information has revealed. Experts have blamed the increase on restricted access to health services during the initial phases of lockdown.Also, the overall deaths rose by over 2 per cent despite far lesser road accidents taking place during the period.A total of 1,208 infants, including 649 males and 559 females, died during the April-June quarter, according to information provided by the Civil Registration System. The corresponding period last year saw 828 deaths—418 males and 410 females—a rise of 45.9 per cent.As many as 691 infants were below seven days, 182 were between seven and 28 days and 335 were in the age group of 28 days to one year. The corresponding figures for 2019 stood at 439, 110 and 279. Around 1.07 lakh births took place in the 2020 quarter compared to 1.04 lakh last year.The maximum infant deaths occurred in Rohtak (377), Nuh (97), Faridabad (79), Hisar (76) and Karnal (64). With 119 deaths, Hisar led last year’s tally, followed by Nuh (110). The Tribune procured the information under the RTI from the state Health Department’s Birth and Death Registration wing.“The infant deaths have risen as extension health staff like ANMs and ASHA workers were busy in Covid duty,” maintained Prof Aswini Nanda, Health Economist, Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh.Prof Nanda said during the initial phases of lockdown, there was no transport facility available and OPDs in government and private hospitals were shut too. “Even people avoided hospitals fearing Covid,” he said.In all, 45,284 deaths, including those of Covid, took place across all age groups in the state in the April-June period, a rise of 2.1 per cent compared to 44,334 in the 2019 corresponding quarter.Health Minister Anil Vij and Additional Chief Secretary (Health) did not respond to calls on their cell phones.Dr Prabhakar Sharma, Indian Medical Association’s state unit president, said, “There was miscommunication from the government on the closure of OPDs towards March end. So, we recommended their closure. Following government directives in mid-April, we reopened the OPDs as patients were suffering even as the government facilities remained shut.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/health-services-restricted-haryana-infant-deaths-rise-46-in-lockdown-122246
05-08-2020||---||Haryana’s Pradeep Singh tops Civil Services exam||New Delhi, August 4Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) today declared the Civil Services Examination-2019 result with Haryana’s Pradeep Singh emerging topper among 829 successful candidates for various services, including IAS, IPS, IFS, among others, officials said.Also read:The second and the third positions have been bagged by Jatin Kishore (Delhi) and Pratibha Verma (Uttar Pradesh), respectively. Verma is the topper among women candidates.PM Narendra Modi tweeted: “Congratulations to all the bright youngsters who have successfully cleared the Civil Services Examination, 2019! My best wishes.”To those who could not produce the desired result, Modi said: “Life is full of several opportunities. Each and every one of you is hardworking and diligent. Best wishes for all your future endeavours.”Of the 829 successful candidates, 304 are from General Category, 78 from Economically Weaker Section (EWS), 251 from Other Backward Classes (OBC), 129 from Scheduled Castes (SC) and 67 from Scheduled Tribes (ST). A total of 182 candidates have been put on the reserve list.The selection has been made against 927 vacancies reported by the government.In a statement, the UPSC said, “Candidates can obtain any information/clarification regarding their examination/recruitment on working days between 10 am and 5 pm in person or on the telephone (011- 23385271 / 23381125 / 23098543).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-pradeep-singh-tops-civil-services-exam-122255
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||8 more fatalities, 623 cases in Haryana||With 623 fresh cases and eight deaths, the Covid tally in the state jumped to 37,796.Three deaths were reported from Sirsa and one each from Faridabad, Jhajjar, Rohtak, Kurukshetra and Fatehabad.In Kurukshetra, a 78-year-old woman from New Colony, who had cancer and diabetes, was among the casualty. Also, a 45-year-old woman from Shahabad died, but is yet to be counted n the state health bulletin.A 69-year-old man from Sector 51 in Faridabad succumbed to the viral disease.The fresh cases came from Faridabad (169), Rohtak (96), Panipat (50), Gurugram (46), Ambala (32), Sonepat (29), Yamunanagar (22), Fatehabad (21), Rewari (20), Karnal (19), Sirsa (19), Jhajjar (16), Kurukshetra (16), Palwal (15), Bhiwani (15), Panchkula (12), Jind (8), Kaithal (6), Nuh (5), Hisar (4) and Mahendragarh (3).The localities from where the fresh cases came in Faridabad included Old Faridabad, Ballabgarh, NIT, Dabua Colony, Jawahar Colony, Sanjay Colony, SGM Nagar, Kheri Kalan, Sectors 8, 16 and 21A.The fresh cases in Ambala district included 14 from cantonment, 12 from Mullana, nine from city and three each Barara, Shahzadpur and Chaurmastpur.Meanwhile, 756 patients got cured in the last 24 hours taking the tally to 31,226 with a recovery rate of 82.62 per cent.So far, Bhiwani has the best recovery rate of 94.28 per cent and has just 40 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-more-fatalities-623-cases-in-haryana-122256
05-08-2020||Bhiwani||Robbers loot Rs5.7L from Bhiwani bank||A group of armed robbers looted Rs 5.78 lakh from a Canara Bank branch in Rewari Khera village, Bhiwani, on Tuesday. The masked youths entered the bank when three members of the bank were inside.The police said three of the accused took the cash from the cash counter and rushed outside where their fourth accomplice was waiting in a car. At the time of the incident, a guard was not present at the bank.DSP Virender Singh rushed to the spot and began the investigation. The DSP said the bank official stated that the accused took the cash from them at gunpoint and fled. The incident occurred at around 11.30 am and has been captured in the CCTV. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/robbers-loot-rs5-7l-from-bhiwani-bank-122257
05-08-2020||Panchkula||Khattar distributes family ID cards||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday distributed ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP)’ to eligible families at Panchkula and announced that welfare schemes of all departments would be linked with this family identification card within the next three months.At present, the Mukhya Mantri Parivar Samridhi Yojana (MMPSY) which was launched on January 26 and three pension schemes — Old Age Samman Allowance Scheme, Divyang Jan Pension Scheme, and Widow and Destitute Women Pension Scheme — have been integrated with PPP.Khattar distributed the PPPs to heads of 20 eligible families. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Rattan Lal Kataria and Speaker Gian Chand Gupta were also present on the occasion.Apart from Panchkula, PPPs were distributed simultaneously to beneficiaries in remaining 21 districts by Ministers, MPs and MLAs.Out of the available record of 56 lakh families in the state, data of 18.19 lakh families have been prepared and these are being provided PPPs. The additional 20 lakh PPPs would be distributed by August, the CM said, adding that for the remaining family IDs that are to be distributed in September, verification work would be completed this month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-distributes-family-id-cards-122258
05-08-2020||Panipat||Want to work in education sector: UPSC topper from Haryana||Pradeep Singh, an Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer under training, has topped the civil services examination. He wants to contribute to the country’s educational sector.The topper, who hails from Tewri village of Ganaur in Sonepat district and belongs to a farmer family, cracked the examination in his fourth attempt.“It is an unbelievable and unexpected moment for me. It is a very pleasant surprise as I did not expect that I would be ranked first. I am very happy and so are my family and friends,” he said.“My father Sukhbeer Singh is my source of motivation. Due to his motivation, hard work and determined preparation, I was able to achieve my goal of becoming an IAS officer,” he said.“I put in a lot of effort. After getting selected in the IRS in 2014, I had appeared in the examination again in 2015, but could not crack it. I appeared yet again and topped it. It is a wonderful experience,” he said.After obtaining a Bachelor of Engineering (computer science) degree from Deen Bandhu Chhotu Ram University for Science and Technology in Murthal, Pradeep was selected as Inspector in the Income Tax Department in 2015 and served for four years.“I want to work in the educational sector and will work to provide benefits of government schemes to the deprived sections so that they can join the mainstream and play an important role in development of the country,” he said.In his message to students, he said, “If I can top the civil services examination, anyone can crack it. Anyone can succeed as only focus and strong determination are required.”Sirsa girl 35thHisar: A law graduate from Delhi University, Kanchan of Sirsa has secured 35th rank in the civil services examination. She said peace of mind and hard work were the key to success in the examination. Daughter of a chartered accountant, Kanchan had been aspiring to become an IAS officer ever since she was in school. She had started preparing for the examination during the final year of her law course in Delhi. This was her second attempt. She had been selected in the Railway Personal Service in her first attempt last year. TNSRewari lad 56thRewari: Pankaj Yadav of Tint village in Rewari has been ranked 56th in the examination. Selected to the IPS in 2018, he is posted as ASP in Imphal.He completed MBBS course at Pt BD Sharma PGIMS in Rohtak in 2016. He was passionate about the civil services and had started preparations to achieve his goal. TNSFaridabad girl gets 65th rankFaridabad: Ashima Goyal of Ballabgarh has secured 65th rank in the examination. She could not make it in the first attempt in 2018.An alumnus of IIT-Delhi, she had joined ICICI Bank in 2017. “I was determined and wanted to do something different. I left my job after a year to prepare again for the civil services examination,” she said. Claiming that she did not take any coaching, she said exchange of notes and ideas with her friends helped her a lot. She said the support of her family and friends helped her. “Though I was confident this time, I did not expect such a high rank,” she added. TNSSamalkha girl secures 86th positionPanipat: Madhumita has made Samalkha proud by securing 86th rank. She has cracked the examination in her third attempt. “I made my first attempt in 2017 and cleared the mains. I could not clear the mains in 2018. I changed my strategy before my third attempt and succeeded,” she said.Madhumita said before her third attempt, she joined an institute in Delhi and followed the strategy of the institute. She said devoted between eight and 10 hours a day to studies. TNSHisar engineer 174thA mechanical engineer from IIT-Bombay, Aprajit Lohan of Hisar has secured 174th rank in his first attempt. He said he had opted for the civil services as he believed that one could improve the system by becoming a part of it.Mahendragarh girl 222ndDevayani of a village in Mahendragarh district has secured 222nd rank. She graduated from BITS-Pilani’s Goa campus in 2014. She was selected in the Rajasthan Civil Service last year and had taken leave to prepare for this examination.Narnaul lad 288thAbhishek of Bhankhari village in Narnaul has secured 288th rank in his third attempt. Last year, he obtained 595th rank and was selected for Indian Railway Account Service. “Civil services is the best platform for social service and bringing reforms. I started preparing for the examination after leaving my job in 2016,” he said. He said his focus would be on strengthening the government education system.Kurukshetra girl 393rdMehak Swami of Kurukshetra has secured 393rd rank in her her fourth attempt. She is an HCS officer under training at present. “I want to be an IPS officer and want to serve my home state. My family has always been a source of motivation and inspiration for me,” she said.IRS officer 398thAshish Dagar, an IRS officer, has improved his ranking by securing 398th rank. A resident of Misri village in Charkhi Dadri, he is posted in the Customs Department in Delhi.Kaithal girl 519thShivani Mehla of Sangroli village in Kaithal has secured 519th rank in her first attempt. She used to devote 13 to 14 hour as day to her studies.Karnal youth 562ndVikram Dahiya of Karnal has secured 562nd rank. “It was my dream to pass this examination. I want to be an IPS officer. I give credit for this achievement to my parents,” he said.Bahadurgarh lad 732ndManoj Kumar of Bahadurgarh has secured 732nd rank in his second attempt. He said he wanted to be an IAS officer and would take another chance to improve his ranking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/want-to-work-in-education-sector-upsc-topper-from-haryana-122260
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Portal on civic bodies launched||Home Minister Anil Vij today launched the web portal “Works Management System” for management of development works for all urban local bodies in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/portal-on-civic-bodies-launched-122261
05-08-2020||Gurugram||Outfits seek security for Nuh assault victim||Muslim organisations on Tuesday demanded police security for the family of Nuh resident Lukman, who is struggling for his life after he was beaten up by a mob last week on the suspicion of carrying beef in his truck.They also sought that Lukman be shifted to a “better and secure hospital”.Members of the Muslim Ekta Manch and the Jamiatulama protested outside Jama Masjid in Sadar Bazar here before marching towards the office of Commissioner of Police (CP) KK Rao.“The police are dragging their feet on the investigation. More than 10 accused are still on the run. As the case is attracting attention, Lukman’s family is under immense pressure to withdraw the case. Besides, he is not getting proper treatment at the government hospital in Nuh. All we want is justice,” said community lader Haji Shahjad Khan.Lukman’s father Bilal said, “We are scared. They (the accused) may kill my son in hospital. We have the support, but we are still terrified.”The CP said, “The accused have been booked for attempt to murder. The crime unit is handling the case. We assure the family of a fair investigation. All accused, including policemen who failed to act, will be taken to task.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/outfits-seek-security-for-nuh-assault-victim-122262
05-08-2020||Karnal||Karnal stinks as garbage piles up||The alleged long process being followed by the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) to shift sanitation workers from outsourcing agencies on its payroll is resulting in piling up of garbage across the city.Heaps of garbage can be seen in every nook and corner of the city, emitting foul smell and causing inconvenience to residents in monsoon.As per the information, the Karnal MC has abolished the outsourcing of sanitation workers and started the process to take them on payroll in July-mid. So far, only 100 employees have been taken on payroll of around 1,100 employed by the contractors.The process to identify the beneficiary along with the verification of their documents is quite lengthy. All those who had been receiving salary from contractors directly in their bank accounts from May 2018 are eligible for this initiative. The employees have to produce the bank details from May 2018 along with other documents required for it, said an MC official.The residents, however, said dustbins were overflowing with garbage and nobody takes care of the system. “The authorities should have started this process around two months back and should have made an alternate arrangement before calling off the outsourcing system,” said Rajeev Kumar, a local.Shiv Kumar, another local, said heaps of garbage may lead to diseases in monsoon. “The authorities should start alternate arrangement to streamline the system.”The employees demand the authorities to take all of those on payroll who had been working on outsourcing.“The process of verification of beneficiary is quite lengthy and the authorities should consider all outsourcing employees for taking them on payroll,” said an employee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-stinks-as-garbage-piles-up-122169
05-08-2020||Hisar||Haryana Govt recovers Rs 38 crore interest from arhtiyas||The state government has finally recovered Rs 38 crore as interest from ahrtiyas for delay in payment to farmers after procurement. This amount will now be distributed among these farmers.Food and Supplies Department has ensured payment via digital mode during the rabi procurement season this time. The arhtiyas were meant to make payment to the farmers within 72 hours after the procurement of their produce. However, a number of them failed to make the payment within the stipulated time even after the release of funds by the government agency.Taking note of this time gap, the Food and Supplies Department decided to charge 15% interest on the amount, which was withheld by the arhtiyas beyond the stipulated time. The total amount of the interest recovered from the arhtiyas is around Rs 38 crore, which will be paid to the farmers, who got delayed payment of their produce.Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Food and Supplies, PK Dass said this was for the first time, when the government took note of delay in payment to farmers from arhtiyas hence the latter were made to pay interest on the amount.Dass said they had recovered the amount from the arhtiyas that would be sent to the farmers. “The total payment is around Rs 10,000 crore to Rs 12,000 crore. With the online system of payment, we came to know about the delayed disbursal of funds and decided to charge interest from the arhtiyas. This amount will now be given to the farmers,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-recovers-rs-38-crore-interest-from-arhtiyas-122170
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||No hike in college fee for 2020-21 in Haryana||In a relief to the students, there will be no increase in fee in the government, government-aided and self-financed colleges across the state for 2020-21 academic year.Taking cognisance of the economic crisis triggered by thepandemic, the Education Department has decided to keep the fee structure the same this year. There has been no increase in the college fee in the last two academic sessions, 2018-19 and 2019-20. “In the current scenario, there may be a slump in the gross enrolment ratio of Haryana if some correction in fee structure is not done for admissions for the current session. In view of this, the fee structure of 2018-19 session will prevail this year,” an order of the Director General, Higher Education, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-hike-in-college-fee-for-2020-21-in-haryana-122171
05-08-2020||Ambala||Bharatiya Kisan Union to move High Court over ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has decided to move the Punjab and Haryana High Court and appeal for discontinuation of the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal as it claims that the portal has added to their problems instead of solving them.“It was presented as a solution to problems during the sale of produce. A couple of years down the line, the portal has exacerbated farmers’ problems. In a recent example, farmers faced difficulty in registering their sunflower crop on the portal,” said Rakesh Bains, spokesperson of the BKU (Charuni).He said it was mandatory for farmers to upload the data of the produce on the portal. “Without doing so, farmers cannot sell the produce to procurement agencies,” he pointed out. Bains demanded that the state government should have launched a complaint centre for rectifying any wrong entry on the portal. “The union will move the High Court this week and seek discontinuation of the portal,” he added.After holding a tractor ‘andolan’ against the three ordinances introduced by the Centre, farmers would observe August 15 as ‘black’ Independence Day.‘Black’ Independence Day“It has been decided to observe Independence Day as a black day. Farmers will take out motorcycle rallies with black flags and burn copies of ordinances. The farmers in Haryana, Punjab, UP and Rajasthan will launch a bigger agitation if the ordinances, are not withdrawn” , Bains said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bharatiya-kisan-union-to-move-high-court-over-meri-fasal-mera-byora-portal-122172
05-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Haryana Pollution board likely to file case against wagon workshop||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) is likely to file a case against Northern Railway’s carriage and wagon workshop, Jagadhri (Yamunanagar), in the Special Environment Court, Kurukshetra, for the violation of environmental laws.According to information, the authorities of the Northern Railway have failed to make the under-construction sewage treatment plant (STP) of 2.26 million litres per day (MLD) functional so far and about 4 MLD untreated effluents from a residential colony of the workshop is being discharged into a drain, causing water pollution.“The Northern Railway authorities have been discharging untreated effluents from a residential colony of the workshop into a drain in absence of an STP. Therefore, I sent a case to HSPCB chairman Ashok Kheterpal, seeking his approval for prosecution against M/S carriage and wagon workshop in the special environment court, Kurukshetra,” said Nirmal Kumar Kashyap, HSPCB regional officer, Yamunanagar.He said as soon as they get the approval from the HSPCB chairman, they would file a case in the special environment court. According to information, the HSPCB authorities have already cancelled consent to operate to the workshop for discharging the untreated domestic effluents in a drain. Besides, they also collected samples from the discharge of effluent treatment plant (ETP) of the workshop and found suspended solids biological oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) exceeding the prescribed limit.Sudhanshu Panwar, chief works manager, carriage and wagon workshop, Jagadhri, refused to comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-pollution-board-likely-to-file-case-against-wagon-workshop-122173
05-08-2020||Karnal||Man stabbed to death in Karnal,  five booked||A 31-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death in Phurlak village late Monday evening when the victim was attacked by a group of youths.The deceased has been identified as Shiv Kumar of the same village, while his brother Sarwan Kumar sustained injuries in the attack. “We have registered a case under Sections 148, 149, 302, 323 and 506 of the IPC against five persons, including Sachin, Vijay, Madan and two others, of the same village,” said Manoj Kumar, Gharaunda SHO. The SHO said the actual reason behind the extreme step was being determined. Initially, it is said that they had an altercation over hiding the slippers of the victim. The family members demanded the arrest of the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-stabbed-to-death-in-karnal-five-booked-122174
05-08-2020||Despite repeated anti-encroachment drives jointly launched by the Municipal Council staff and traffic police||Shopkeepers encroaching road to display items in Kaithal||Defence Colony roads in a shamblesMost of the roads lies in a shambles in Defence Colony, Ambala Cantt. It is thanks to the digging that has been carried out for laying the sewerage pipelines, and thereafter not restoring it properly. The rains have worsened the situation. Many streets lanes are broken with potholes, filled with slush and stagnant pools of water. It is not only a nuisance for commuters, but also an invitation to motor accidents. The authorities are requested to monitor the work of contractors, and ensure proper repair of roads on a priority. — Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttTake action against anti-social elementsIt is a matter of great satisfaction that Haryana Chief Minister of Manohar lal Khattar has ensured the safety of women and daughters which is the top most priority of his government and many steps have been taken to improve it, but I request the Chief Minister to take action against anti-social elements. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramTraffic near Mini-Secretariat needs to be managedThe absence of traffic lights or the police at the main entry gate of the well-planned Mini- Secretariat, Tohana, situated on the Dangra-Tohana road, has become an issue of concern now. The plan of bringing almost all government offices of the town under one roof was really appreciable and eased the public, but during the peak working hours, heavy traffic makes it an accident-prone area. The traffic chaos often irks the commuters and also poses risk to their lives, without appropriate directions and indications at the junction, joining the main road and exiting it becomes too risky. The authorities concerned must resolve the issue at the earliest. — Brij Mohan Kumar Tehri, TohanaImprove poor conditions of Cremation grounds in villagesI had to go to an adjoining village to attend the cremation of a farmer who was associated with me since long. I was appalled to see the shocking condition as the kutcha road leading to the cremation ground was flooded with water. Somehow, with great difficulty, the arrangement for cremation was made but suddenly, it started raining heavily. There was no shed. The villagers had to erect a temporary tarpaulin shed so that fire could remain ignited. The Haryana Government must spend money on improving the conditions of cremation grounds in the villages. — Naresh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shopkeepers-encroaching-road-to-display-items-in-kaithal-122175
05-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University holds 50 webinars in 3 months||Affiliation of Skill-based coursesPalwal: To provide equal opportunities in skill development to the youth, the government has announced any college or institute offering skill-based certificate, diploma, undergraduate and postgraduate-level programmes will be affiliated to Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU), Dudhola, Palwal. Announcing this, a spokesperson of the university said while it would help to maintain uniformity and standardisation in assessment and evaluation of all types of skill- based courses, the SVSU would be first such institution to get the authority to affiliate any college with skill -based courses in the state. A notification has been issued by the skill development and industrial training department of the Government of Haryana recently in this regard. Vice-Chancellor Raj Nehru said this would help the university to achieve the target of providing top class platform for preparing skilled manpower in the state. To impart better skills to the youth, he said, the university had so far signed more than 90 MoUs with industries. ''The way the government has relied on the SVSU for skill-based education, it will be handled by the university with full diligence,'' he claimed.Improving quality of YMCA libraryFaridabad: Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay Central Library of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, in collaboration with the research and development section and internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) of the university organised a national webinar on "Improving quality through research support services : Role of digital library", recently. The webinar was attended by more than 200 participants. Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar, who was the chief guest at the event, shared views on the importance of the role of libraries during the Covid pandemic to provide research support services to the research community. He also said the university library was doing excellent work in serving its students, research scholars and faculty members through its e-library and remote access facility. Dr Sandeep Pathak, Deputy Librarian, IISER, Bhopal, and Dr Neeraj Chaurasia, Deputy Librarian, IIT, Delhi, were the resource persons during the webinar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-holds-50-webinars-in-3-months-122191
05-08-2020||Ambala||Woman found dead||Minor abducted, rapedA minor girl was abducted and raped, the police said on Tuesday. According to information, a local woman had reported that Akash of Ambala had abducted and raped her 17-year-old daughter on July 22. The police had registered a case. TNS3 killed in separate mishapsThree persons were killed in separate road mishaps during the past 24 hours, officials said here on Tuesday. The police said, Hardeep Singh (28) of Mullana, near here, was killed after an unknown car hit his motorcycle on Saha-Shahbad road near Durakada village in Saha. In another mishap, Sunny (25) of Shahzadpur, was killed after a tractor trailer hit his motorcycle on Saha-Naraingarh road near Gharoli village. In a separate accident, a truck cleaner was killed on the spot after coming under a truck container . The police have registered separate cases.. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-found-dead-122225
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Infection lethal for every 10th patient above 75 yrs||Every 10th person in the state above the age of 75 years who contracted Covid eventually succumbed to the virus. Every 16th patient in the age group of 65 to 74 years died and one out of 31 in the age group of 55 to 64 years was among the fatalities.Read also: On the contrary, no fatality was reported in children in the age group of 5 to 14 years and one out of 250 children under 5 years of age succumbed to the virus. One out of 1,000 patients in the age group of 15 to 24 years died and one out of 500 in the age group of 25 to 34 years did not survive.The initial fears that the elderly and children were equally at risk had proved wrong in Haryana as the mortality rate was between 6 per cent and 10 per cent among the elderly and 0.1 per cent among children up to 14 years of age.Among those in the age group of 35 to 44 years, one out of 125 patients died, while in the age group of 45 to 54 years, one out of 71 patients succumbed to the virus.Ever since the first case was reported in Haryana on March 17, 36,519 people had been infected till August 2. Of them, 433 succumbed to the virus, the maximum of 134 in Faridabad district, followed by 124 in Gurugram, 33 in Sonepat, 23 in Rohtak, 17 in Ambala and 15 in Panipat.Of the 36,519 positive cases, the maximum of 10,270 were in the age group of 25 to 34 years. Of them, 19 died, with a fatality rate of 0.2 per cent. The next biggest chunk of infections — 7,234 — was in the age group of 35 to 44 years. Of them, 58 succumbed to the virus, with a fatality rate of 0.8 per cent.The fatality rate was 1.4 per cent (72 out of 5,070) in the age group of 45 to 54 years, 3.2 per cent (107 out of 3,359) in the age bracket of 55 to 64 years, 6.2 per cent (101 out of 1,628) in the age group of 65 to 74 years and 10.1 per cent (54 out of 537) in the age bracket of 75 to 84 years.Twelve out of 106 patients in the age group of 85 to 94 years died due to the virus and one out of 10 in the age group of 95 to 105 years succumbed to the disease.Among children, 684 under the age of 5 years contracted the virus and three of them succumbed, while 1,929 in the age group of 5 to 14 years tested positive and all of them survived. In the age group of 15 to 24 years, 5,692 contracted the contagion, six of whom succumbed to the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/infection-lethal-for-every-10th-patient-above-75-yrs-122230
05-08-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak PGIMS serves ‘kadha’ to boost immunity||Covid patients admitted to Rohtak PGIMS are being given an ayurvedic ‘kadha’ (decoction) along with allopathic medicines. The ‘kadha’ is prepared at the institute and served to the Covid patients daily under the supervision of an Ayurvedic Medical Officer.As per the authorities, this is being done under a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between PGIMS and Shri Krishna Ayush University, Kurukshetra.“The ‘kadha’ is being given to the patients as an immunity-booster,” said Prof OP Kalra, Vice-Chancellor, Pt Bhagwat Dayal University of Health Sciences, Rohtak.Prof Kalra revealed that a proposal to set up a Covid-specific ICU had been sent to the government for approval. “Under the project, we will install oxygen supply, para-monitors and ventilators on 12 beds so as to prepare a modular ICU dedicated to Covid patients at minimum possible time and expenses,” he said.PGIMS Director Dr Rohtas K Yadav said the Ayush university had signed such MoUs with other medical colleges in the state as well.Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, State Nodal Officer (Covid), observed that the exercise was part of the Central Government’s initiative to promote the use of Ayush formulations among patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-serves-kadha-to-boost-immunity-122231
