05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Over 4 lakh poultry birds die in Panchkula in last 10 days||Over four lakh poultry birds have died at 20 farms in Haryana's Panchkula district in the past 10 days, officials said on Tuesday.A team of experts from Jalandhar-based Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory has collected samples of birds at poultry farms, they said.Haryana's Animal Husbandry Department has issued an advisory regarding poultry products.Panchkula's Barwala-Raipur Rani area is one of the largest poultry belts in the country with 70-80 lakh birds in more than 100 farms.According to the officials, the mortality rate in poultry birds was unusually high in this winter season.The unusual deaths of four lakh poultry birds have occurred in the last 10 days at 20 poultry farms with epicentre near Garhi Kutaha and the other near Jaloli  village in the Barwala area.Furthermore, the samples were collected and sent to Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, from where report is still awaited and currently RDDL team has reached the Barwala area for re-sampling of birds, said an official spokesperson of the Haryana Animal Husbandry and Dairying department.There are no confirmed reports of avian influenza as yet, the spokesperson said.Among the suspected diseases can also be 'Ranikhet' or infectious laryngeo-trachitis, the spokesperson said."A team from Jalandhar today came for collecting samples," Panchkula Deputy Commissioner MK Ahuja told PTI on Tuesday.The exact reason behind the death of poultry birds could be known only after the report comes, the officials said, adding that there was no need to panic.Ahuja said there were a total of 77,87,450 birds in poultry farms in Panchkula district and out of them, 4,09,970 have died.As a precautionary step, the Haryana Health Department on Monday had also collected samples of some poultry workers for testing, the officials said.Haryana's Animal Husbandry and Dairying has issued an advisory to the poultry farm owners to properly bury the dead birds."We have told the poultry farm owners to bury their dead birds,” said an official of the department.Haryana Poultry Farmers' Association president Darshan Singla, however, attributed the high mortality rate in birds to extreme cold weather conditions, while ruling out the possibility of bird flu."Birds died because of immense cold weather or the disease Ranikhet,” said Singla.Even though the mortality rate in poultry birds is higher as compared to previous months, the department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying has issued a standard advisory regarding the consumption of poultry items in case of avian influenza.The department spokesperson said in areas free of the disease, poultry and poultry products could be cooked and consumed as usual (following good hygienic practices and proper cooking) with no fear of acquiring infection of avian influenza.He stated that avian influenza virus was sensitive to heat. Moreover, the normal temperatures used for cooking in India (70ºC for all parts of the food) can kill the virus.Henceforth, before consuming, consumers should ensure that all parts of the poultry are fully cooked (no “pink” parts) and that eggs, too, are properly cooked (no “runny” yolks), he added. PTI
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures stay above normal in Punjab, Haryana||The cold weather condition continued in Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday even as minimum temperatures stayed above normal levels in most parts of the states.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its minimum temperature at 14 degrees Celsius, nine degrees above normal, an official of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said here.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded minimum temperatures at 13 degrees, 12.2 degrees and 15.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 13.7 degrees, 12 degrees, 13.1 degrees, 13 degrees, 12.7 degrees and 10.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.In neighbouring Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their respective minimum temperatures at 14.3 degrees, 12.8 degrees and 15.1 degrees Celsius, up to eight degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa were 12.5 degrees, 14 degrees, 8.8 degrees and 14.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.The places in Punjab and Haryana which witnessed rains in the past 24 hours included Amritsar (7.8 mm), Pathankot (10 mm), Bathinda (3 mm), Gurdaspur (1 mm), Ambala (0.2 mm), Hisar (7.9 mm), Karnal (5.8 mm), Narnaul (43 mm), Rohtak (21mm), Bhiwani (7.8 mm) and Sirsa (7 mm), the IMD added. PTI
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid contagiousness lowest in Haryana||The Covid contagiousness in Haryana is at the lowest level so far as the R0 value of the virus on the week ending Sunday was the lowest since the lifting of the lockdown.As per the weekly status report of the Covid infection in the state, the R0 value of the virus was 1.01 as on Sunday.6 deaths, 244 new casesAs many as 244 fresh cases of Covid were reported today, taking the tally of the infected persons to 2.63 lakh. Six more persons lost the battle to the virus. One death each was reported in Gurugram, Faridabad, Yamunanagar, Jhajjar, Fatehabad and Charkhi Dadri. The maximum cases came from Gurugram (66), followed by Faridabad (28), Hisar (19), Ambala (17), Yamunanagar (13) and 12 each from Sonepat and Rohtak.Though the report provides R0 value starting from August 20 when it was 1.25, sources said the reproduction number was as high as 1.90 in the state when the lockdown was lifted in June 2020, making the infection highly contagious.The state, which saw 996 new cases of Covid on August 20, witnessed a steady rise in the number with equal increase in the R0 value till September 11, when the reproduction number peaked to 1.43 with 2,783 new cases coming to the fore.Gauging transmissionR0, pronounced “R naught”, is a mathematical term that indicates how contagious an infectious disease is. It’s also referred to as the reproduction number. As an infection is transmitted to new people, it reproduces itself.The R0 value started coming down after September 11 till October 25 when 1,299 new cases came to the fore with the reproduction value recorded at 1.09. The contagiousness of the infection started rising once again till it went up to 1.18 on November 12 when 2,788 new cases were recorded.The R0 value started falling again and while it was 1.06 at the start of December, the contagiousness kept coming down and by the beginning of this year, it dropped to 1.01.The state recorded 2,161 new cases of Covid during the week that ended on January 3, which is the lowest since May 2020.Though the state has so far recorded 2,63,068 cases so far with 2,917 people succumbing to the virus, the number of active cases has now come down to 2,890, which is less than the single-day figure witnessed when the infection was at its peak in mid-November.The average active cases per lakh population have come down to 11 in Haryana, with 14 of 22 districts recording 10 or even less cases per lakh of population.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Haryana, said the improvement in the situation was largely due to the continuous efforts of the department towards identifying positive cases by increased testing and isolating them to prevent further spread.Arora, however, advised people against lowering guard till the infection was controlled through vaccination, as a little carelessness could again lead to increase in the speed of infection.
05-01-2021||Gurugram||2 truckers held with 2,223-kg marijuana in Gurugram||Two drivers were arrested after the recovery of over 2,223 kg of marijuana worth Rs 11 crore from a truck.The accused were identified as Bhupender (34) and Omji (34), both residents of Kannauj district in Uttar Pradesh. They were smuggling marijuana from Odisha to Uklana in Hisar. The accused were hiding the contraband inside bags of cottonseed.The accused said they had struck a deal for Rs 4 lakh to supply 70 sacks of marijuana to Uklana. “After getting a tip-off, a crime unit of Sector 10, Gurugram, conducted a surprise check on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway and intercepted a truck. During the search, 70 gunny bags containing 2,223.20 kg of marijuana were found from the vehicle,” said ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan.The accused said they had hidden the contraband in the truck among cottonseed bags so that the police could be misled during checking. The accused were booked under the NDPS Act at the Bilaspur police station. They were produced in a local court for further proceedings. — OC
05-01-2021||Jhajjar||Rs 65 lakh Bahadurgarh loot case solved, 6 held in Jhajjar||The police on Monday claimed to have solved the Rs 65 lakh loot case with the arrest of six persons. It has also recovered Rs 47.8 lakh, a car and a motorcycle from their possession.The accused have been identified as Vinod, Ravinder, Deepak, Krishan Kumar, Aksay of Dubaldhan and Pradeep of Pilana, Rohtak.Jhajjar ASP Vikrant Bhushan said the accused had abducted Devaram, an employee of a Delhi-based private firm, and looted Rs 65 lakh from him in Bahadurgarh town on December 21. The victim was going to Delhi from Bahadurgarh in an auto-rickshaw after collecting the cash from Shouri Cloth Market in Rohtak.“The Bahadurgarh police arrested Vinod of Dubaldhan village on December 30 in connection with a case booked against him under the Arms Act. During interrogation, Vinod disclosed that he along with his friends perpetrated the loot Rs 65 lakh in Bahadurgarh town on December 21. They kidnapped Devaram in a car and left him near Aasan village after looting the cash from him,” said the ASP.He said acting swiftly on the information, a team led by Bahadurgarh CIA-2 incharge Sub Inspector Satyavaan was formed to arrest the accused. The team arrested Ravinder, Deepak, Krishan, Akshay, and Pradeep from different places on January 1. On the next day, they were produced before a court which awarded three-day police remand to them, he added. — TNS
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Surjewala slams govt for not increasing old age pension||Describing withholding annual hike in social security pension as gross betrayal, AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala today demanded an increase of at least Rs 500 in monthly social security pension for the elderly, widows and destitute in Haryana.Seeking direct response from CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala in this regard, Surjewala said withholding hike in the social security pension had hit 28.8 lakh elderly and widow pensioners.He said, as per government figures, presently there were 17.3 lakh old age samman allowance pensioners, 7.4 lakh widow pensioners and 1.7 lakh disability pensioners in the state, who had been given a jolt by the BJP-JJP government this New Year adding that Khattar-Dushyant duo is busy in cheating innocent people of the state.Raising questions on the state government’s silence on the issue, Surjewala said before elections, these political parties had promised to enhance the pension to Rs 5,100 in their election manifesto, but, the moment they came to power, their real face was exposed as they did not abide by their promises.Surjewala said due to wrong policies of the government, the economic condition of the people had crumbled. —TNS
05-01-2021||Karnal||Online lecture at KVA DAV||PhD interview at MDU from Jan 6Rohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) will hold interview for the PhD programme for 2020-2021 from January 6 to 8. MDU, Dean, Academic Affairs, Prof AK Rajan said the interview would be held in the department concerned from 10 am. The schedule is available on the MDU website.Foundation day celebratedYamunanagar: The three-day foundation day celebrations at Guru Nanak Khalsa College concluded here recently. Bhai Manmohan Singh and Bhai Gurcharan Singh recited shabads. General secretary of the managing committee Balwant Singh Banga extended greetings to the college staff on the foundation day, Guru Nanak Jayanti and New Year. Principal Harinder Singh Kang said under the guidance of Bhupinder Singh Jauhar and president of the management committee Randeep Singh Jauhar, several works had been undertaken for the development of Guru Nanak Khalsa educational institutions. Dr Narinder Singh Virk, former deputy chairman of the Haryana Punjabi Sahitya Academy, was also present.
05-01-2021||Ambala||Congress up in arms as youth leader booked in Ambala||Congress is up in arms after a case was registered against a youth Congress leader Raghav Vij for allegedly using criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of duty in Ambala Cantonment. The party alleged that a fake case had been registered against the Congress leader as he had raised voice against illegal encroachment and construction in the MC area.Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee treasurer Rohit Jain said, “The case has been falsely implicated. It is an attempt to suppress the voice of a whistleblower (Raghav), who raised his voice against illegal encroachment and construction. He had moved a complaint with the CM window also.” — TNS
05-01-2021||THE name of the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) was changed to the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) when the BJP government came to power around six years ago. But||It’s HUDA, HUDDA or HSVP?||Rain spells trouble for residentsA short spell of rain in Ambala City on Sunday has brought along miseries for residents of Sector-9. Water has stagnated near plot 208 and nearby areas. In the absence of the drainage system, water gets accumulated even with a brief spell of rain and it takes at least a week to get things back to normal. The matter has been brought to the notice of the Municipal Corporation on several occasions, but in vain. The new civic body should now look into such issues on priority. — Gian P Kansal, Ambala CitySpeed limit shall not be ignoredIT is a matter of grave concern that 43 per cent of road accidents in Gurugram district were due to speeding. The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority has now proposed a reduction in speed limit on all highways and connecting roads in Gurugram. The defaulters must keep it mind that speed thrills, but kills. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramNeed to end ongoing stalemateWITH reference to news item ‘Firm steps’ if January 4 talks fail, warn unions’ published in these columns on January 2, it is highly disturbing to observe that farmers have openly threatened to shut Haryana malls, pumps and carry out a tractor march on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway on January 6. While one can't but fully sympathise with the agitating farming community over several issues so close to their heart, but one fails to comprehend any rationale behind the blocking of various national highways at Delhi borders, which serve as the lifeline for the adjoining industrial units. Needless to say, our nations’ economic/industrial growth has run into rough weather and people at large are being put to unimaginable hardships. The government should urge the farmers to immediately vacate all highways. It should also ensure that the proposed tractor march does not take place. — SK Gupta, Panchkula
05-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Woman booked for abetting husband’s suicide||The police have booked a woman and three others for allegedly abetting her husband’s suicide in Sharma Colony at Ladwa.The charred body of the victim, identified as Ritesh (34), was recovered from his house on Monday.According to information, people observed smoke billowing out of Ritesh’s house early in the morning and informed the fire brigade. Later, his charred body was recovered.The deceased’s father Sulekh Chand accused his daughter-in-law and three others for forcing Ritesh to take the extreme step.SHO, Ladwa, Kuldeep Singh said the victim’s wife, brother-in-law and two others had been booked. — TNS
05-01-2021||Karnal||Panic after miscreants open fire at Karnal rice miller’s house||Panic gripped the residents of Sector 8 here on Monday morning, when three to four car-borne miscreants opened indiscriminate fire at the residence of a Nissing-based rice miller. However, no one was hurt in the incident.The reason behind the attack is yet to be known, but the police are looking into different angles, including old enmity and extortion.As per information, the incident took place between 6 am and 6.30 am when three to four miscreants came in a car. Two of them came out of the car and rang the door bell of the residence of Subhash Singla. As soon as his wife came to open the door, miscreants started firing. She had a narrow escape and ran inside. The miscreants continued firing at the residence as well as the SUV of Singla parked outside.Singla, however, denied any kind of enmity or monetary dispute with anyone. “I am shocked that why anyone would fire at my residence as I have no enmity with anyone,” he said.Meanwhile, SP Ganga Ram Punia said they had registered a case and had also taken the CCTV footage for the investigation. — TNS
05-01-2021||Gurugram||Encounter near Gurugram, 2 wanted criminals held||The crime unit of the Sector 39 police station nabbed two wanted inter-state criminals following an encounter near Bhondsi in wee hours of Monday.Both the criminals were injured in the cross-firing. Over 50 rounds were fired and two policemen were also injured in the incident. Two country-made pistols, four cartridges and a Scorpio have been recovered from the spot by the police. An FIR has been registered.According to the police, Sub-Inspector Raj Kumar, head of the crime unit, Sector 39, got a tip-off that some men in a Scorpio, carrying illegal weapons were roaming in the area to execute a robbery. A police team set up a barricade near Government School, Badshahpur in Sohna, where a black Scorpio came. When a policeman signalled the driver to stop, he drove the vehicle towards Sohna. The police team started following and one of the accused open fired on the police team near Sati Mandir, Bhondsi. The police then fired at the tyre of the vehicle, which busted near Rithauj following which five accused came out of car and started running.“One of them continued firing on the police team. During the cross-firing, two of the accused got bullet injuries and were nabbed while three others managed to flee,” Kumar said.
05-01-2021||Hisar||BKU trains women, will lead tractor parade||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has been training women hailing from villages in driving so that they can lead the procession of tractor-trolleys carrying farmers to participate in the tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day.Also read: The BKU’s local unit has roped in tractor drivers to train women in driving so that they can drive on highways to reach Delhi on January 26. The BKU has planned to train 500 women as tractor drivers.While many of these women have already tried their hand at the wheel, they need to sharpen their skills to drive tractors on the highways and roads in Delhi during the procession, according to one trainer.The Sankyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 protesting unions, had on Sunday announced the decision to march into Delhi with a tractor parade on Republic Day if the Centre failed to accept their demands.Ramraji Dhull, a BKU leader from Jind, said they had planned to take around 20,000 people from the district to Delhi to participate in the procession. He said women-driven tractors carrying women activists would be in the front.“Some women can drive tractors in the fields for farming activities like ploughing, but have not driven on roads. We have roped in drivers to impart training to these women so that they can drive to Delhi. They are doing a good job and are quick learners,” he stated.Balkar Singh, sarpanch of Khatkar village, said people in the rural belt enjoyed bonding, cutting across caste and political affiliations.“Since around 95 per cent of the people are farmers or engaged in farming activities, the BKU has a considerable influence in the area. Women are equal participants in activities, be it elections or any public event. Many women are capable of driving tractors as they work on tractors in the fields,” he said.
05-01-2021||Palwal||Farmer leader from MP dies||A farmer leader from Madhya Pradesh, undergoing treatment for pneumonia since falling ill on December 14 while sitting on dharna over the farm laws, died at a hospital in New Delhi on Sunday.Hailing from Mayna village of Gwalior district, Surender Singh Sidhu (65) was among the prominent leaders sitting on dharna at Antoha village before he was hospitalised.Sidhu had been at the protest site since December 3, when farmers from Madhya Pradesh were stopped by the police while they were moving towards Delhi.He fell sick on December 14 while he was on relay fast. He was admitted to a private hospital in Gwalior on December 15, but was shifted to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in New Delhi last week after his condition deteriorated. Sidhu was cremated at his native village on Monday. Rattan Singh Sorot, a farmer leader from Palwal, described him as a martyr who had laid down his life in the interest of the farming community. — TNS
05-01-2021||Jhajjar||Selja seeks Rs1 cr aid for kin of deceased||State Congress president Kumari Selja has demanded a financial aid of Rs 1 crore and a government job for the next of kin of farmers, who died during the agitation at the Delhi borders.CLP to give Rs2 lakhChandigarh: Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday announced that the CLP would provide families of deceased farmers with a financial aid of Rs 2 lakh each. He said all Congress MLAs would make efforts to help the bereaved families.“More than 50 farmers have lost their lives, but neither the Centre nor the state government has so far expressed condolences,” she said after meeting farmers protesting at the Tikri border on Monday.She was accompanied by former minister Subhash Batra, former CPS Ramkishan Gurjar and Congress general secretary Ajay Chaudhary. Selja assured the farmers that the Congress stood with them.
05-01-2021||Hisar||BJP leaders face protest in Hisar||Intensifying their agitation against the three Central farm laws, a number of farmers staged a protest outside the venue of a meeting of BJP workers in Bandaheri village of Hisar on Monday.As the meeting was held amid tight security, the situation was thus controlled by the police. According to information, district BJP president Capt Bhupender and other office-bearers were present in the meeting.The farmers raised anti-government slogans and tried to barge into the venue in an attempt to disrupt the meeting. The police however remained deployed at the venue throughout the meeting and ensured safe passage to the BJP leaders.
05-01-2021||Sonepat||Farmers use stubble to make huts, bedding at Singhu||Farmers protesting at the Singhu border for more than a month are using paddy residue to keep themselves warm in this bone-chilling cold. This has attracted attention because the burning of stubble grabs headlines every year for causing pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR).A group of youths from Barnala (Punjab) have made huts near Kundli village and covered it with paddy stubble. They have also put a layer of stubble on the ground and made bedding out of it.The Capital has been receiving showers for the past three days and the temperature is dipping gradually. But this has not deterred the spirit of farmers, who have been protesting at the Singhu border for the past 39 days against the three controversial farm laws.Simardeep Singh of Nawanshahr said, “My friends and I have made special bedding by spreading out a thick layer of stubble in trolleys. We have kept mattresses over it. This makes our bedding cosy and warm.”Farmers’ organisations, meanwhile, are ensuring that there is no shortage of essential items at the protest site.Amrik Singh, Jalandhar BKU (Kadian) president, said all essential items were available in abundance at the Singhu border. “Of the Rs 1.5 crore collected through donation, around Rs 1 crore has been spent on essential items required by protesting farmers,” he said.Besides, the BKU (Kadian) has covered 80 to 90 langar stalls with water-proof tarpaulin sheets. It has installed 50 high-mast lights to light up the dharna site.Santokh Singh Sandhu, state executive member, Kirti Kisan Union, said: “We have been trying to provide farmers with all facilities. We brought 400 tarpaulin sheets on Monday and a truck laden with quilts, blankets and mattresses.”
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||CBI files chargesheet against three ex-officials||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday filed a chargesheet against three former government officials and two firms in the CBI Special Court in Panchkula in a Gurugram land release case.The investigating agency chargesheeted former Chief Town Planner Jagbir Singh Redhu, former Assistant Town Planner Satish Kumar Arora, former Town and Country Planning (TCP) Deputy Superintendent Rajbir Singh, M/s Commander Realtors and M/s Bharma City Private Limited for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy.The officials had been accused of making back references to colonisers for rectifying deficiencies in their applications for licences without approval of the Director, TCP Department.The CBI FIR had also mentioned former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, ACS for Power Trilok Chand Gupta and 13 firms as accused, but charges had not been pressed against them so far.According to the FIR, many pockets sandwiched between land on which licences were applied had been proposed for acquisition in Gurugram in the name of creating a land bank for Haryana Urban Development Authority.The notification for acquisition of 1,417.07 acres under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act was issued on June 2, 2009. It compelled owners to sell their land to colonisers at a price lower than the price before the notification.The Supreme Court had directed the CBI to investigate the case vide an order in 2017. The next date of hearing in the case is January 18.
05-01-2021||Ambala||Juvenile flees hospital, held||Baldev Nagar police station SHO Hamir Singh said, “Around 7 pm, the juvenile fled the hospital. He was nabbed from a place near the railway station.” — TNS
05-01-2021||Karnal||Inter-state peddlers’ gang busted, 3 held||The Kaithal police have arrested three members, including two servicemen and an ex-serviceman, of an inter-state gang of drug smugglers.On December 22, the police had arrested three persons with around 3.5 kg of opium worth Rs 8 lakh and after their interrogation, the trio has been nabbed.Kaithal SP Lokender Singh said the accused had been identified as Karna Ram of Devnagar in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur, Yudhbir Singh and Gurjeet Singh of Punjab’s Patiala district. Karna Ram was an ex-serviceman and got retired on December 31, 2020, while the remaining two are servicemen and posted in Rajasthan’s Nasirabad. However, the SP refused to the divulge more information about their rank and battalion.Karna Ram was taken on six-day police remand as the police are yet to get information about the main drug peddler, who belongs to Rajasthan and teams are camping there to arrest him. — TNS
05-01-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Ex-MLA threatens stir in Delhi over SYL||Haryana Yuva Kisan Sangharsh Samiti chairman Naresh Yadav has threatened to march to Delhi with his supporters if the state government fails to resolve the SYL imbroglio within three days.“My aides and I are not afraid of courting arrest,” he said here on Monday.“Haryana has been struggling for the SYL waters for the past 45 years. The Supreme Court has ruled in favour of Haryana, but Punjab is not ready to give a single drop of water to its neighbouring state. The Punjab Government is guilty of contempt of court,” said the former MLA from Ateli.He further said the samiti demanded that the Centre should start the construction of the SYL canal immediately. “The Indian Farmers Union and other farmers’ organisations of Punjab and Haryana should support the demand,” Yadav added.
