05-05-2020|| ||Haryana to levy 'Covid cess' on liquor; vends to open on Wednesday||Chandigarh, May 5Liquor vends in Haryana will open from tomorrow and the state will levy a "covid cess" on all liquor bottles sold in the state which will vary from Rs 5 to Rs 50.At a meeting of the Haryana Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, it was decided that a cess of Rs 5 would be levied per qaurt of country made liquor and Rs 20 per quart on Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL). This is expected to bring in an additional revenue of Rs 400 crore. A  cess of Rs 5 on strong beer and Rs 2 on light beer will be levied. The cabinet also decided to open all liquor vends from tomorrow. These will be open from 7 am to 7 pm. However, vends located in the containment zones will remain closed. Following is the press statement issued by the government:Haryana Cabinet, which met under the Chairmanship of Chief Minister, Mr. Manohar Lal today approved certain changes in the Excise Policy of the year 2020-21. That were necessitated due to outbreak of COVID-19 Pandemic. It was decided that the Excise Policy of the State Government for the year 2020-21 shall come into force  with effect from May 6, 2020 and remain effective till May 19, 2021.The amendments have been carried out with an objective to safeguard the government revenue and to mitigate the impact of outbreak of Pandemic on the operation of the licenses.The validity period of the L-2, L-14 A and other concomitant licenses shall be upto May 19, 2021.  All the licensees shall operate their licenses at the same license fee at which these were allotted before the outbreak of COVID-19 Pandemic. However, A Group of Ministers (GoM) has been constituted for redressal of grievances of the stakeholders which may come up during the operation of the licenses. A COVID Cess shall be levied on all types of liquor. The COVID Cess will be Rs. 5 per quart in case of Country Liquor, Rs. 20 per quart in case of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), Rs. 5 in case of strong Beer and Rs 2 in case of other Beer and Rs. 50 per pack greater than 375 ML in case of Imported Foreign Liquor (IFL).The payment schedule for payment of security and license fee has been reworked so as to provide flexibility to the licensees in order to overcome the difficulty of prevailing cash crunch. To begin with the timings of the operation of liquor retail vends will be from 07:00 am to 07:00 pm both in Urban and Rural areas. No Anumat Kaksh shall be allowed.The retail licensees shall operate strictly in accordance with the guidelines of Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India. No liquor vend shall be allowed to operate in the containment zones. Proportionate waiver of license fee and quota shall be given for such closures.  The retail licensees would have to ensure social distancing as defined by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India.No person shall be allowed to enter the business premises 10 minutes prior to the closing time of such retail outlets.  There will not be more than 5 persons at any time on the counter of any retail outlets.The salesmen as well as the customers shall have to wear face masks. The licensee shall have to ensure proper cleanliness and sanitization. He will have to provide for adequate quantity of sanitizer at the sales counter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-levy-covid-cess-on-liquor-vends-to-open-on-wednesday-80776
05-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Administration steps in to enforce social distancing norms as shops open in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 5The district administration and the police authorities on Tuesday stepped in to enforce social-distancing norms as residents thronged marketplaces soon after the lockdown was relaxed and shops were allowed to open.     The district administration had given conditional permission to the traders to open their shops from Monday. However, as soon as the shops opened, residents came out of their houses in large numbers and crowded the marketplaces, triggering a fear of the spread of corona virus.Sensing the gravity of the situation, the district authorities here swung into action and imposed fresh conditions on the traders desirous of running their businesses. As a result, markets in Rohtak city, which were seen brimming with activity on Monday, bore a rather deserted look on Tuesday.In an official statement issued this evening, Rohtak Deputy Commissioner RS Verma maintained that owners/managers of the dhabas and restaurants would not be allowed to serve food on their premises, but they can deliver food at the doorstep of their customers between 9 am and 5 pm.Numbers 1, 2 and 3 have been painted on the shutters of the shops located at Shouri Cloth Market, Quilla Road, Gandhi Camp, Kewal Ganj, Bada Bazar, Railway Road, Old Sabzi Mandi, Chameli Market and Malgodam Road for staggered operations.“The shops painted with No. 1 will be allowed to open on the first and fourth day of the week, those with No. 2 will open on the second and fifth day and those with No. 3 on their shutters can open on the third and sixth day,” said Verma.However, malls and market complexes will remain closed, barring the shops selling essential goods. Only medical and milk stores can open on Sundays. Also, shopkeepers need to get their workers insured.“Maintaining social distancing norms, wearing masks and sanitising shops twice a day has also been made mandatory as per the directions of the Union Home Ministry,” said the Deputy Commissioner.Verma added that action would be taken against those found violating these norms under the Disaster Management Act 2005, Section 188 of the IPC, and other relevant legal provisions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/administration-steps-in-to-enforce-social-distancing-norms-as-shops-open-in-rohtak-80762
05-05-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram RWAs seek holding of COVID-themed fancy dress parties during lockdown relaxation||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, May 05In what has rattled the local administration, the lockdown relaxation meant to reboot millennium city, has ended up making residents of Gurugram carefree to the COVID-19 threat.From seeking permission to celebrate birthdays and anniversaries deferred by the lockdown to asking for SOPs to organise pool parties, various Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) have approached the local administration with such frivolous requests.According to a senior administration official, the administration had been trying to bring back normalcy to residents’ lives and had devised SOPs for residential societies and concerned RWAs. It was in due course that the administration was flooded with bizarre and frivolous requests.RWA representatives of a posh society of Sohna road sought permission to organise a COVID-themed fancy dress party with dine and dance to celebrate ‘victory’ over COVID-19.“The city has been supportive all this while which helped in curbing the spread of COVID-19. Now, the current behaviour has left us doubtful about executing lockdown extensions. The RWAs were being kept in the loop to revive normal life in non-containment zones, but apparently it was parties and yoga classes on the mind of the residents. We are flooded with requests to allow celebration of events missed out during the lockdown,” revealed asenior official.“The threat is not over. Now, we have the challenge to reboot while still continue the fight against COVID-19. The relaxations are a luxury for people in non-containment zones, which need to be treated with responsibility. The numbers are rising and we require citizen support to wage this battle successfully. I appeal to all to practice self-restrain and discipline,” said DC Amit Khatri.The administration issued SOPs on Monday night on issues such as lifting of ban on walks inside societies to return of domestic staff. Instructions have also been issued over operation of lifts, allowing cabs and similar transport inside, and precautions for residents while going out to work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-rwas-seek-holding-of-covid-themed-fancy-dress-parties-during-lockdown-relaxation-80750
05-05-2020||Jhajjar||Coronavirus: Connection to Azadpur mandi proves dangerous as Jhajjar reports 8 more cases||The Azadpur mandi connection continues to prove dangerous for Jhajjar district, which reported eight new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the case tally to 64 here. Five out of eight fresh cases are connected to a vegetable market in Bahadurgarh, while the three others are labourers who work at Sultanpuri in Delhi. Randeep Singh Poonia, Civil Surgeon, said samples of 2,838 persons of the district were taken on Monday and 64 among them had tested coronavirus-positive. Forty among them tested positive in the random sampling of 1,579 persons while the report of 591 persons is yet to come out, he added.“There has been no community transmission of COVID-19 virus in Jhajjar district as the source of infection in all those found positive here is known,” he claimed, while citing the results of a research study conducted by the district health authorities.“We had taken the samples of a total 350 primary contacts of all COVID-positive persons in the district and none of them has tested positive. Jhajjar district has recorded a total of 64 COVID cases up to Monday and 38 among them are directly connected to Azadpur Mandi in Delhi, while 14 are their close contacts (family members). The 38 people are vegetable sellers, labourers and transporters who used to bring vegetable/fruits from Delhi,” said Poonia.The civil surgeon said the primary contacts were those who bought vegetables or fruits from these COVID-positive patients and sold them at their shops in residential localities and villages. Street vendors were also among the primary contacts.“The research study was carried out to ascertain any indication of community transmission of COVID pandemic in the district. Since we have found the source of infection in all Covid positive hence the people need to be panicked and worry from Covid pandemic but they must follow the guidelines issued by the government to contain it,” he added.Poonia pointed out the source of infection remains unknown in the stage of community transmission of Covid-19 but Azadpur mandi and various hospitals in Delhi are the primary source of Covid infection among residents hence there is no community transmission in Jhajjar district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-connection-to-azadpur-mandi-proves-dangerous-as-jhajjar-reports-8-more-cases-80691
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 12 new cases, state tally rises to 528||Haryana on Tuesday reported 12 new coronavirus cases, taking the state’s case tally to 528.Jhajjar reported eight new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 64. All the new cases were reported from Bahadurgarh. The Azadpur mandi connection has continued to prove dangerous for the district. Five out of eight fresh cases are connected to a vegetable market in Bahadurgarh, while the three others are labourers who work at Sultanpuri in Delhi.Also read: Coronavirus: Connection to Azadpur mandi proves dangerous as Jhajjar reports 8 more casesYamunanagar reported two new cases of the contagion, taking the total in the district to eight. Faridabad reported a new case of coronavirus, taking the total in the district to 76. A 33-year-old woman, hailing from Greenfields colony in Faridabad tested positive for the disease. She had visited Delhi twice in April.Karnal reported a new case of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to three. An 18-year-old man tested positive in Uttam Nagar in Karnal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-haryana-reports-12-new-cases-state-tally-rises-to-528-80673
05-05-2020||Deepender Deswal||Wholesalers make hay as farmers get peanuts||Tribune News ServiceHisar, May 4Arhtiyas and wholesalers seem to be making a killing during the ongoing lockdown, raking in 10 times the amount farmers are receiving for their produce in vegetable markets across the region.While tomato and bottle gourd are fetching farmers prices as low as Rs 2 a kg, the same are being sold for Rs 20 per kg to consumers. Similarly, ridged gourd, lady’s finger, pumpkin and cucumber are available to consumers at five to 10 times the rates.Farmers say they are being offered prices set by arhtiyas as bidding for the produce is suspended. “We are asked to leave the market soon after unloading the produce. In the absence of bidding, we are unable to get competitive prices,” says Rakesh Kumar, a farmer of Raipur village, near Hisar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wholesalers-make-hay-as-farmers-get-peanuts-80562
05-05-2020||Faridabad||University panel to review academic, exam process||The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has constituted a committee to review and recommend adjustment and changes required in the academic and examination process. The committee will also act as Covid cell for faster decision-making to resolve issues concerning students.VC Dinesh Kumar said the 10-member committee, comprising all Deans, Controller of Examination and Registrar, would review guidelines on the calendar issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC). —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/university-panel-to-review-academic-exam-process-80402
05-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Woman nabbed for ‘killing’ grandnephew||Sonepat, May 4The police have arrested Savita of Gohana in the district for the murder of a 10-month-old toddler. A local court sent her to judicial custody today.Gohana City SHO Nirmal Singh said the accused was the victim’s grandaunt. He said the accused, aged around 45 years, was disturbed as she did not have any children.He said the accused drowned her grandnephew in an overhead water tank of the house in the wee hours on April 30. A case had been registered on the basis of a complaint by the deceased’s grandfather.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-nabbed-for-killing-grandnephew-80403
05-05-2020||Rohtak||Rain damages wheat lying in open in Rohtak||Thousands of quintals of wheat has been lying on roads, in open spaces and in fields at many villages in Rohtak district due to shortage of storage space at grain markets and purchase centres.The grain got soaked in the recent spell of rain, posing multifarious problems to farmers, arhtiyas and state government procurement agencies. President, Rohtak Grain Market Arhtiyas Association, Dimple Budhwar, said anticipating rain, they had covered wheat lying in the open with plastic sheets, but many were blown away by the high-speed winds.Rohtak Deputy Commissioner RS Verma blamed arhtiyas for the wheat lying in the open. “Owing to their greed, arhtiyas accept much more wheat than they can handle. They ask even farmers who do not have the requisite token/gate-pass to dump their produce at the grain markets. The wheat bags are not stacked inside the sheds so these get soaked,” he said.The DC said the licences of seven arhtiyas had been cancelled and action would be taken against violators. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-damages-wheat-lying-in-open-in-rohtak-80405
05-05-2020||---||IAS officer resigns, cites personal safety||Chandigarh, May 4Rani Nagar, an IAS officer of the 2014 batch, resigned from the prestigious service today, citing ‘personal safety on government duty’.Nagar, currently posted as Additional Director, Social Justice and Empowerment, and Additional Director, Archives, sent her resignation to the Chief Secretary with a request to forward it to the competent authority in the Centre. Copies of the resignation letter were also sent to the President, Prime Minister, Governor and Chief Minister.Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora said the state government had received Nagar’s resignation letter and it would be sent to the Centre for necessary action.Nagar, in a Facebook post last month, had expressed the desire to resign from service ‘after the lockdown’ and go back to her native place in Uttar Pradesh, citing issues of personal safety. She currently lives with her sister in Chandigarh.In June 2018, she had levelled harassment charges against a senior IAS officer, then posted as Additional Chief Secretary, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, when working as Additional Secretary in the department. The officer concerned had vehemently denied the charges. The matter regarding her alleged harassment had been taken up by the Haryana Women’s Commission. The complaint was still pending in a Chandigarh court.In December 2017, the officer, while posted as Dabwali SDM, had taken to social media, apprehending threat to life and accusing the police of inaction on her complaint.The officer had also filed a complaint regarding her personal safety while being posted as the SDM at Kosli in Rewari district.Wants to go back home in UPRani Nagar, an IAS officer of the 2014 batch, had in a Facebook post last month, expressed the desire to resign from service ‘after the lockdown’ and go back to her native place in Uttar Pradesh, citing issues of personal safety||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ias-officer-resigns-cites-personal-safety-80406
05-05-2020||Jhajjar||Delhi cop, kin shot dead in Haryana's Bahadurgarh||A Delhi Police constable and his relative were shot dead at Line Par locality in Bahadurgarh town here today. The police have registered a case against a local man on the complaint of the deceased’s family though the reason behind the murder is yet to be ascertained.Constable Manoj Kumar and his relative Ramesh were killed in the morning when they were walking in the fields. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-cop-kin-shot-dead-in-haryanas-bahadurgarh-80407
05-05-2020||---||Haryana sees biggest spike with 79 cases, 6th death reported||Chandigarh, May 4NINE PATIENTS CURED IN LAST 24 HOURSHaryana broke yesterday’s record and registered 79 fresh cases, including one casualty, on Monday, the first day of lockdown relaxations. The state’s tally reached 516 today, recording a rise of 18.1 per cent in the last 24 hours. On Sunday, 56 persons tested positive.Amid the rising cases, Health Minister Anil Vij reiterated that he was fearful that relaxations in lockdown could be devastating. “Shops are open. Social distancing is not maintained. I cannot depute a cop for every shop,” he said.With the addition of 14 Italian nationals, Haryana’s tally would be 530. The fresh cases were reported from Sonepat (26), Ambala (23), Jhajjar (14), Gurugram (11), Karnal and Faridabad (2 each) and Nuh (1).Among the 26 cases in Sonepat are four women, including a Delhi Police personnel. Sixteen of the fresh cases are from the Ganaur area.In Ambala, the 23 fresh cases comprise 16 labourers working at the doctors’ residential complex in Ambala Cantonment Civil Hospital, two of their supervisors, a woman doctor on OPD duty and four persons from nearby villages.Among the 14 cases in Jhajjar, 13 have a link to the vegetable market in Bahadurgarh. Among the 11 cases in Gurugram, nine are vegetable vendors.In Karnal, a labourer and a 53-year-old vegetable vendo tested positive for Covid. The former had come from Delhi.Faridabad recorded its second death due to Covid today when a 55-year-old man died at the ESI Hospital. This was the sixth death in the state.He was found Covid positive this morning and was shifted to ESI hospital for treatment, where his condition was reported critical.Working as security guard at a private diagnostic centre in the Sector 16 market, he had been admitted to a private hospital in Sector 8 a few days ago after he complained of heart ailment and asthma.A peon working in the Health Department tested positive in Faridabad. In Nuh, one more tested positive. The highest number of cases now is from Gurugram (84), followed by Faridabad (75), Sonepat (73), Nuh (59) and Jhajjar (53).Nine patients were cured in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of those having recovered to 254, including 14 Italian nationals. A total of 38,138 tests had been conducted so far, with 34,501 testing negative and results of 3,120 awaited.The figure of tests per million population reached 1,504 today, up from 1,392 on Sunday. The doubling rate dipped to 13 days today. It was 16 days on Sunday and 21 days on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-sees-biggest-spike-with-79-cases-6th-death-reported-80408
05-05-2020||Karnal||Social distancing goes for a toss in Karnal||After 40-days markets opened and people thronged it keeping aside all safety norms. People were standing without maintaining social distancing at different shops. Moreover, a large number of people ventured out without masks, which is a violation of the order. “It came to our notice that people took the liberty of coming out in the open in large number risking the spread of Covid. We have chalked out plans to check this and will implement it strictly,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, District Magistrate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-in-karnal-80409
05-05-2020||Gurugram||Curbs eased, but Gurugram still in lockdown hangover||Amidst confusion over what is allowed and what is not, majority of Gurugram remained in lockdown hangover today. Majority of the commercial establishments and offices, though allowed to operate, did not resume. While many cited inability of staff to commute from Delhi owing to border restrictions, others refrained as many employees had to travel from containment zones. “My company sent a message that they are functional from today but I was not allowed to cross the border. Majority of employees in Udyog Vihar based IT company come from Delhi and are unable to reach office,” said Pankhuri Pahwa, an IT professional who was turned away from the border around 11.00 am. The liquor vends too remained shut even though people came in morning hoping to find them open but were turned away. However, what remained an issue of concern was staggered opening of shops in allowed Municipal limits and also barred areas like Sadar Bazaar where people were seen flocking and social distancing went for a toss. There were reports of shopkeepers especially booksellers in the market opening shops with half shutters up and people thronging the area. Taking a stern stance on the issue, Police Commissioner Mohammad Akil warned of withdrawal of exemptions in case of lack of self-discipline and restrain. “The relaxations are meant to return life to normal in phased manner. It nowhere means we are out of danger. People are allowed to travel or step out for urgent work. Any unregulated travel or crowding will increase Covid risk and from Orange we might slip into Red Zone in no time. If there is no self-control we will rethink about relaxations,” said CP Akil. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/curbs-eased-but-gurugram-still-in-lockdown-hangover-80410
05-05-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||‘HelpMe’ app gets 2.23L downloads, 1.5L queries||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 4SERVICES PROVIDEDAfter over a week of its launch, the Haryana Government’s initiative of a single-window platform, the “HelpMe” app, to provide various services during the Covid pandemic, seems to have struck the right chord with the public, seeing 2.23 lakh downloads, attracting 1.5 lakh queries and 738 donations, through cash and kind, which have catered to 6.24 lakh individuals.“Most of the queries have been regarding cooked food, dry rations and the need for LPG cylinders. A number of individuals have also sought financial help to pay rents and buy ration,” says Bhuvan Rawal, the public volunteer who helped the state government design the app.The provision of donations — of cooked food, dry ration and financial aid — incorporated into the app at the instance of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has elicited a satisfactory response from the public. The app has already seen 400 requests for donations.The platform designed collaboratively by the government and the team at OfBusiness, a private company, as a CSR initiative, presently offers 19 services, including resource material for students of schools and colleges, e-kharid farmer services, e-mistry services for technicians, skill education, request for shelter, for technicians, movement pass, providing bank slots among others. It offers any kind of assistance that may be needed during the lockdown in a time-bound manner.While three hours is the maximum time fixed for responding to a need for cooked food, dry ration is being given within 12 hours and LPG cylinders and movement passes in 24 hours. However, this is done after complete verification of the ground situation by a team of the district it comes from. For those wanting assistance in education, study material is readily available and can be instantly accessed by the user though content is being improved by adding topic-related videos.Designed by two under-trainee HCS officers, Devender Kumar and Jai Prakash with help from the public volunteer, Rawal, the app was readied in three weeks though, initially, it was launched in Faridabad and, later, picked up by the state. “We were training at the HIPA when we were attached to the Faridabad administration and given the charge of the control room. Since we are from engineering backgrounds, we put our heads together to do away with the manual noting of calls and forwarding of messages received on the helpline and used technology instead,” Sharma explains. The app has a miscellaneous category where the call centres at the backend direct queries which do not fall into any of the 19 slots available. The plan is to keep adding more services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/helpme-app-gets-2-23l-downloads-1-5l-queries-80411
05-05-2020||---||2 cops hurt in stone-pelting by protesting migrant workers||Yamunanagar, May 4More than 100 migrant workers employed in local factories blocked the Kurukshetra-Yamunanagar road here on Monday morning, demanding they be sent to their villages.The police had to use mild force to disperse the agitators near Jaudiya naka after they pelted stones, damaged a police motorcycle and injured two cops. “Several workers blocked the road and resorted to violence following which the police resorted to mild force to disperse the agitators,” said Chamkaur Singh, spokesman of Yamunanagar police. Chamkaur Singh said on the complaint of Constable Sanjeev Kumar, a case was registered against unknown persons under Sections 148, 149, 332, 353, 186, 188, 341, 323, 269, 270, 427, 506 and 120-B of the IPC at Farakpur police station.Sanjeev Kumar said he and special police officer Ramesh Chand were posted on rider number-16. While performing their duty, they found that some people had blocked the road near Jaudiya naka. “When we asked the protesters to lift the blockage, they started beating us with sticks they were carrying. They also slapped us and threatened us with dire consequences. Besides, they damaged our rider motorcycle,” the complainant said. He said that after getting information, when PCR number-5 reached the spot, the agitators started stone-pelting.However, the workers said they wanted to go to their homes because they didn’t have work and were unable to fend for themselves. “The government has done nothing to send us home, therefore we had to come out on the road,” said a worker. “The local administration is helping all needy persons and taking care of them. If anyone has a problem, he/she should contact to the administration. No one will be allowed to take the law into their hands,” said Farakpur SHO Mukesh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-cops-hurt-in-stone-pelting-by-protesting-migrant-workers-80412
05-05-2020||---||Six trains to ferry migrants home||Chandigarh, May 4Free TravelThree trains are scheduled to leave for Katihar - one each from Hisar, Ambala and Rohtak. One train will leave for Bhagalpur from Ambala, one for Muzaffarnagar from Hisar and one for Son Nagar from Bhiwani.As Haryana makes arrangements to operate six trains from Ambala, Rewari, Bhiwani, Rohtak and Hisar to send migrants to their native places, 2,21,880 migrants from other states are stranded in various districts of Haryana and 62,260 people from the state are stuck in other states.TL Satyaprakash, Secretary, Home Department, also nodal officer for coordination with various states for movement of migrants, today wrote to the Bihar Chief Secretary for no-objection certificate to send migrants in six trains to Bihar on Tuesday.Three trains are scheduled to leave for Katihar — one each from Hisar, Ambala and Rohtak. One train will leave for Bhagalpur from Ambala, one for Muzaffarnagar from Hisar and one for Son Nagar from Bhiwani.Sources said 69,496 migrants from Bihar had been identified as having been stranded in Haryana due to Covid, the highest number of migrants from any state. The second highest number was migrants from Uttar Pradesh, totalling 31,824.Gurugram has the highest number of migrants — 51,347 — while Faridabad with 15,568 is second. As per guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Haryana Government had initiated steps to facilitate the movement of these migrants to their home states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-trains-to-ferry-migrants-home-80413
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to woo firms keen to leave China||The Haryana Government has chalked out an aggressive strategy to woo companies intending to either shift from China or set up a new manufacturing facility in India.As a part of the plan Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, Rajesh Khullar, shall hold an open house with potential investors through video conferencing from 3 pm to 4 pm every day from May 6 to May 8.A number of US, Japanese, Korean and Euro Zone companies are proposing to shift their plants from China or set up additional manufacturing facilities at locations in South Asia. The state government has prepared a strategy to create windows in existing policies that would ensure quick setting up of manufacturing facilities in any industrial estate of the choice of investors.While emails are being sent to the identified companies, interested firms willing to join the video conferencing can also send their requests on the email id gmbdchsiidc@gmail.com and they would be shared all the necessary details of the video conference.AK Singh, Principal Secretary Industries and Anurag Agarwal, MD HSIIDC, would also be present during the interactions. Based on the interactions, tailor-made solutions would be offered to such companies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-woo-firms-keen-to-leave-china-80414
05-05-2020||Panipat||Panipat markets open today||Members of 42 markets associations in the Textile City have decided to open shops from tomorrow after the relaxation provided by the government. Shops will be opened on left-right basis from 8 am to 2 pm.Hema Sharma, DC, has issued orders to open dairy product shops from 7 am to 7pm and shops selling essential goods, medicines, groceries and fertilisers from 7 am to 5 pm in the district from Tuesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-markets-open-today-80415
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||As cases peak, Hooda bats for maximum testing||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has expressed concern over the spurt in Covid cases and objected to the government’s order to farmers to not grow paddy on lands leased from panchayats.He said the Covid infection in Haryana appeared to be under control, but with 56 more persons testing positive on Sunday, the situation couldn’t be considered normal. “The Chief Minister should allow relaxations in lockdown only after reviewing the current situation and consider the concerns of Health Minister Anil Vij,” he said. “The threat of Covid has neither been eradicated nor reduced. Therefore, the government should focus on maximum testing and creating awareness.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/as-cases-peak-hooda-bats-for-maximum-testing-80435
