05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Gang escapes with container carrying 5 Mercedes cars, Haryana police recovers it within hours||Haryana Police on Monday said a gang had allegedly escaped with a container truck carrying five Mercedes cars worth Rs 3.5 crore in Nuh district, but the case was cracked within hours and an accused involved in the crime was arrested.A Haryana Police spokesperson said the incident took place on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday.The miscreants intercepted the container driver at gunpoint, tied him up with a rope and escaped with the vehicle which was loaded with Mercedes cars.Soon, someone alerted the police and special teams were formed to recover the looted cars, he said.Working on the intelligence and other inputs, police teams conducted raids and arrested an accused identified as Razzak, a resident of Nai in Nuh district, near a petrol pump. The team also recovered the container laden with Mercedes cars.“The arrested accused is being thoroughly interrogated to nab the other gang members involved in this incident. Further probe is underway,” he said. PTI
05-10-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 2 deaths, 43 fresh Covid-19 cases||Panchkula on Monday reported two Covid-19 deaths, pushing the district toll to 95.A 62-year-old woman from Bitna who was suffering from diabetes, and a 48-year-old man from Sector 15 who had no comorbidities, succumbed to the virus.The district also witnessed 43 fresh coronavirus cases. The district’s COVID-19 tally stands at 6,264.Among the fresh cases, six were from Kalka, four each from Pinjore, Sector 15 and Sector 20, three each from Amravati Enclave, Sector 19, Sector 7, and Sector 9, 2 from Naggal, one each from Bitna, Chowki, Devinagar, Mauli, Nada Sahib, Police Line, Sector 10, Sector 12, Sector 18, Sector 21 and Sultanpur.While 628 cases are still active, 5541 have been discharged or cured. The recovery rate stands at 88.4 percent.Panchkula has so far conducted 69,944 COVID tests.
05-10-2020||Our Correspondent||15-year-old raped in Gurugram slum||Gurugram, October 5A 15-year-old girl was abducted and raped when she went out to attend nature’s call in a slum area of Sector 46 here.An FIR under the POCSO Act has been registered at Sector 40 police station and the police has launched a manhunt for the accused.According to the complaint filed by the father of the victim, a native of Madhya Pradesh and living with his family in the slum, early Sunday morning when his elder daughter went out for toilet a neighbour covered her mouth and dragged her to his room and raped her, said the police.“It was around half an hour later when we started searching for our daughter she came out weeping from the room of our neighbour. The neighbour fled from the spot after seeing us and then we called the police,” claimed the victim’s father, who works as a labourer.The investigating officer said that an FIR had been registered and they were conducting raids to nab the accused.
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||3 held in Haryana for betting on IPL match||The Haryana Police have arrested three people from Rewari on charges of betting on an IPL match between Delhi Capitals (DC) and Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR), a spokesperson said on Monday.Acting on a tip-off, a raid was conducted by the Crime Investigating Agency of Haryana Police at a flat in a residential complex in Rewari on Saturday.Three people were apprehended and cash worth Rs 5,71,900, 12 phones and other items were seized.“Those arrested were identified as Karan Singh, Om Parkash alias Shammi and Mohit. A case has been registered and the matter is being probed,” the spokesperson added.The match between Delhi Capitals and KKR was played on Saturday at Sharjah, which the DC won by 18 runs. PTI
05-10-2020||Jhajjar||Covid hits business of earthen diyas as potters not getting orders in Jhajjar||The Covid pandemic has hit the business of earthen diyas (lamps) hard with local potters getting merely 40 per cent orders for diyas from other states as compared to last year.Though many potters had made a large number of diyas and stocked these during lockdown in order to fulfil the demand easily at the time of Diwali but they are now struggling to get orders.“More than 60 per cent of our customers from Maharashtra and Gujarat did not place orders this year as they are apprehensive about the sale of diyas following the pandemic while we had prepared these in a large quantity during the lockdown to ensure its supply instantly on getting the orders in the season but the plan did not work,” said Inderpal Kohal, a well-known potter at Jhajjar.Kohal claimed he and his brother had supplied more than one crore diyas last year but around 40 lakh diyas had been supplied this year.“Many of our customers in Maharashtra and Gujarat buy the diyas by taking loans for the business. This time, they did not want to take risk due to prevailed uncertainty in the Covid-affected market,” he added.Sadhu Ram, another potter, informed not a single order had yet been received from Kolkata, Mumbai, Jaipur and Surat cities this season while he had been supplying lakhs of diyas there every season for the past several years.“Even we are now finding it hard to sell those diyas kept in stock. Only local traders are approaching to buy the diyas in small quantities,” he added.Ram Lal, another potter, said this season proved the worst ever for them.“We used to get good earnings every season but this time we are unable even to cover the cost. The orders for diyas started coming in March and we used to send all deliveries a month before the festival but the pandemic has ruined our business this time,” he added.
05-10-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Congress workers clash with cops in Gurugram||Our CorrespondentGurugram, October 5High drama prevailed outside Police Lines on Monday afternoon when a group of Congressmen, headed by senior leader Captain Ajay Singh Yadav, clashed with the police while staging a protest.Yadav, along with supporters, was going to stage a two-hour protest at Gandhi statue installed at Police Lines but was stopped at the gates. The police did not allow them to enter the residential perimeter citing COVID threat.As the group tried to force their way, they were allegedly roughed up by police leading to minor injuries.“We just wanted to stage a protest at the Gandhi statue to support the Hathras victim. It is not our fault that the sole statue in the area is in Police Lines. They misbehaved and roughed up, injuring workers. We have moved to Commissioner against this,” said Yadav.The workers then staged a protest outside Police Lines.“Police Lines is a private residential complex and no such gathering is allowed without permission. We have not attacked or roughed up anybody. They were violating norms,” said a senior police official.The Congressmen have put forth the demand of installation of Gandhi’s statue outside police lines for paying homage or staging protest.
05-10-2020||Palwal||25-year-old woman allegedly gangraped in Palwal district||A 25-year-old woman was allegedly gangraped in Palwal district on Saturday, police said.According to the complaint, the victim, who supplies flowers, was called to Hathin by one Zahir Thekedar on October 3. It is claimed that the accused, Zahir, Doni and Minoo, took turns to rape the woman.The victim was threatened with consequences if she reported the crime.The police have launched a hunt for the culprits after a medical examination of the victim, said a police official.
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Can't allow Rahul to bring huge crowd from Punjab to disturb Haryana's atmosphere: Anil Vij||Haryana government has no problem if Rahul Gandhi enters the state with a few people for his tractor rallies on Tuesday and Wednesday, but he will not be allowed to bring a big crowd to "disturb" the atmosphere, Home Minister Anil Vij has said.Gandhi, who is holding tractor rallies in Punjab against the newly enacted farm laws, is set to reach Pehowa town in Kurukshetra district of Haryana with his supporters Tuesday and address a gathering. He will also address public gatherings in Karnal, Congress leaders said.Also read: Rahul Gandhi slams Modi govt for 'destroying' procurement system"If he wants to come alone or with just a few people, there is no problem. He can come 100 times, we have no objection. But if he comes with a big crowd from Punjab to disturb Haryana's atmosphere, then we will not permit. We are not going to allow that," Vij told PTI on Monday."…This issue concerns our law and order. Last month, two Congress-sponsored rallies were also stopped by us from entering our state. Congress is in power in Punjab and they want to use state machinery to spoil Haryana's peaceful atmosphere, which we will not allow,” he added.He alleged that Congress is trying its best to instigate the farmers of Haryana but the state government will not allow them to “succeed in their designs”."Under no circumstances will we allow Congress's evil designs to spoil peace and tranquillity in Haryana, we won't permit (it) at any cost,” he said.Vij, who is also the health minister of Haryana, had said on October 1 too that Gandhi's tractor rally won't be allowed to enter the state, prompting Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to ask him if a "jungle raj" was prevailing there.During his two-day visit to Haryana, Gandhi, according to party leaders, is scheduled to address a farmers' gathering in Pehowa. After a night halt in Kurukshetra, he will visit Pipli on Wednesday morning, where he will meet the farmers who were allegedly lathicharged during a protest against the three pieces of farm legislation on September 10.The former Congress president will then proceed to Nilokheri and Karnal before returning to Delhi.Vij, who has been vocal against the rule of Nehru-Gandhi family, said no permission will be given to gather huge crowds at one place inside Haryana.“I am bound by law, how can I permit huge crowds,” Vij said.On Amarinder Singh's “jungle raj” comment, Vij said, “actually, it is Punjab where there is no law and order.” “They talk about farmers, but they burn the tools they worship. First they (youth Congress workers) set fire to a tractor on Ambala border, later a tractor was set on fire by them in Delhi”.“They are not concerned with farmers, they are only doing politics in their name. Rahul Gandhi, Amarinder Singh and (Punjab Congress chief) Sunil Jakhar ride a modified tractor during their tractor rally in Punjab, even during their so-called protest they do not want to part with luxury. They should see how hard a farmer toils in his fields,” he said.Vij said the Congress was misleading farmers on farm laws, which are going to bring a big change for the better in the lives of peasants”.He also accused the Congress of politicising the Hathras gang-rape incident and while referring to alleged rape of two minor sisters in Baran district of Rajasthan, questioned why Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra did not visit Baran. —PTI
05-10-2020||---||Illicit liquor factory unearthed in Faridabad; 50 cartons recovered||Faridabad, October 5The local police on Monday have arrested five persons in connection with operating an illicit country-made liquor at a house on Shahpur Khurd road.The area falls under the jurisdiction of Sector 58 police station in the district.With the recovery of as many as 58 cartons packed and ready to be despatched to Uttar Pradesh, a car with Uttar Pradesh’s registration number has also been seized after a raid carried out on Sunday night on a tip-off.The arrested persons have been identified as Sandeep from Gohana, Sunny, Rajnish, Saurav and Lakher. All accused hail from Samastipur district of Bihar but were presently residing in the district.“We are probing all angles, including for how much time the factory was operational and the persons and places of the supply,” said a police official.A case has been registered in this connection.
05-10-2020||Karnal||Khattar visits Karnal grain market, takes stock of procurement activities||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday visited the grain market in Karnal to take stock of procurement activities. Khattar held a meeting with rice millers and arhtiyas and will also interact with farmers.The CM presided over the auctioning of paddy at the Karnal grain market. He directed the market secretary to calibrate the moisture meter every Sunday to ensure the quality of the grains.Farmers raised the issue that the online portal 'Meri Fasal, Mera Byora' was not working properly and they weren't getting the schedule with the timing of bringing paddy to the market. They demanded the farmers of UP also be allowed to come to grain markets of Karnal or other districts to sell their produce. The CM said that all technical errors have been fixed on the portal and now it was working properly. He said from tomorrow farmers of UP will be allowed as per their schedule.
05-10-2020||Rohtak||Entry of non-players banned at athletics tracks in Rohtak stadium||The entry of non-players has been banned to both athletics tracks at Rajiv Gandhi Stadium here leading to resentment among those preparing for Army recruitment tests or routinely exercising there. The action has been taken by the police following complaints of coaches and players that non-players disturb them during practice.“An open recruitment for the Army is scheduled to be held in November, so over 500 aspirants had been coming daily to the stadium for the past over one month. They used to run on the tracks leading to inconvenience to players practising under the guidance of coaches. The youths also used to engage in a verbal duel when the players and coaches asked them to leave the tracks,” said an athlete.He maintained that this ‘irresponsible’ attitude of the youths forced the players and the coaches to approach the police so that they could practise without any disturbance. Rakesh Kumar, an Army aspirant, asked how could they be banned from using the athletics tracks as the stadium was for everyone and they were preparing for Army recruitment. Police personnel had been deputed outside the athletics tracks to restrict them.“There are two athletics tracks in the stadium. One can be used by the players while the second one should be opened for the general public so that they can also exercise to maintain their fitness,” suggested Krishan, a routine visit to the stadium. Shamsher Singh, SHO, Urban Estate Police Station, said except both athletics tracks, the stadium was open for everyone to walk and exercise. “The entry of all persons except sportsmen has been banned following the complaints that they create a disturbance on the tracks. Now, only sportspersons with identity cards are being allowed to go inside,” he added.Sukhvir Singh, District Sports Officer, said the stadium was maintained by the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), hence the Sports Department had nothing to do with the decision on banning. “A list of coaches who train the players in the stadium has been provided to the police,” he added.
05-10-2020||Parveen Arora||It all boils down to MSP||AMID protests by farm organisations, arhtiyas and Opposition parties across the country, three contentious Bills became laws recently.The Union government describes these laws as historic reforms in the agriculture sector for helping farmers get a better price for their produce by allowing barrier-free trading of farm goods and contract farming. However, farmers, arhtiyas and political parties are apprehensive that the laws will abolish or minimise the role of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) mandis by allowing private players to purchase the farmers’ produce.Officials of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) say the APMCs would continue to work as before. “Haryana has 113 principal market yards, 168 sub-yards and 198 purchase centres. Our 81 grain markets have the facility of e-trading. The APMC mandis have played a pivotal role in assisting farmers after they bring their crop to the mandis by providing the facility of drying, selling through auctioning either to government agencies or to private purchasers. The system of APMC mandis would not be affected as the MSP crops would be purchased through mandis only,” says Sumedha Kataria, Chief Administrator, HSAMB.“Huge investment has been made by the state as well as by the arhtiyas in these mandis to facilitate farmers. Apprehension among farmers that their produce would not fetch the MSP is ill-conceived. Farmers would be paid at the MSP. Non-MSP items till now brought to mandis are likely to be diverted to an outside market yard or to a private trade area if the government does not lessen the market fees on non-MSP crops, but Haryana has curtailed the market fee from 2 per cent to 0.5 per cent for non-MSP paddy, basmati and cotton so as to convince farmers to bring their yield to the mandis,” she adds.Moreover, the marketing board maintains a road infrastructure network of 1,2500 km and development works of around Rs 850 crore in the state, the Chief Administrator says.Agri experts say the APMC mandis should continue for the benefit of farmers. Gurbachan Singh, former chairperson of the Agricultural Scientists’ Recruitment Board and former Union Agriculture Commissioner, says online trading should be implemented gradually, not abruptly. “Our farmers are not tech-savvy or so literate to sell their produce online easily,” he claims.“The well-knit system of the APMC mandis has delivered quite well in Punjab and Haryana. In the absence of this kind of assured marketing, around 86 per cent small and marginal farmers may suffer,” he adds.Vijay Kapoor, a progressive farmer of Karnal district, is apprehensive that the new Acts would end the mandi system by allowing private players to purchase their produce. “The mandi system is a safeguard for the farmers as they get the MSP for their produce, but the private player would not ensure them procurement at this price,” he adds.Rattan Mann, state president, BKU (Mann), says the APMC system ensures the procurement of the farmers’ produce at the MSP. “We have no issues about selling our produce to private firms if the government guarantees procurement at the MSP. There should be a provision of penalty on those who procure the produce at less than the MSP,” he adds. However, some farmers complain that the functioning of the mandis is inefficient and often controlled by the cartel.Arhtiyas say the government wants to oust them from the procurement system. “The new Acts will hamper the APMC mandi system. The government is allowing big traders to exploit farmers,” rues Surinder Kumar, a commission agent.
05-10-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat---||3 yrs on, Palwal flyover still incomplete||Tribune News Service Palwal, October 4 The work on the Rs 200 crore elevated flyover project on the National Highway passing through the city has failed to resume in the past one year. Despite a notice by the NHAI to the company in March, the work is still suspended, prolonging the sufferings of the local residents and commuters. “Only 40 per cent work has been completed so far on the 2.5-km flyover aimed at providing signal-free travel to the commuters on the highway connecting the national capital with Mathura and Agra,” said an official, adding that the work was started in August 2017. Claiming that the project might miss the 2021 deadline, if not resumed immediately, he blamed the “laxity” of the supervising authorities for the unusual delay. “It has been a source of constant traffic chaos and pollution for the past three years,” said Kulveer Chauhan, a local resident. “The work on the flyover was stalled in October 2019, when the agency (contractor) handling this project left the work midway due to an ‘tussle’ over payments,” a source in the district administration said. Though the NHAI decided to replace the concessionaire in March this year, officials said action in this regard was still awaited. NHAI project manager Dheeraj Singh said the issue was still in the purview of the higher authorities and it was likely to get resolved soon. Admitting that 60 per cent work on the project was still incomplete, Singh said efforts were on to resume it immediately and make it operational next year. “The matter is being taken up with the NHAI,” said DC Naresh Narwal.
05-10-2020||---||Rohtak school for deprived gets Rs2.5L aid||Rohtak, October 4Raj Aggarwal, a US-based philanthropist of Indian origin, has come to the aid of students and volunteers of Gandhi School, an informal school for underprivileged children in Rohtak.“I read a report about Rukhsar, daughter of a migrant worker who wants to pursue a course in nursing, but her parents cannot afford it. I also read about Sumit, a youth who runs an auto-rickshaw to continue his studies and teaches children at Gandhi School,” he said over phone.Aggarwal decided to sponsor the education of Rukhsar. He sent Rs 2 lakh for her studies and other students and volunteers of Gandhi School. He also sent Rs 50,000 as financial aid for Sumit.
05-10-2020||---||Waste mgmt plant to come up 10 km from IAF station||Ambala, October 4 A Jalandhar-based firm has been allotted the contract to construct a solid waste management plant, 10 km from the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Ambala Cantonment. The Cantonment Board will provide the land to the firm, which will construct the plant at an estimated cost of Rs 14.9 lakh. The development assumes significance as the IAF had recently approached the state government, seeking measures to lift the open garbage dump at Jadaut village, which is in proximity to the airbase and attracted wild birds.  The IAF apprehended serious damage to aircraft in case of a collision with wild birds.  The matter was raised in the Lok Sabha recently, following which the IAF was told the garbage dump had already been shifted, while the process to construct a solid waste management plant had been initiated. Earlier, all six families into the pigeon breeding business were shifted from the vicinity of the airbase and the ban on kite flying and private drones has been extended from 3 km to 4 km radius of the IAF station.
05-10-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Departments fail to act against illegal bleaching units in Panipat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, October 4The Revenue Department, District Town Planning Department and Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam have failed to initiate action against the illegal bleaching units operational in the textile city despite four reminders each given by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB).Now, S Narayanan, HSPCB member secretary, has raised the issue with the DC and asked him to initiate action against the bleaching units.It was revealed in an RTI query that all bleaching units in the district were unregistered. As many as 150 bleaching units were scattered in the agricultural fields here.The district administration swung into action and constituted a panel comprising Regional Officer (RO), HSPCB; DTP enforcement; revenue department and SDO, UHBVN to initiate action against the illegal bleaching units in June. The UHBVN has to disconnect the electricity connection, DTP has to dismantle the illegal structures and the revenue department has to provide the land revenue record.The HSPCB had identified 137 bleaching units operating illegally during a special drive here of which 53 were resealed by the Board, while 23 were found to be new and 61 were dismantled.As per sources, most of these sealed units have started operating again.Kamaljeet Singh, RO, HSPCB, said: “We have served four reminders to the Revenue Department to provide land revenue record, DTP enforcement to dismantle the illegal structure and to the UHBVN to disconnect electricity connections of these illegal bleaching units, which have been sealed.”He said they had informed the headquarters and written a letter to the Chairman about the departments concerned. “We visited various sites today and sealed four illegal bleaching units,” he said.Units operating from fields
05-10-2020||---||4 held for raping 25-yr-old in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 4 Four men allegedly raped a 25-year-old woman in DLF Phase 2 here on Saturday night after she refused to have sex with them, the police have said. The accused smashed her head against a wall and left her to die, but a timely alert sounded by a guard saved her life. The four accused — identified as Ranjan, Pawan, Pankaj and Gobind, all residents of Chakkarpur area here — were arrested during a night raid. Pawan works in a property dealer’s office, while the other three are delivery boys. Sources said Pawan picked up the woman from the Sikanderpur Metro station around 1.30 am and brought her to the property dealer’s office in DLF Phase 2 for paid sex. Three of his friends were already waiting there. On seeing three more men and gauging their intention, she tried to flee but they overpowered her, beat her up and allegedly raped her, the sources said. With a bleeding head, she somehow managed to come out of the building when a security guard saw her. He called up the police immediately. Additional Commissioner of Police (ACP) Karan Goel said, “In her complaint, the victim said she was forced to have sex with all four men. When she refused, they raped her. Immediately, we deputed special raiding parties and arrested the accused within two hours of the crime.” Women activists demanded stringent punishment for the accused. “The accused must not get off the hook. We have approached the Commissioner of Police in this connection,” said Ranjana Saxena, a women’s rights activist.
05-10-2020||---||In Ambala, 1,140 bottles of liquor found dumped||Ambala, October 4A couple of days after the Uttar Pradesh Police seized Rs 25 lakh whiskey manufactured in Haryana, the Ambala police on Sunday found 1,142 bottles of liquor, some of them bottled at an Ambala distillery under scanner, dumped in a ditch near Devi Nagar here.The manufacturing year mentioned on the bottles was 2015, 2016 and 2017.About 800 bottles were of plastic and without label. Some were bottled by NV Distilleries Private Limited at Badhauli village in Ambala district, some by Mayura distillery, Chandigarh, and some by Oasis Overseas Exports Private Limited, Jatwar.The stock of NV distillery is under scanner ever since a Special Enquiry Team investigating named it in connection with the liquor scam.The stock seized by the UP Police was also bottled by NV Distilleries Private Limited.An official in the Excise Department said, “The stock was manufactured in 2015, 2016 and 2017. It is not fit for consumption. It seems someone dumped the old stock following the recent raids by the Excise Department and the police. A majority of the bottles are without a label.”Sadar police station SHO Suresh said, “A case has been registered against unidentified persons under Section 61 of the Excise Act and Section 201 of the IPC.”On September 11 and 12, a stock of about 1,300 boxes of the IMFL was recovered from two godowns and a truck here. On September 26, 1,369 boxes of liquor were seized from another godown.
05-10-2020||---||20 succumb, 1,302 cases||Chandigarh, October 4With 1302 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state went up to 1,33,878 on Sunday. The death toll reached 1,470 with the addition of 20 more fatalities.Gurugram reported a maximum of 287 cases, followed by Hisar (130), Faridabad (124), Rohtak (93) and Ambala (72).Panipat and Jind reported a maximum of four deaths each, followed by Panchkula and Sirsa (three each), Faridabad and Fatehabad (two each) and Gurugram and Kurukshetra (one each).
05-10-2020||---||Seven officials told to explain absence from poll meeting||Panipat, October 4 Ashish Kumar, returning officer (RO)-cum-SDM Gohana has sought an explanation from nine officials, including two BLOs. Seven of them were absent from an election meeting regarding the Baroda byelection.  Ashish Kumar held a meeting of the officials regarding the Baroda byelection in his office on Saturday for the preparations. But seven officers were absent from the meeting.  The RO served notices to the seven officers including DTP Sonepat Arvinder Dhull; Dharamveer Chhikkara, XEN Gohana UHBVN; Sanjeev Kumar, XEN Irrigation Gohana; Balbir Singh, ADO Mundlana; Devender Dabas and Manish, SDOs Marketing Board; and AS Lathar, SDO, water supply division Gohana. The returning officer sought their explanation and directed them to reply within one day.
05-10-2020||---||Congress lying on farm laws: Khattar||Karnal, October 4Amid the protests by farmers and arhtiyas across the state for the past several days over the newly introduced three agri-related laws, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday interacted with progressive farmers in a state-level ‘Progressive farmers’ conference and discussion on agriculture laws’ at Dr Mangal Sen Auditorium in the city.He referred these laws as safeguards for farmers and accused the Congress of lying to the people over these laws. “These laws are safeguards for the farmers. The Congress has a history of lying to the people on all the issues whether it was CAA, Ram Janmabhoomi, removal of Article 370 in J&K and others, but no one was harmed.“Now, it is misleading the farmers as well as arhtiyas over these Acts. When nothing happened back then, nothing will happen even now. All of this is going to end very soon because the people and farmers have now understood everything. Farmers are being tricked. Farmers and arthiyas are being misled but they will not fall prey to such tactics,” the CM said.Taking a dig at Congress former president Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Haryana, the CM said that he has no work to do. “We are yet to receive his schedule and once we receive his schedule, we will decide what to do,” he said, adding that no one would be allowed to take law and order in their hands in the state.Highlighting the benefits of these Acts, Khattar said that none of these Acts will affect the MSP regime. He said that the farmers would get freedom to sell their produce across the country.“There will be no change in the present system and it will work as usual. However, new opportunities will be available to the farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. Earlier, the farmers were limited to particular mandis, but these Acts will allow them barrier-free trade system,” said the CM while interacting with farmers.Accompanied by Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, the CM said that the Union and state governments have taken several steps for the farmers’ welfare and doubling their income. “These Acts will help in doubling the income of the farmers,” he said.On the sidelines of the programme, the CM told mediapersons, “We have also formulated three policies for progressive farmers. First is for progressive farmers, second is for new progressive farmers and in the third, each progressive farmer should befriend 100 farmers to encourage them to implement the new measures.”On the Baroda byelection, he said that they were ready for it. Meanwhile, the Agriculture Minister and experts from various agricultural universities also highlighted the benefits of the Acts.Opens Karan gateKhattar inaugurated a sculpture of Namastey Chowk and Raja Karan welcome gate in the evening to welcome the people entering the city from Delhi side. A few years back, a sculpture depicting ‘namaste’ was at the same place, but was demolished reportedly due to road-widening work. On the demand of the people, the district administration has got a new 14-ft-high sculpture installed. Besides, a welcome gate named after Raja Karan was also constructed near this place.
05-10-2020||Yamunanagar||BJP will be routed in next election, claims Ashok Tanwar||Former Congress leader Ashok Tanwar on Sunday said people in the state would reduce the BJP to a seat or two when the Assembly elections would be held in the future.“People are upset and angry with the BJP government in the state. They have made up their mind to vote out this government as it has failed on all fronts. It won four or five seats earlier. In the next Assembly elections, the party will be able to win only a seat or two,” he said. Speaking to mediapersons in Jagadhri, Tanwar said voters wanted the BJP to lose in the Baroda byelection, but several leaders of the Congress were making efforts to ensure victory of the BJP.“People in Haryana want change. They are fed up with the present political system. They are searching for an option and we will prove to be a good option for them,” he said.He claimed that the Central and state governments had failed to handle Covid effectively. He stated that the three farm laws had been enacted to benefit big capitalists and ruin farmers.“Had Opposition parties in Parliament performed their role honestly, the three farm laws could never have been passed and farmers would not have taken to the streets,” Tanwar said. — TNS
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Withdraw support to govt: AAP to JJP||Sushil Gupta, Rajya Sabha member and AAP Haryana in charge, on Sunday asked the JJP to withdraw support to the BJP-led government in Haryana on the issue of ‘anti-farmer’ agricultural Acts. Addressing a press conference, Gupta demanded the resignation of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, claiming that he had no right to continue in office if he wanted to lay claim on his great-grandfather Devi Lal’s legacy. Saying Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the three Bills ‘in haste’, Gupta said the President’s nod came even as 17 Opposition parties had submitted a memorandum to him to send the Bills back to a Select Committee of Parliament for reconsideration. — TNS
05-10-2020||---||Farmers to gherao Haryana Deputy CM’s home tomorrow||Chandigarh, October 4Announcing the gherao of the Sirsa residence of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on October 6, farmer organisations on Sunday sought his resignation for betraying farmers’ interests on the issue of the three farm Acts.Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, Yogendra Yadav, member of the national working committee of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), alleged that Dushyant had no right to claim the legacy of his great grandfather and farmers’ leader Devi Lal as he had failed to protect farmers’ interests on the issue of the farm Acts.“When all farmers’ organisations, including those affiliated with the RSS, have openly come out against the farm Acts, Dushyant had no right to remain in office and must immediately resign from the BJP-led Haryana Government,” Yadav asserted.
05-10-2020||---||BKU: Moisture within limit, yet millers deducting money||Kurukshetra, October 4Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has accused rice millers of deducting Rs 100 per quintal for 17 per cent moisture content, which is permissible, in paddy. He has threatened to launch a stir if the deduction is not stopped.Gurnam Singh said, “We have received complaints from different grain markets that the rice millers have been deducting Rs 100 per quintal for 17 per cent moisture content, especially in PR26 variety. The farmers are ready for moisture cut if the moisture is over 17 per cent but the cut at 17 per cent is not acceptable.“The commission agents also follow the directions of rice millers as they have no other option. The government should take a stand and take strict action against the rice millers. Otherwise, the farmers will be forced to launch another stir,” he said.He also expressed dissatisfaction with the procurement process and asked the farmers to lock the offices of market secretaries till all gate passes are not issued.Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The gate passes are not being issued and the procurement is also not going on smoothly. Huge stocks are lying in the grain markets. We have asked the farmers to hold protests as per their capacity and lock the offices of market secretaries till gate passes are not issued.”On the other hand, Jewel Singla, chairman, Rice Millers and Dealers Association said, “The farmers should give the names of the millers to the administration and the association for appropriate action if any miller is deducting money wrongly. The government should install dryers in the grain markets so that there are no complaints regarding the moisture.”
05-10-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||BJP-JJP on back foot as Congress leads protests||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4At a time when the Congress is leading the farmers’ agitation against farm laws and Haryana has seen a number of protests even as the movement is building up, the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party (BJP-JJP) government is going all out to counter the build-up and dispel all misgivings.With Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s two-day visit to Haryana beginning on October 6, during which he will hold public meetings against the “anti-farmer” Acts and interact with farmers, the BJP and the JJP are at pains to explain the “benefits” accruing to farmers from the Acts by holding press conferences across the state.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, state BJP chief and farmer leader Om Prakash Dhankar and other senior leaders are trying to reach out to farmers and convince them that the Congress is out to mislead them. However, their contentions seem to be cutting little ice with farmers, with various farmer organisations up in arms against the Acts and adamant on a rollback.The Chief Minister has interacted with a few farmer groups while Dhankar has penned a song to drive home the need for the farm Acts. The growing support to the agitation and the farmers consolidating behind the Congress seems to be worrying the BJP, which is not only focusing on underlining the relevance of the Acts for farmers, but also giving a lot of time to dwelling on the Congress misleading farmers. In fact, Dhankar’s song very quickly jumps to criticising the Congress and stays in that idea rather than sticking to the positives for farmers in the new farm Acts.The news of Rahul Gandhi’s arrival on the scene seems to have triggered an urgency to fan out and convey the spirit of the Acts to farmers. According to the programme, the Congress leader will begin his programme from Pehowa on October 6.
05-10-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Former Urdu Akademi chief booked, claimed bogus bills||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 4The state Vigilance Bureau (VB) has booked Narender Kumar, former Director of the Haryana Urdu Akademi, for allegedly pocketing lakhs of rupees in the name of writers, claiming bogus medical and travel bills and getting his official car insured twice in one year.He has been booked under Sections 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC, and the Prevention of Corruption Act.The irregularities came to light during an audit of the Haryana Urdu Akademi records for 2018. The audit revealed that the former Director, a resident of Panipat, committed a fraud of Rs 15.07 lakh. A few employees were found to be hand in glove with Kumar.“The FIR has been registered and the investigation is in progress,” said PK Agrawal, Director General, VB.According to the FIR, Rs 1.21 lakh is due to be recovered from Kumar. Kumar could not be contacted in spite of repeated attempts.A complaint was filed with the VB in October last year.The audit showed that Rs 14,009 was allegedly shown as spent on writers. A driver with the akademi, Pramod Kumar, claimed the amount through a cheque on July 16, 2018.Two days later, Rs 8,947 was cleared through a cheque allegedly shown as spent, again on writers. The bill was issued in the name of messenger Kapoor Chand. He, however, told the VB he never withdrew the money. It was on the instructions of then Director Kumar that he had signed the bill, the VB said.The audit also revealed that driver Pramod Kumar withdrew money through cheques, for which two vouchers of Rs 1,605 and Rs 27,436 dated July 18, 2018, were issued, again allegedly shown as spent on writers. He gave the amount to Kumar, the VB said.Another voucher of the same date showed Rs 43,126 was spent on writers. Kumar had received the amount in his bank account, the VB said, adding he failed to respond to allegations when confronted.The audit report stated such expenditure on writers was not permitted.Besides, the audit pointed out Kumar claimed a travel bill of Rs 1.02 lakh without permission from a competent authority. He failed to back his travel bill with a proof, the VB said.He allegedly got his official car insured twice in 2018, one in April and then in October. The vouchers for the payment of travel bill and for the second insurance bore the same date.It was found that the former Director allegedly got Rs 39,155 as medical reimbursement in his account without permission from the competent authority in July 2018. Besides, Rs 25,417 was allegedly spent on food and books, which the audit termed as “irregular”.The irregularities
05-10-2020||Parveen Arora---||Fund crunch halts 19 Karnal MC projects||Tribune News Service Karnal, October 4 Fund crunch has halted 19 ongoing development projects within municipal corporation (MC) limits in Karnal as contractors have ‘stopped’ work on the projects worth Rs 7.07 crore.  Most of the projects, including laying of interlocking paver blocks and various construction of roads, augmentation of water supply and internal drainage stormwater pipelines in various areas were going on in the newly regularised colonies  — Basant Vihar, Hakikat Nagar, Ward 2, Ward 1, Palam Colony, Kanika Vihar, Ranwar road, Kunjpura road near Budhakhera village and others, said sources in the MC. The contractors say in the absence of clearance of bills they are not able to continue their work. They have approached all officials to release them the payment, but they have not got any positive response, forcing them to halt the development works. “We have no option, but to stop the development works as the funds have not been released to us. We have approached all officials of the MC, but to no avail,” said a contractor. Another contractor said on the condition of anonymity that due to halting of works they had been suffering losses, but without funds they could not continue the work. Councillors are also facing problem due to halting of the works and people are approaching them to get these resumed. “Most of the development works have been stopped in Ward 1 which is my ward. I have requested the contractors to start the work and also requested the Commissioner, MC, and the Joint Commissioner to clear the bills of the contractors, but they have told me that due to fund crunch they are not able to release the funds,” said Naveen Kumar, a councillor. The sources said there was fund crunch due to the pandemic. Officials and the Mayor said their payments would be released soon and asked them to restart their work. “The government will release the payment of all bills to the contractors and I urge them to resume their works, so that people do not face any difficulty,” said Mayor Renu Bala Gupta. “We have requested the state government to release the funds as the contractors have stopped the work. Most probably, the funds will be received in 10 to 15 days and the works will be resumed. We plan to complete the works in all 35 deficient colonies in the next three months,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Commissioner, MC.
05-10-2020||---||Irked at MC apathy, Panipat locals on indefinite dharna||Panipat, October 4  Irked with the lethargic attitude of the Municipal Corporation officials (MC), residents of Hari Nagar of ward number 26 on Wednesday sat on an indefinite dharna for their demand of construction of the main entry road of several colonies.  After getting information about the protest, a technical team of the MC along with the contractor reached the spot and started the work.  Scores of residents of Hari Nagar and adjoining colonies gathered at the main chowk and sat on indefinite dharna under the banner of Yuva Awaaj Sangh. The protesters raised slogans against the MC officials. Former councillor and BJP leader Harish Sharma also reached there to support the protesters. The protesters said we had been forced to face problems for the past two years regularly. They alleged that they had raised the issue with MLA Mahipal Dhanda, Mayor Avneet Kaur, councillor Vijay Jain, MC and Commissioner other MC officials many times, but no one paid heed to their genuine problem.  They further alleged that the MC had constructed a drain here two years ago to take out the water but it didn’t work as it was not at a proper level. Several residents sustained injuries after they fell into the drain here, the protesters added.  The MC allotted the tender of Rs 49 lakh for the construction of the road and drain, but the contractor has failed to start the work so far, they said. “We have protested earlier too and every time the MC officials assured us of getting the work started, but to no avail.” However, this time we have decided to stage an indefinite dharna till the work starts, the protesters added.
05-10-2020||Nitish Sharma||No tallest effigy of Ravana in Barara this year||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 4Famous for making the country’s tallest effigy of Ravana for Dasehra, Shri Ramlila Club, Barara, is disappointed this year as it is unlikely to prepare or erect any effigy of the demon king due to Covid.The club has been making effigies of Ravana since 1987. Initially, it was 20-ft tall. Each year its height was raised and it touched 210 feet six years ago and the height remained the same for the next five years. But last year the height was increased by another 11 feet and was increased to 221 feet. It takes a period of at least six months to prepare such a huge effigy but due to Covid, the club has not started working on it yet. This is not the first time when the Ambala residents will not be able to witness the tallest effigy of the demon king as the disappointment for the Ambala residents began two years ago when the five-day Barara Dasehra festival, which used to be a major event, was shifted out of Ambala due to shortage of space. Last year, it was erected in Chandigarh, while in 2018 it was erected in Panchkula. The event used to be attended by thousands of people, politicians and officials, but there was no dedicated ground for the Dasehra festival.Club president Tejinder Chauhan said: “We are sad but have no other option. For the first time since 1987, the club is not preparing the effigy of the demon king. It takes five to six months to prepare such a huge effigy and we used to start work in April, but now the festival is just a few weeks away and we have not started the work as the government is unlikely to grant permission for celebrations. Since we are not working on Ravana effigy this year, we are preparing a 51-ft-tall fibreglass statue of Lord Shiva for a temple in Ambala.”He said: “Some Ramlila clubs have sought permission from the administration for Dasehra, but there has been no response yet. We request the government to chalk out some strategy and permit celebrations. Even if we are granted permission just 10 days before the festival, we can prepare at least a 20-ft effigy to maintain the tradition.”
05-10-2020||---||Change metro route: MLA||Faridabad, October 4 NIT Assembly segment MLA Neeraj Sharma visited the DMRC office in connection with his demand to include Pyali Chowk as a station in the proposed Metro rail route between Faridabad and Gurugram.   He met DMRC Business Development Director Pramit Garg and other senior officials and told them that inclusion of Pyali Chowk would not only result in providing a transport facility to a large number of commuters, but would also result in higher revenue to the DMRC, as Pyali Chowk was a densely populated area from where hundreds of residents commuted daily to Gurugram in connection with job or business.
05-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Chaudhary Devi Lal University ex-VC among nine booked||The police have registered a case against nine persons, including a former Vice-Chancellor (VC) of Chaudhary Devi Lal University in Sirsa, for allegedly appointing a reader illegally. The complainant, Dr Sambhav Garg of Jagadhri, said the CDLU had advertised three posts of lecturer in business administration on a regular basis in 2006 while mentioning that the number of posts could be increased without assigning any reason. He said the interviews were conducted for recruitment on August 5, 2007. — TNS
05-10-2020||---||At 72, Guhla Cheeka MLA pursues MA in political science||Karnal, October 4 Setting an example, Ishwar Singh, JJP MLA from Guhla Cheeka in Kaithal district, has taken first year exams for MA in political science from Kurukshetra University at the age of 72. As a private student, Singh took the last exam online on Sunday. He downloaded the question paper from the university website and wrote his answers, which he then scanned and sent to the university via email. He said although the technique was new, he learnt it as the exams were important. He said during lockdown he used his time by studying and appearing for exams online. He already has master’s degrees in public administration and history. He is an LLB, LLM. He first became MLA in 1977 and at the time was only 10th pass. He later completed JBT and taught for some time before jumping into politics during Emergency. He was appointed the chairman of the Haryana School Education Board, but resigned due to his qualification. “I became an MLA with only a Class 10 degree but was made the HSEB chairman by then CM Bhajan Lal. Although it was a great opportunity, somewhere at the back of my mind I felt I was not educated enough to make policies for students. So after only the second meeting of the Board, I resigned from the post and promised myself that I will fulfill my educational aspirations. Though the CM forced me to take my resignation back, I did not agree,” Singh said. After completing his term as the MLA, he completed Class 12 at the age of 34 and graduated at 37. He then did MA in history and later, on the advice of then KU VC, completed his LLB at 42 years of age. He then did an MA in political science.
05-10-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak cyclists pedal to Delhi||At camp, women’s health in spotlightKarnal: The women’s wing of the National Integrated Forum of Artists and Activists (NIFAA) organised a women’s only blood donation camp to mark the 20th foundation day of NIFAA. A total of 75 women got themselves registered, but only 16 women were found fit to donate blood. Mayor Renu Bala Gupta exhorted women to keep themselves and member of their families healthy.Tractor for eco-friendly NGOYamunanagar: Forest and Environment Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar made a new tractor available for the Haryana Environmental Society, an NGO, for sapling plantation. Society president SL Saini said they had provided green cover on almost the entire common area available in Yamunanagar and Jagadhri in 30 years. State convener Rahul Bharti said the society’s Kurukshetra chapter got operational in 2016.
05-10-2020||Kurukshetra||NIT to participate in Vaigyanik summit||Webinar on ‘Needonomics’Kurukshetra: “We require moral teachings of altruism with warm-heartedness as a rational lifestyle based on the principle of needonomics,” said retired professor MM Goel. He was addressing participants of IEA webinar on the topic ‘Needonomics for revival of Indian economy in post pandemic era’ organised by the Indian Economic Association here on Sunday. Professor Dinesh Kumar, secretary, IEA, welcomed and introduced Prof Goel. To be simply good consumers, producers, distributors and traders in the post pandemic era, we have to adopt the principle of needonomics based on spiritually guided materialism strategy flowing from sloka no 22 of chapter 9 of Gita, he said.E-collage contest at DAVFaridabad: The birth anniversary of the Father of Nation Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, a pioneer of non-violence and truth, was celebrated in e-mode (online) in the DAV Institute of Management (DAIM), Faridabad recently. Organised by the extracurricular activity department it held an intra-college e-collage competition on the occasion. The theme of collage-making competition was Bapu's Life and his struggle for freedom. The criteria of judgment regarding the winners of the event were based on creativity, aesthetics, content appropriateness as well as events covered by the participants. The creative collage event was judged by Reema Nangia, Dr Meera Arora and Dr Anjali Ahuja. In e-collage competition, the first position was bagged by Geeta Rani (MCA,5th semester), the runner-up was Pooja Verma (Bsc Honours CS, 3rd Semester), and the third position was held by Sweety Bhati (MCA, 5th semester). The NSS team also conducted an e-quiz competition in which 1,102 students who participated in the event were awarded e-certificates on getting 60 per cent or above score.
05-10-2020||At the HSVP market just opposite Vishwskarma Mandir||Large-scale encroachments||Inter-ward contest is laudableThe Chandigarh MC’s move to organise monthly inter-ward competition to improve swachhta is laudable. The civic body has identified 20 parameters on which the progress of each ward will be evaluated. Panchkula and other municipal corporations should also emulate this move. This competition practice should be implemented in other governmental and private institutions also. –Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula.Not bothering to wear masks in Hisar marketPossessing no definite medicine to cure the Covid virus, guidelines such as wearing mask, maintaining social distancing and repeatedly washing of hands were made mandatory to prevent the spread of the virus. But violation of these guidelines can be seen in Rajguru Market, the busiest commercial spot of Hisar. Here people can be seen venturing out without masks. The team members assigned the task of enforcing the health advisories should enhance their visits in this area. –Baljeet S Deep, Hisar.Transformer in neglectA transformer in Tundli village, Ambala Cantt, lies in a state of neglect. Vegetation has grown around it, reflecting the apathy towards its maintenance. The vegetation around it will not only reduce its life, but can also lead to short circuit and HT cable damage. The authorities should take note of it and maintain it –Col. RD Singh, Ambala Cantt.Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
05-10-2020||Deepender Deswal||On drug trail, Haryana nails Delhi firm||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 4Cracking down on illicit drugs, a Delhi pharmaceutical firm owner involved in illegal manufacture and supply of intoxicating tablets in the region has been arrested, the Fatehabad police said today. Besides, three others who were part of the supply chain have been nabbed.DSP Subhash Chander said Gaurav Arora, a resident of Rajouri Garden in Delhi and owner of Unitech Healthcare Private Limited in Narela, was arrested on September 30. “He manufactures and supplies intoxicating drugs to the region. Gaurav has been sent to judicial custody.”Inter-state racket In another development, three other accused — medical store owners Ramprakash and Saurabh at Nangloi in Delhi and Sunil from Jind town — were arrested today in the case. They supplied drugs in the region.Fatehabad SP Rajesh Kumar said an inter-state drugs chain had been busted. Cops set out to trace the source after illegal tablets flooded medical stores in Fatehabad, Hisar and Sirsa.
