05-11-2020||Chandigarh||CAG comes down heavily on Haryana Housing Board||All the debtors of Haryana Housing Board are unreconciled and unconfirmed. Allottees wise ledgers maintained by the Board are incomplete. In the absence of confirmation and reconciliation of balances, correctness of the figures appearing under the head in the accounts could not be ascertained in the Audit.These are the findings of the Comptroller and Auditor General regarding Haryana Housing Board which carried out its audit for the year ending 2018.  The annual statement of accounts of the Board was presented before the Assembly today. The arbitration awards against the Housing Board amounting to Rs 5.20 crore have been unsettled. Similarly, the arbitration awards in favour of the Board amounting to Rs 1.21 crore are also unsettled. The sundry debtors include Rs 2.90 crore due from parties for period in excess of five years. The CAG says that the “financial figures for loan and advances, sundry debtors, sundry creditors, security deposits, amount payable to staff, registration, deposits, other deposits of allotees, earnest money and security deduction of contractors and other debits and credits appearing in the financial statements were unconfirmed”.No internal audit was conducted in 2017-18.   The board has not prepared any accounting manual. There is no system of rotation of duties of employees dealing with cash, stocks and other valuables. It has also come out that the Board has not obtained any security deposits from the employees handling valuables such as cash and stocks. The list of title deeds for the landed properties and buildings was not prepared by the Board. The CAG says that cost of land to be paid pending bifurcation of schemes is shown as Rs 163.45 crore. However, it doesn’t include the interest payable on the amount since the last date of payment of instalment towards land cost.“The non-provisioning of interest had resulted in understatement of cost of land pending bifurcation as well as sundry creditors by Rs 53.06 crore,” says the Audit. Further the Board has not maintained property register and the land remained unutilised.   The term loan from HUDCO and NHB is against the guarantee of Haryana government without mortgage of any property of the Board.
05-11-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Woman MNC executive shot during ‘robbery attempt’ in Gurugram succumbs||In what has sent the entire city in uproar, the woman MNC executive who was shot at in a failed robbery attempt Tuesday late night succumbed to the bullet injury.The deceased had refused to lower her car’s windowpane when stopped by three armed men on the Golf Course extension road and was shot in the head.She was rushed to Medanta Hospital by her friend who was accompanying her and was operated upon but sources claim the bullet wound was deeply embedded in the brain could not be pulled out.She remained unconscious and died today around 3 pm. The police that was eagerly waiting for her statement to rule out any threat or personal enmity is now suspecting accused to be road robbers and have no major leads.The incident has yet again highlighted unsafe city roads at night and increasing menace of robbers and carjackers.It was on Tuesday late night around 11:15 pm when 26-year-old Pooja Sharma, a native of Chattisgarh, was shot in the head by three bikers while she was on a long drive with a friend.The three accused intercepted the car, pulled out a gun asking her to lower the windowpane and when she didn’t, they shot her and fled.An FIR of murder attempt was registered at Sector 65 police station in which Section 302 (murder) of IPC has been added today after her death.A senior police officer said that three teams of crime unit are investigating the matter from all the angles and collected information about the woman from her father Ravinder Singh. The investigator found it was only a robbery attempt while angle of any dispute in workplace and enmity is not revealed.“The postmortem will be conducted by tomorrow. It seems like a result of failed robbery attempt and further probe is on,” said Dheeraj Kumar, DCP, South.
05-11-2020|| New Delhi||Air pollution: Officials of environment ministry, Delhi, Haryana, Punjab governments to depose before par panel Friday||Top officials of the Union environment and the health ministries and the governments of Delhi, Haryana and Punjab are set to depose before a parliamentary panel on Friday to find a "permanent solution" to air pollution in the national capital and adjoining areas.As per a notice issued by the Lok Sabha Secretariat on Thursday, officials from the Union ministries of Housing and Urban Affairs, Environment, Forest and Climate Change, and Health and Family Welfare will appear before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Urban Development, which is chaired by BJP MP Jagdambika Pal.In addition, officials of the Central Pollution Control Board and the state governments of NCT of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab will also depose before the panel on the ongoing situation of air pollution in the national capital and its adjoining areas.The agenda of the meeting states that the parliamentary panel will deliberate upon "steps taken for prevention of air pollution in Delhi and NCR with special emphasis on finding permanent solution to air pollution in Delhi and NCR."Meanwhile, Delhi's air quality on Thursday dropped to its worst level since December 2019 with farm fires accounting for 42 per cent of its pollution, the maximum this season so far, according to data from central government agencies.Experts said unfavourable meteorological conditions—calm winds and low temperatures—and smoke from farm fires in neighbouring states led to a dense layer of haze on Wednesday night as the air quality index entered the 'severe' category.The haze thinned on Thursday with higher wind speed helping in dispersion of pollutants. However, the 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 450, the highest since December 30 last year, when it was 446.All the 36 monitoring stations in Delhi recorded air quality in the 'severe' category. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Gurgaon and Noida also recorded 'severe' air pollution. PTI
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Assembly passes Bill on 75 per cent job quota in private sector for local people||The Haryana Assembly on Thursday passed a Bill to give 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs to youth from the state, an election promise made by ruling alliance partner Jannayak Janta Party.The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020 provides a 75 per cent job quota for local people in private sector jobs which offer a salary of less than Rs 50,000 a month.It applies to private companies, societies, trusts and partnership firms, among others, located in the state.The Governor has to give assent to the Bill before it becomes law.The Bill was tabled by Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala in the state Assembly here. PTI
05-11-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||2 die, 14 injured as bus rams into trailer in Gurugram||Two people, including a bus driver, died while 14 others were injured as a bus rammed into a trailer on Thursday near Kalwadi village on KMP expressway.The double decker bus was going to Bihar from Ludhiana with around 100 migrant labourers.The migrants were going to their homes to celebrate Chhath Puja and take part in the last phase of voting in Bihar and everyone had paid Rs 3,000 for the journey.The incident happened around 5:30 am near Kalwadi village on KMP expressway when the bus driver, Gurmeet Singh, got sleepy and the bus went out of control and rammed into a standing trailer on the road in front of a road side dhaba.The front side of the bus was badly damaged and two, including the driver, died on the spot.The deceased were identified as bus driver Gurmeet Singh, native of Punjab, and a passenger, Mohammad Akbar, native of Bihar.As many as 14 others were injured and were rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment. Those who are safe are staying in a dharmshala in Tauru, said police.After getting information, trainee IPS Hemender Meena and DSP Surender Singh reached the spot.The injured were pulled out from the bus and rushed to medical college, Nalhar in Nuh. The injured are identified as Sachin Singh, Bunty, Ashok Mondal, Kanhai Mondal, Gajender Sharma, Ashok Mahaldar, Naveen Kumar, Shambhu Sharma, Gauri Devi, Mohammad Aalam, residents of Bihar, second bus driver Sikander Singh, resident of Ludhiana in Punjab and two others.“The bus left with 50 passengers from Ludhiana and took 50 more from Jalandhar. The other driver who is injured now drove the bus all the way. It was around 4 am when bus driver Gurmeet Singh took over. He was seated in the driver’s cabin and it was when Gurmeet Singh got a nap and the bus rammed into a standing trailer,” said an eyewitness and bus passenger.“The bus passengers are labourers who were going to their native places in Bihar to celebrate Chhath festival. The injured were rushed to the hospital and arrangements are being made to send everyone to their homes. The injured will be sent by the ambulance,” said trainee IPS Hemender Meena, officiating SHO of PS Tauru.
05-11-2020||Noida (UP)||Air quality 'severe' in Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon, Faridabad; affects healthy people||The air quality worsened in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Faridabad in the National Capital Region (NCR) on Thursday to reach "severe" levels, which affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases, according to a government agency.Concentration of major air pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).As per to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Thursday was 464 in Ghaziabad, 457 in Greater Noida, 450 in Noida, 443 in Gurgaon and 416 in Faridabad, according to the CPCB's Sameer app.It was 389 in Ghaziabad, 368 in Greater Noida, 345 in Noida, 331 in Faridabad and 290 in Gurgaon on Wednesday.PM 2.5 was the prominent pollutant in these five satellite cities of Delhi, where the average AQI remained at 450 on Thursday, according to the app.The CPCB states that an AQI in the "severe" category affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad have four stations each, while Gurgaon has three and Greater Noida two, according to the app. PTI
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Age relaxation for EWS candidates in Haryana police jobs||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Thursday that relaxation of five years in age would be provided in police recruitment to the candidates belonging to the economically weaker section.As of now, the minimum age for a police job in Haryana is 18 years and the maximum age for all applicants must be under 25 years.Making the announcement in the assembly here, Khattar said the state government had implemented the provision of 10 per cent reservation to the EWS-category candidates in the government jobs based on the pattern of central government.“No age relaxation was admissible to the EWS-category candidates in police recruitment till now. Suggestions were received in this regard and, after considering the same, now it has been decided to grant age relaxation of five years to the EWS candidates in recruitment to the police department,” he said in response to a question. —   PTI
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: 11 more die after consuming spurious liquor, toll now 31||At least 11 more people died in Haryana’s Sonepat and Panipat in the last 24 hours after allegedly consuming suspected spurious liquor, taking the toll to 31 in the last four days, police said on Thursday.An illegal liquor manufacturing factory was busted in a village and one person was arrested in this connection, they said.Till Wednesday, 20 people had died in four localities of Sonepat, prompting police to launch a crackdown on those involved in manufacturing spurious liquor.According to police, at least seven more deaths took place in Sonepat in the last 24 hours. Family members of the deceased told police that after consuming liquor the victims started vomiting.In neighbouring Panipat district, four people lost their lives after allegedly consuming suspected spurious liquor, police said.The deceased were residents of Dhansauli village in Panipat, police said, adding that their viscera report was awaited to confirm the cause of death.Sonepat police raided a house in Kharkhauda and busted an illegal liquor manufacturing unit. They recovered 22 fake holograms and 400 bottles of illicit liquor from the house.One person was arrested and further investigation into the matter was underway, police added. PTI
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana protest against farm laws; block roads||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana on Thursday put up road blockades at many places as part of a nationwide 'chakka jam' agitation in protest against three central farm laws, and demanded that these be withdrawn.The call for the nationwide 'chakka jam' from 12 noon to 4 pm was given by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.Protesting farmers owing allegiance to different outfits blocked state and national highways at several places, causing inconvenience to commuters.Though police authorities diverted traffic at many places, yet the commuters faced traffic snarls.Farmers slammed the BJP-led government at the Centre for bringing the "black laws" and expressed fear that these legislations would destroy the farming community and would only "benefit" big corporate houses.Punjab farmers' bodies also lashed out at the Centre for suspending goods trains in the state that has affected supply of coal, fertiliser and other essential items.Bharatiya Kisan union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said they have put up road blockades at 35 places, including Sangrur, Bathinda, Mansa, Barnala, Patiala, Ludhiana, in Punjab as part of the 'chakka jam' protest.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said their members blocked roads at 45 places in 10 districts of Punjab.Farmers blocked the link road near Solakhian toll plaza in Rupnagar district after police diverted traffic towards this road.State convener of the youth wing of Kirti Kisan Union, Bhupinder Longowal, said that the members of bodies have blocked roads at Barnala Kanchiya in Sangrur city, ITI chowk Sunam, Grewal Chownk Malerkotla, Kakarwal Chownk Dhuri, Katron Chownk sherpur, Jakhal road Lehra and Sangrur-Patiala road at Bhawanigarh.#TrafficAlertThe general public is being requested to avoid using tribune chowk to zirakpur barrier road due to Kissan Dharna. Inner and outer both motorists are requested to co-operate with @trafficchd#WeCareForYou@RJMeenakshi1 @927bigfmchd @redfmchandigarh  “The members of various bodies have finalized the protest sites and we have blocked the roads. More residents will also join in a short time,” said Longowal.The protests are also witnessing the participation of children and the elderly.A farmer, Balwinder Singh from Sangrur, alleged that the farm laws will end the farming sector of the country.“We would not end protest till the rollback of the latest laws...though the central government has done it, Punjab government is also not serious and they are doing politics rather than taking concrete steps,” said Jagmohan Singh, General secretary of BKU Dakaunda.In Ludhiana, even though the call for ‘Bharat bandh’ evoked little or no response in city markets, all three main highways around the city – Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road at Kohara, Jalandhar- Ludhiana GT Road at Ladhowal Toll Plaza and Ludhiana-Firozepur National Highway at Chowki Mann (near Jagraon) were blocked by hundreds of farmers.The farmers, led by Bharti Kisan Union, Lakhowal had blocked the vehicular traffic at 12.00 noon. Activists of BKU-Kadian were squatting on GT Road near Ladhowal Toll Plaza, while farmers had obstructed vehicular traffic at Chowki Mann near Jagraon after holding a protest at nearby Akahra canal bridge.In Patiala, farmers' unions blocked major highways connecting the city to nearby areas. BKU Dakaunda held a protest at the Toll plaza Shutrana, Passiana, at Banda bahadur chowk in Samana and the toll plaza near village Kalyan, Shambhu among other places.Meanwhile, the Ugrahan group was holding a protest at the thermal power plant in Rajpura.Children and women are part of the protest in large numbers. The protest at Shambhu witnesssed a gathering of 3,000 people who blocked the roads in protest.Farmers said they will continue the protests until they are revoked.Sucha Singh of BKU Dakaunda said they are holding a protest at over 9 places on highways. "Farmers from all nearby areas and villages are participating in the protest at their nearby locations", he added.While the highways were blocked, the markets in Patiala city remained open. The traffic on roads in Patiala city and Nabha meanwhile remained low.On the call of various farmer organisations for 'Bharat Band', the farmers have blocked road traffic at many places in the Moga district.The BKU (Kaddian), BKU (Maan) and Kirti Kissan Union District Moga blocked the Moga-Ferozepur national highway in front of the mini secretariat in the Moga city.Tarlochan Singh Gill, former president of the Kisan cell of BJP, Punjab, also joined this protest. He recently resigned from the BJP over the controversial farm legislations.Activists of BKU Ekta Ugrahan protested in front of the Silo of Adani group of industries at village Dagru and blocked the Moga-Ferozpur highway. There was a gathering of more than 1,000 farmers, including women.The Kirti Kissan Union, Naujwan Bharat Sabha, BKU (Lakhowal), Aartia Association Block Baghapurana staged a protest on the main chowk Baghapurana town and blocked the Moga-Bathinda highway.The BKU (Lakhowal), CPI, Narega Rujgar Prapti Union, All India Anganwari Worker/Helper union and many other trade unions supported the farmers' agitation and staged a protest in the main chowk at Nihal Singh Wala town in the district.The Kul Hind Kissan Sabha (CPI), BKU (Kadian), BKU (Maan) staged a protest near Baba Gendi Raam at Dharamkot town and blocked Moga-Jalandhar highway.The activists of BKU (Rajewal), BKU (Maan) staged a protest in Baba Nidhan Singh Chowk at Kot-ise-Khan town and blocked the Moga-Amritsar highway.The activists of BKU Ekta faction blocked the Moga-Kotkapura highway at Toll Plaza outside the Chand Purana village and raised slogans against the NDA government.The renowned film actor Yograj Singh also joined this protest for 5 minutes, then he moved towards Kotakpura side to join other protests.The BKU (Krantikari) District Moga staged a protest on the main bus stand at Ajitwal and blocked Moga-Ludhiana highway.The Kirti Kissan Union Block Moga sat on a dharna on the Railway Track at village Dagru in the Moga district.The Kissan Sangarsh Committee (Piddi Group) staged a protest in front of the Church in Moga city and blocked the Moga-Amritsar highway.Earlier, they planned the dharna in front of DC office complex at Moga but later they shifted their dharna to the front of Church, Moga to Moga-Amritsar road.The CPI staged a protest at Badhni Kalan and blocked the Moga-Barnala national highway.The civil and police officials have claimed that the law and order situation was peaceful in the district till the filing of this news report.The BKU Ekta General Secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri while claiming that all the major national and state highways were blocked in the state said that the NDA government must realise the fact that the farmers of the state and other parts of the country were against the recently introduced farm legislations. The government must relent and roll back these 'black laws, he demanded.He warned that the agitation will be further intensified if the NDA government did not roll back these legislations.Farmers accused AAP leaders of holding parallel protestThe farmers and Aam Aadmi Party workers headed by AAP district president Navdeep Singh Jeeda entered into a heated argument at farmers protest at Kahniya chowk in Bathinda.Farmers alleged that AAP leaders reached their protest site and started holding a parallel protest. However, AAP leaders denied holding a parallel protest.It is learnt that AAP leaders went to the farmers' protest and sat on one side and started shouting slogans. Irked over which farmers told them to go away as they are holding parallel protest here, which led to a heated spat between them.In Haryana, farmers blocked National Highway-44 near Karnal's Raipur Roran village on Thursday to protest the three continuous farm laws.Farmers from Karnal, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Panchkula are participating in the protest.Karnal police made a heavy deployment of security personnel near the village on the national highway as farmers were going to protest there between 12 pm and 4 pm.SDM Karnal Ayush Sinha was assigned to communicate with them to avoid the blockade at NH-44.DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said that they have chalked a diversion plan for the smooth flow of traffic.SP Ganga Ram Punia said that they have deployed additional security personnel on the NH-44 for maintaining the law and order situation.Farmers under the banner of BKU have already announced that they will block NH-44 near Nilokheri.Farmers are protesting The Farmers'' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. The Farmers'' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 aims to permit the sale of agricultural produce outside the mandis regulated by the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) constituted by different state legislations. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, provides for contract farming. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 deregulates the production, supply, distribution of food items like cereals, pulses, potatoes, onion and edible oilseeds.—with PTI
05-11-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad STPs dysfunctional, MC grants Rs242 crore for new ones||The sewage treatment plants (STPs) in the smart city here are in a mess. All three STPs operated by the civic body are lying non-functional for the past over a year and sewage is not being treated as per norms.The Municipal Corporation (MC) released tenders for construction of three new STPs with a capacity of 240 MLD at a cost of Rs 242 crore.Revealing that the existing STPs at Badshahpur, Pratapgarh and Mirjapur villages in the district having a total daily capacity of 115 MLD have been lying non-operational for over a year due to poor maintenance and outdated technology, sources in the civic body said the operation of the STPs had been irregular and not up to the standard ever since the work had been outsourced.They said untreated water was disposed of in a river or canals, causing severe water pollution. According to officials, the plants were upgraded under the JNNURM in 2009-10 and private companies were handed over the work of upkeep.The contract of the Badshahpur plant given in 2011 for five years was further extended to 2020. In a notice by the MC on August 16, a penalty of Rs 90 lakh had been imposed for poor upkeep of this plant. Though the company had been asked to repair the faulty machinery within seven days, no work had reportedly been taken up so far.Vishnu Goel, a social activist, alleged that no action had been taken against the companies for poor work. He said clogged sewer lines cleaned on outsourcing basis has resulted in extra financial burden on the civic body, which was already facing financial crunch.“We have stopped the payment of one of the companies and have decided to build new STPs with higher capacity and new technology, which are likely to become functional in 18 months,” said Thakur Lal Sharma, chief engineer, MC.He said new STPs would come up on the existing sites and would resolve the problem of sewage treatment and disposal.
05-11-2020||Panipat||Rs 1L reward for info on Panipat acid attackers||The police on Wednesday announced Rs 1 lakh reward for any information about the alleged accused in an acid attack case in Rajiv Colony on October 26.A police spokesperson said the information could be given on the mobile numbers- 705600111, 705600112 and 7056000402 of CIA-1, CIA-2 and CIA-3 unit in-charges, respectively. The identity of the informer would be kept secret, he said.Poonam, 37, of Rajiv Colony was on her way back home after her job at a textile factory in Deshraj Colony when she was attacked by two bike-borne youths.The police had registered a case against the two unidentified persons under sections 326-A and 34 of the IPC.The incident was captured on CCTV cameras installed nearby in which the two masked men were seen waiting for Poonam and when she came, they threw acid on her and fled. The police have failed to make any headway in the case.— TNS
05-11-2020||Palwal||Door-to-door waste collection a distant dream in Palwal||Garbage collection and disposal system in Palwal is in a mess as the local civic body is yet to begin the work of door-to-door waste collection. Due to this, open dumping of waste is on the rise in the city.“The cleanliness drive launched recently has also failed to give any respite and residents have to dispose of the garbage on their own,” said Kulveer Chauhan, a local resident.80 TONNES OF WASTE CHURNED OUT DAILYAround 80 tonnes of waste is churned out daily and the civic employees available, which are only ten per cent of the required strength, remain engaged in serving the officials or VIPs instead of their actual dutyThe civic infrastructure in the city, with a population of over 3.5 lakh, has failed to improve, though Palwal was upgraded to a district in 2008 and is situated on a strategically important location for being at the meeting point of two expressways.A post of District Municipal Commissioner (DMC) was also created here for the first time recently, but the difference after these steps are yet to be seen at the ground level, he said.Claiming that open dumping of waste is a common practice here, an official on the condition of anonymity said there was an acute shortage of staff and resources at the municipal council to handle the ever growing menace of waste.“Around 80 tonnes of waste is churned out daily and the civic employees available, which are only ten per cent of the required strength, remain engaged in serving the officials or VIPs instead of their actual duty, it is claimed,” said the official.Describing the newly created post of District Municipal Commissioner as a white elephant, Karan Dalal, a former MLA, alleged that the government had failed to redress civic grievances.District Municipal Commissioner Monika Gupta said a robust infrastructure was in the offing as several measures had been taken up to deal with the issue.While 12 garbage vulnerable points (open dumping points) have been removed, around 210 compost pits have been created to recycle wet wastes and three material removal facilities for waste disposal have been activated, she said.Revealing that tenders have been floated for door-to-door garbage collection, Municipal Council Executive Officer Manender Singh said a budget of over Rs 8 crore had been earmarked for the work. Another tender costing Rs 4 crore for processing the waste had also been floated.
05-11-2020||Rohtak||Toffees, tobacco on sale at same shops in Rohtak||Loose cigarettes and other tobacco-based products are being sold at shops selling toffees, candies, chips, biscuits and soft drinks in Rohtak.Many such shops are located in the vicinity of educational institutions, which makes students vulnerable to addiction.“Tobacco vendors sell loose cigarettes and bidis, making these cheap and accessible to children. Selling these with confectionery items near educational institutes attracts students,” said Ashim Sanyal of Consumer Voice, an NGO.The NGO urged the Haryana Government to ensure effective implementation of tobacco vendor licensing in the state. The NGO sent a representation to the Rohtak Mayor and municipal corporation.“Regulation of tobacco vendors can curtail tobacco consumption and save our younger generation from its addiction,” said Sanyal.Children were getting addicted to smoking and consumption of other easily available intoxicants, which was a cause of concern, said NS Deswal, project director at the Red Cross Centre for Deaddiction and Rehabilitation.Mayor Manmohan Goyal stated that the matter would be discussed with the municipal authorities and other officials concerned, after which appropriate steps would be taken.
05-11-2020||Yamunanagar||Rajasthan native arrested for duping man of Rs7 lakh||The police have arrested a Rajasthan resident for allegedly duping a Jagadhri man of Rs 7 lakh on the pretext of helping him clear the Class XII examination.Chamkaur Singh, PRO, Yamunanagar police, said on the direction of Superintendent of Police Kamaldeep Goyal, a team of City police station arrested the accused, Giriraj Sharma of Jaipur, from Rajasthan. He said Giriraj was produced in a local court on Tuesday, which remanded him to four-day police custody.The SP said Ashutosh Garg of Jagadhri had complained to the police on October 21 that he came in contact with Giriraj and his two accomplices in Ajmer.“I wanted to clear the Class XII examination. The accused assured me help in passing the exam and promised a marksheet. They duped me of Rs 7 lakh,” the complainant alleged.He alleged that when they failed to get him the desired result, they offered him help in passing a fire and safety course from an institute of Kota in Rajasthan. “After a year, they gave me a degree in the course, which later turned out to be fake,” he added.
05-11-2020||Rohtak||Two booked for rape||The police have booked two youths on the charge of raping a woman from Delhi in a local hotel. The accused were identified as Deepak and Parveen of Jhajjar district.In her complaint, the victim said she befriended one of the accused on Facebook. On October 31, he called her to Rohtak. He and his friend took her to a hotel and allegedly raped her.Shamsher Singh, SHO, Urban Police Station, said the police were conducting raids at the possible hideouts of the accused. — TNS
05-11-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Missing minor: ‘Abductor’ nabbed from Surat||The SIT formed to investigate alleged “love jihad” in a missing girl case in Rewari has nabbed the key accused from Surat in Gujarat, though the minor girl who was allegedly lured and abducted by him has not yet been traced.The team left for Rewari by road and would interrogate him after reaching there.Over 20 days ago, a 16-year-old girl went missing from the Khol police station area in Rewari district. On the complaint of the girl’s father, an FIR was registered under sections 363 (abduction) and 366A (abduction with intention of marriage) of the IPC. Her mother alleged that the accused was a Muslim who lured her daughter and took her away.
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Pay farmers for procured crop within 7 days: CM Haryana||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed officers to pay farmers, whose paddy has been procured, within seven days.“Any delay on the part of procurement agencies, arhtiyas and bankers in making the payment will not be tolerated. J and I forms can be verified later. It is important to pay farmers first. All dues must be cleared before Diwali,” he said here on Wednesday.The Chief Minister said this at a review meeting of officers of departments engaged in the paddy procurement process.He directed senior officers to ensure that H, J and I forms, and gate passes were generated online, and so does the approval of I forms. “It should also be ensured that farmers get the payment within one week of the release of H forms or within 72 hours of the receipt of I forms.”The Chief Minister further said a chart of the entire procurement process under different heads such as mandis, farmers, and arhtiyas should be prepared and uploaded on the Agriculture Department’s website so that anyone can access it.“Farmers must be informed when their H forms are released so that they can visit the mandis accordingly,” he added.The Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department told officers that the procurement process had been made online.
05-11-2020||MANY drains are lying open in Shahabad Markanda. One of them||Open drains a death trap||Make K’shetra state capitalACCORDING to the ancient Hindu texts Puranas, Kurukshetra is named after King Kuru of the Bharata dynasty, who was also the ancestor of Pandavas and Kauravas. The battle of Mahabharata was fought in the holy city which is an important Hindu pilgrimage. The climate and geography of the city is also suitable. Various Hindu religious sites, historical and tourist sites and educational institutes are present here so it is suitable to become the capital. — Ribhav Sagar, KurukshetraAvoid bursting crackersKEEPING in view the Diwali festival and the fear of second wave of Covid infections due to increase in pollution by crackers, the authorities should consider the ban on sale of firecrackers in the city. Doctors have opined that toxic air arising out of bursting of crackers is likely to affect lungs and also cause several other respiratory ailments. Hence, citizens should be advised to avoid bursting crackers. It is also the responsibility of the residents to keep the city pollution-free so that there is no resurgence of people with lung diseases or Covid infection. — Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaRoads in deplorable conditionIT is almost been a year that the work of laying down of sewage pipes was started by the government contractor in Sector 17C, Gurugram. The roads were left excavated and the condition turned pathetic. We have made several complaints to the Gurugram MC and even to the CM office on Twitter but the condition remained the same for long. It is now that the contractor finally filled the excavated parts of the road, but still the work has not been done up to the mark. The deplorable condition of the road is an open threat to the commuters and risks many lives. The concerned department must immediately look into the issue and get the needful done. — Abhishek Gaur, GurugramIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
05-11-2020||Hisar||Faculty development programme||MDU extends admission dateRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has extended the last date for the submission of the online application forms for admission to various postgraduate, LLB (three year), and certificate/diploma progammes for session 2020-2021 up to November 16. MDU Registrar Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja said the details of these programmes, available in the university teaching departments and MDU-CPAS, Gurugram, could be browsed in e-prospectus on the MDU website. Prof Taneja said all such candidates who had earlier applied online, but could not upload supporting documents/certificates etc may do so i.e. edit/update information in their online admission form up to November 16. Thereafter, no change/editing/updating will be allowed, he added.CUH student gets placedMahendragarh: Mukul Jalodiya, a student of the School of Engineering and Technology at the Central University of Haryana (CUH), has got a job offer with a package of Rs 3.5 lakh per annum from Technova Imaging Systems Private Limited. Vice Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad said Mukul is studying in BTech (Printing and Packaging Technology).DAVIM students bag varsity ranksFaridabad: The students of DAVIM (DAV Institute of Management) made their mark in the recently declared MD University merit list. Shweta of BBA (3rd semester) brought laurels by holding third rank in the university while competing with students of more than 70 colleges and institutes. Piyush Aggarwal and Nancy of BBA (1st semester) bagged 12th and 13th positions in the university while Aashika Garg secured the 8th position in BBA (5th semester). Revealing this, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Principal Director, DAVIM, said the hard work of the students and faculty must be appreciated.
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Abhay Chautala submits three private agriculture Bills to Speaker||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) MLA Abhay Chautala has submitted three private member Bills on agriculture to the Vidhan Sabha Speaker for moving these in the Assembly session beginning tomorrow.The Bills — Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Haryana Amendment) Bill 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provision and Haryana Amendment) Bill 2020 and Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Special Provisions and Haryana Amendment) Bill 2020 — have been sent to the respective departments through the law secretary.All three Bills seek to maintain status quo qua the existing Acts in this regard as on June 4, a day before the President accorded assent. The second and third Bills also provide punishment of not less than three years of imprisonment and fine for procurement below MSP.“I know that I do not have the required strength to get the Bills passed in the Assembly, but if things come to the stage of voting, people will know who stands with farmers and who is against them,” said Abhay.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said ideally, a private member Bill should be presented to him 15 days in advance, yet he had sent the Bills to the Legal Remembrancer (LR) for further action.As per procedure followed by the Assembly, all private member Bills are first sent to the LR, who is also the law secretary to the government. The LR sends the Bills to the departments concerned for examination, after which the final decision is taken by the government.Since the Assembly session, which is likely to last two days, will start on Thursday, it is to be seen whether the government clears the Bills by then. “In case the government fails to clear the Bills before the session ends, these lapse,” said sources in the Assembly.There is another catch which may prevent the Bills to be taken up even if the government clears the Bills in time. Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Haryana Legislative Assembly provides that “private members’ business shall be taken up on Thursdays. On all other days, no business other than government business shall be transacted, except with the consent of Leader of the House”.The rule further provides that on a motion made after a day’s notice by a minister, this rule may be suspended and the Assembly may transact government business on Thursdays. “It has been a practice that if the Assembly session begins on Thursday, no private business is taken up as the Assembly has to transact important government business,” said sources.
05-11-2020||Faridabad||It’s clear case of ‘terror jihad’: BJP MLA||Sangeet Som, BJP legislator from the Sardhana Assembly segment in Uttar Pradesh, has described the murder of 21-year-old Nikita Tomar as a result of “terror jihad”.Som, who visited Nikita’s family here on Wednesday, said the incident should not be construed as “love jihad” as there was no love, but hatred between the girl and her assailant.“Jihadists should either leave the country or face consequences. The Centre will soon introduce a law to curb the occurrence of such incidents,” he told the media.The BJP leader described Nikita as a brave girl, who, he said, did not bow to “terror jihad” and gave her life.“Nikita’s family is satisfied with the police investigation. Justice will be done. The case will be tried in a fast-track court and culprits will be sentenced to death within two months,” the legislator said.He condemned the last week’s violence at a mahapanchayat. “The authorities should check the track record of all accused named in the incident before taking action against them.”
05-11-2020||Kurukshetra||BKU activists to block highways today||The activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) have geared up to block national highways from noon to 4 pm to mark their protest against the three farm laws on Thursday.BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Bains said, “As announced earlier, the farmers will block the highways on Thursday. Farmers from Ambala, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, and Panchkula will reach near Raipur Roran village of Nilokheri in Karnal, while farmers of Kaithal will block the road at Titram Mod in Kaithal. Similarly, road blocks will be made in Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Jind, Bhiwani and Rohtak. Ambulances, army vehicles and any other emergency vehicle will be allowed to pass.”BKU (Charuni) Chief Gurnam Singh said, “The matter of farm laws does not only affect the farmers, hence we are trying to make it a Jan Andolan. After a meeting with farmer unions of various states, it was decided that national highways across the nation will be blocked on the same day and time.”The BKU chief also issued a video in the evening and appealed people along with farmers to reach the dharna sites in their respective villages in support of the farmer unions. He also appealed the people to avoid travelling during the protest hours.Meanwhile, Kurukshetra DC Sharandeep Kaur has imposed Section 144 in view of the farmer union’s call. As per the orders, the possibility of disturbing the law and order by anti-social elements cannot be ruled out.
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Parents’ maintenance plea before SDM or tribunal? High Court to decide||Can a Subdivisional Magistrate (SDM) in Haryana entertain an application filed by parents under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act in his individual capacity instead of a duly constituted maintenance tribunal as envisaged under rules? This vital question of law has come under the judicial scanner with the filing of a writ petition by a son against his parents and other respondents.Taking up the matter, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has not only issued a notice of motion on the petition, but also stayed the passing of the final orders by the respondent-SDM of Badshahpur in Gurugram district on the application preferred by the parents against the petitioner.The direction by Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa came after the petitioner’s counsel submitted that the Haryana Government, in exercise of powers conferred under Section 32 of the Act, had framed the Haryana Maintenance of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules 2009.The counsel pointed out that Rule 3 laid down the constitution of a maintenance tribunal, which would consist of three members, including one official not below the rank of SDM, who would be the chairperson, with two non-official members to be nominated by the Deputy Commissioner.“The instant writ petition has been filed raising a grievance that an application preferred by the petitioner’s parents under provisions of the Act is being entertained by the respondent-SDM in his individual capacity and not at the hands of a duly constituted maintenance tribunal as envisaged under Rule 3 of the rules,” Justice Dhindsa observed.
05-11-2020||Yamunanagar||6 held for cattle smuggling in Yamunanagar||The police arrested six persons for cruelty to animals and claimed to rescue 23 cattle from their possession.The cattle were loaded in two utility vehicles and were being taken to UP allegedly for slaughtering purposes.On the complaint of Suresh Pal, Sub-Inspector, Cow Rakshak Staff, a case was registered against Ramzan of Rampur village, Aslam, Ishu Khan, Irfan, Islam and Pravesh, all of Prem Nagar of Sadhaura town of the district under Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act at Bilaspur police station on Tuesday. All accused were arrested and later released on bail.On a tip-off, the Cow Rakshak Staff of the police laid a trap at Shiv Chowk of Bilaspur town and seized two utility vehicles, carrying cattle from Haryana to UP. — TNS
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||High Court doubles costs on counsel’s ‘invitation’||A petitioner, whose counsel “very rowdily exuberated” that paying costs was not an issue and he was even ready to pay Rs 1 lakh, ended up paying the same. “On the invitation of the counsel for the petitioner, the cost imposed is enhanced to Rs 1 lakh,” Justice Arun Monga asserted.The order has its genesis in a petition filed against Haryana and other respondents, alleging inaction on the part of a Superintendent of Police regarding non-registration of FIR despite the petitioner’s complaint.Justice Monga asserted that it was observed in an inquiry report that the entire matter was already sub judice in a civil court as the petitioner had already filed two civil suits against the respondents and the petitioner had not challenged the report before any judicial forum.Justice Monga asserted that mere pendency of civil suits would not mean that simultaneous criminal proceedings could not be instituted on the same cause of action, provided criminal case was made out.Justice Monga noted that the dispute, prima facie, appeared to be civil in nature and institution of criminal proceedings was being sought for collateral pressure and settling private scores or gains and it was for the appropriate court to look into the same.Justice Monga stated that the petitioner ought to have first approached the trial court under Section 156(3) of the CrPC for grievance redress, if any, before directly approaching the High Court.Justice Monga observed that the other relief regarding dissolution of an educational charitable trust and to induct the petitioner as its secretary was civil in nature and the petition was abuse of the court process.Justice Monga ruled that the petitioner’s conduct of indulging in subtle concealment did not inspire confidence and the petition was dismissed with Rs 50,000 costs.Justice Monga added that the petitioner’s counsel boisterously claimed that he had been instrumental in making many a judge and how could his arguments and contentions be rejected by the court for dismissing the petition.“To say the least, the tone, tenor, manner and conduct of the counsel for the petitioner leaves a lot to desire. Yet, taking a lenient view thereof, this court rather prefers self-restraint from taking any further action,” Justice Monga asserted before doubling the costs.
05-11-2020||Faridabad||Post stir, Faridabad MC drops plan to set up dumping site||The Municipal Corporation (MC) has succumbed to the demand of abandoning the move to set up a waste dumping site at sector 74 here.The demand was raised by the residents of some villages and residential sectors located in the close vicinity of the spot. The matter has also been consistently reported by The Tribune.MC chief engineer Thakur Lal Sharma said the move had been dropped in view of the protests. He said the civic body was still discussing the matter and was likely to set up several dump-cum-recycle plants in all wards of the city for proper management of solid waste.The city, which churns out a daily waste of around 800 tonne, is looking for alternative disposal points in view of the present site at Bandhwari village going overfull and the authorities concerned directed not to dump more waste there till a waste-to-energy power plant comes up here.“We are considering a project to develop smaller dumping sites in all 40 wards, which will recycle the waste to provide compost to the residents,” Sharma said.The MC had started developing a new site near sector 74 in September this year in five acres belonging to the Sihi village here and had even spent about Rs 25 lakh on developing its base, but stiff opposition and dharna by the locals led to a halt on the project.A mahapanchayat was also held on October 11 in which the protesters had announced not to let the MC having its way, claiming that the spot was in close vicinity of some villages and residential sectors. Residents of Sihi, Mirjapur, Mujeri and Neemka and RWAs of sectors 75, 76, 77 and Neharpar (Greater Faridabad) Vikas Morcha had attended it. The matter was also raised by some of the elected members in a meeting yesterday. — TNS
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two Haryana MLAs test positive||A day before the start of the Assembly session, two MLAs — Gurugram’s Sudhir Singla and Kallianwali’s Shishpal Keharwal — tested Covid-positive on Wednesday.The state reported 1,952 cases taking the tally to 1,74,082. The death toll reached 1,836 with 19 more fatalities. Faridabad four deaths, followed by Gurugram, Hisar and Rohtak (3 each) and Rewari, Bhiwani and Jind (2 each). — TNS
05-11-2020||Ambala||Ambala MC to hire pvt agency to check stray cattle menace||The Municipal Council (MC) has decided to hire a private agency to catch and tag stray cattle and other unclaimed animals in Ambala Cantonment.The development assumes significance as the problem of stray cattle had reached alarming levels in the district. These unclaimed animals roaming around or camping freely on the roads, highways not excluded, pose a grave danger to the lives of commuters. Farmers also suffer losses to crops due to these barging into their farms along the roads and destroying them.Fine of Rs5,100 proposedThe MC has proposed a fine of Rs5,100 for the cattle caught first time and Rs11,000 for the second offence while the calf will be released after charging Rs2,100 fine for the first time and Rs5,100 for the second time by the same owner.The seriousness of the problem could be gauged from the fact that at least 125 persons had lost their lives while over 330 had sustained serious injuries in the mishaps caused by stray cattle in the district since 2014. The number of fatalities and those injured could be much higher as many such accidents remain unreported or the cause fails to come to fore during investigation.Official figures revealed that at least 20 persons had lost their lives in some 40 mishaps caused by stray cattle in the district this year so far. In the past, 22 persons had died in 2019, 16 in 2018, 22 in 2017, 20 in 2016, 16 in 2015 and nine in 2014.Accusing the civic and police authorities of shutting their eyes to the growing menace of stray cattle in the district, the local residents had demanded immediate and concrete steps to solve the problem. Rising from the slumber, the civic body authorities have floated a tender to hire a private firm to check the menace.According to the proposal, the owners of cattle or other animals, which are caught roaming on road and public places, will be fined for release of their confiscated cattle and animals, while the stray and unclaimed cattle will be rehabilitated at cattle pounds after tagging.The MC has proposed a fine of Rs 5,100 for the cattle caught first time and Rs 11,000 for the second offence while the calf will be released after charging Rs 2,100 fine for the first time and Rs 5,100 for the second time by the same owner. The hired agency will ensure that no cruelty is subjected to animals while catching them.
05-11-2020||Gurugram||Woman shot at in Gurugram||A 26-year-old woman was shot in the head by three bikers here late on Tuesday night.The three accused intercepted the car, pulled out a gun asking her to lower the window pane. But when she didn’t, they shot at her and fled. She is in a critical condition and being treated in Medanta.An FIR has been registered against three unidentified accused under Sections 307 and 34 IPC and under the Arms Act at Sector 65 police station after a complaint by Sagar Manchanda of Roorki, Uttarakhand, who is working with a Gurugram-based MNC.Manchanda said he had gone out to have dinner with his colleague Pooja Sharma after which they went for a drive in his car. “Pooja was driving and when at 11.15 pm we reached near the Golf Course road, three bike-borne masked men intercepted our car. When Pooja tried to drive away, they fired and Pooja was injured with a bullet shot in her head. I called the police after reaching the hospital,” Manchanda said.“We are investigating the case from all angles, including personal enmity,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime. — OC
05-11-2020||Panipat||3-tier security for EVMs||The final voter turnout for the Baroda bypoll held on Tuesday stood at 68.56 per cent. Three-tier security has been provided to guard the EVMs kept at a strongroom in Sonepat district.As many as 1,22,503 voters of total 1,78,664 exercised their franchise. The lowest voter turnout has been recorded in Gangana village (50.75 per cent) while the highest in BJP-JJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt’s Bhainswal Kalan village (90.66 per cent). The counting of votes will be done on November 10.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said, “Three-tier security arrangements have been put in place at the strongroom at the BITS Institute in Mohana village on Sonepat-Gohana Road.”The inner cordon was being guarded by the troops of CAPF and CISF, the middle one by the IRB of the Haryana Police and outer cordon by the Sonepat police. The entry of outsiders to the strongroom is prohibited. No one has been allowed to enter the counting centre, except the candidate and agents. The premise is under the CCTV lens. — TNS
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||‘Right to recall’ Bill on agenda, applicable to panchayats, ZPs||To deal with “non-performers”, the Haryana Government will table the “right to recall” Bill during the Assembly session, which resumes tomorrow after the last session was suspended in view of the rising Covid-19 cases.INLD proposes Bills to guarantee MSPSources say the “right to recall” will be applicable to sarpanches and panchayat samiti and zila parishad members. As per the procedure, 50 per cent of the members of a ward must sign a draft to initiate the proceedings after which it has to be passed by the two-thirds majority. Following this, the sarpanch or the member will be removed.The sources say the government will also table another Bill, which will grant 50 per cent reservation to women in the panchayat poll. The government is keen on passing the Bill before the next panchayat elections, which are due in February next year. The reservation will be done in wards on odd-even basis.The Bill also proposes to give 8 per cent reservation to Backward Classes (A) category for the post of sarpanch.
05-11-2020||Naina Mishra||Diwali, winter can lead to second Covid surge in region||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 4A majority of population here still remains susceptible to Covid-19 exposure, and the Diwali festival and winter could push up transmission, leading to a second surge in the region.According to experts, the two reasons that will contribute to the second surge of Covid cases in winter will be gatherings of people in the lower-income group and the tendency of a virus to survive for a longer period in a colder climate.Besides, the Diwali festival can work in favour of the second surge, as air pollution caused by crackers will help aerosols of the virus produced by an infected person to remain afloat in the air for longer than 10-20 minutes, resulting in increased transmission of Covid-19.“The burning of firecrackers releases gaseous pollutants SO2, NO2 and huge amounts of ambient particulate into the atmosphere that generate dense clouds of smoke. These air pollutants stimulate the ACE-2 receptors on respiratory nasal cells, thus increasing permeability of the SARS-COV-2 virus to easily enter these cells and establish infection in the nose, throat and lungs,” said the UT Director of Health Services, Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang.‘25 per cent residents may have been infected’Dr Rajesh Kumar, former Head of School of Public Health and Community Medicine, PGI, says around 2.5 lakh to 3.5 lakh people in Chandigarh may have been infected, which comprises 25-35 per cent population. The estimation is based on the hypothesis that for every Covid positive case, there will be 20-30 undetected cases.“Since this virus is novel, not many people have antibodies against it and still, a vast majority of the population is susceptible to the exposure. The virus does not have a free run when at least 60 per cent of the population has been infected, which, in turn, acts as a barrier for transmission. At the onset of winter, people belonging to the lower-income group tend to stay indoors in public spaces with less ventilation. A virus once introduced may remain for a longer period of time and circulate among a large number of people. There is no definite trend for the Covid-19 virus but most flu viruses tend to survive longer in cooler climate,” said Dr Kumar.Need to overcome mobility, mask fatigueDr Rajesh Kumar, former Head of School of Public Health and Community Medicine, PGI, said: “If barriers of transmission such as the use of mask are adopted by people without any fatigue, the second surge may not be of a greater degree than the first one. The more people will mix with each other, the more will the virus spread.”UT’s appeal to residentsDr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director of Health Services, UT, says: “People should stay indoors and desist from bursting firecrackers this Diwali so that we can protect elderly persons and patients with co-morbidities. If we add smoke to the air by bursting firecrackers, then it could turn out to be a recipe for disaster. Even those who have recovered from the Covid-19 virus will become vulnerable if we do not restrain ourselves during Diwali.”
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||In death, two give fresh lease of life to 8 at PGI||The kidneys and corneas of two persons, who lost their lives in road accidents, gave a fresh lease of life to eight patients at the PGI here.The family of 45-year-old Gurinder Singh from Kurukshetra donated his kidneys and corneas. On October 28, Gurinder’s bike collided with a car coming from the opposite direction and he sustained injuries. He was brought to the PGI in a critical condition. His condition kept deteriorating. He was declared brain dead on October 30.His wife Swarn Kaur expressed the desire to donate his organs for therapeutic purpose to save the lives of terminally ill patients. The gesture led to giving a fresh lease of life to two and restoring the sight of another two after the transplantation of harvested kidneys and corneas of the donor.A family from a village in Dera Bassi also donated the organs of a 50-year-old man, who had sustained severe head injuries in a road mishap on October 14 and was declared brain dead on October 21. He was taken to the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, after the mishap. He was then referred to the GMCH, Sector 32, and finally to the PGI. The family took the brave decision of organ donation. The retrieved kidneys and corneas of the donor gave a new lease of life to two and sight to two others.
