05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Manesar land scam: Ex-CM Hooda questions leaving out his industries minister from chargesheet||Former chief minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda questioned leaving out his industries minister as accused in Manesar land scam during arguments on charge, but the CBI Special Court ruled that complainant or accused could move the application for the same during the trial.The case pertains to purchasing land from farmers at meagre rates in Manesar, Lakhnaula and Naurangpur villages in Gurugram and then earning huge profits by getting it released in connivance with bureaucracy and politicians.As per CBI, Rs 1,044 crore would have come as profit had the project of IMT Manesar had been finalised.   Regarding his order, dated August 24, 2007, for dropping land acquisition, which is cited as evidence of criminal conspiracy, Hooda said that he could have “simply sat on the file for one day and the result would have been the same” but he acted like a “responsible public servant” and had ordered for fresh notification.   After that, a committee comprising the officials of different stakeholder departments recommended for not initiating acquisition in its report on March 26, 2008.  The proposal for dropping acquisition proceedings was resubmitted on November 19, 2009, after Hooda’s re-election, with the concurrence of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) and the then Industries Minister approved the same on December 24, 2009.  Hooda said he approved the recommendations of the Industries Minister on January 29, 2010.  He argued that “the fact that none of these officers who have approved the recommendations of the Committee or the then Industries Minister have been arraigned as accused in the chargesheet filed by the CBI”, and his implication “goes to show the political vendetta”.  He claimed that the registration of the FIR came in the background of the statements made by Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and other BJP leaders that he would be sent to jail in land scams.  CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh in his detailed order observed that if evidence suggested involvement of public officials including Industries Minister, the trial court would take decision as per the law on the application by accused or complainant. The Court also dismissed the arguments of former Principal Secretaries to CM-ML Tayal, SS Dhillon and Chattar Singh that amended Prevention of Corruption Act was applicable in their case where prosecution sanction was required even for retired public servants. It said that amendment came on July 26, 2018, much later than submission of the chargesheet.  On Dhillon’s argument that a proposal to deny prosecution sanction to CBI in his case was sent to CM (Khattar) but was kept pending and in meanwhile he retired, the Court said that there was no “final order declining sanction to prosecute” him was ever passed.  Dhillon had also questioned leaving out some serving IAS officers, who had similar or higher role, from the chargesheet.  On missing file in Industries department, the Court observed that the office of CM (Hooda) might have passed the order in question on dropping acquisition proceedings on the basis of “notings /material/comments” and “the absence of relevant file notings (which are stated to be missing) of the Department of Industries assume importance and devious design in making the file notings untraceable cannot be ruled out”. It added, “In other words, one may say that whatever was inconvenient, the same has gone missing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manesar-land-scam-ex-cm-hooda-questions-leaving-out-his-industries-minister-from-chargesheet-180424
05-12-2020||Sonipat||Doctor brothers from Haryana set up free medical camp at Singhu border||Two brothers who are doctors and belong to a farming family of Haryana's Sirsa district are providing free medical care to the agitating farmers who are up in arms against the Centre's three farm laws.A medical camp has been set up at the Singhu border by Sukhwinder Singh Brar and Ramanjit Singh Brar with the help of their doctor friends.Both the brothers are private practitioners at Chandigarh."Everyday, we are giving medical care to almost 1,500 people coming up with different complaints," Sukhwinder said over the phone.At the camp, they have kept a range of medicines in the boot space of two cars."We have medicines which can take care of several health-related issues," he said."Most of people are coming with complaints of hypertension, joint pain among elderly ones, diarrhoea, constipation etc," said Sukhwinder."Some elderly people who have run out of their medicines are also approaching us," he further said.A team of 10-15 people including paramedic staff are working at this camp to provide medical care, he said.Sukhwinder said they themselves belong to a farming family and this has motivated them to serve people here.He further said more doctors from Barnala in Punjab will soon join them to extend their support.Some religious and social organisations and local people are also providing them medicines, he further said, adding he and his brother are staying at nearby places, so they come here early to start their free medical camp.A protester from Punjab who came to the medical camp for treatment of a hand injury was all praise for the team.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other areas have stayed put at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. Most of the protesters have been staying in tractor-trolleys which have been turned into temporary shelters. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/doctor-brothers-from-haryana-set-up-free-medical-camp-at-singhu-border-180398
05-12-2020||Karnal||Khattar must apologise for use of force: Former Speaker||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-must-apologise-for-use-of-force-former-speaker-180389
05-12-2020||Hisar||Protesters not Cong workers: BJP MP Dharambir Singh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesters-not-cong-workers-bjp-mp-dharambir-singh-180388
05-12-2020||Aditi Tandon||Union Health Ministry says Covid-positive Anil Vij took only one dose of Covid vaccine||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 5The government on Saturday clarified that COVID positive status of Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij was not a comment on the efficacy of COVAXIN, indigenous COVID vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech and ICMR, as the vaccine trial is a two dose regimen and Vij has only been administered one shot yet.Also read: Days after getting vaccine, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij tests Covid positiveCOVAXIN is just one of the two indigenous COVID vaccines in final stage phase 3 human trials in India, the other being the candidate of Zydus Cadila.COVAXIN trial results assessed by the Indian drug regulator so far have shown it to be efficacious enough to proceed from phase 2 (trials on limited number of people) to phase 3 which involve multi centric trials on large populations.Regarding this news:“The anti bodies against the infection build up in a human being only after a specific number of days pass after the second dose of the vaccine is taken. Since this is a two dose vaccine.The minister in question has taken only one dose of the vaccine,” a Health Ministry official said.Bharat Biotech also elaborated the design of the study and said COVAXIN has been designed to be efficacious. “COVAXIN clinical trials are based on a 2 dose schedule, given 28 days apart. The vaccine efficacy will be determined 14 days post the 2nd dose. COVAXIN has been designed to be efficacious when subjects receive both doses and post the 14 day period after the 2nd dose,” the company said.The phase 3 trials are double blinded and randomized, where 50 per cent of subjects will receive vaccine and 50 per cent of subjects will receive placebo.A double-blind study is one in which neither the participants nor the experimenters know who is receiving a particular treatment. This procedure is utilized to prevent bias in research results.COVAXIN is an fully indigenously developed COVID-19 vaccine, with the largest Phase 3 clinical trial conducted in India, in 26,000 subjects across 25 sites.The goal is evaluate the efficacy of COVAXIN across India.The phase 3 trials of COVAXIN is the only efficacy trial being conducted in India for COVID-19 vaccines, to determine its suitability to the diverse Indian population.Infection status doesn’t determine vaccine efficacy: ICMR chiefMeanwhile, the ICMR said infection status of an individual does not determine the efficacy of COVID vaccine.ICMR is collaborating with Bharat Biotech on COVAXIN, India’s indigenous COVID 19 vaccine.Speaking to The Tribune on the issue today, ICMR chief Balram Bhargava said, “Participation of political leaders in vaccine trial helps in allaying the fear from people’s mind related to such participation.“Anybody — either in the vaccine arm or in the placebo arm — can acquire infection.”Bhargava said final analysis would reveal if the vaccination arm had significantly lower infection rate among participants compared to that in placebo arm, resulting in estimation of efficacy of the vaccine, which is not 100 per cent in any vaccine.“Infection status of an individual does not determine vaccine efficacy at population level,” he said.COVAXIN in a double blind trial in which half of the participants receive the vaccine and another half receive the placebo, with neither the receiver nor the experimenter knows who is receiving what.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/union-health-ministry-says-covid-positive-anil-vij-took-only-one-dose-of-covid-vaccine-180364
05-12-2020||Sushil Manav||Days after getting vaccine, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij tests Covid positive||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5Days after getting a shot of Covid vaccine, Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij on Saturday tested positive for corona virus.Also read: Union Health Ministry says Covid-positive Anil Vij took only one dose of Covid vaccine Vij tweeted that he has tested positive for Corona and is admitted to Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantt.I have been tested Corona positive. I am admitted in Civil Hospital Ambala Cantt. All those who have come in close contact to me are advised to get themselves tested for corona.  On November 20, Vij was given a shot of Bharat Biotech's vaccine Covaxine as a volunteer.I Will be administered trial dose of Coronavirus vaccine #Covaxin a Bharat Biotech product Tomorrow at 11 am at Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantt under the expert supervision of a team of Doctors from PGI Rohtak and Health Department. I have volunteered to take the trial dose.  Only yesterday, a deputation of the JJP, the alliance partner of the BJP in Manohar Lal Khattar government, had met Vij demanding withdrawal of criminal cases registered against farmers. The deputation included Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala’s younger brother Digvijay Chautala and JJP’s state president Nishan Singh. Besides, Yog Guru Ram Dev had met Vij in his office in Chandigarh on December 1. Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, Nodal Officer of the State for Covid-19 and Head of Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Unit of the PGIMS, Rohtak who had been leading Covaxine trials, said it is yet not known whether Vij received a vaccine or placebo, as shots for volunteers are selected by computer randomly.  Bharat Biotech meanwhile said that the Covaxin clinical trials are based on a 2-dose schedule, given 28 days apart. The vaccine efficacy will be determined 14 days post the 2nd dose. Covaxin has been designed to be efficacious when subjects receive both dosesEarlier, Chief Minister M L Khattar, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, State Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and a couple of ministers in the BJP-JJP government has contracted the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/days-after-getting-vaccine-haryana-health-minister-anil-vij-tests-covid-positive-180342
05-12-2020||New Delhi||20 more die in Punjab, 19 in Haryana as national Covid cases cross 96-lakh mark||India's COVID-19 caseload rose to 96.08 lakh with 36,652 new cases in a day, while 90,58,822 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national recovery rate to 94.28 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.The total coronavirus cases mounted to 96,08,211 and the death toll climbed to 1,39,700 with the coronavirus virus claiming 512 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.The COVID-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.45 per cent.There are 4,09,689 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 4.26 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20.The 512 new fatalities include 127 from Maharashtra, 73 from Delhi, 52 from West Bengal, 29 each from Uttar Pradesh and Kerala, 20 from Punjab, 19 from Haryana, 15 from Chhattisgarh and 13 from Karnataka.A total of 1,39,700 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 47,599 from Maharashtra, followed by 11,834 from Karnataka, 11,762 from Tamil Nadu, 9,497 from Delhi, 8,628 from West Bengal, 7,877 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,020 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,882 from Punjab and 4,049 from Gujarat.The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities."Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-more-die-in-punjab-19-in-haryana-as-national-covid-cases-cross-96-lakh-mark-180330
05-12-2020||Karnal||JJP leader joins protest at Singhu||Kaithal village sarpanch resignsKarnal: Pirthi Singh, sarpanch of Kaithal’s Mattor village, has resigned from his post in solidarity with the farmers. The Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO), Kalayat, confirmed the development. Singh said, “The new farm laws will deteriorate the condition of farmers, who are already in crisis. I tender my resignation against the policies of the Centre.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jjp-leader-joins-protest-at-singhu-180283
05-12-2020||Residents of Ansal Town||Damaged cables lead to frequent power cuts||NK Dhiman, JagadhriFruit sellers parking rehris on roadFruit sellers park their rehris on the road from Mission hospital to Kalka Chowk. People stop and park their vehicles on the road to purchase the fruit which obstructs the traffic. The Ambala authorities should act tough and spring in to action before some untoward incident takes place.Kapil Kumar, Ambala cityNeed to follow Covid SOPs in MC pollThe spurt in political activity with announcement of municipal election on December 27, may result in the rise of Covid cases. The Covid scare makes the task more daunting and situation is too risky to be left only to self-regulation. A bulk of the staff and resources will be deployed for election work and Covid SOPs may not be followed. Elections being basic to democracy are welcome and onus is on both the administration and the public to beware of the virus spread. It's time to follow the dos and don'ts as the virus is not leaving us anytime soonLalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaPhones unattended in Delhi banksAt nationalised banks in Delhi no staff bothers to pick up the landline phone and answer to the calls of customers. Each branch has three to four landline phones. Customers are left to suffer as they have to visit the branches for petty works during the Covid pandemic. It is also not easy to get a reply of one's email from them. The bank management should display mobile numbers of staff and instruct them to pick up landline phones and reply to emails of the customers at the earliest.Dilip Saksena, New DelhiLaunch Drive to check ‘PUC irregularities'The Regional Transport Authority (RTA) should launch a drive in Panchkula district to check irregularities and violations of the pollution control centres (PUC) issuing pollution certificates to all types of vehicles without testing and issue show-cause notice to the violators by lodging an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC and the Environment Protection Act?Ramit, Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/damaged-cables-lead-to-frequent-power-cuts-180286
05-12-2020||Rohtak||MDU launches career info window||JC Bose varsity gets awardFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has been awarded first prize in the state-level energy conservation award under the category of institutions and organisations with connected load more than 30KW for the promotion of energy conservation activities in its building. The award was conferred on the university by Haryana Power and New and Renewable Energy Minister Ranjit Singh at the State Level Energy Conservation Awards function organised through video-conferencing in Chandigarh. The university has received the award for 2017-18 on the basis of energy saving measures. The award consists of cash prize of Rs one Lakh, a certificate and trophy. The award was received by Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar from Additional Deputy Commissioner of Faridabad Satbir Singh Mann in Faridabad. Registrar Dr SK Garg and chairperson of electrical engineering Dr Poonam Singhal were also present on this occasion.Importance of yoga discussedKurukshetra: Prof MM Goel, retired from Kurukshetra University, while addressing an online inaugural function of a refresher course on 'science and technology of yoga and meditation' at BPS Mahila Vishwavidyalaya, Khanpur, said, "To address various challenges of physical, mental and spiritual health, we need to adopt SATYAM as (science and technology of yoga and meditation promoted by the department of Science and Technology as Cognitive Science Research Initiative (CSRI)," he added.Online Agricultural Education DayHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University celebrated online Agricultural Education Day. Vice-Chancellor of the university Professor Samar Singh explained that the event was intended to educate school students and encourage them to choose agriculture as a profession by detailing the career prospects, agri-entrepreneurial avenues so as to develop their interest in the subject. He further added that if modern techniques and seeds of improved varieties of crops were used, then agriculture farm income could be increased to a large extent. Also, by maintaining the quality of agricultural products with organic farming, demand will increase not only at the national but also international level. Director of Research, Dr SK Sahrawat welcomed dignitaries, scientists, students and farmers to join the webinar. He said the Agricultural Education Day was celebrated every year on December 3 to commemorate the birth anniversary of the first President of the country and the first Union Minister of Agriculture, Bharat Ratna Dr Rajendra Prasad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mdu-launches-career-info-window-180287
05-12-2020||Nitish Sharma||Draft notification for delimitation issued||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 4The state government has issued a preliminary notification for the proposed delimitation for all 31 wards of Sadar Zone of the Ambala Municipal Council, objections and suggestions regarding the delimitation can be submitted at the Ambala Municipal Council by Sunday. As per the notification issued in March this year, there are 31 wards in the council against nine wards of the last tenure. As per the notification issued by the urban local body, the total population under the council limits is 1,04,974, of which the SC population is 20,412.Meanwhile, former councillors have expressed dissatisfaction with the process and said inadequate time had been given to submit objections and suggestions.Councillors dissatisfied with processFormer councillors have expressed dissatisfaction with the process and said inadequate time had been given to submit objections and suggestions.Former Deputy Mayor Sudhir Jaiswal, said, “The notification was issued on November 27, but it came into the public domain on December 4, which was not right. The notification should have been brought into the public domain on the same day. We will submit our objections after going through the draft.”Onkar Nath Pruthi, Congress leader and former councillor, said, “The notification was not displayed timely and the council officials today informed that the objections and suggestions could be submitted till December 6 only, which is a holiday. We request the Deputy Commissioner to give a period of at least 10 days from today so that all people concerned can go through the draft and raise their objections.”HDF announces 11 candidates for pollHaryana Democratic Front (HDF) announced 11 candidates for the Ambala Municipal Corporation (city area) election. There are 20 wards in the corporation limits.Rajesh Kumar, Secretar, Municipal Council, said, “The copy of the notification has been pasted on the notice board of the council and people can submit their objections to the decision as well as their suggestion in the office by December 6.”On the other hand, former minister Nirmal Singh-led Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) announced 11 candidates for the Ambala Municipal Corporation (city area) election today. There are 20 wards in the corporation limits. The HDF had already announced its mayoral candidate for the election.HDF general secretary Chitra Sarwara said, “We have announced 11 candidates, including from ward numbers 2, 3, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 18, and 19, while the remaining candidates will be declared soon. The front will also release its manifesto.” The HDF suffered a huge setback on Thursday after Himmat Singh, who had formed the HDF along with Nirmal Singh, parted ways with the HDF. Accusing Nirmal Singh of betrayal, Himmat had also announced that he and his supporters would contest the MC poll.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/draft-notification-for-delimitation-issued-180262
05-12-2020||
||Congress will invite applications for posts of mayor, councillor: Selja||Chandigarh, December 4  Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja, who has decided to contest the Municipal Corporations poll in Ambala, Sonipat and Panchkula on the party symbol, today announced that they wouls invite applications from interested candidates. “For the next three days, from December 5 to 7, workers interested in contesting for the posts of mayors and councillors can file applications,” she said. Addressing a press conference here, she added, “We will form a committee of observers to oversee the poll.” “We are expecting to win the local bodies poll, which will be fought on local issues,” she said. She said the BJP had made many promises in its manifesto, but the truth was in front of the people. Under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission, millions of houses were built for the poor during the Congress rule. In Haryana, houses were given to a large number of poor people in Ambala and Panchkula cities, she claimed.  “This government made big promises before the elections to grab votes of the public. But today, the cities of Haryana are in a bad state. No one is there to clean the sewerage system. Cities are facing many problems,” she added. On farmers’ agitation, she said the Congress Party had lodged a protest against these black laws, but despite all efforts, this government got these black laws passed in Parliament and paved the way for its capitalist friends’ to loot the agricultural sector.  The JJP, Independents and BJP MLAs, who are with farmers, should clarify their position and withdraw their support from the government, she said. “When the farmers were going to Delhi to meet the government, instead of listening to them, the government lathicharged them and tried to stop them. Water canon was used on them in this severe cold. The cases were filed against the farmers and they were put behind bars. After formation of the Congress party, these black laws will be repealed,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-will-invite-applications-for-posts-of-mayor-councillor-selja-180263
05-12-2020||Karnal||32 more mandis to be linked to e-NAM portal||As many as 32 more grain markets will be linked to the e-NAM (electronic national agriculture market) portal. So far, 81 mandis are integrated through the single window service which was started to strengthen the agriculture marketing.  The Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) has sent a detailed project report (DPR) to the Centre and it is expected that these grain markets will be integrated in the first quarter of 2021. “We have submitted the DPR for these grain markets to the Centre and these will be integrated soon,” said Sumedha Kataria, Chief Administrator, HSAMB. With these new e-NAM mandis, the total number of madis on the online portal will increase to 113. The HSAMB Chief Administrator said the new mandis included four from Bhiwani, three each in Gurugram, Faridabad and Yamunanagar, two each in Jhajjar, Ambala, Fatheabad, and Palwal and one each in Jind, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Hisar, Sirsa, Sonepat, Kaithal and Rohtak. She said 27,21,603 farmers had got themselves registered on the e-NAM portal, while 11,762 traders had been registered on it. As many as 237 farmer-producers’ organisations are registered on the portal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/32-more-mandis-to-be-linked-to-e-nam-portal-180264
05-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Probe a classic case of pick and choose: Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 4CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh has termed investigation into the Manesar land scam as a classic example of pick and choose as some accused were initially left out of the charge sheet.While summoning five more persons as additional accused, including Home Secretary Rajeev Arora and former Director, Industries, DR Dhingra, who were left out by the investigating officer (IO) in the charge sheet, the judge said, “The IO was either adamant to extend benefit to the persons arrayed as accused or to extend benefit to the persons against whom there are clear-cut and prima facie circumstances, but have not been arraigned as accused.”In a detailed order, the judge said the IO had chosen “to turn a blind eye to the role of some important public servants whose acts can be termed to be more culpable than the persons arrayed as accused”. The order said, “Such isolated instances are enough to bring the sobriquet of ‘caged parrot’ to the agency.” In case of Arora, the court directed the CBI to place the entire incriminating material before the state government for sanction to try him under the Prevention of Corruption Act though there was no bar on prosecuting him for criminal conspiracy and cheating under the IPC.Arora was Managing Director of the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) when the land release orders were issued. The court said the IO “seems to turn Nelson’s eye” to the state of affairs as he drew the conclusion that the deferment of announcement of award by the HSIIDC was on the basis of a letter dated June 20, 2007, of the Town and Country Planning Department.The court observed that the facts on record reflected that “through a devious design the office of MD, HSIIDC, and Director, Industries and Commerce, made every attempt to delay the announcement of award, which could ultimately lead to its final abandonment”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/probe-a-classic-case-of-pick-and-choose-court-180265
05-12-2020||Gurugram||Serial killer, who wanted to create ‘identity’, nabbed||Dubbed a “nobody”, 22-year-old Mohammad Razi entered the world of crime to make a “name” for himself. He allegedly killed three men in as many days here last week.  Razi, a native of Araria district in Bihar, was nabbed from IFFCO Chowk on Thursday night, the police have said. He reportedly confessed to having murdered three men last week.  “I was labeled useless. This (crime) was the only way I could create an identity for myself and make easy money. I wanted to kill more men, but was nabbed,” the accused reportedly told the police during the interrogation.  Razi was produced in a city court on Friday and sent to a day’s police remand.  The police have seized a knife, with which he allegedly committed the murders on November 24, 25 and 26. “He had bought the knife for Rs 150 from a bicycle hawker near Sadar Bazar here,” the police have said. All three victims were unknown to him. One of them was a security guard and another a labourer. The identity of the third victim has not been ascertained.  On Razi’s modus operandi, the police have said he offered liquor to his victims and, on getting a chance, he would kill them and take their money. He would slit their throats and dump the bodies at random places. One of the headless bodies was found in sewer pipes in an area falling under the jurisdiction of the Sadar police station.  Earlier, Razi  was working in a Delhi guest house said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP (Crime). — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/serial-killer-who-wanted-to-create-identity-nabbed-180266
05-12-2020||Our Correspondent
||Class IX student ‘raped’ by neighbour||Gurugram, December 4 A Class IX student has been raped by her neighbour on the pretext of occult practices. The police have arrested the accused. He was produced in a city court on Friday and was sent to judicial custody.  According to a complaint filed by the victim’s father, a Bihar native, he said he lived with his family in a village near Manesar. His daughter, a Class IX student, was raped by Imran Najir of Bihar who lives in his neighborhood.  After the police was informed about the incident, the victim was rushed to the Child Welfare Committee for counseling and the medical examination of the victim confirmed rape.  Following the complaint, an FIR was registered under the POCSO Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/class-ix-student-raped-by-neighbour-180267
05-12-2020||Saurabh Malik
||5 cremation grounds ‘division’ of society: High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 4 A village in Ambala district apparently stands divided in death. Just about eight kilometres from Ambala, Panjokhara village has five cremation grounds belonging to different castes since inhabitation, an actuality that the Punjab and Haryana High Court has dubbed as splitting up of society. The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Jaswant Kumar (76) and seven other villagers claimed that Brahmins, Sikhs and Backward Classes had separate cremation grounds in the area. Taking up the petition, a Division Bench observed in its order that five cremation grounds were already existing and earmarked for different communities and as such, deemed it appropriate to seek response from Ambala Deputy Commissioner on “such divisions of society”. The Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash sought response from a common authority, which would “administer all cremation grounds so as to remove the apprehension of the petitioners that they would not be permitted to avail the benefit of the existing cremation grounds for cremation of members of their communities”. The Bench also directed Haryana Deputy Advocate General Shruti Jain Goyal to do the needful before fixing the case for the second week of January for further consideration. Appearing before the Bench through counsel Ranjit Saini, the petitioners were, among other things, seeking directions to the Deputy Commissioner and another respondent to restore the cremation ground belonging to them and other residents belonging to the Brahmins and Backward Classes. They were also seeking the quashing of an order dated September 11 passed by the Deputy Commissioner, rejecting their application in “complete violation of the principles of natural justice”, based on the presumption that there was no cremation ground as mentioned in their complaint. The petitioners added that the same stood “illegally demolished” with the help of earth movers. The Bench was told that the petitioners and other members of the community were left without the right to perform the last rites of departed souls as all five cremation grounds in the village were “community wise”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-cremation-grounds-division-of-society-high-court-180268
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||1,602 fresh cases; 19 more deaths in Haryana||With 1,602 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached to 2,40,841 on Friday. The death toll went up to 2,539 with 19 more deaths.Gurugram reported a maximum of 423 cases followed by Faridabad (336), Rohtak (107) and Sonepat (94).Gurugram, Faridabad and Hisar reported a maximum of four deaths each, followed by Charkhi Dadri (2), Sonepat, Ambala, Karnal, Panchkula and Jhajjar (1 each). — TNSCovid-19 CasesDISTRICT-WISE COUNT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-602-fresh-cases-19-more-deaths-in-haryana-180269
05-12-2020||---||Khair wood smugglers attack forest officials in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, December 4A team of forest officials was allegedly attacked by khair wood smugglers in Kalesar National Park here on Friday. A forest guard, Deepak Kumar, was injured in the attack and was admitted to a hospital.According to information, a team of forest officials comprising of forest guards Deepak Kumar, Yogesh Kumar, Pradeep Kumar and Sonu was patrolling the Kalesar beat of the national park around 2 am on Friday. They saw some people stealing khair wood. When they tried to catch them, the smugglers attacked the team, injuring forest guard Deepak Kumar.Though the smugglers fled the spot, four of the six smugglers were identified by forest guard Yogesh Kumar. The officials also recovered three fallen trees from there.On the complaint of Deepak Kumar, a case was registered against Wakil, Israr, Aashik and Jamshed, all residents of Janipur village of Saharanpur district, Uttar Pradesh, and two unknown persons under various Sections of the IPC at Pratap Nagar police station.This is the second such case in the past 10 days. Forest guard Pradeep Kumar and forester Jaswant Singh were attacked by four khair smugglers when they tried to catch them from C-3 area of the Kalesar National Park on November 25. The smugglers were stealing khair trees from there.Previous incident reported on Nov 25This is the second such case in the past 10 days. Four smugglers had attacked forest guard Pradeep and forester Jaswant Singh while patrolling the C-3 area of the Kalesar National Park on November 25. The accused were trying to steal khair wood trees from the park||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khair-wood-smugglers-attack-forest-officials-in-yamunanagar-180270
05-12-2020||Karnal||Driver killed, 16 injured in road mishap||A bus rammed into a truck on the Hisar-Chandigarh national highway near Kathwar village in Kaithal district on Friday, leaving the bus driver dead and 16 passengers injured.  The deceased has been identified as Mukesh of Jaipur, while the injured are Surinder, Geeta, Mahesh, Naresh, Ashish, Kamlesh, Anil Kumar, Sandeep Kumar, residents of Jhunjhunu district in Rajasthan, Jyoti, Navil of Sasavas, Uvesh of Karnal, Babu Ram of Mandi of Himachal Pradesh, Paramjeet of Ambala, Kailash of Jaipur, Sandeep of Chidava in Rajasthan and Krishan Kumar of Mahendergarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/driver-killed-16-injured-in-road-mishap-180271
05-12-2020||Hisar||Farmer robbed of Rs 2.37 lakh in Sirsa||A farmer was looted of Rs 2.73 lakh when he was returning home after selling his cotton produce at a grain market near Rania town on Wednesday night.  The accused had laid a trap for the farmer identified as Mangal Singh of Sainpal Kotha village of Sirsa district. The victim said when he reached near Bahiya village, he spotted a bike lying in the middle of the road and a youth sitting by the side. He said as he stopped the tractor, two persons who were hiding nearby, overpowered him and snatched the cash and mobile phone from him. The victim said he had unloaded 49 quintals of cotton produce at a factory in Ellanabad.  A Sirsa police spokesperson said the police had registered a case under Section 394 of the IPC against unknown persons and started investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-robbed-of-rs-2-37-lakh-in-sirsa-180272
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Court orders 10% extra fee rebate to parents of Gurugram school students||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered that 10 per cent extra rebate on composite fee will be available to wards of Pathways School Gurugram Parents Association from March 22, the “very inception of the current Covid situation”.The direction came after Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa was told that the respondent-school had already granted 10 per cent rebate on composite fee. The Haryana Director, Secondary Education, had awarded 10 per cent extra rebate, but had confined it from November 20, the date of passing the order.Will be given from March 22The rebate on composite fee will be available to wards of Pathways School Gurugram Parents Association since March 22Taking up the petition, Justice Dhindsa clarified that claim for refund would not be entertained where the parent had already deposited the composite fee.The respondent-school was also directed to generate fresh invoices to raise demand towards composite fee on a monthly basis within a week. The parent association would have two weeks thereafter to deposit the amount, Justice Dhindsa observed.Referring to the issue of arrears from April to November, Justice Dhindsa stated that the amended invoice would be raised by the school. For the purpose of payment, two months were allowed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-orders-10-extra-fee-rebate-to-parents-of-gurugram-school-students-180273
05-12-2020||Ravinder Saini & Mukesh Tandon||Protesting farmers refuse to undergo Covid test||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar/Sonepat, December 4Farmer leaders have categorically rejected a proposal of the district administration to conduct the Covid test of all those protesting at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border for a week against the three farm laws.Their stance is: “Covid is not an ailment and we are not scared of it”.“Bahadurgarh SDM Hitendra Sharma has been informed of our decision. All we ask from him is to deploy teams of doctors at the dharna spot. It is necessary because the Bahadurgarh Civil Hospital is far from the protest site,” said Buta Singh, a farmer leader.Sources say the administration has built five medical booths at the dharna spot. A majority of farmers visiting the booths are suffering from fever, cough, cold and body pain. It is because of this reason that the administration had planned to conduct the Covid test of all protesters, they say.The Bahadurgarh SDM told The Tribune, “We held a meeting with farmers’ leaders and tried to convince them to undergo the Covid test, but they refused. Hence, we have decided to conduct the test of only those who will visit the medical booth complaining of fever and cough.”Meanwhile, the farmers’ agitation at the border entered the seventh day on Friday. The Delhi Police sealed the Bahadurgarh-Nijampur and Bahadurgarh-Jharoda borders, leaving commuters high and dry. They had to use alternative routes to reach their destinations in Delhi.Jhajjar DC Jitender Kumar said 19 Duty Magistrates and 20 nodal officers had been deputed at the dharna spot to maintain law and order.At a press conference held at the Singhu border in the evening, representatives of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) announced that they would step up the agitation.One of the farmers’ leaders, Harvinder Singh Lakhwal, said the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and those of corporates would be burnt on Saturday across the country. On December 7, retired Army personnel and award winners will return their awards in solidarity with the protesting farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmers-refuse-to-undergo-covid-test-180274
05-12-2020||
||Hooda: Will bring in no-confidence motion||Gurugram, December 4 Attacking the state government over its stance on the farmers’ agitation, the Congress has decided to bring in a no-confidence motion against Manohar Lal Khattar government. Making this announcement at a press conference here on Friday, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said they would seek a special Assembly session. “Three Independents have withdrawn support. JJP MLAs are openly speaking against the government. It is evident that the CM has lost the confidence of MLAs,” he said. Asked whether the Congress was in touch with JJP MLAs, he said he would not reveal everything. He said the Congress would meet the Governor to demand a special Assembly session. Attacking Khattar for his statements that Haryana farmers did not join the agitation, Hooda said the government had lathicharged them in Pipli and picked them up from homes a night before the march. On Agriculture  Minister JP Dalal’s statements about foreign funding, Hooda said the minister should apologise for humiliating farmers. “They are shivering in the cold, sleeping on the road, eating langar and being treated brutally. Which part of the agitation has a hint of foreign funding? These people belong to no religion, region or party and are just farmers,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-will-bring-in-no-confidence-motion-180275
05-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||At Tikri border, charging cellphones via poles||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 4Farmers camping at the Tikri border for the past one week have been charging their cellphones by using tractor batteries. They have brought motorcycles to go to one point to another as the 10-km stretch between the Bahadurgarh bypass and Tikri border is jam-packed.“A cellphone is the only way to get updates about the agitation and directions from top leaders. Since we know there is no electricity connection at the dharna spot, we have arranged charging points in our vehicles. We charge cellphones and power banks at night from the tractor battery while the battery is charged by keeping the tractor on. This mechanism is being adopted by a majority of farmers,” said Jasprit Singh Walia, a farmer.Many farmers had been using electricity from poles on the highway to charge their cell phones and power banks. Amit Nain, a young farmer, said since the dharna spot was spread over 10 km, two vehicles were being used to update farmers about the latest developments.Magar Singh of Muktsar said the 10-km-long stretch from Bahadurgarh to the Tikri border was jam-packed with tractor-trailers and buses. “We are using two-wheelers not only to go from one point to another, but also to buy medicines, eatables and other essential items from Bahadurgarh,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-tikri-border-charging-cellphones-via-poles-180276
05-12-2020|| 
||Tractors ‘stopped’, Faridabad farmers walk to Capital||Palwal/Faridabad, Dec 4 More than 200 farmers hailing from Faridabad on Friday started walking towards the Delhi border, where thousand others are protesting against the three controversial farm laws, after the police reportedly stopped them from plying their tractor-trolleys towards the Capital. They had reached Seekri village on Thursday and camped there for the night following the police stance.  “We have decided to leave behind our tractor-trolleys near Baghola and Prithla villages. We will go to Delhi via Faridabad on foot,” said Rattan Singh Sorot, a farmer leader from Palwal. He added the protest would not end till the “anti- farmer” laws were not revoked. Another group of farmers from Madhya Pradesh are camping near the KMP expressway in Palwal after the police stopped them in their tracks by putting boulders and blockades on the highway, about 15 kms ahead of Palwal city.  Surender Singh, a leader of the farmers’ group from Madhya Pradesh, said: “Most probably, we will start marching towards Delhi on Saturday as more farmers from my state are likely to join us by morning.”  Meanwhile, the district administrations of Faridabad and Palwal have deployed about 1,000 police personnel equipped with anti-riot equipment and water cannons to stop farmers plying in tractor-trolleys.  “We want to ensure that no anti-social element is allowed to disrupt law and order in the guise of farmers’ protest. Peaceful protest is not banned,” a senior police official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tractors-stopped-faridabad-farmers-walk-to-capital-180277
05-12-2020||---||BJP leader from Sirsa quits party||Hisar, December 4A BJP leader from Sirsa district, Surender Singh Nehra, has resigned from the party in protest against the three controversial farm laws.In a letter to state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar, Nehra, who is a former chairman of the district Central Cooperative Bank Limited, said the Centre was not ready to listen to the concerns of farmers.“I support farmers and oppose the policies of the Centre. Therefore, I am resigning from the primary membership of the party,” said Nehra, son of former Haryana minister Jagdish Nehra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leader-from-sirsa-quits-party-180278
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||JJP: Withdraw cases against protesters||Cornered amid discontent over the party’s response, JJP leaders led by Digvijay Chautala and Nishan Singh met Home Minister Anil Vij on Friday, demanding withdrawal of criminal cases against farmers during the “Delhi Chalo” march. Vij assured the JJP leaders that he would speak to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on this issue. “The government has a positive attitude on the issue. I will seek information on all cases and speak to the Chief Minister,” said Vij. More than 10,000 farmers had been booked during the march. Gurnam Singh Charuni and some other leaders were facing FIRs for attempt to murder. Digvijay said the government had registered FIRs during the Delhi march as part of preventive measures. Meanwhile, the INLD mocked the JJP for demanding the withdrawal of cases. It said if the BJP was not ready to listen its alliance partner, the JJP should pull out of the government. Abhay Chautala told the media it was surprising that people part of the government were demanding withdrawal of cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jjp-withdraw-cases-against-protesters-180279
05-12-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Students lend support to farmers’ stir||Tribune News ServiceTikri, December 4“We are here not only to oppose the three farm laws, but to express anger against the government attempts to muzzle dissent as was done during demonetisation. The youth had played an active role during the Mandal Commission stir. It is no different this time,” said Amandeep Kaur Deol, a research scholar, as she sipped tea at a vend on the Tikri border after attending a farmers’ rally.Seated next to her were Jagroop Kaur, a college teacher from Kotkapura, Sukhpreet Singh Longowal, a bank employee, advocate Jasbir Singh Dhuri and IT postgraduate Dharam Singh Mansa. Minutes later, the group was joined by Sahildeep Singh, an MA (English) student from Faridkot. He had been conducting the stage for the rally. “College students from Punjab and Haryana have gathered here in large numbers, willing to play whatever role is assigned to them,” he remarked.Amandeep Kaur has been here since December 2 along with her four-year-old daughter. Jagroop Kaur, who arrived here on November 26 with her young son, said their numbers at the protest sites at Tikri and Singhu were steadily growing — from 120 last month to more than 3,000 to date. “None have any political affiliations,” she emphasised even as Sukhpreet Singh showed The Tribune WhatsApp messages from students and young professionals from Ropar, Barnala, Hoshiarpur and Amritsar on their way to Tikri.“We are pitching in with murals, plays and songs.This is not just a farmers’ movement but a protest by various sections opposed to the NDA government,” explained Navkiran Natt, a student with Delhi’s Ambedkar University. Dolan from Jawaharlal Nehru Universty said he and his group were here to provide first-aid to the farmers, if attacked. “These laws will benefit the corporates, not the farmers and farm labourers,” Abhiyan, a political science student of Ramjas College, Delhi, added even as Jasmeet Singh, director of the Delhi Bhangra Arena, who has been providing toiletries to the protesters, observed: “Those feeding the nation deserve to be heard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-lend-support-to-farmers-stir-180193
05-12-2020||Panchkula||Villagers booked for creating ruckus at inauguration event in Panchkula||The police have registered an FIR against unidentified Mankya villagers for creating a ruckus during a project launch event where Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta was supposed to inaugurate a newly constructed bridge under the jurisdiction of the Panchkula MC on Wednesday.Complainant Kunal Jain, a resident of Sector 15, Panchkula, told the police that arrangements, including flower decoration and refreshment, were made there for the event.“Around 2 pm, villagers gathered at the spot and ruined all arrangements. They also kicked tables, which resulted in the wastage of food. They took away carpets before leaving the spot,” Jain said, requesting the police to take action against the culprits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villagers-booked-for-creating-ruckus-at-inauguration-event-in-panchkula-180131
05-12-2020||---||3 Haryana trekkers rescued in Sirmaur district||Solan, December 4Three Haryana youths, who lost their way on the Churdhar trek last evening, were rescued by a team of the Haripurdhar police in Sirmaur district.Amid several feet of snow, Rajan, Ankush and Raunak started trekking to the Churdhar peak from Haripurdhar on Wednesday. However, they lost their way and sought help atthe 112 helpline number.Police officials said since the area has a thick forest, the youths were traced after much efforts with the help of local residents. The presence of snow further marred their journey as they often slipped on the narrow icy path. Though the police have installed a number of signage warning tourists not to venture towards the peak in this inclement weather, youths often ignore these warnings.SP, Sirmaur, Khushal Sharma said a message was received on the 112 helpline number about three youths having lost their way. A rescue party was dispatched from Haripurdhar, and locals were also roped in. The youths were contacted telephonically and directed to light a fire after learning about their location. They were rescued and brought back this morning. All hoteliers in the area have been directed to display boards directing tourists not to undertake trekking on this route during this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-haryana-trekkers-rescued-in-sirmaur-district-180050
