06-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||At Tikri border, farmers gear up for Thursday’s ‘tractor march’||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, January 6Unlike to other days, Wednesday evening was busy for Jaspal Singh, a farmer from Fazilka in Punjab, camping at Pakoda Chowk at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border as he was gearing up for ‘Tractor March’ to be taken out on the call given by the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha on Thursday.He tied a flag on his tractor, filled the fuel tank with diesel and checked the music system installed on the tractor so as to be ready for participating in the first cavalcade of 400 tractors that will leave for the Singhu border on Thursday morning. Jaspal started helping other fellow farmers too after finishing his preparations.  “Farmers, especially the youngsters, are enthusiastic about the tractor march and are also ready to lead it from the front. As the march will start at 9 am hence we have tied flags on the tractors and filled their tanks today to save time next morning. Even, music system installed on the tractor has also been checked,” Jaspal told The Tribune.He said three farmers will board on a tractor, while women protesters will not be part of this march. They would remain at protest sites to do routine affairs like attending dharna along with other farmers and preparations of langar, etc. The march would be peaceful and the tractor would move in a row, he added.Like Jaspal, other farmers too were excited about the march at Tikri and were seen discussing it with their elderly. “My tractor suddenly developed some technical issue yesterday but I got it rectified today to ensure my participation in the march,” said Jaskaran Singh, another farmer from Punjab.   Joginder Nain, state president, Bhartiya Kisan Union, said the farmers would assemble at old bus stand in Bahadurgarh town in the morning. “Thereafter, they will proceed towards Aasodha village for taking the route of KMP highway to go to the Singhu border. Similarly, farmers from Singhu will proceed towards Tikri,” he added.Meanwhile, the police beefed up security arrangements on the route of the tractor march to avert any untoward incident.“Adequate arrangements have been made to maintain law and order situation during the march. No one will be allowed to take law into his hands. However, the farm leaders have also assured of taking out a peaceful march,” said Rajesh Duggal, Jhajjar SP.
06-01-2021||Gurugram||Haryana Police set up barricades on Delhi-Jaipur Expressway to stop farmers from entering national capital||As the farmers' demonstration is intensifying day-by-day, Haryana Police have installed barricades at four locations on the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway to stop farmers from entering the national capital, resulting in blockages on the national highway.These four key locations include Kapdiwas Chowk in Gurugram, Masani barrage in Dharuhera, Sangwari village in Rewari and Jaisinghpur Khera (Haryana-Rajasthan border) on the Delhi-Jaipur national highway.With these blockages which resulted in traffic diversions on the expressway, the commuters going from Jaipur to Delhi and Delhi to Jaipur have to cover an extra 100 km to reach their destination.Meanwhile, the police have diverted Jaipur-bound vehicles from Bilaspur, Kapriwas and Sidhrawali and Shahpura. Delhi-bound vehicles were diverted from Kotputli and Behror.The Gurugram police have also set up barricades at Kapdiwas Chowk (Gurugram-Rewari border) after the clash between farmers and the police on Sunday.With the NH-48 already blocked, heavy traffic movement is being seen on the alternative routes, like Pataudi Road and Kapdiwas Chowk in Gurugram, Bhiwadi in Rajasthan and Masani barrage in Rewari.Following Sunday’s incident in which a group of farmers had breached police barricades and entered Bawal in Rewari with the intention of marching towards the national capital, Haryana Police along with CRPF, CISF, RAF and anti-riot team have been stationed on the Sabi flyover in Dharuhera located on the expressway to keep an eye on farmers protesting on the highway.Meanwhile, hundreds of commercial vehicles, including many container trucks, are facing traffic hurdles between Kapdiwas and Masani barrage in Rewari for the past two days, though private and light commercial vehicles headed towards Jaipur are being diverted by the Rewari police towards Bhiwadi at Kapdiwas Chowk.According to the police, over 2,000 farmers from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana and members of trade unions have gathered at Shahjahanpur (Haryana-Rajasthan border) on the national highway in support of farmers' demonstration since December 13.On December 29, farmers had broken the barricades at Shahjahanpur and they had entered Rewari on the Delhi-Jaipur highway, crossing the Shahjahanpur inter-state border in Rajasthan, as the police were not letting them enter Haryana."We are in touch with the adjoining districts to manage and control the situation and keep vigil on protesting farmers in Rewari. We have also deployed police personnel in Dharuhera and other protesting sites. In view of the current situation, we have diverted the traffic so that commuters do not face any inconvenience," said Abhishek Jorwal, superintendent of police (Rewari).Though both carriageways of the Delhi-Jaipur expressway were blocked at Shahjahanpur border since December 29, the Rewari Police installed containers and put up barricades near Masani barrage in Dharuhera on Sunday evening to stop farmers' movement towards Delhi."Due to this clash between police and farmers the supply of essential things such as milk, vegetables was also hit for families staying in a group residential societies in Dharuhera located between Kapdiwas Chowk and Masani barrage," said a member of Dharuhera-based RWA.Aman of Alwar, a daily passenger, who was waiting for a bus at Gurugram's Rajiv Chowk, said, "Before the farmers' stir a number of buses were available heading towards Rajasthan but now only a few buses are heading towards Rajasthan and they are asking for extra fare due to route diversion.”"We have alerted all the senior officials and their teams, and Bilaspur and Manesar police teams are already on alert. Barricades have been put up and extra force has been deployed at all the border points connecting Haryana with other states," KK Rao, commissioner of police, said."We don't want any confrontation with the police. We are here for our rights and our demonstration against the three agricultural laws will continue till they are rolled back. We will discuss our future course of action after meeting other union members," said a member of Samyukt Kisan Morcha. IANS
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Rains lash Punjab, Haryana; Chandigarh records 13.6 degrees Celsius||The minimum temperatures stayed above normal levels in Punjab and Haryana on Wednesday following rains in both the states.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its low at 13.6 degrees Celsius, eight degrees above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their respective minimums at 11.9, 11.8 and 13.2 degrees Celsius, up to six degrees above normal.Minimum temperatures of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 13.2, 12.8, 7.2 and 13.2 degrees Celsius respectively.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective minimums at 12, 11.7 and 13.5 degrees Celsius, up to nine degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures of Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 10.4, 9.6, 10.5, 12 and 12.4 degrees Celsius respectively.Among places which witnessed rains in the past 24 hours included Chandigarh (3.4 mm), Ambala (8.3 mm), Hisar (7.6 mm), Karnal (25.8 mm), Bhiwani (11.3 mm), Sirsa (8 mm), Amritsar (12.9 mm), Ludhiana (3.7 mm), Patiala (5.1 mm), Adampur ( 6 mm) and Gurdaspur (5.9 mm). — PTI
06-01-2021||Washington||Wisconsin State Assembly Speaker supports farmers' protests in India||Voicing his support for the farmers' protest in India, the Speaker of Wisconsin State Assembly has urged the Indian government to reconsider its decision on the three farm laws and listen to the concerns of the affected farmers.Robin J Vos expressed his support through a letter to India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu. He also wrote a similar letter to US Ambassador to India Ken Juster."One thing Wisconsin and India may have in common is our large agricultural economies. The farmers of our state are a very large part of our overall economy. It would be unfathomable to me that we would make law changes that affect them without taking their input into account, or by shutting them down as they exercised their right to peaceably assemble,” he wrote in his letters dated January 4.“Hopefully, the Modi government will reconsider its decision and sit down with the affected farmers to listen to their concerns,” Vos said.India has called the remarks by foreign leaders and politicians on protests by farmers as "ill-informed" and "unwarranted", asserting that the matter pertains to the internal affairs of a democratic country."We have seen some ill-informed comments…relating to farmers in India. Such comments are unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said last month.“Recently, I was made aware of three new laws that may have a great impact on the farmers of Punjab. It is my understanding that these three laws were implemented with little to no consultation with this large community of farmers, and have sparked massive protests in Delhi,” Vos said in his letter to Sandhu.“While my job does not usually call me to opine on relations between the United States and other countries, I write as a US citizen who represents Indians in Wisconsin. I ask that in your consultations with Prime Minister Modi you convey my concern for violations of human civil rights and the right to peaceably protest,” he said in his letter to the Indian ambassador.Wisconsin has a sizeable Sikh population.In his letter to Juster, Vos said he was writing as a US citizen who represents Indians in Wisconsin.“I ask that in your consultations with Prime Minister Modi and his government, that you convey a concern for violations of human civil rights and the right to peaceably protest. I trust you agree that these are fundamental bedrocks in American society and we should do all we can in our diplomatic relations to ensure that they are bedrocks in the countries with which we have diplomatic ties,” Vos wrote.Eminent Sikh American Darshan Singh Dhaliwal welcomed the letters written by Vos and said that farmers of entire India, not only Punjab, were suffering.“Repeal of the three farmers' laws is the right thing to do. Farmers do not want these laws,” said Dhaliwal who left for India on Tuesday to show solidarity with the protesting farmers.He said he was in talks with several US Congressmen for a visit to India to meet the protesting farmers and get a firsthand assessment of the situation on the ground.Meanwhile, the Indian embassy has increased its outreach to members of the US Congress briefing them about the various aspects of the farm bill, and the right of the farmers to protest and the several rounds of talks that the government has had with the leaders of the protesting farmers.During these briefings by senior officials of the Indian embassy, the lawmakers and their staffers are being given the historical perspective of the agricultural sector in India and the problems that this sector is facing, including the falling income of farmers.Ambassador Sindhu has spoken to a few eminent Congressmen. The Indian embassy is also reaching out to members of the Indian community.Members of US Congress and their staffers are told about the various misconceptions about the farm bills. They are told that farmers have the absolute right to protest and their ongoing protest is democracy in action.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November 26, seeking repeal of three farm laws enacted in September.Dubbing these laws as "anti-farmer", these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislation would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. There have been multiple rounds of talks between representatives of the protestors and the Indian government but the logjam continues. PTI
06-01-2021||---||In Punjab, Haryana, wait for justice can be up to 3 decades||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5In Punjab and Haryana, the wait for justice can be up to three decades, with 19,15,727 cases pending in the district courts of the two states. National Judicial Data Grid — the monitoring tool to identify, manage and reduce pendency of cases — indicates that the litigants in 40 cases in Punjab and eight cases in Haryana have been awaiting justice for more than 30 years.THE CASE FILE8,14,704 Cases pending in the district courts of Punjab11,01,023 Cases pending in Haryana19,15,727 Cases awaiting decision in the two statesIn all, there are 11,01,023 cases pending in Haryana, including 7,14,594 dealing with criminal matters. The situation is a trifle better in Punjab, with 8,14,704 cases awaiting decision, including 4,66,467 criminal cases.Seven civil and 33 criminal matters involving life and liberty have been pending for more than 30 years in the courts across Punjab; 77 for 20 to 30 years; 1,693 for 10 to 20 years and 22,437 for five to 10 years. No less than 4,10,530 cases have been pending for one to three years.In Haryana, eight civil matters have been pending for more than 30 years; 48 for 20 to 30 years; 1,161 for 10 to 20 years; and 24,714 for five to 10 years. The hammer of justice is yet to fall on another 5,70,298 cases pending for one to three years.Punjab has 22 sessions divisions, while Haryana has 21. The direct fallout of the colossal pendency is long adjournments and lesser number of hearings in a year, affecting not just the parties to the litigation, but also hampering the protection of fundamental rights. The effect of the ever-increasing pendency is also reflected in an increase in the number of undertrials or un-convicted prisoners lodged in the jails but facing trial in a court of law.The courts went into a restricted functioning mode since March following the Covid outbreak. The subordinate judiciary managed to dispose of on an average over 900 cases daily in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. But the rapid rate at which the pendency is growing in the subordinate courts can be gauged from the fact that 9,74,942 cases in Haryana and 7,39,015 in Punjab were pending just about four months back.
06-01-2021||Parveen Arora
||Kunjpura market, Gur Mandi to be made vehicle-free zones||Tribune News Service Karnal, January 5 To regulate vehicular movement in the city, Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL) has chalked out a plan to declare busiest stretches as no-vehicle zones between 9 am and 9 pm daily.  In the first phase, the Kunjpura road market, Gur Mandi and Karan Gate market will be made vehicle-free zones by the month-end while in the second phase, a part of the railway road and some area of the bus stand road would be taken up.  The authorities have also earmarked four parking lots — Old sabzi mandi, old office of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC), Ramlila Ground and the site of Jernally Kothi.  “The Kunjpura road market, Gur Mandi and Karan Gate market will be declared no-vehicle zones by the end of January. We are developing four major parking slots, which have the capacity to park 1,000 vehicles,” said KSCL CEO and Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav. The KSCL will lease the parking lots and nominal charges will be fixed on hourly basis. “If all goes as per the plan, then parking contractors will provide the facility of e-rickshaws to commuters,” said the DC. He added that traffic congestion on these roads was a major problem and traders had also been raising the issue during the district road safety committee meetings.  It has also been decided to impound all those vehicles that are found parked along the main road. The defaulter will be fined.
06-01-2021||Yamunanagar||BJP councillors win mayoral poll||Praveen Kumar Sharma was elected Senior Deputy Mayor and Rani Kalra Deputy Mayor of Yamunanagar-Jagadhri on Monday. Both BJP councillors were elected unanimously. Praveen was licence inspector with the municipal corporation before he took voluntary retirement to contest the election of councillor. Rani’s husband Naresh Kalra had been councillor twice. They said they would try to meet the expectations of the people. BJP leader Vedpal was observer for the elections. — TNS
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||1% market fee exemption for small traders||In a major relief to small traders, the state government has decided to provide a one per cent exemption in market fee to traders with a turnover up to Rs 5 lakh per annum.An official spokesman said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had approved a proposal in this regard. He said for this, necessary amendments would be made in the Haryana Agricultural Produce Markets (General) Rules, 1962.Any small trader, who would submit the annual return in the Market Committee on the closure of a financial year showing that his total annual turnover from the sale/purchase of agricultural produce in Haryana was less than Rs 5 lakh in the previous year, would be entitled to claim a refund up to 1 per cent. — TNS
06-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||College principals told to evaluate performance of extension lecturers||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 5The Department of Higher Education has directed principals of all government colleges in the state to submit a performance report of extension lecturers of their colleges within a fortnight. Significantly, if any discrepancy comes in the notice of the government the principals will be liable.The directive has come at a time when extension lecturers are demanding regularisation of their services. Around 2,000 extension lecturers are at present working in the government colleges for the past several years to cope with the shortage of regular teachers. They are getting remuneration of Rs 57,700 per month.“It has been decided to evaluate the performance (results) of all extension lecturers working in the state. The results are required from the academic session from which the lecturers have been engaged to teach the subject in a government college. The results shall be duly verified by the Head of Department, the Registrar House Examination and shall also be verified by the principal concerned,” stated the communiqué issued by the Director General, Higher Education.“The directive has left extension lecturers high and dry as the principals have asked extension lecturers to prepare their performance report on their own while such records of initial years are available neither with the extension lecturers nor with the college concerned. The recruitments were made for the first time in 2011. Those who were earlier displaced/ transferred to other colleges will also face difficulties in preparing such records,” said Haryana Contractual Teachers’ Association president Rampal Budhwar.Budhwar said keeping in view their service period, they were persistently demanding regularisation of services. “When guest teachers can be given security of job till the retirement age, then why not such a policy be framed for extension lecturers too, who fulfil all mandatory conditions required for a regular one,” he questioned.2,000 working in govt colleges
06-01-2021||Ambala||Man robbed of car, cash; 2 held||With the arrest of two persons, the Ambala police have claimed to solve a case of loot in which the accused had robbed a taxi driver of his car, cash, ATM cards at gunpoint and also opened fire at the kin of the driver leaving him injured in Mullana area on Sunday night.  The suspects have been identified as Rohit of Rohtak and Mohmmad Nadeem of Uttar Pradesh. Superintendent of Police Hamid Akhtar said, “The CIA-1 unit of Ambala led by Inspector Sandeep Kumar has arrested two persons in connection with the incident of loot and they will be produced before a court on Wednesday.” Naval Kishor of Himachal Pradesh in his complaint to the police had alleged that on January 2, two persons booked his taxi for Yamunanagar. When they reached Dethal village of Kumarsain in Himachal Pradesh on January 3 and the suspects gave him Rs 2,000 for fuel. “We left for Yamunanagar at about 1.30 pm. My son Hardik came with me and at about 7 pm we reached Dharampur, where I dropped my son at my in-laws place while my brother-in-law Sunil Kumar joined me,” said Naval. “When we reached at a dhaba near Kalpi over-bridge in Mullana, the suspects said they wanted to go to washroom. As I slowed down the car, suddenly, one of them opened fire at Sunil and left him injured. They caught hold of us and took the car towards the link road. They pushed me and Sunil out of the car and fled with the car, mobile phone, three ATM cards and a wallet containing Rs 10,000. I managed to get help from a nearby house and we were taken to MM Hospital, Mullana,” he said. A case was registered on Monday. — TNS
06-01-2021||Ambala||Notification for delimitation of 31 Ambala wards out||The state government has issued the final notification for the delimitation of all 31 wards of the Ambala Municipal Council, Sadar Zone. The tenure of the previous House ended in July 2018. The next year, the civic body was bifurcated into Municipal Corporation and Municipal Council, Sadar Zone.  The election to the Municipal Corporation was conducted recently. As per a notification issued by Urban Local Bodies Department in March last year, there are 31 wards in the council against nine wards when it was the part of corporation. The population within the council limits is 1,04,974, including 20,412 Dalits. After the final notification, the district administration will start the process of reserving the wards for women, Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes. Congress leader Onkar Nath Pruthi said: “The party had raised five objections. The most important concerned the committee formed for the delimitation purpose. The party had said it was constituted wrongly. After seeing the delimitation list, it has become clear that the delimitation favours the BJP.” Haryana Democratic Front general secretary Chitra Sarwara said, “Objections regarding the delimitation were raised during the Ambala MC elections as well. Several people failed to cast their vote because of wrong formation of wards. The suggestions of former councillors and objections raised by people must be incorporated. Besides, officials must consider the demographic data while reserving the wards.” District Municipal Commissioner Parth Gupta said: “The final notification for the delimitation has been issued. Soon, the process of reservation of wards will be started.” — TNS
06-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Fire at Jindal building in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 5A fire broke out at the corporate office of the Jindal Combines building in Sector-44 today. However, no casualties were reported.More than 20 fire engines were pressed into service. The blaze came under control after five hours.The fire was first reported by a company guard at 3.24 am. The office is situated on the sixth floor. No employee was present when the incident took place, but furniture and electronic items were gutted.“The reason for the fire is yet to be ascertained. Luckily, no one was injured in the incident. We suspect that a short-circuit could be a cause of the incident, but it will be cleared after detailed investigations. The exact cost of damage is yet to be determined,” said assistant divisional fire officer Isham Singh Kashyap.
06-01-2021||Gurugram||Willing to resign from House, says Abhay Chautala||INLD leader Abhay Chautala on Tuesday met farmers protesting in Gurugram and pledged unconditional support. He said he would not shy away from resigning from the Vidhan Sabha if required.Abhay met farmers protesting under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha near the Mini-Secretariat. He said every worker of his party would march in support of farmers without the party flag.“I fully support my farmer brothers and even if I have to sacrifice my position in the Vidhan Sabha, I will not think twice. We will go to the Singhu border on January 7 not as party men, but as farmers. We will sit with farmers in protest.” — OC
06-01-2021||Parveen Arora
||Cold wave, rain no dampener||Tribune News Service Karnal, January 5 Bone-chilling cold coupled with rain and wind have failed to dampen the spirits of farmers, who have been protesting at the Bastara toll plaza on the National Highway-44 and the Peont toll plaza on the Karnal-Jind NH-709A since December 25 demanding revocation of the three farm laws. Amid the harsh weather, the farmers continued their dharna on Tuesday and said they would not call off the protest until the demands were met.  “For the past five to six days, the weather has been harsh, but it is not a deterrent for farmers,” said Rampal Chahal, president of the committee constituted for the Bastara toll plaza. To keep themselves in high spirits, farmers entertain each other by singing “ragini”, cracking jokes and smoking hookah.  Vishal Mehla, a farmer, said: “We will not budge from here until the three laws are not revoked.” Another farmer Jaipal Punia said they were habitual to harsh weather.  Meanwhile, a group of advocates of the Karnal Bar Association extended support to the agitation on Tuesday and observed fast at the Bastara toll plaza. “We will continue supporting the protesting farmers,” said Nirmaljeet Singh Virk, former president, Karnal Bar Association.
06-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Concrete shelter coming up at Tikri||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, January 5Getting ready for the long haul, protesting farmers have started constructing concrete structures on the road at the Tikri border, where they have been camping since November 27. The construction is aimed at protecting them and their belongings from rain.Some farmers brought bricks to the protest site on Tuesday and initiated construction of a wall for a rain shelter after performing ‘bhoomi poojan’. A mason and labourers were hired for the construction, with farmers helping them. Farmers raised ‘Kisan Ekta Zindabad’ slogans while passing through the site.“We have been here for around 40 days. Intermittent rain in the past few days has filled our tent with water, soaked blankets and clothes and damaged laptops, forcing us to construct a concrete structure. It is also a message to the Centre that we will not go back until the three farm laws are repealed,” said Anoop Singh, a farmer.Jashpreet Singh from Punjab said since the Centre did not seem ready to repeal the three farm laws, they had no option but to build concrete structures on the road to fight the battle effectively. More structures would be constructed in the coming days, he asserted.“Farmers are prepared for the long haul and will do whatever is necessary in this battle of protecting the agricultural sector from capitalists,” said Virender Hooda, a farmer from Rohtak.Meanwhile, 15 farm organisations from Haryana held a meeting in Bahadurgarh on Tuesday. They decided to launch a ‘Jan Jagran Abhiyan’ for mustering more local support to strengthen the protest.“We will visit villages and motivate people to join the protest for forcing the Centre to repeal the three black laws,” said Rajender Arya Dadupur, chief of the Bhartiya Kisan Mazdoor Naujawan Union.
06-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC issues contempt notice to Rewari Sainik School principal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5Rewari Sainik School Principal Col Soumyabrata Dhar and two other respondents have landed themselves in contempt loop for not admitting a minor student. The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that prima facie, the respondents appeared to be in contempt of a judicial order dated November 11 last year.“This court is constrained to issue a suo motu contempt notice to the respondents by their names to show cause why proceedings not be initiated against them under the Contempt of Courts Act for wilful disobedience of the order,” Justice Arun Monga asserted.The order by Justice Monga was initially passed on December 18 and came up for hearing again on December 22 before Justice BS Walia’s Bench. The matter stands adjourned to February 11 as counsel for Colonel Dhar requested for time to file reply.The case has its genesis in an order passed by Justice Monga on a petition filed by a minor through counsel DS Nriban for directions to the Union of India and other respondents to consider and admit him to Class VI in the school. Allowing the petition, Justice Monga had directed the respondents to accommodate the minor in the current academic session by giving him admission and permitting him to attend classes.“It would not be out of place to deprecate the highly condemnable conduct of the respondents in deliberately filing an elusive reply to the queries of this court, notwithstanding that ample opportunities were granted to render assistance to this court to apprise about actual reality. Yet nothing was forthcoming. Such a conduct of litigants makes the onerous duty and position of the counsel representing them very vulnerable for no fault of theirs,” Justice Monga had asserted.The matter came up for hearing again with the filing of a review application. Dismissing the pleas with Rs 10,000 costs, Justice Monga had asserted that the evasive and condescending conduct continued unabated, perhaps due to leniency shown by the court to overlook it during the writ proceedings. Even now, information that was sought was not properly disclosed.Justice Monga added that it transpired that the minor has not been admitted to the school despite a lapse of more a month on the grounds that admissions stood concluded as on October 31. The writ petition was filed way before the date, but the petitioner was not permitted to join online classes in non-compliance of the order, Justice Monga added. A direction was issued to forthwith allow the minor to have access to online education being imparted currently by the school.
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court stays order on Hockey Haryana plea||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed an order appointing the Sonepat City Magistrate as the administrator of Hockey Haryana.The move came on Hockey Haryana’s plea alleging that the impugned order was passed “in an illegal manner by adopting colourable exercise of powers in clear violation of provisions of the Haryana Registration and Regulation of Societies Act, 2012”.Appearing before Justice Sudhir Mittal’s Bench, petitioner’s counsel Ravinder Malik submitted that the polls were notified on October 20, 2020, and the results declared on December 6. He said the impugned order was passed on December 29, after the declaration of results, which was contrary to the provisions of Section 39(10) of the Act.“Once a regularly elected governing body is in place, the District Registrar has no authority to undo its election,” Malik contended. — TNS
06-01-2021||Hisar||Man killed for marrying woman of same village||A 32-year-old man who married a woman of the same village about a year ago was beaten to death on his return here on Tuesday.The police said the accused were yet to be identified but a case was registered. Niku Singh of Nathor village had eloped with a woman in 2019. The woman’s family lodged a complaint. Later, the duo got married. Ex-sarpanch Devta Ram spotted the body in the fields on Monday. — TNS
06-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||Rs 29 cr for road safety||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 5Facing flak for digging up roads to stop protesting farmers marching towards Delhi in November last year, the state government has allocated Rs 29.55 crore to ensure road safety for the 2020-21 fiscal.Sources say the regulatory wing of the Transport Department has allocated the budget to six departments. The funds were allocated following a meeting of the fund management committee of the department held on August 31, 2020.Of the total budget, Rs 10.85 crore has been allocated to the Police Department, while the Road Transport Authority (RTA) of each district has been allocated Rs 20 lakh. As there are 22 districts in the state, this amounts to Rs 4.40 crore.The Public Works Department (Buildings and Roads) has been given Rs 5.50 crore, while the Elementary Education Department has received Rs 5.60 crore. The Health Department and the Higher Education Department have been allocated Rs 2.20 crore and Rs 1 crore, respectively.In a meeting of the district road safety committee held last month, issues such as construction of speed breakers, congestion on roads, the stray cattle menace on national highways, potholes, lack of visibility, broken railings, illegal cuts, uncovered drainage and lack of signboards were taken up. The departments were directed to take remedial measures under the Road Safety Rules.Hisar SP Balwan Singh Rana said the police were taking measures as per the Haryana Road Safety Fund Rules, 2018, and had assigned DSP Abhimanyu for the task.
06-01-2021|| 
||Locals to move HC over inclusion of 24 villages in Faridabad MC limits||Faridabad, January 5 Residents of 11 villages continue to oppose the notification on the inclusion of 24 new villages under the limits of the Faridabad Municipal Corporation. Denouncing it, they have announced to take legal course against the move. “We had resolved against the move and intimated the authorities but our objection has been ignored, which is unjustified and leaves us with no option than to approach the High Court for relief,” says Jaswant Panwar of Chandwali village, one of the coordinators of the joint committee formed on the issue. Claiming that the inclusion in the civic limit will render the villages as slum areas, he said it was aimed only at gobbling up the income and property of the villages. He said the residents of the affected villages, including Machhghar, Sotai, Malerna, Sahupura, Chandawali, Mujheri, Neemka, Newada -Sahupura, Badoli, Mirjapur and Tilpat, took part in a mahapanchayat and decided to oppose the move. While a list of 31 villages had been prepared for inclusion earlier, eight villages identified as Nagla Jogian, Jajru, Khandawali, Samaipur, Saroorpur, Pyala, Seekri and Kheri Gujran were excluded from the final list, whose notification was issued by the government on December 30. This has increased the tally of the villages in the civic limits to 62 as 38 villages are already a part of the Faridabad MC. According to the criteria, 60 per cent or more of the population should be engaged in non agricultural activity and the inclusion expenditure must not be more than 80 per cent of the income. It also requires a resolution by the village panchayat. After the inclusion, the Faridabad MC will carry the development works instead of the regular village body. It may be recalled that a committee under the chairmanship of the Divisional Commissioner had been formed to finalise the draft of such villages. “Those opposing the notification will now have to move the High Court as no objection can be entertained locally,” said Sanjay Joon, Divisional Commissioner, who headed the committee formed to finalise the draft.
06-01-2021||ibune News Service 
||Faridabad power staff protest mass online transfers||Faridabad, January 5 Members of Sarva Karamchari Sangh (SKS) staged demonstrations at all subdivisional offices of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) here today in protest against online transfer of 955 employees of the Power Department in the past couple of days.  Seeking cancellation of transfers, the Sangh demanded adoption of need-based transfer policy based on consultation with the employees’ body.  Addressing the protesters, SKS president Subhash Lamba said indiscriminate transfer of such a large number of employees had disturbed smooth functioning of the department, which already faced acute staff shortage. The transferred employees include junior engineers, upper division clerks and lower division clerks. He said while the authorities concerned should address the issue of staff crunch and redress the grievances of the employees, transfer of technical staff in such a manner was unjustified. He said though a letter was written to the Additional Chief Secretary on December 11, the authorities ignored it and ordered mass transfers online. He said protests will continue against the move.
06-01-2021||Our Correspondent||On the run post Gurugram encounter, two accused held||Gurugram, January 5The Gurugram police on Tuesday nabbed two more associates of the two wanted inter-state criminals, who were arrested after an encounter on Monday. The police seized four pistols, four cellphones and over 20 cartridges were seized from their possession.Two accused, namely Sandeep of Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh district and Sunil, alias Sonu, of Ravaldhi village in Charkhi Dadri district, were arrested on Monday after the encounter. However, three accused managed to flee after taking advantage of darkness during the cross-firing.Two of thm, identified as Amit Godara, alias Shyama, of Rajasthan’s Farsewala village and Shri Bhagwan of Rohtak’s Bhali Anandpur village, were nabbed by the police from the Rohtak-Hisar bypass on Tuesday.“The accused revealed that on the directions of their gang leader, Dalpreet, alias Baba, they came to Gurugram to steal a vehicle for carry out criminal activities in Punjab and Maharashtra. The third accused, who is still at large, has been identified as Rahul Barar. Dalpreet is currently lodged in Punjab’s Ropar jail and our team is conducting raids to nab the other gang members,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime.
06-01-2021||Ambala||Man, wife booked for duping job seeker of Rs5 lakh||A man allegedly duped a local resident of Rs 5 lakh on the pretext of providing him the job of clerk.Simranjeet Singh of the Jandli area said, “Raj Singh Chahal, who claimed himself to be a BJP leader, assured my father-in-law of proving the job to me as he has good links. He sought Rs 10 lakh, but the deal was struck for Rs 7 lakh. A sum of Rs 5 lakh was given to him in installments. But when the result of an exam was announced, my name was not in the list.”Raj Singh Chahal and his wife Santosh Devi have been booked under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC. — TNS
06-01-2021||---||Cops recover 19 cellphones||Jhajjar, January 5The cyber security branch of the police have recovered 19 cellphones that had either been misplaced or stolen. The total market value of these phones is more than Rs 2 lakh.Rajesh Duggal, Superintendent of Police, handed over these phones to their owners by calling them to his office on Tuesday.“The cell phones were traced by tracking their location with the help of SIM cards used in the phones. All 19 phones were recovered in December. Swift action is taken on getting complaints of missing cellphones,” he said.
06-01-2021||---||259 new Covid cases||Chandigarh, January 5The Covid tally in the state reached 2,63,571 on Tuesday with 259 fresh cases. With four more deaths, the toll reached 2,927.Gurugram reported a maximum of 35 cases, followed by Panipat (34), Panchkula (32) and Faridabad (29). Faridabad, Karnal, Jhajjar and Kurukshetra reported one death each.----------------------------------------------------------------Covid-19 cases: district wise-count  District. Cases DeathsGurugram. 57097 344Faridabad. 45630 405Sonepat 14588 79Jhajjar. 5821 95Nuh. 1691 30Panipat. 10585 148Ambala. 11612 143Palwal. 4393 26Panchkula. 10087 144Karnal. 10871 148Jind. 4777 89Mahendragarh. 659319Rohtak. 12116 146Kurukshetra. 8652 128Rewari. 11326 75Hisar. 16984 319Sirsa. 7961 113Yamunanagar. 6540 141Bhiwani. 6287 141Fatehabad. 4676 118Kaithal. 3781 50Charkhi Dadri. 503 26Italians. 14Foreign returnees. . 21Total. 263571 2927
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Govt: No fear if  poultry items fully cooked||The Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department has issued an advisory regarding poultry and poultry products. An official spokesperson said poultry and poultry products could be cooked and consumed, with no fear of acquiring infection from the avian influenza virus.He said unusual deaths of four lakh poultry birds had occurred at 20 poultry farms in the past 10 days, with epicentres near Garhi Kutaha and Jaloli in the Barwala area of Panchkula district.He said the samples were collected and sent to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar and the report was awaited. He asserted that there was no confirmed report of avian influenza so far.He said the avian influenza virus was sensitive to heat and the normal temperature used for cooking could kill it. Before consuming poultry, consumers should ensure that all parts and eggs were fully cooked.Raw poultry and poultry products should never be allowed to mix with items eaten raw and persons involved in food preparation should maintain hand hygiene. — TNS
06-01-2021||---||Covid vaccine dry run across state tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5To ensure the successful rollout of the Covid vaccine, a dry run will be conducted on Thursday at six places, also called session sites — three urban and as many rural — from 11 am to 1 pm.Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said this while presiding over a meeting of the state steering committee and the state task force for the Covid vaccine here on Tuesday. All Deputy Commissioners were part of the meeting through videoconferencing.“It is mandatory to record the details of healthcare workers, who will participate in the dry run,” Vardhan said.Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Rajeev Arora said the purpose of the dry run was to identify the challenges in the vaccine rollout.As per the Centre’s guidelines, healthcare workers will be the first ones to be vaccinated. After that, frontline workers such as municipality and sanitation workers, state and central police forces, civil defence and armed forces, and revenue officers will be vaccinated. People over 50 years will be third group of people to receive jab followed by those below the age of 50 years.NHM, Haryana, Mission Director Prabhjot Singh said about 67 lakh people would be vaccinated this year. These include people above the age of 50 years (58 lakh) and those below 50 years and who are ill (2.25 lakh).
06-01-2021||Rohtak||Faculty development programme||Career counselling sessionsRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) will soon organise career counselling programmes, motivational lectures and skill development workshops. A comprehensive plan to facilitate career counselling and the placement of university students was finalised at a meeting of department coordinators of the career counselling and placement cell (CCPC) on Monday. Director, CCPC, Prof Sumeet Gill said a series of career guidance lectures and skill development workshops would be organised. Former students would be invited for career guidance lectures, he added. The database of the alumni would be updated for utilising their experience during the placement drive.Online poster-making eventYamunanagar: The women’s study cell of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, organised national-level online poster-making and slogan-writing competitions. The theme was “My girl, My Pride”. Dr Amandeep Batra and Dr Poonam, in-charge of the cell, said 270 university students from across the nation participated in the competitions. In the poster-making event, Deepak from Maharishi Markandeshwar University, Mullana, won the first prize, Sonia from IB (PG) College, Panipat, secured the second position while Mani Chaudhary of Government College of Arts, Panjab University, won the third prize. In slogan writing, Nikita of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, bagged the first prize, followed by Smriti from Maharishi Markandeshwar University, Mullana, and Sheena Aggarwal from Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar.
06-01-2021||AS one enters the Lal Kurti area||Garbage menace plagues Ambala area||Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CityIncrease in robberies worrisomeNARWANA has witnessed several robberies in the past one week. In one such incident, motorcycle-born miscreants allegedly looted Rs 1 lakh from an accountant outside a bank recently. Earlier, Rs 2 lakh was looted from a man at gunpoint. Similarly, three vegetable traders were robbed of their belongings at gunpoint on the Hisar road. The police should be more vigilant and increase patrolling.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaNeedless to extend deadline without reasonIT is generally observed that deadlines for various administrative and civil works or development and social issues such as FASTag, income tax return, property tax and GST returns often get extended by government agencies. The same should be done only under extreme conditions, otherwise it does not augur well as people take the government orders casually and keep on delaying the submissions indefinitely, resulting in delayed implementation or revenuecollection.Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
06-01-2021||Panipat||Unions defer tractor march by a day||The farmers’ unions today deferred their tractor march from January 6 to January 7 due to a bad weather forecast even as they asserted they would intensify their stir in the coming days.Thousands of farmers will take out the march from all protest sites — Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Shahjahanpur (Haryana-Rajasthan border) — and the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway.BJP leaders from Punjab meet PMNew Delhi: BJP leaders from Punjab on Tuesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi here. Surjit Kumar Jyani, who is also a former Punjab minister, and Harjit Singh Grewal met the PM at his residence. Later, Grewal said their meeting was about Punjab-related issues.Addressing a press conference at Kundli, Yogendra Yadav, convener, Swaraj India, said the tractor march would be a “trailer for what lies ahead on January 26”.“We have decided to intensify and broaden our movement. The march will begin from the expressway on all four sides of Delhi at 11 am on Thursday,” he said.The farmers will start the march from Kundli and Tikri towards Shahjahanpur and from Ghazipur and Rewasan towards Palwal.Showers fail to deter farmersKarnal: Bone-chilling weather coupled with rain has failed to dampen the spirits of farmers, who have been protesting at Bastara toll plaza on NH-44 and Peont toll plaza on Karnal-Jind NH-709A since December 25. They said they won’t relent till their demands were met.As part of its plan to intensify agitation against the three farm laws, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has already announced to hold a “tractor parade” in New Delhi after the official parade on the Republic Day.Darshan Pal, president, Krantikari Kisan Union, said their agitation plan included boycott of Adani and Ambani products, burning copies of the laws on Lohri, observing Mahila Kisan Diwas on January 18 and Azad Hind Kisan Diwas on January 23 on the occasion of birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.
