06-06-2020||Hisar||Haryana: BJP leader Sonali Phogat, market committee official booked||BJP leader Sonali Phogat has been booked for rioting, obstructing public servant in discharge of duty and other charges on the complaint of an agricultural market committee in Hisar who accused her of slapping and hitting him with a slipper.A case has also been registered against Market Committee Secretary Sultan Singh whom Phogat has accused of making indecent remarks against her.A video clip purportedly showing the Hisar BJP leader beating a district's agricultural market committee official with a slipper after accusing him of having made some indecent remarks against her had gone viral on social media on Friday.In the video, the 40-year-old ruling party leader from Adampur in Hisar, also a Tik-Tok star, is seen first slapping marketing committee secretary Sultan Singh and then hitting him with her slipper in full public view.Singh later lodged a complaint with police against Phogat, denying making any indecent remarks against her and accused her of beating him up under a "misconception" that he had opposed her during the assembly elections.Hisar Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia on Saturday said a case under IPC Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault ) and 506 (criminal intimidation) has been registered against Sonali Phogat.Sultan Singh has been booked under IPC sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 509 (act with the intent to insult the modesty of a woman). Both cases were registered in Sadar Police Station Hisar, Punia said.On Saturday, the employees of market committees in Hisar, Hansi, Barwala, Uklana, Balsamand, Adampur of the district staged a dharna in their places protesting the beating of Singh. They demanded that Phogat be arrested of Sonali Phogat and submitted a memorandum to the administration.Youth Congress workers also staged a dharna at Parijat Chowk here and demanded the arrest Phogat and her supporters who were involved in the beating of Hisar Market Committee Secretary Sultan Singh.In Hansi, market committee employees wore black badges to work and later submitted a memorandum to the chief minister through the sub-divisional magistrate demanding action against the BJP leader.Phogat had told mediapersons in Hisar on Friday that she had gone to meet the market committee officials on Friday to air some grievance of farmers.She said when an official was showing her a place in the Balsamand area of Hisar district where a shed for farmers was to come up, he began making "indecent and derogatory remarks against her".She had claimed the official also made some comments against another woman official of the market committee and a woman minister of Haryana.Phogat had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Assembly Polls from Adampur in Hisar district, a seat which was retained by senior Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi, who is the younger son of former chief minister Bhajan Lal. PTI
06-06-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram parents protest charging of full fees by schools amid Covid pandemic||Gurugram, June 6Despite clear orders from state government, various Gurugram schools allegedly continue to seek charges other than tuition fees from parents, forcing them to come out in protest.In one such incident on Saturday, hundreds of parents gathered under the banner of Lancers International School Parents Association outside the school campus at DLF Phase V.The parents alleged that they were being pressurised by the school management to pay Rs 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh for each quarter.“As per the Form VI filed by the school, they can demand only Rs 10,000 from a student during the pandemic. But they are seeking additional charges. We had moved to DEO (District Education Officer) early in May, but no action has been taken and the school is continuing to force us to pay. Getting no administrative help, we had no choice but to assemble here and raise our concerns," said Kunal Jain, a LISPA representative."The Education Department just issued the orders but it is not concerned about its compliance. Schools have no fear. They tell us it's not an order but just an appeal. Many parents have lost jobs, while others are suffering salary cuts amid Covid crisis. We cannot afford pay this much in present situation. We tried approaching every official and now have taken the route of protest," added advocate Archna Mishra, a parent.The association has also forwarded the complaint to the Chief Secretary along with income-tax returns of the school, highlighting profits made through fees."All of us are keen to pay. All we want is for the school to remove all hidden charges, which may be 60-70 per cent of the fees that’s charged per quarter from us," said another parent.The Education Department is yet to release a statement on the issue.When contacted, no one was ready to comment on the matter.
06-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak PGIMS doc went abroad with boxing team, but fraudulently marked present in hospital records, finds probe||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 6The PGIMS authorities here have, following an inquiry, recommended police proceedings against a resident doctor allegedly also found working for the National Boxing Academy (NBA) in violation of norms.The hospital authorities have recommended criminal investigation by the police citing alleged irregularities, misappropriation of funds, misrepresentation and concealments of facts, criminal conspiracy and forgery by the doctor, Gaurav Nandal.The inquiry, conducted by the Deputy Medical Superintendent (DMS), found that Dr Nandal, a PG student at Orthopaedic Department, also went on foreign tours along with boxing teams several times without obtaining permission from the PGIMS authorities. Even during his foreign visits, his attendance was allegedly marked present in the hospital record. The tour expenses, including boarding and lodging, were borne by the NBA. The doctor also received $25 per day as pocket money allowance during the tours.PGIMS Director Dr Rohtas Kanwar Yadav has sought legal opinion to take action against the doctor.“Dr Gaurav Nandal joined as resident, PG (Ortho), at the PGIMS in May 2017 and has been getting stipend regularly since his joining. He is also serving as visiting faculty at SAI, NBA, Rohtak, since April 2018. Dr Gaurav received honorarium from the NBA till March 2020. During the time span, he visited abroad three-four times along with boxing teams,” said Dr Sandeep, DMS, in his inquiry report.The inquiry stated that Dr Gaurav worked at two different oranisations at the same time. As many facts against the accused were of criminal nature, these required criminal investigation by the police, it added.“We will take action against Dr Gaurav Nandal as per the opinion of the legal cell,” Yadav told The Tribune.Dr Gaurav did not respond to phone calls. Even SMSes and WhatsApp message sent to him remained unanswered.
06-06-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Strict policy for discharge of extra irrigation water from canals for Kharif 2020||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6Paddy growers in Haryana will have to make optimum use of water for paddy cultivation with the Haryana government putting in place a stricter policy for rice shoots for the kharif season-2020.Now, strict norms will govern obtaining the rice shoots—temporary openings on water channels for paddy crop—by farmers during the upcoming kharif season with no new rice shoots allowed on any main line, branch line or feeder channel.The policy, released on June 3, said a maximum of 25% additional discharge would be allowed in the Western Jamuna Canal System, during the kharif season. The highest number of rice shoots, both traditional (in existence for three years) and new rice shoots, are allowed in the Western Jamuna Command area, considered to be the rice bowl of the state.Similarly, only 10 per cent of authorised discharge would be made available for rice shoots in the Bhakra Command System for the upcoming kharif season.“Increased requirements of drinking water in rural and urban areas now require the state to undertake measures to reduce water consumption in agriculture without comprising on productivity,” the policy said justifying tough measures on water conservation during paddy production.Agriculure Minister JP Dalal said the state government was committed to optimum use of irrigation water, especially during kharif season. “With that end in mind the government had recently come out with “mera paani, meri virasat” to encourage crop diversification especially to discourage water-guzzling paddy,” he asserted.Meanwhile, the policy made it clear that “there shall be no shortage of water at the tail-end when the temporary rice shoots are sanctioned. “No temporary rice shoots will be sanctioned to persons found guilty of unauthorised irrigation in the past five years,” it said.The minimum area for a temporary rice shoot will be 20 acres, out of which at least 25% of the area will have to be of non-paddy crops. No rice shoots will be allowed to the cultivators cultivating “satthi” paddy (60-day crop) as this variety has already been banned by the Haryana government.“One kg rice consumes 5,000 litres of water.”Officials said research had shown that a kilogram of rice production consumed over 5,000 litres of water stretching the logic to the extent that Haryana indirectly exported its water even at the peril of future generations.What are rice shootsRice shoots are temporary openings on water channels for cultivation of paddy crop. The rice shoots are exclusively given for irrigation of paddy crop from two major canal systems—Western Jamuna Canal System and the Bhakra Command System.
06-06-2020||---||Haryana records 184 fresh cases of COVID-19; total tally 3,781||Haryana, June 6Haryana has recorded 184 new cases of COVID-19 since Saturday morning, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 3,781.With 1,215 people recovered and discharged from hospitals, the number of active cases now stands at 2,542.As many as 24 people have so far died of the virus in the state so far.Karnal reported 10 infections, taking the number of positive cases to 91, while seven more COVID-19 cases surfaced in Palwal, taking the district tally to 110.As per the official records, 32 patients in Haryana are in critical condition. Of these, 10 are on oxygen support and 22 others are on ventilators at PGIMS (Rohtak), ESIC Medical College and Hospital (Faridabad), Mederor Hospital (Manesar), Fortis Hospital (Gurugram) and Medanta Hospital (Gurugram).Haryana has so far taken 1,39,566 samples, of which 1,30,501 have tested negative for COVID-19 and report is awaited in case of the 5,284 samples.
06-06-2020||---||Wife, two others held for driver’s murder||Faridabad, June 5The police have arrested three persons, including a woman, for the murder of a truck driver here recently. The accused woman is the wife of the victim.According to the complaint lodged with the police, the victim, identified as Lakhan (36), a resident of Nekpur village in the district, had died on June 2.It was alleged that while he had been murdered, his death was shown to be a result of liquor overdose. A police team which investigated the incident found that Lakhan had been strangulated by three persons, including his wife Madhu.It is alleged that Madhu, who was fed up with his drinking habit and subsequent quarrels, had taken the help of two youths identified as Vinod and Ashu in the crime.According to the police, while Vinod had been working as domestic help at Lakhan’s house, Ashu, a hawker, had developed friendship with Madhu when Lakhan used to be on his driving job.After giving him a heavy dose of liquor, the accused strangulated the victim with the help of a cloth, it is claimed.The police were informed about the incident by Om Prakash, brother of the victim. It led to the arrest of the accused. All the accused who hail from UP were remanded to judicial custody by the court today.
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Flood control projects on war footing||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed DCs to intensify work on flood control schemes. He said they should personally visit the sites to ensure that works were completed well before the monsoon. He said this while presiding over a meeting to review flood preparedness in the state through video-conferencing. — TNS
06-06-2020||Yamunanagar||Farmers seek school fee waiver||A group of farmers has demanded Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar to waive off the school fees of their wards for three months.Under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), they met the minister in Jagadhri on Thursday and handed over a memorandum of their demands to him.Subhash Gujjar, district president of the BKU, said the financial condition of farmers was not good.“The input cost has been increasing for the last several years, but their rates have not been increasing in the same proportion,” he said. — TNS
06-06-2020||Rohtak||Staff crunch at PGIMS as 160 docs, staff quarantined||The Rohtak PGIMS is facing an acute shortage of doctors, paramedics, technicians and other healthcare professionals with the number of Covid cases increasing sharply in the state. A large number of doctors and other staff have also been quarantined after getting accidental exposure to the virus or performing their duty for a stipulated period.As per official sources, as many as 160 healthcare providers, including doctors, nurses and members of the support staff at the PGIMS are under quarantine as of now.In all, nearly 400 staffers of the institute were quarantined after performing their duties for the stipulated period, while around 200 had to be quarantined following accidental exposure till date.Nodal Officer for Covid Dr VK Katyal said dental surgeons had been deployed for collecting samples and administrative work. — TNS
06-06-2020||Rohtak||Windpipe reimplanted at PGIMS||A team of doctors led by cardiac surgeon Dr SS Lohchab gave a new lease of life to a 22-year-old by reimplanting his windpipe (trachea) with the artificial life support system at the PGIMS here on Wednesday. The youth had been facing severe difficulty in breathing ever since he was hit by a bull while riding a bicycle in Jind on May 24.Dr Lohchab, who is the head of the cardiothoracic surgery department at the PGIMS, said the case was thoroughly discussed. “Maintaining his respiration and going ahead with the surgical intervention was found highly challenging as putting any tube with sedation could have posed a serious threat to his life in case of failure. So it was decided to put him on artificial life support system (cardiothoracic bypass),” he said. — TNS
06-06-2020||Deepender Deswal||Under-weighed stock with cops, farmer waits for FIR||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 5With officials busy conducting an inquiry, the black gram produce of the farmer concerned is with the police. The entire produce, filled in 15 bags, is lying in an open verandah at the Hisar City police station.Vinod Kumar of Kharia village had lodged a complaint that the produce was under-weighed by officials. He said his stock weighed around 7.5 quintals, but weighed about 40 kg short during procurement.When he got a bag reweighed, it was found that the 50-kg bag contained 55-kg black gram. Following this, he lodged a complaint with the police and administration.The police took his produce to the police station. After reweighing the produce, they started an inquiry. The district administration initiated a probe by the SDM.Vinod said he visited the police station to enquire whether any action would be taken, but was told to contact the Anaj Mandi police chowki.“My stock is lying inside the police station, but no FIR has been registered so far. I am unsure when I will get back my produce,” he said.Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said the police had initiated action and were waiting for the inquiry report of the SDM.Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni said Hisar SDM Rajender Singh had completed the inquiry. “We have sent the report to the headquarters. Action has been initiated against two commission agents,” she said.
06-06-2020||---||Duped of Rs 9.5L, youth attempts suicide||Panipat, June 5A youth from Sutana village in the district reportedly consumed some poisonous substance after three persons duped him of Rs9.5 lakh on the pretext of sending him to Germany. He has been admitted to a private hospital.In his complaint to the Superintendent of Police on February 26, Praveen had said he came in contact with Sukhdeep, Manoj and his father Dharam Singh of Manjura village of Karnal district in September 2019. They told him they would send him to Germany and arrange work for him there. They demanded Rs12 lakh from him for the purpose.He gave them Rs4 lakh, passport, birth certificate and other documents on October 13. He again arranged Rs4.5 lakh for them on October 20.They called him on November 9 and demanded Rs1 lakh for his passport, saying his visa had been approved. However, instead of Germany, they sent him to Armenia on November 12. Later, he came to know he had been duped. He was beaten up and tortured by some miscreants. He was deported from Armenia on December 21.The victim approached the accused and demanded his money back but they threatened him with dire consequences. Inspector Sunil Kumar, SHO, Model Town, said the victim’s condition was stable. “Three persons have been booked in the case,” said the SHO.
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Portal giving unique identification  to all industrial units launched||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today launched Haryana Udhyam Memorandum (HUM) portal with an objective to provide unique identification to all enterprises — shops, MSMEs, large and mega industries — to enable permissions and services to be provided in an integrated manner.The HUM portal will also enable registration of labour engaged by the enterprises, creating a database of all the employees engaged in industrial enterprises in Haryana.The database will also obtain details of migrant workers, given the experience of the recent pandemic.The HUM unique identification will form the primary key for integrating services and data in respect of Haryana and enable better planning and support. Haryana Udhyam Memorandum is a unique initiative of the state government developed with the collaboration of Citizen Resource Information Department (CRID) and Departments of Industry and Commerce and Labour and Employment. — TNS
06-06-2020||Deepender Deswal||Haryana BJP leader hits official with slipper||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 5BJP leader and TikTok star Sonali Phogat beat up the secretary of the market committee at the purchase centre in Balsamand village of the district today.The video of the incident went viral on social media. It showed Sonali hitting market committee secretary Sultan Singh with her slipper and slapping him repeatedly.Sonali hit Sultan Singh six times with the slipper in a 51-second video. In another video, she is seen slapping him once.The secretary alleged that he was assaulted without provocation by Sonali and some youths. He said Sonali had alleged that he had not supported her during the Assembly poll.Sonali, who was the BJP candidate from Adampur Assembly constituency and lost to the Congress’ Kuldeep Bishnoi, however, denied any political reason behind the incident. She said the official used indecent language, after which she thrashed him.The police registered FIRs against both parties as they filed cross-complaints against each other.SP Ganga Ram Punia said that an FIR under Section 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC had been filed against Sonali and others on the complaint of the market committee secretary.On the complaint of Sonali Phogat, a case under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) was registered against market committee official Sultan Singh.The SP said that so far, they had no video to substantiate the complaint of Sonali and hence, further investigation has been started in both cases.In a video statement, Sonali said she was concerned about the mismanagement in procurement as she was getting complaints of cheating with gram-producing farmers at Hisar grain market.“I met officials to demand that a shed should be constructed in Balsamand purchase centre so that gram can also be purchased at the purchase centre. The market committee secretary behaved nicely and agreed to the demand for the construction of the shed. However, I got upset when he made indecent remarks about me. As a woman, I cannot tolerate such indecent behaviour,” she said.In the video which went viral, she can be heard saying, “Am I working to hear abuses from people like you? Do I not have the right to a dignified life? You (abusive word)…you have no right to live,” as she used her slipper to hit Sultan Singh.Sonali also flashed a handwritten statement purportedly written by Sultan. In the letter, he reportedly regretted his use of indecent language and said that he would not pursue the case. Sultan Singh later said he was forced to write it down as he feared for his life when he was surrounded by Sonali and her aides.Sources at the village said Sonali, accompanied by 5-6 associates, came to the grain market’s purchase centre and spoke to Sultan Singh about some issues. They said things got heated up as the group made its way towards the purchase centre and soon, they saw Sonali Phogat beating Sultan Singh. Zonal marketing enforcement officer Saheb Ram said the assault appeared “pre-planned.Conflicting claims
06-06-2020||---||High Court orders status quo on service of PTIs||Chandigarh, June 5Less than 10 days after issuance of orders for dispensing with the services of physical training instructors (PTIs), the Punjab and Haryana High Court today ordered maintenance of status quo as existing on date.The direction by Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu came on a petition against Haryana and other respondents by Surender Kumar and other petitioners through senior counsel BS Rana and Gagandeep Rana.Justice Sindhu’s Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the petitioners were discharging their duties on the posts of PTI sincerely and efficiently since May 2010 and nothing adverse was ever initiated against them.A number of selectees had retired on attaining the age of superannuation, while some died in service. Some others, including the petitioners, were granted extension in service on the basis of their performance. Justice Sindhu was also told that the petitions challenging the selections in 2010 were allowed vide judgement dated September 11, 2012, by a single-Judge Bench of the HC and directions were issued to hold fresh selection within five months.Appeals against the orders were dismissed in September 2013. The special leave petitions against the judgement were dismissed vide judgement dated April 8 by the Supreme Court.As the case came up for hearing through video-conferencing, the state counsel told the Bench that an advertisement dated May 15 was issued by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission after the dismissal of an appeal and other connected matters by the Supreme Court vide judgment dated April 8.He pointed out that the advertisement was issued in terms of directions contained in the judgment. He stated that June 10 was fixed as the last date for the submission of online applications. The state counsel said the entire selection process was to be completed within five months of resumption of work by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission after end of the lockdown.The state counsel acknowledged before the Bench that all petitioners were still working despite the issuance of the impugned order dated May 27. He sought additional time to seek instructions in the matter and file written response by way of an affidavit. Fixing the case for June 9, Justice Sindhu ordered, “Till the next date of hearing, status quo as exists today shall be maintained.”‘Discharging Duties sincerely’Justice Sindhu’s Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the petitioners were discharging their duties on the posts of PTI sincerely and efficiently since May 2010 and nothing adverse was ever initiated against them.
06-06-2020||---||Selja for judicial probe into liquor scam in Haryana||Karnal, June 5State Congress president Kumari Selja today demanded a judicial inquiry into the liquor scam. She was addressing mediapersons at the residence of Assandh MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi.“We have no trust in the investigation by the special enquiry team. The case should be probed by a sitting High Court Judge so that people can know the truth,” she said. Taking a dig at the government for planning to develop Gohana as a district, she said it was a political stunt before the byelection.Demanding relief for the general public, she said house tax and school and college fees should be waived. She said the government should transfer financial aid into the accounts of people. She blamed the Centre for mass migration of labour.
06-06-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Unlock 1.0 proving disastrous for Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 5The first five days of Unlock 1.0 have been the worst for the state, with over 300 cases, on average, recorded per day.During Unlock 1.0, the average number of cases per day is 301.2, with 1,506 cases registered in five days. It is 3.6 times the average for Lockdown 4.0, when 84.4 cases per day, on an average, were recorded.During Unlock 1.0, the state, following Centre’s guidelines, allowed four more hours of free movement, while inter-state and intra-state travel and domestic air travel were allowed.During Lockdown 4.0, free movement of individuals was allowed from 7 am to 7 pm, while only intra-state movement was given the go-ahead.A total of 1,181 cases were recorded during Lockdown 4.0, which was 2.5 times the average recorded during Lockdown 3.0.“There are two reasons, the first being movement of people from outside the state. Secondly, with private offices open, there is a rush for testing, which has brought into the open a number of cases in places like Gurugram,” said Anil Vij, Health Minister.“Cases are rising with relaxations across the country. There is more urbanisation and mobility in Gurugram and Faridabad, which are seeing a spike. Cases have reached rural areas because of increase in mobility after relaxations,” said Prof Aswini Nanda of the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development.Another worrying feature is the rise in positivity rate. On May 17, which marked the end of Lockdown 3.0, it was 1.24 per cent. On May 31, the day Lockdown 4.0 ended, it reached 1.84 per cent. On June 5, it reached 2.71 per cent.“The rise in positivity rate shows that the infection is spreading. It is going towards community spread,” said Prof Digambar Behra, expert in pulmonary medicine at the PGI in Chandigarh.
06-06-2020||Nitish Sharma||Revival may take 2 years, fears scientific industry in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 5Though scientific apparatus manufacturers in Ambala have reopened their units to limited production, shortage of funds, poor availability of raw material and low demand in the market continue to be a matter of concern for them.They fear that the industry may take two years for revival and the annual turnover of Ambala’s industry, which is around Rs2,000 crore, may suffer a loss of between 25 per cent and 30 per cent this year.There are over 1,500 small and big units in Ambala providing jobs to nearly 20,000 people. Over 80 per cent of customers at Ambala’s units are educational institutes and engineering colleges.“Payments are stuck and new queries are few, but suppliers have been seeking their payments. Two months have passed and demand is likely to remain muted till September. We have reduced production to around 30 per cent,” said Sanjay Gupta, president of the Ambala Scientific Instruments Manufacturers Association.“Shortage of raw material is another major issue. Delhi, Mumbai, Chandigarh and states from where raw material arrives are facing a lockdown. Raw material stuck on ports has arrived, but there are no fresh supplies from China. Those who have material are quoting inflated rates,” he stated.“The Centre has announced collateral-free loans worth Rs3 lakh crore for MSMEs. This will help us resolve the issue we have been facing related to working capital, but it is a loan and not financial assistance. There is no compensation for the losses that we have been suffering,” he added.“This business has its own fixed expenses. Survival will become more difficult with loan repayment. There is no export order and freight charges have increased,” said Arun P Bansal, immediate past president of the Scientific Apparatus Manufacturers and Exporters.“In the current situation, industrialists have shifted their focus on preparing products such as sanitiser dispensers, but due to competition, margins are very low,” he maintained.
06-06-2020||---||300 cases in Haryana, third time in 5 days||Chandigarh, June 5With 316 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 3,597 today. It was for the third time in the last five days that fresh cases crossed the 300 mark.Fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (153), Faridabad (59), Charkhi Dadri (22), Palwal (14), Kurukshetra (12), Rewari (11), Hisar (9), Karnal (7), Ambala (6), Rohtak and Mahendragarh (4 each), Nuh and Fatehabad (3 each), Jhajjar, Jind and Sirsa (2 each) and Panipat, Panchkula and Kaithal (1 each).Gurugram and Faridabad accounted for 67.1 per cent of the fresh cases. Meanwhile, 86 patients were cured in the last 24 hours, the highest so far, taking the tally to 1,209. Forty patients recovered in Gurugram.Fresh cases surfaced in various Faridabad localities — Ram Nagar and Mahavir Colony (6 each), Vishnu Colony (5) and Subhash Colony, Unchagoan and Chawla Colony (3 each).A 32-year-old woman from Umri village whose husband tested positive earlier and a 58-year-old man from Thaska Miraji village who visited a private hospital in Ambala were among the fresh cases in Kurukshetra.A 37-year-old woman from Barna village who came back from Mumbai and a 42-year-old man from Mohan Nagar Sadhu Mandi who returned from Delhi were among the other fresh cases.A 65-year-old living at an ashram who had travelled to Delhi and a 28-year-old of Railway Colony who had travelled to Rajasthan also tested positive. In Karnal, six of the patients had history of travel to Delhi and one came from Gurugram.
06-06-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Surge in Gurugram, inept contact-tracing blamed||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 5Inefficient contact-tracing and sketchy containment of affected areas have turned Gurugram into a Covid hotbed within days, with over 1,200 new cases being reported in the district in the past 10 days.Spike due to More testsThe increase in number of positive cases is due to higher testing, particularly after the opening of industries. — Rajeev Arora, Addl Chief Secy, HealthWith 1,563 positive cases so far, as against 317 till May 27, residents fear the district is in the community spread phase.While the health authorities are yet to ascertain the reason, people claim it is the result of tweaking of MHA and Health Ministry guidelines regarding isolation of suspected cases, setting up of containment zones and contact-tracing of positive cases.Of the 2,602 tested after May 27, 1,200 have turned out positive, at a rate over 40 per cent. “One of the key reasons is the decision to send suspected cases back home rather than isolating them,” says a health official.Delay in contact-tracing, especially of those testing positive at private labs, is another factor, say officials. Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, says the rate looks higher as private labs haven’t shared details of those testing negative.
