06-05-2020||Karnal||Karnal man jumps off hospital building after undergoing COVID test||A 35-year-old man who recently underwent a test for coronavirus allegedly tried to kill himself by jumping off the fourth floor of the hospital where he was being treated, officials said.The man in question has been identified as Rubal, a resident of Karnal’s Sadar Bazar. He had been admitted to Kalpana Chawla Government Medical with liver complaints, Gunjan Choudhary, a spokesperson of KCGMC, said.He had tested negative for coronavirus, the doctor said, adding that the patient was informed of his test results and that he was told that alcohol consumption had damaged his liver.The patient is believed to have blamed his health problems on “sudden withdrawal of alcohol” before he tried to kill himself.   The doctor said that the man’s condition was critical.This is case of its kind at the hospital----a 55-year-old who underwent a coronavirus test fell and died last month when he tried to escape from the hospital. He later tested negative.Days later, another suspected patient threatened to jump off the sixth floor of the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-man-jumps-off-hospital-building-after-undergoing-covid-test-81236
06-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram liquor vends: Special queues for women, senior citizens and corona warriors||After almost 45 days of lockdown, the tipplers in Gurugram had something to cheer on Wednesday with the opening of liquor vends.The high spirits were clearly visible in the “socially distanced” way as people stood patiently in kilometres long queues battling high temperature and soaring sun.However, what made the Gurugram vends different was the liquor shops went on reserving special queues for women, senior citizens, specially-abled and even corona warriors who were also given special discounts.“Like any other industry or citizen, we owe a lot to corona warriors and thus to salute them we not just made special queues for them but also have discounts to doctors and other frontline warriors. As far as women are concerned, they are regular customers and keeping their convenience in mind we reserved them separate queues,” said a vend owner of DLF city.Interestingly showing solidarity with the soldiers killed in Hundwara, one of the liquor vend owners in Baadshahpur area offered special discounts and queues for Army veterans and even gave free liquor to next of kin of martyrs on production of valid I-cards.“This is all I can do. We come from a village where every house has a soldier and thus this is what we could do for them. Liquor is like any commodity. Had I been running a grocery store, I would have given grocery for free,” said Satish Yadav, the vend owner.Day one meanwhile kept Gurugram police on its toes that toiled the entire day keeping people and vehicles in check.Interestingly the number of vehicles increased by 40 per cent today as compared to last two days of lockdown relaxation.It was however the border which proved to be tougher fight with many people from Delhi trying to enter Gurugram to get liquor stock citing closure of vends in their areas or increased liquor rates.“The police had extra workload but we pulled it off perfectly. Unlike national pictures of chaos at vends we ensured social distancing and no nonsense. We have told all vend owners and people that self-discipline is key to keep things running. Any kind of chaos and we will shut the shops,” said CP Mohammad Akil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-liquor-vends-special-queues-for-women-senior-citizens-and-corona-warriors-81232
06-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak markets under surveillance||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 6 The district administration here has allowed the opening of local markets in a systematic manner so as to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic with the relaxation in lockdown.Rohtak Deputy Commissioner RS Verma said the activities at the local marketplaces were being monitored with the help of drone cameras and videography in order to ensure effective implementation of lockdown.“Duty Magistrates-cum-Incident Commanders are taking legal action against those found violating the guidelines,” Verma said, adding that teams have been constituted to check the stock of liquor in the district.The Deputy Commissioner informed that nearly 27,000 migrant labourers in the district had requested for traveling to their native places and necessary arrangements were being made in this regard.Verma, however, pointed that the number of migrant workers desirous of returning to their homes might get reduced as many industrial units and construction projects had been allowed to resume operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-markets-under-surveillance-81219
06-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||PGIMS ramps up facilities as COVID cases increase||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 6The sudden rise in the number of COVID-19 patients has forced Pt BD Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here not only to arrange for more beds, but also take steps to handle emergency situations.The authorities have dedicated 45 more beds for the treatment of COVID patients at its trauma centre after three wards reserved for the people infected with the virus ran out of beds, following the arrival of over 30 patients from Jhajjar and Jind districts in last three days.Sources said the authorities had also sped up the work to equip newly constructed Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at the operation theatre block with ventilators and other ultra-modern facilities to treat COVID patients.The ICU will have the facility of 66 beds and is likely to become functional in two weeks’ time, said the sources.“It was already planned to use the top floor of the trauma centre if the number of COVID patients increase beyond the capacity of the dedicated wards - 24, 25 and 26. All beds in these wards have now been occupied. Hence we have executed our second plan to treat the COVID patients at the trauma centre,” said Dr OP Kalra, vice-chancellor, Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences.Dr Kalra further said the facility of 45 beds at the trauma centre could be extended up to 120 beds on requirement.“A total of 120 ventilators are available at the PGIMS and some of them are being used for patients of other disease, while the rest are available for COVID patients. The trauma centre also has the facility of 21 ICU beds,” said Dr Kalra.“We are also in process of starting the newly constructed ICU so that it could also be used in emergency,” he added.Dr Rohtas Yadav, director, PGIMS, said they were fully geared up and all necessary arrangements had been made to treat the COVID patients.“The arrangements are reviewed on daily basis and further steps are being taken accordingly,” said Dr Yadav.PGIMS spokesperson Varun Arora said, at present, 22 COVID patients were admitted to the trauma centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-ramps-up-facilities-as-covid-cases-increase-81213
06-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Delay in COVID test reports as number of samples rise at PGIMS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 6The testing of people for COVID-19 at the PGIMS here is getting delayed due to the increasing number of samples being received by the virology laboratory of the institute.As per official sources, the reports of people screened for the virus come after 24 to 36 hours due to the shortage of the requisite equipment and research scientists at the laboratory. Earlier, it used to take just 6 to 12 hours for the reports to be delivered.“Our 15-member team, engaged in the testing of COVID samples, has been working round-the-clock for nearly two months. We have got one RT-PCR machine which has a limited capacity. Pooling of samples is being done to test more samples simultaneously. Another machine is now being installed, which would enhance our testing capacity,” said Professor PS Gill, in-charge of the lab.Talking to The Tribune, Professor Gill informed that the process for purchasing a third RT-PCR machine was also under way.Professor Gill added that they were also trying to induct more research scientists to augment their capacity.Notably, the virology lab at the PGIMS is testing samples received from 11 districts of Haryana, including Rohtak, Jhajjar, Gurugram, Nuh (Mewat), Palwal, Rewari, Narnaul, Bhiwani, Hisar, Fatehabad and Sirsa.Of nearly 42,000 samples tested in the entire state till date, more than 13,000 have been tested at the PGIMS virology lab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delay-in-covid-test-reports-as-number-of-samples-rise-at-pgims-81207
06-05-2020||Panipat||Panipat records first coronavirus death, reports two more cases||Panipat registered its first fatality from coronavirus on Wednesday, officials said.A 24-year-old youth from Dinanath Colony who died late on Monday night after having come to the district from Delhi tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday.District health authorities moved to quarantine his mother and other contacts soon after the death.The case appears to be unusual because of the patient’s age. It is still unclear if he had pre-existing health conditions that rendered him vulnerable.  The development takes Haryana's death count to seven.Panipat also reported two more positive cases. A 34-year-old man from Kalkha village and his 6-year-old son tested positive on Wednesday. Wednesday's developments take Panipat’s coronavirus cases to 33.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-records-first-coronavirus-death-reports-two-more-cases-81201
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports another fatality, 40 new cases, state death toll rises to 7||Haryana on Wednesday recorded one death and 40 new cases, taking the state tally to 577 infections.Panipat registered its first fatality from coronavirus on Wednesday, officials said.A 24-year-old youth from Dinanath Colony who died late on Monday after having come to the district from Delhi tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday.District health authorities have quarantined his mother and other contacts.The case appears to be unusual because of the patient’s age. It is still unclear if he had pre-existing health conditions that rendered him vulnerable.  The development takes Haryana's death count to seven.Panipat also reported two more positive cases.A 34-year-old man from Kalkha village and his 6-year-old son tested positive on Wednesday.Wednesday's developments take Panipat’s coronavirus cases to 33.Gurugram reported most number of cases at 20 cases. Karnal (5), Ambala (4), Sonepat (3), Panipat (3), Faridabad (2) and Jhajjar (1), Fatehabad (1) and Jind (1) all reported new cases.Ten of Gurugram’s 20 cases are either vegetable sellers or employees of the shops from Khandsa Mandi, three are health workers, four are primary contacts of an already diagnosed patient from Uttar Pradesh’s Muzzaffarnagar, one is a resident of Sector 18.Five people tested positive in Pakhna village in Karnal. All five were Nanded pilgrims. Ambala reported the four new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 41. All of the cases were reported in pilgrims who had recently returned from Nanded in Maharashtra. They had gone there to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib and had been living together at the shrine complex.Three more tested positive in Sonepat, taking the district's COVID-19 tally to 81.Faridabad reported two more positive cases in the last 24 hours, taking the district tally to 78.A 14-year-old boy and a 72-year-old woman both tested positive. The teenager lived with his grandparents at Greenfields colony. Neither of his grandparents have showed any signs of the infection, Deputy Civil Surgeon Ram Bhagat said.The teenager was asymptomatic and has been put in home isolation. The doctor also said the teenager is likely to have got the infection from an aunt who recently tested positive.The other patient is a 72-year-old woman from Sector 28 whose source of infection is unknown. The rest of her family has been quarantined.Fatehabad, Jhajjar and Jind each reported one case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-haryana-reports-another-fatality-40-new-cases-state-death-toll-rises-to-7-81156
06-05-2020||Sushil Manav||Trains in first phase only for agricultural workers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 5Only those migrants who are involved in agricultural activity will be transported to their home states in the first phase. As the government prepares to facilitate transportation of migrants from Wednesday, it has decided to transport only those involved in agriculture-related work in the first phase.The trains from Hisar, Ambala, Rohtak, Hisar and Bhiwani to various districts of Bihar have been rescheduled, with three trains leaving for Katihar — the first from Hisar on May 6, the second from Ambala on May 7 and the third from Rohtak on May 8.The other three trains have also been rescheduled, with one proceeding from Hisar to Muzaffarpur on May 7, another from Bhiwani to Gaya the same day and the third from Ambala to Bhagalpur on May 8. The earlier schedule mentioned fare between Rs 580 and Rs 670, but the latest schedule did not mention fare.A large number of labourers in Hisar and neighbouring districts, who assembled to be cleared for the first train leaving for Katihar on Wednesday, were a disappointed lot when they were told that only labourers working in the agricultural sector would be allowed.Anil Kumar Rao, Additional Director General of Police (CID), heading a team of senior officers monitoring the transportation operations, stated that only those associated with agriculture were being sent in the first phase to avoid chaos.“Agricultural workers come for a specific job for a month or two. They have to return home immediately after that because they do not have anything to do. This is not true with industrial labour, construction labour and others. They stay here almost permanently and many of them have their homes. With resumption of economic activity, many may not be interested in leaving,” he said.He said many associated with agricultural activity preferred to stay back for working on the sugarcane crop. “Recent relaxations allowing economic activity have instilled confidence among labourers and many of them are giving a second thought to their earlier plan of returning home,” Rao said.Asked when those from other states and migrants involved in non-agricultural activity would be provided transportation, Rao said agricultural workers from Uttar Pradesh and other states would be sent next while a decision on others would be taken later.He said 1,200 migrants were allowed to board a train to ensure social distancing. “Before the journey, migrants are told to assemble at one place, where they are medically examined and provided tickets. The state government is paying for their fare,” he said.Asked how many persons would be transported in the first phase, Rao said tentatively, there were 50,000 migrants workers involved in agricultural activity in Haryana, 20,000 of whom were from Bihar.Meanwhile, 2,21,880 migrants from other states are stranded in Haryana and 62,260 people from the state struck in other states, according to a summary prepared by the government. Of the migrants, 69,496 are from Bihar and 31,824 from Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/trains-in-first-phase-only-for-agricultural-workers-80826
06-05-2020||Parveen Arora||Many others take long walk home||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 5With the hope of getting united with their family, groups of migrant labourers continue to risk their lives by walking on the NH-44 to reach their native places in Bihar and UP. They do not have much money, but their spirits are high.“I have no money, but I have to meet my family in Bihar as I have not met them for the last several months. Due to Covid, we have lost our job,” said Mahesh, a resident of Chapra in Bihar, who came along with a group of five labourers from Amritsar. They left Amritsar on April 20 and reached after travelling around 350 km on foot.They are in agony over being pushed into taking this extreme step due to the “apathetic” attitude of the people they were working for. “We did not have money as our factory owner has not given us money. We were even asked to pay rent of the room where we were staying. We had no option but to leave the place,” said Rameshwer, another labourer.They somehow crossed the Punjab border and entered Haryana. “We were stopped by the police in Punjab, but somehow we entered Haryana. Now we are travelling to reach Delhi and further to Bihar. We were not stopped on the national highway by police,” said Umesh, another labourer.They were not aware about the step of the Centre of sending them back to their native places in trains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/many-others-take-long-walk-home-80827
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||2 dialysis machines for Covid patients at all hospitals||The state government has decided that two dialysis machines at all district hospitals and medical colleges of the state will be reserved exclusively for Covid patients requiring dialysis. Besides, after reserving 100-150 beds for Covid patients at all 11 exclusive Covid hospitals, the remaining OPDs and wards will resume the normal work. A decision to this effect was taken at the meeting held under the chairmanship of CM Manohar Lal Khattar here on Tuesday. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and Health Minister Anil Vij were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-dialysis-machines-for-covid-patients-at-all-hospitals-80828
06-05-2020||Ambala||Four-laning of Ambala-Saha road  resumes||After remaining stalled for over a month, work has resumed to four-lane the busy Ambala-Saha National Highway 444-A. The district administration gave its nod to resume work from single-point after the private firm executing the project gave an undertaking to ensure social distancing and follow Covid guidelines. The firm had relieved almost 680 workers and supervisory staffers following the national lockdown effective March 25. However, around 120 workers and supervisory staffers were staying at the project site, who have been put on job to resume the work. The company spokesperson said almost 25 per cent of the work had been completed and over 12,000 full-grown trees had been axed for four-laning the busy highway. As per the plan, the agency would undertake work on constructing bridges over Tangri and Omla rivers before the onset of the monsoon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-laning-of-ambala-saha-road-resumes-80829
06-05-2020||Sumedha Sharma
||Covid-theme party to yoga classes, RWA requests baffle Gurugram administration||Tribune News Service Gurugram, May 5 From a Corona-theme fancy dress party to belated birthday and anniversary celebrations, Gurugram resident welfare associations (RWA) have flooded the administration with bizarre and frivolous requests during the lockdown that has been extended with certain relaxations till May 17.  A senior officer said the administration had been devising standard operating procedures (SOPs) for residential societies and RWAs to try to restore normalcy in residents’ lives and reboot the Millennium City. It yesterday lifted the ban on walks inside society complexes, allowed return of domestic staff like maids and cleaners and cabs and similar transport into gated communities and issued instructions for operation of lifts and precautions for residents going out to work.  But the demands received from RWAs since have sent alarm bells ringing. Sample this: RWA representatives of a posh society on Sohna road sought permission to organise a Corona fancy dress party with dinner and dance to celebrate “victory” over Covid. Others wanted to know SOPs to organise pool parties, yoga and dance classes and celebrations of events missed out during lockdown.  “The city has been supportive all this while, which helped curtail the spread of Covid. But the requests received have put the administration in two minds about executing lockdown extensions,” said the senior officer. He said RWAs were brought into the loop to revive normal life in non-containment zones, but their priorities and concerns were worrying.  Gurugram Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri said it was a challenge to reboot the city and fight the virus and appealed to all to practice self-restraint and discipline. “The coronavirus threat is not over. The relaxations or efforts to return to normalcy are a luxury for people in non-containment zones which need to be treated with responsibility. The numbers of cases are rising and we require citizens’ support to wage this battle successfully.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-theme-party-to-yoga-classes-rwa-requests-baffle-gurugram-administration-80830
06-05-2020||Parveen Arora||Industry limps backs, but low demand cause for concern||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 5The industrial units in Karnal district have started slowly returning back to normalcy, but less demand in the market is now a cause for concern for them.“After getting a nod from the state government, we have started the operations but due to lockdown the industrial units dealing with non-essential commodities are having a low demand in the market. Under such circumstances, it is quite difficult for us to run the units,” said Manoj Arora, president, HSIIDC Welfare Association, Karnal unit.Besides, the slow pace of getting permission from the auto-approval system is delaying the functioning of several industrial units as more than 200 applications are still pending for approval.“I run a paint chemical industry and have applied for permission on the auto-approval portal but even after two days my application has not been considered, which shows the authorities are not serious about the issue,” said Sukhram Bedi, an industrialist. He said the auto-approval system should be streamlined.As per the information gathered by The Tribune, there are as many as 12,000 micro, small, medium and large-scale industries in the district, of them 950 have applied and 751 units have been given the nod. Of them around 500 units manufacturing essential commodities or allied activities have started the operations while the remaining industries are associated with non-essential goods.Moreover, industrialists fear labour shortage may last for a long time and hamper their productivity as a large number of workers got themselves registered for returning to their native states.Amit Gupta, Haryana Chamber of Commerce and Industries (HCCI) state vice-president, said as per the directions of the government, labour of industrial sectors would not be stopped, nut they were harassed at every naka.Meanwhile, Anil Kumar, general manager, District Industries Centre, Karnal, said the auto-approval system was working slow due to which the industrialists were not getting approval on time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/industry-limps-backs-but-low-demand-cause-for-concern-80831
06-05-2020||Karnal||CM hails people of his segment||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday patted the back of Karnal residents for their role in Covid battle. He also applauded their efforts for helping the district administration in controlling the pandemic.He said he won’t be present in the constituency for some more days and would be back once the situation gets normal. “Karnal is my constituency and I used to come here twice in a month, but due to Covid I couldn’t visit for the last 45 days as I have to look after the entire state and have to deal with this pandemic. I regret that for some more days I will not be able to come here and assure that I’ll be back as soon as we win the battle against the virus,” said the CM in his video message.“I am happy with residents’ efforts. Be it an NGO or a social or religious organisation, all have given their best in this fight. I appreciate the endeavour shown by the people in every manner.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-hails-people-of-his-segment-80833
06-05-2020||---||PGIMS not to open OPDs from today||Rohtak, May 5People will have to wait for some more days to avail the OPD services at Pt BD Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here.At a meeting of the heads of all departments of the institute on Tuesday, it was decided to develop a mechanism to prevent the possibility of overcrowding before resuming the OPD services.“More than 6,500 people across the state used to come to the OPDs daily before the lockdown. Now, the PGIMS has been made a nodal center for Covid. Not only samples of people belonging to various districts are tested here but also those found Covid-positive are being kept here, hence all precautions were required to check the spread of infection before taking the call of resuming OPD services in the institute,” said Dr Varun Arora, PGIMS spokesperson.“Though no decision has yet been taken about the date of resumption of the OPD services but the meeting has resolved to start super-speciality OPDs under the first phase with patients’ count less than 100 and curtailing the timings/ registration. Another meeting will soon be convened in this respect,” he added.Dr Arora said the department of medicine, gynaecology and chest and TB were, at present, running their OPDs at Ch Ranbir Singh block in the institute while the cancer department was holding it on its premises. Around 600 patients were daily availing the OPD facilities there, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-not-to-open-opds-from-today-80834
06-05-2020||Karnal||Fearing spread, Karnal residents oppose patient’s family in colony||Residents of the Ram Nagar on Tuesday opposed the stay of the family members of Covid-positive patient in the colony even though they were tested negative.They created a ruckus for around an hour and asked the administration to send them to a quarantine ward. The residents had an apprehension that the family members would not stay inside their homes and would violate restrictions of home quarantine.With the assurance of Duty Magistrate Ramphal Singh and DSP Rajiv Kumar of keeping a vigil outside their home, they got pacified.As per the information, a man of Ram Nagar, who came from Delhi, had tested Covid positive on Monday. Four of his family members were also sent to isolation ward along with him.After their reports came out to be negative on Tuesday, they were sent back to their home. As soon asthey reached the colony,the residents started opposing their return and asked them to be moved to the quarantine ward.“They should be kept in quarantine ward for 14 days as we know they will not follow the rules of home quarantine strictly,” said a neighbour.SHO Ram Nagar Jaswinder Tuli also tried to pacify them. “I have assured them that we will keep a vigil and if any of them violates the restrictions, we will shift them to quarantine ward,” said the Duty Magistrate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fearing-spread-karnal-residents-oppose-patients-family-in-colony-80836
06-05-2020||Nitish Sharma||In Kurukshetra, work begins on ponds for annular solar eclipse||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, May 5The Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) is making preparations for the upcoming annular solar eclipse next month despite the prevailing uncertainty. It is getting ghats of Brahma Sarovar and Sannihit Sarovar cleaned and repaired and ponds ready.“The annular solar eclipse will occur on June 21. It is a big event, but due to lockdown, the board has not been able to float tenders. We have no idea how many people will be allowed. We expect some guidelines by the end of lockdown 3.0 and are getting ready,” said Madan Mohan Chhabra, KDB honorary secretary.“Due to Covid, all sarovar entries were closed and no fresh water released in ponds. As water level decreased, work on cleaning and repairing the ghats was started. Other works like tents and lights will be done later, depending on the number of people allowed. The main preparation involves getting the ponds ready for the holy dip,” he added.Around 4 lakh people had reached Kurukshetra during the solar eclipse fair in December last year. The district administration had cancelled the three-day Chaitra Chaudas fair in Pehowa from March 22 due to the Covid outbreak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-kurukshetra-work-begins-on-ponds-for-annular-solar-eclipse-80837
06-05-2020||
||Hisar woman dies, youth claims honour killing||Hisar, May 5 The police have started a probe into the death of a woman in a village under the Uklana police station yesterday. According to the police, her family claimed that she had died of electrocution. A youth who was reportedly in a live-in relationship with the woman alleged that she had been killed by her family and demanded a probe, claiming honour killing. The youth told the police that the woman and he had got their statements recorded at a police station about their consensual relationship. He said, “The woman’s family opposed their relationship.” He stated that after they started living together, her family  called her home on the assurance that they would solemnise their marriage. He also pointed out that the woman died under mysterious circumstances at her parents’ house on Monday and he suspected that she had been killed by her family. He handed over a video of the woman, in which she had stated that her family should be responsible if she met with any mishap. Hawa Singh, incharge, Uklana police station,  said they were probing the case. He added that prima facie, it seemed that the woman died of electrocution. “If any wrongdoing came out, they would act accordingly,” he further stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-woman-dies-youth-claims-honour-killing-80838
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Employees to protest DA, LTC freeze on May 8||The Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), apex organisation of the state government employees, will hold district-level protests against the freezing of DA and LTC on May 8. SKS president Subhash Lamba said on May 6 and 7, the departmental unions would submit memorandums to the HoDs, demanding the rollback of the decisions to freeze the DA and LTC. He alleged that the state government was giving a raw deal to the frontline employees who were fighting against Covid. “They are working without necessary equipment, including PPE, even as the government had resorted to the freezing their DA and LTC,” he added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/employees-to-protest-da-ltc-freeze-on-may-8-80839
06-05-2020||Yamunanagar||Leopard creates panic in Yamunanagar||Residents of Pratap Nagar in Yamunanagar district are in a state of panic as attacks by a leopard have been reported thrice in the area in the past 20 days. It had attacked a labourer working in the fields, goats and puppies in three villages during this period.  Villagers said they were living in constant fear. “I think the three attacks were by the same leopard. A leopard mostly roams in a range of eight to 10 km,” said Sunil Kumar Tanwar, Wildlife Inspector, Yamunanagar district. He said pug marks of the wild cat confirmed its movement in the area. He said they had intensified efforts to track it. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/leopard-creates-panic-in-yamunanagar-80840
06-05-2020||---||4 health workers among 21 new cases||Chandigarh, May 5After a record 79 Covid cases in Haryana yesterday, the state on Tuesday reported 21 new cases taking the state’s tally to 537.With the addition of 14 Italian tourists, who were discharged after treatment, Haryana’s tally will be 551.Eight cases were reported from Jhajjar, five from Sonepat, three from Panipat, two from Yamunanagar and one each from Rohtak, Faridabad and Karnal. With this, total patients in Jhajjar jumped to 64. Six of the fresh cases are linked to the vegetable market in Bahadurgarh, while two are family members of a migratory labourer working at Sultanpuri in Delhi.In Sonepat district, four more Health Department officials — a nurse and three Class IV employees — working at BPS Government Women Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, tested positive. Civil Surgeon BK Rajaura said the total cases in the district had risen to 78, of which nine were health workers. The fifth patient is Jati village resident.He said the process to replace employees working in isolation wards and keep relieved staff in quarantine had begun. New members of the staff had been directed to use PPE kits while entering the isolation ward.In Panipat, three more cases were reported. A labourer (17) working in the vegetable market and a 22-year-old close contact of a positive woman were among those infected. A labourer of the grain market tested positive on Monday night. He ran away from Panipat after his samples were collected on Saturday, but was caught in Jaipur. Civil Surgeon Dr SL Verma said he had been isolated in a Jaipur hospital.Yamunanagar reported two more cases. A resident of Kutipur village of Pratap Nagar block and a woman (35) of Sarojini Colony were found positive. The 61-year-old man was referred to PGI, Chandigarh, from the CHC for treatment of multiple diseases. With five active cases, the number of cases has reached eight in the district.A 45-year-old man of Atayal village in Rohtak district working as a driver with Delhi Transport Corporation has tested positive and admitted to PGIMS-Rohtak. He had been deployed at a BSF camp in the National Capital’s Jama Masjid area. The district administration has declared Atayal village as containment zone and put five surrounding villages - Dattaur, Naunand, Gandhra, Kasrenti and Pakasma — in buffer zoneIn Karnal, an 18-year-old from Uttam Nagar tested positive. With this, the number of active cases in the district has reached three. As per protocol, the authorities have declared Uttam Nagar a containment zone. Health screening of residents and sanitisation of the colony has been done.Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the youth returned from Delhi on Monday and his sample was collected soon after. “We’ve kept his family members in the isolation ward and the contacts of the persons are being determined.”In Faridabad, a 33-year-old woman from Greenfields Colony tested positive. She had a history of travel to Delhi. She has been hospitalised and contact-tracing is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-health-workers-among-21-new-cases-80857
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana levies ‘Covid cess’ on liquor, vends open today||Liquor vends in Haryana will open from Wednesday and the state will levy “Covid cess”, varying from Rs 5 to Rs 50, on liquor sold in the state.At a meeting of the Haryana Cabinet chaired by CM Manohar Lal Khattar, it was decided that a cess of Rs 5 would be levied per quart of country-made liquor, Rs 20 per quart of Indian Made Foreign Liquor and Rs 50 per pack (greater than 375 ml) of Imported Foreign Liquor. Further, Rs 5 cess will be levied on every bottle of strong beer and Rs 2 on light beer. This is expected to bring in Rs 400 crore. All liquor vends, except those in containment zones, will be open from 7 am to 7 pm from Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Delhi Government has levied a 70 per cent ‘special corona fee’ on the sale of liquor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-levies-covid-cess-on-liquor-vends-open-today-80964
