06-09-2020||Gurugram||Cop shot near ACP office in Gurugram’s Palam Vihar||Two unidentified gunmen shot a policeman near the office of the Assistant Commissioner of Police in Palam Vihar on Sunday evening, police said.The policeman, Inspector Sonu Malik, was attacked as he was exiting a property dealer;s office opposite the ACP’s office in Udyog Vihar, police said. The assailants came on foot and fled immediately after shooting him.He was initially  taken to Columbia Asia hospital, which sent him to Medanta citing the non-availability of a surgeon.Police sources said Malik’s uncle, who was also a policeman, was shot dead some time ago, and said personal enmity could be behind the recent attack.  Malik was recently transferred out of Special Task Force, a senior police officer who did not want to be named said. “We are investigating all angles and are waiting for a statement from the inspector,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-shot-near-acp-office-in-gurugrams-palam-vihar-137377
06-09-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Congress MP Deepender Hooda tests positive for coronavirus||Congress’ Rajya Sabha member from Haryana Deepender Hooda has tested positive for coronavirus.The 42-year-old, who is the lone opposition MP from Haryana, is currently in Delhi.In a tweet on Sunday, Hooda announced that he had contracted the infection and urged those who had come in contact with him to get tested.The 42-year-old, who is the lone opposition MP from Haryana, is currently in Delhi.“My Corona# Covid19 report has returned positive. As per the advice of doctors, other tests are being conducted,” Deepender tweeted.Deepender, who is the son of former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, in his tweet added that “with the prayers of all of you, I will recover soon...”          He asked people who may have come in his contact during the past few days to isolate themselves and get tested.Deepender had recently toured the Baroda assembly constituency in Sonipat district in view of the upcoming bypoll.    The by-election has been necessitated after the death of Congress legislator Shri Krishan Hooda in April.Other parliamentarians from Haryana who recently contracted COVID-19 are Union Minister of State Krishan Pal Gurjar (Faridabad), Sanjay Bhatia (Karnal), Brijendra Singh (Hisar) and Nayab Singh Saini (Kurukshetra). All of them are BJP Lok Sabha MPs.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had also tested positive for the disease. His Cabinet colleagues Ranjit Singh Chautala, J P Dalal, Mool Chand Sharma and Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta were among some legislators who have contracted the infection recently.The state currently has over nearly 75,000 COVID-19 cases and over 780 fatalities. — with inputs from PTIमेरी कोरोना #COVID19 रिपोर्ट पॉजिटिव आई है। चिकित्सकों के निर्देश अनुसार बाक़ी के टेस्ट किए जा रहे हैं। आप सभी की दुआ से शीघ्र ही ठीक होकर आप सबके बीच वापस लौटूंगा।जो लोग गत कुछ दिनों में मेरे संपर्क में आयें हैं, कृपया स्वयं आइसोलेट हों अपनी जाँच करवाएं।||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-mp-deepender-hooda-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-137307
06-09-2020||Panchkula||Flesh trade racket busted at guest house in Morni||The local police busted a flesh trade racket being operated from a guest house near Bajorli village in Morni here.On a tip-off, the police conducted a raid on Shiwalik Guest House and rescued two women, who were allegedly forced into prostitution. The manager of the guest house was arrested.A police spokesperson said a decoy customer was sent to the guest house around 9.30 pm on Friday.The guest house manager, identified as Isham Singh from Chandimandir, demanded Rs7,000 from the decoy customer for providing him a woman and booking a room. After the deal was struck, the manager booked the room while the decoy customer informed the police.Panchkula ACP Raj Kumar, Chandimandir SHO Deepak Kumar and several police officials reached the guest house around 10.50 pm and conducted a raid.The police nabbed the guest house manager and recovered a mobile phone and Rs7,000 from him. The manager told the police that the guest house was owned by Mahendra Singh of Bhoj Naita. The police also rescued two women, who revealed that they were forced into prostitution by two Zirakpur residents — Harjeet and Mani.A case was registered against the manager and the owner of the guest house besides the two suppliers under various sections of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. ACP Raj Kumar said, “A hunt is on to nab the three suspects who are absconding.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/flesh-trade-racket-busted-at-guest-house-in-morni-137062
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||No. of Covid cases, fatalities & recoveries reach new record in Haryana||With 2,289 fresh cases, the highest in a day so far, the Covid tally in the state reached 74,272 on Saturday. A total of 22 deaths, the highest in a day, pushed the toll to 781.Three deaths each were reported from Panchkula and Kurukshetra, two each from Gurugram, Ambala, Karnal, Hisar and Yamunanagar and one each from Rohtak, Palwal, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kaithal.A 69-year-old woman of Baldev Nagar in Ambala City and a 72-year-old man of Garnala village died in Ambala district.In Karnal district, a 64-year-old woman of Baldi and a 73-year-old man of Model Town were among the casualties.A 75-year-old man from Bhagwan Nagar Colony in Kurukshetra, who died at the PGI in Chandigarh on September 2, was found Covid positive after death.The highest number of Covid cases were recorded from Faridabad (284), followed by Gurugram (265), Karnal (238), Panipat (226), Ambala (160), Panchkula (142), Rohtak (132), Sonepat (125), Hisar (112) and Kurukshetra (100).A total of 1,409 patients got cured, the highest in a day so far, taking the tally of recovered cases to 58,580, with a recovery rate of 78.87 per cent. At present, there were 14,911 active cases in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-of-covid-cases-fatalities-recoveries-reach-new-record-in-haryana-137048
06-09-2020||Gurugram||Jind man nabbed for killing lover’s spouse||The Gurugram police on Saturday nabbed a man for killing lover’s husband and burying his body in Jind.The accused identified as Sukhbir of Dumarkha Khurd village in Jind was nabbed by a team of the Sector 5 police station from Narwana on Saturday. He was produced in a city court, which sent him to five-day police remand.The deceased, Suresh Kumar (27) of Radhana village in Jind, was living in a rented house in Gurugram with his wife Sunita. The accused revealed that Sunita and one of his friends were also involved in the crime. Now, the police are conducted raids to nab them.As per the police, Sukhbir and Sunita were college friends and were having an affair since 2011. Suresh got to know about the affair and used to beat her. Enraged, Sukhbir along with Sunita and another accomplice killed him after hatching a plan.The victim’s father, Ram Mehar, came to Sector 5 police station on September 1 and complained that his son was missing for the past four and half months and he feared abduction. He said his son lived with his wife and children in Gurugram for the last eight months. Sunita had gone to her parents home after a tiff and Suresh was untraceable. The police questioned the wife and came to know the truth. The police have recovered the skeletal remains of the deceased. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jind-man-nabbed-for-killing-lovers-spouse-137050
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Fake notes with Rs93,500 face value seized||A man has been arrested on the charge of printing fake currency notes at Kharia village in Sirsa district. Counterfeit notes with a face value of Rs 93,500, a printing machine and 584 papers cut to the size of notes were seized from him.On a tip-off, the police conducted a raid at Kharia village on Wednesday and arrested Manohar Lal, a resident of the village, from the spot, a police spokesperson said. However, his accomplice managed to escape. Four fake notes of Rs 2,000, 167 notes of Rs 500, nine notes of Rs 200 and two notes of Rs 100 were recovered from Manohar Lal.A case was registered and investigation started, the spokesperson said.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-notes-with-rs93-500-face-value-seized-137052
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Peddler held with heroin worth Rs35L in Sirsa||The police have arrested a person on the charges of possessing heroin weighing 350 gram in Sirsa district. The estimated value of seized contraband is Rs 35 lakh.Giving this information here on Saturday, a police spokesperson said a team of Anti-Narcotics Cell was on routine patrolling at Barnala road. The team noticed suspicious movement of a person in a car who tried to escape by taking a U-turn after seeing the police team. The police caught the person and when searched, it recovered 350-gram heroin from his possession.During preliminary interrogation, accused Jitender Kumar, alias Jitu, of Adampur Mandi revealed that the seized heroin was to be supplied among addicts in various parts of Punjab.Two cases under the NDPS Act were already registered against the accused. He would be taken on remand by producing in a court. Further probe is underway.In a separate development, a CIA team seized 13 kg 100 gram poppy husk from the possession of two accused in the Kalanwali area.Wanted criminal nabbedIn a major breakthrough, the police have arrested a most wanted criminal Sandeep, alias Bagri, who was carrying a reward worth Rs 20,000 from Bhiwani district.The police have also recovered an illegal pistol from his possession. The arrest was made by the Crime Investigation Agency.While stating this, a police spokesperson said the arrested offender was involved in more than half-a-dozen criminal cases registered at various police stations in Mahendragarh and Bhiwani district. He was arrested following a secret input from the new bus stand area in Bhiwani.The Mahendragarh police had announced a reward of Rs 20,000 on his arrest. A case was registered against him under the Arms Act and further probe is underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/peddler-held-with-heroin-worth-rs35l-in-sirsa-137053
06-09-2020||Panipat||Two ‘spurious’ ghee, oil units raided in Panipat||A team of the Chief Minister’s flying squad in collaboration with the Food and Safety Department on Saturday raided two units reportedly engaged in the packaging and manufacturing of edible vegetable oil and desi ghee in Khatik Basti here.The team collected 11 samples of ghee and oil from these units.Talking to the media, Sub-Inspector Shishpal Singh of the CM flying squad said they received a tip-off about the units allegedly being involved in manufacturing and packaging spurious desi ghee and edible vegetable oil.A team was constituted and Food Safety Officer Dr Shyam Lal reached at the unit in the afternoon and also called the police on the spot, he added.Dr Lal said the raid was conducted on two firms — Jai Durga Trading Company and Durga Food Processor — owned by Vinod Mittal.Jai Durga Trading Company is engaged in the manufacturing and packaging of desi ghee and we have collected six samples, including four branded — Bihari ghee pure ghee, Brij Gwala pure ghee, Radhika pure cow ghee and Shree Tulsi ghee — and two of open ghee from the containers, he added.Durga Food Processor Company is engaged in the manufacturing of blended edible vegetable oil and five samples have been collected from the unit, including two with brand names Haryana Special, one with Bansuri Gold, one of palm oil and one of Vanaspati ghee.The firms have a valid licence from the Food and Drug Administration Department, Dr Lal said.The samples would be sent to the laboratory for testing and it would be too early to say anything about the quality of the products, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-spurious-ghee-oil-units-raided-in-panipat-137054
06-09-2020||Ambala||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij slams Shiv Sena over comment on Kangana Ranaut||Home Minister Anil Vij on Saturday supported Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut and criticised Shiv Sena leaders for reportedly asking her not to return to Mumbai.He said: “Mumbai is a part of India and anyone can go there. Action should be taken against the people who issue such statements. You can’t stop someone from speaking the truth.”“Where is the candle brigade that comes onto roads on every issue, and why are they not returning their medals when she is being stopped from speaking,” Vij asked while talking to mediapersons here.He said: “Adequate security must be provided to Kangana so that she can make the revelations freely. India is a free country, and she should be allowed to express herself freely.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-slams-shiv-sena-over-comment-on-kangana-ranaut-137055
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||JJP names heads of 11 cells||After forming the national executive, the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) on Saturday made important appointments at the state level. The party has formed 11 cells and appointed 15 senior leaders as state presidents and in charge.This decision was taken by consulting national president Ajay Singh Chautala, senior national vice-president Dushyant Chautala, state president Nishan Singh and other leaders of the party.The JJP has again given the responsibility of women’s cell to Hisar resident Sheela Bhyan. She is a former chairperson of the Haryana State Commission for Women and fought the last Assembly elections from Barwala. It was under her leadership that the party organised more than 55 “Hari Chunari Chaupal” programmes.Senior leader Ashok Sherwal has once again been appointed as the state president of Scheduled Caste cell. He was earlier the state president of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).Former JJP Backward Class (BC) cell state president, Ram Mehar Thakur of Jind has been made the in charge of the BC cell. Senior leader Karnal resident Umed Kashyap, who was earlier national secretary of the JJP, has been made the state president of the BC cell. He was the JJP MLA candidate from Gharaunda in 2019.Former state president of Vyapar Cell, Suresh Mittal of Panipat has now been appointed as the cell in charge.The reins of the Vyapar cell have been handed over to Mahavir Gupta of Jind. His father, late Mange Ram Gupta, was four-time legislator from Jind.The JJP has again appointed Dadri resident Sanjeev Mandola as the state president of the employees’ cell. He had joined the party after resigning from his job of a JBT teacher. Since then, he has been raising voice for the employees’ rights.Kurukshetra resident Prof Randhir Cheeka has been made the new state president of intellectual cell. He was party’s candidate from Pehowa in the last Assembly poll.Mohsin Chaudhary of Karnal has been made state president of the minority cell, while Ravinder Sangwan of Rohtak will look after the youth cell.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jjp-names-heads-of-11-cells-137056
06-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Couple killed in Yamunanagar mishap||A couple were killed when the motorcycle they were riding was hit by a car near Mandauli village on the Panchkula-Yamunanagar national highway on Friday.The deceased were identified as Karan Singh (38) of Kait village of Yamunanagar district and his wife Rita (35).On the complaint of Raj Kumar of Kait village, a case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/couple-killed-in-yamunanagar-mishap-137057
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||6 IAS, HCS officers get additional charge in Haryana||The government on Saturday gave additional charge to one IAS officer and five HCS officers in addition to their present duties.Vinay Pratap Singh, IAS Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Gurugram, and Chief Administrator, Shri Mata Sheetla Devi Shrine Board, Gurugram, has been given the charge of Additional CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority in addition to his present duties.Among the HCS Officers, Ranjit Kaur who is currently posted as Additional Deputy Commissioner, Yamunanagar, will also look after the work of Special Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, in addition to her present duties.Richa, Sub Divisional Officer (Civil), Panchkula, has been given the additional charge of Joint Director (Admin) and Deputy Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department.Pankaj Kumar, Sub Divisional Officer (Civil), Badkhal, has been given the additional charge of Secretary, Haryana Agro Industries Corporation, relieving Satish Kumar Singla of the said charge.Shweta Suhag, Sub Divisional Officer (Civil), Kharkhoda has been given the additional charge of Estate Officer, HSVP, Rohtak, relieving Gayatri Ahlawat of the said charge.Sanjay Kumar, Sub Divisional Officer (Civil), Kaithal and Estate Officer, HSVP, Kaithal, has been given the additional charge of Sub Divisional Officer (Civil), Kalayat vice Reagan Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-ias-hcs-officers-get-additional-charge-in-haryana-137058
06-09-2020||Mahendragarh||Soon, policy for residents to allow homestay: Gurjar||Tourism and Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar said the government had framed a ‘Stay home’ policy to promote tourism in the state. The policy would not only add to the people’s income but also strengthen the economy.Gurjar was interacting with mediapersons after visiting historical Madhogarh fort in the district on Saturday. Former minister Ram Bilas Sharma and Ateli MLA Sitaram Yadav were also present.“Under the policy, locals will be allowed to make available one to two rooms for the visitors to stay at their home. The concept of homestay is being liked by the visitors as they want to closely observe the culture, customs and lifestyle of the village,” said the minister.He said the police would ensure 50 per cent loan with low interest rate so that villages could generate a source of income by constructing rooms for the visitors in their house. Madhogarh fort would be developed as a national tourist spot, said Gurjar who later inspected repair work of Rani Mahal.Earlier, the minister also felicitated Manisha Yadav, a student of Government Senior Secondary School, Sihma, with a reward of Rs 1 lakh for securing top position in the state in the senior secondary examination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soon-policy-for-residents-to-allow-homestay-gurjar-137059
06-09-2020||Ambala||Three arrested for assault||1 caught on theft chargeThe police have arrested Bhupinder of Parao, near here, and claimed to have recovered stolen articles from his possession. An orthodontic specialist at the Military Hospital in Ambala, Dr Akshay had reported theft of his wallet containing two ATM cards, cash and other important documents. TNS1 held for smuggling liquorThe police have arrested Ishu of Ambala and claimed to have recovered 101 bottles of illicit liquor from his possession. He was intercepted following a tip-off. TNSTwo POs in police netThe police have arrested two proclaimed offenders (POs). Dharminder Kumar of Yamunanagar and Pappu of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh had been evading arrest in separate cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-arrested-for-assault-137061
06-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Farmers burn copies of new ordinances in Kurukshetra||Farmers under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) held protests at the village level in Kurukshetra and Ambala against the Centre’s three ordinances on agriculture sector.They burnt the copies of the ordinances and the effigies of the BJP government. The protests were held against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, the Farmers Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance and the Ordinance to amend the Essential Commodities Act.BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh said: “Protests were held at the village level on Saturday to make people aware of the new ordinances. We have received a good response. The union has now decided to use Twitter to raise the demand of ‘MSP Guarantee Kanoon Banao’ on September 7 and then a rally will be held on September 10 in Kurukshetra.”“The Kurukshetra administration has warned us of registering a case if we hold the rally, but we are not going to withdraw our decision. We have been making the preparations for the last over 20 days now and the administration must understand that the farmers have been forced by the government to take such a step,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-burn-copies-of-new-ordinances-in-kurukshetra-137011
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana slips from 3rd slot to 16th||Haryana has slipped from third spot in 2018 to 16th position in “Ease of Doing Business” rankings for states and union territories released by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade.Bhupinder Hooda, leader of oppositionBJP stands exposedThe BJP’s six-year directionless rule has created a situation where far from new industries setting up base in Haryana, even existing ones are leaving the state.Among other states and union territories in the region, Himachal Pradesh is ranked 7th, Delhi 12th, Punjab 19th, Jammu and Kashmir 21st and Chandigarh 29th.According to the report released by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday, Andhra Pradesh topped in rankings for the third time in a row. The rankings are based on implementation of Business Reform Action Plan 2019.Registering a jump of 10 places in rankings, Uttar Pradesh occupied the second position in 2019 compared to 12th in 2018. Telangana slipped to third position from second in 2018. It was followed by Madhya Pradesh (4th), Jharkhand (5th), Chhattisgarh (6th), Himachal Pradesh (7th), Rajasthan (8th), West Bengal (9th) and Gujarat (10th).Delhi’s position improved to 12th from 23rd, while Gujarat slipped from 5th place in 2018. Among laggards, Assam was 20th, J&K 21st, Goa 24th, Bihar 26th and Kerala 28th, with Tripura ranked 36th and last.The exercise is aimed at promoting competition among states with a view to improving the business climate to attract domestic and foreign investment. This was the fourth edition of the report, which was first released in 2015.The Business Reform Action Plan 2018-19 includes 181 reform points covering 45 business regulatory areas such as access to information, single window system, labour and environment.Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today targeted the BJP government after the decline in Haryana’s “Ease of Doing Business” rankings.He said with Haryana falling 13 places from third to 16th position, the government stood exposed and it had become clear why the state had reached the top position in unemployment.He said the government had organised “Happening Haryana” in 2015 and claimed to have signed an MoU forRs 5.87 lakh crore. In reply to an RTI plea filed in 2019, the government had admitted that only 4 per cent of this much-hyped investment came through and there had not been a significant increase over this period.Hooda said during Congress tenure, Haryana was number one in per capita investment and IMTs were opened across Haryana for industrial development of every part of the state. He said the situation had become such that industries were either forced to lay off workers or were thinking of moving to other states due to deteriorating conditions.He said due to bad condition of the private sector and layoffs in the government sector, Haryana had reached on top in unemployment.Hooda said the declining business had also affected the state’s economic condition, putting it under a mounting burden of debt. He said a strategy should be formulated to improve the state’s business and fiscal condition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-slips-from-3rd-slot-to-16th-137012
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Surjewala flags unemployment||Congress communication incharge Randeep Surjewala today lambasted the BJP-JJP government over the high rate of unemployment in the state.Quoting the fresh report of the Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy, he said the rate of unemployment in the state was 33.5 per cent.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala should be ashamed over the figures, he said. “Entrance exam papers are getting leaked, results are being delayed, sacked Physical Training Instructors are being locked in police stations and National Health Mission employees are being removed from service. In the name of Covid, about 10,000 contractual employees are being sacked,” Surjewala said.“Khattar and Dushyant are pushing the future of the youth into darkness. Either they should give jobs or resign,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/surjewala-flags-unemployment-137013
06-09-2020||Ambala||Lockdown broke the back of private schools, say teachers||Teachers of private schools, associated with the National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA), observed a “black day” today in protest against the Centre and the state government, which, they said, failed to support schools during the Covid lockdown.PTIs observe ‘black day’Gurugram: Hundreds of sacked Physical Training Instructors (PTI) burnt the effigy of Education Minister Kanwar Pal here on Teacher’s Day, which, they said, had lost relevance as the statehad turned its back on them. Teacher’s Day, they said, was a “black day” for them. They started marching towards Medanta Hospital, where the CM is admitted for the Covid treatment, when the police stopped them at Rajiv Chowk. They accused the police of using force against them. OCThe NISA, along with 42 state private school associations across the country, had appealed to teachers to share their problems on social media on September 5. On their call, more than 30,000 teachers posted their comments on Twitter on Saturday.About 70,000 schools across the country are associated with the NISA.Kulbhushan Sharma, NISA chief, said: “Our demands include extend moratorium on school buses till March 2021, education vouchers to students through the direct benefit transfer scheme, unsecured loans at low rate of interest to school managements with a moratorium of 12 months and salaries to teachers for the lockdown period.”He said the Covid outbreak and the subsequent lockdown led to economic crisis, resulting in job loss. “Some of the parents under financial stress couldn’t pay the fee. As per a survey conducted by the NISA in 3,690 schools in 22 states, only 38 per cent parents of 16.5 lakh students paid the fee during the lockdown.” He said the NISA had written to PM Narendra Modi a month ago, seeking relief but it got no response. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-broke-the-back-of-private-schools-say-teachers-137014
06-09-2020||Panipat||Notice to Murthal's Sukhdev Dhaba and Garam Dharam Dhaba||The Sonepat administration has served a show-cause notice to Sukhdev Dhaba and Garam Dharam Dhaba in Murthal on National Highway-44 after 75 workers were found Covid-positive.A team led by Deputy Commissioner (DC) Shyam Lal Poonia visited the dhabas this evening to take stock of the situation. They directed the dhaba operators to maintain customers’ registers.The Haryana Human Rights Commission on Friday sought a detailed action taken report from the Sonepat DC and Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notice-to-murthals-sukhdev-dhaba-and-garam-dharam-dhaba-137015
06-09-2020||Nitish Sharma||Pehowa man runs racket in Haryana Sports Minister’s name||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, September 5They both have rhyming names, but the similarity ends there. While Sandeep Singh took Indian hockey to new heights and is the current Haryana Sports and Youth Affairs Minister, Mandeep allegedly used Sandeep’s name to run a fake job racket.A former Indian hockey captain, Sandeep Singh has lodged an FIR against Mandeep Saini for allegedly duping seven youths on the pretext of providing them jobs in Kurukshetra University and the state electricity department.A Kurukshetra resident, Mandeep, who has been arrested, would introduce himself as a Hindi daily journalist as well as a close aide of the Minister, it is learnt. He would offer the jobs for as low as Rs 20,000, charging Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 as advance. In two cases, he had even provided fake job letters.Better known for his biopic ‘Soorma’ featuring Diljit Dosanjh, Sandeep Singh is a legislator from Pehowa in Kurukshetra district. The Minister claimed he got to know about the alleged fraud from a Haryana Vidhan Sabha employee, Maya Ram, a Pehowa resident.“Maya Ram apprised me that a man in Pehowa was charging money for jobs using my name. I directed the Kurukshetra SP to register a case…. Our government has been working with transparency and if someone tries to cheat people, strict action must be taken,” the Minister said.Maya Ram alleged Mandeep introduced himself as Singh’s media adviser. “He first promised to help my son secure a job in Kurukshetra University. He sought Rs 20,000--Rs 15,000 in advance. Then he assured jobs to my two cousins in the state electricity department. In all, he pocketed Rs 78,560 from seven youths,” added Maya Ram.Pehowa Station House Officer Dinesh Kumar said Mandeep had been arrested and would be produced in court tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pehowa-man-runs-racket-in-haryana-sports-ministers-name-137039
