06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar urges COVID-19 survivors to motivate people to take precautions against disease||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday urged cured COVID-19 patients to motivate people to take precautions against catching infection rather than fearing the disease.The chief minister also appealed to the cured COVID-19 patients to donate their plasma for treatment of others.“All COVID-19 survivors should encourage people to take proper precautions against the disease rather than fearing it,” he said.He made the appeal while chairing a meeting of the Crisis Management Group (CMG), comprising officers of various departments, to review the COVID-19 status in Haryana, an official statement said.It said the chief minister was apprised of the free COVID-19 test facility made available recently in all civil hospitals of the state and a person can call up toll-free numbers 108 or 1075 for collection of the test sample for the disease.In the CMG meet, the CM was also told that SMSs are being sent to COVID-19 survivors for plasma donation and so far 338 people have come forward for it.A total of 32,000 out of nearly 39,000 infected people have been cured from the infection in the state.In the CMG meet, the chief minister was also informed that as part of the Unlock 3 process, a special campaign is being run to motivate people to wear masks and adhere to social distancing norms. It is being done through advertisements on the vehicles of Urban Local Bodies Department and erecting over 900 hoardings on traffic intersections.Additional Chief Secretary Rajeev Arora of the Health and Family Welfare Department informed the chief minister that except in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonepat and Rewari districts, the number of COVID-19 patients in other districts is under control.Director General of Police Manoj Yadava told the meeting that during the COVID-19 pandemic, the policemen have been dedicatedly performing their duties as ‘corona warriors’, risking their lives.He said the rate of policemen contracting infection in Haryana is lower than those in other states.He said so far, 587 policemen, amounting to 1.14 per cent of the total force, have been infected, and their recovery rate is 65 percent.So far three policemen have died of COVID-19, the DGP said.The chief minister asked officials to open at least one COVID-19 testing laboratory in each district, where testing should be conducted through RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) method instead of antigen testing.On this, Additional Chief Secretary Alok Nigam of the Medical Education Research Department said at present there are 16 COVID-19 testing labs, out of which 11 are in government hospitals and five in private hospitals. Besides, this 10 more labs will be opened soon.Khattar asked officials to ensure free pick-and-drop ambulance facility for people requiring tests.He was also apprised by officials that at present, under the inter-state transport services, about 150 buses of Haryana Roadways are being run for Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.The chief minister said it should be ensured that every passenger in the bus wears mask and sanitizes his or her hands. No person should be allowed to travel while standing in the bus, he said.Director General Amit Agrawal of the Urban Local Bodies Department informed the chief minister that the number of electric crematoriums is being increased in cities and work has been allocated to establish 14 such crematoriums. At present, additional 11 crematoriums have been built in the premises of existing crematoriums, he said.The officials who participated in the CMG meet also included Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora and Additional Chief Secretary (Home Department) Vijai Vardhan. PTI
06-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Five Covid patients flee home isolation in Gurugram, travel to native places||Gurugram, August 6Five Covid positive patients have fled Gurugram to their native villages within hours of testing positive.All of them lived in same rented accommodation in Mullahera village and have been booked by police along with their landlord who allegedly ‘urged’ them to leave.An FIR under Sections 269, 270, 188 of the IPC and Disaster Management Act has been filed at Palam Vihar police station and health authorities are trying to trace and contact them. All five who are suspected of travelling back in public transport may have infected many.According to the complaint filed by Dr Harmit Kaur, head of PHC, Mullahera village, Deepak (26), Vijay (47), Vakeel (24), Vishwamitra (33) were found Covid positive on August 1 and 2. Sanjay (38) was found positive on July 28. All five lived as tenants in a house in Balbir Colony in Mullahera village. After testing positive they were asked to go for home isolation but they fled and a neighbour called police. After getting information the police rider visited the house but found all of them missing.“The health department has records of their Aadhaar cards and mobile numbers. The mobiles are not reachable and we are trying to trace them,” said ASI Gyanender, the investigating officer.“Prior to this also we had similar instances and had filed FIR and we need stricter authoritative and community vigilance. Such people are risk to hundreds of people,” said a senior health official.
06-08-2020||Karnal/Panipat||Haryana reports 93 fresh coronavirus cases; state tally rises to 38,641||Haryana on Thursday reported 93 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's case tally to 38,641.Karnal reported 22 new cases of coronavirus, taking the district's case tally to 1,181. While 894 patients have been cured of the disease, there are 275 active cases in the district. Twelve patients had died due to this dreaded virus. Among those who tested positive are four persons each from Barsat and Karan Vihar, three people from Model Town, and two from Gharaunda, including one from ward-14 and one from Gharaunda police station, one person each from Old Grain Market, Shakti Colony road, Sector-16, Manjura, Faridpur, near Maharana Pratap Chowk, RK Puram and Garhibirbal.Panipat reported 19 new cases of coronavirus, taking the district's case tally to 1,408. Panchkula reported 52 new COVID cases, including 21 ITBP personnel, taking the district's case tally to 1,408.
06-08-2020||Ambala||Four arrested for thefts||The police have arrested four persons in separate cases of thefts and recovered two stolen cars and other valuables from their possession. TNSMan held for raping minorThe police have arrested Akash for raping a minor girl, said the officials on Wednesday. As per the police, a woman had reported that the accused had raped her minor daughter on Tuesday. The arrested accused was produced before a local court, which remanded him to 14-day judicial custody. TNS1 held for abducting minorThe district police have arrested Shanky for abducting a minor girl, the officials said on Wednesday. As per the police, a local resident had reported that his 17-year-old daughter was abducted by the accused on June 29. The arrested accused was remanded to 14-day judicial custody. TNSMan held for smuggling drugsThe police have arrested Viresh of Ambala Cantonment for smuggling drugs, the officials said. The officials said that the arrested accused was sent to 14-day judicial remand. TNS4 proclaimed offenders heldThe police have arrested four proclaimed offenders wanted in separate criminal cases in the district, the officials said. The arrested fugitives will be produced before the local courts tomorrow. TNS
06-08-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Knee-deep water on road disrupts normal life in Ambala||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comKnee-deep water on road disrupts normal lifeTHE road from Saheed Chowk, Sector 10, leading to Gate Number 15, Sector 9, is one of the busiest roads in the city. It is a sorrow state of affairs that recent incessant rain caused havoc in the area and knee-deep water could be seen causing inconvenience to commuters. Waterlogged road disrupts normal life. The sewerage and drainage system are of abysmal level. The administration must look into the issue immediately and do the needful. Veena P Kansal, Ambala CityGovt must pay more attention to health, edu sectorEVEN after 73 years of Independence, India is among the backward nations in the world because our country neglected two important sectors - education and medicine. Our governments paid very little attention and spent very little on education and medicine. Both of these services should be made accessible to every person in the nation. After around 34 years, the government recently formulated a new education policy, which includes long-awaited reforms. Syllabus of all subjects should be made same in all schools and the publication price of books should be at government rates. Like other developed nations, if we pay attention towards these sectors we can lead our nation to higher levels too. Shakti Singh, KarnalDisturbing incidents of crime at Covid patients’ homesRECENT incidents of crimes reported from the homes of Covid-positive patients are very disturbing. Reportedly, some burglars struck into the house of a Covid patient and escaped with Rs 3 lakh and jewelry worth Rs15 lakh. The victim said his wife had tested positive for the virus due to which his tenant and a neighbour was under quarantine too. He along with his children was living with his relatives after locking his house and when his neighbour reached home after completing his quarantine, he found the lock of the house broken and found that Rs 3 lakh and jewelry worth more than Rs 15 lakh was missing. Similar incident was reported on July 19, when thieves broke into three houses in Bapudham area. Authorities should look into the issue and keep a tab on the increasing rate of crime in such cases. Popele too must realise their duty and act responsible towards such incidents and help the administration to curb the crime rate. Vidya Sagar Garg, Panchkula
06-08-2020||Rohtak||MDU holds viva voce online||Rohtak varsity 4th best in nationRohtak: Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, has secured fourth rank among medical/health universities across the country in a recent survey conducted by a prominent publication. This was stated by UHS Vice-Chancellor Prof (Dr) OP Kalra while addressing a news conference here on Tuesday. Prof Kalra maintained that as per the survey, the university had got the top position in terms of the number of patients attended by MD/MS students, second rank in terms of gender diversity among postgraduate students and third in terms of lowest tuition fee of MD/MS students.MoU on learning mgmt systemKurukshetra: A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed electronically between Kurukshetra Technology Education and Research Integrated Institutions (TERii) Secretary Aditya Gupta and Great Learning, a platform on which more than five lakh students are enrolled and more than 1,000 online courses are available, co-founder Arjun Nair. Programme convener Parul Chutani stated that Great Learning had launched this learning management system in June and expressed confidence that TERii teachers will be able to contribute for the students’ learning process by being fully aware of the platform before the start of new semester. Director TERii Dr Sagar Gulati said it was challenging to ensure conscious participation of students on platforms such as Zoom and Google Meet etc. It is not feasible for parents to monitor students all the time and thus it was necessary for educational institutions to have a complete comprehensive learning management system to ensure quality education amid the Covid-constraints.Fee rebate to Covid-hit studentsFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here has offered a fee waiver up to hundred per cent to students facing grim financial situation due to the Covid-pandemic. Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar claimed that the offer had been made under a policy to support economically weaker and needy students. He said students facing hardships could apply with the university for fee waiver. Announcing that fee could be waived off or refunded, he said the eligibility of the beneficiary students will be decided after a scrutiny based on certain parameters. He said while a minimum of 50 per cent of tuition fee will be waived the percentage of the benefit will be decided on case to case basis.
06-08-2020||---||Haryana CM Khattar launches welfare schemes for women, kids||Chandigarh, August 5Reiterating that the state government is laying special emphasis on the overall development of women and children in the state, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday urged all DCs to make targeted efforts towards addressing the problems of anaemia and malnutrition among women and children in their respective districts.Khattar was speaking after launching the ‘Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana’ and ‘Mahila Evam Kishori Samman Yojana’ here on Wednesday. He urged the DCs to include ‘Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana’ in their flagship programmes.Under the ‘Mukhya Mantri Doodh Uphar Yojana’, fortified flavoured skimmed milk powder will be provided to children between 1 and 6 years of age in anganwadi centres aong with pregnant and lactating mothers. Under the ‘Mahila Evam Kishori Samman Yojana’, adolescent girls and women between 10 to 45 years belonging to as many as 11,24,871 BPL families will be provided free sanitary napkins.The CM also distributed packets of skimmed milk powder to five beneficiaries, including three children and two pregnant women. Apart from this, he also distributed packets of sanitary napkins to the beneficiaries.Khattar said there were certain districts in the state like Nuh where anaemia among women and children was comparatively high.He asked the DCs to ensure the effective implementation of the schemes in their respective districts.Under this scheme, around 200 ml of fragrant skimmed milk will be given per day for six days in a week to children between 1 and 6 years of age in anganwadi centres and pregnant and lactating mothers.He said under the ‘Mahila Evam Kishori Samman Yojana’, about 22.50 lakh women and adolescent girls would be given a packet of sanitary napkins, containing 6 pads, every month for a year. Apart from this, the Education Department has alsoprepared a scheme under which 6.50 lakh girl students will be provided six sanitary napkins every month.Minister of State for Women and Child Development Kamlesh Dhanda said Rs 256 crore would be spent every year on both these schemes.
06-08-2020||---||SOG leaves, Pilot loyalists back to ITC hotel in Gurugram||Gurugram, August 5With the Special Operations Group (SOG) off their back and bored of ‘confinement’ in Heritage Village Resort and Spa, the MLAs loyal to Sachin Pilot have shifted back to ITC Grand Bharat in Gurugram reportedly well-guarded by the Haryana Police.A team of 10 officers of the SOG, Rajasthan, that had been stationed in two cars in Manesar for over a week left on Wednesday after the shifting of case to the Anti-Corruption Bureau. The move as per the Rajasthan Police came after a legal opinion was sought by them. Highly placed sources revealed that the team, whichwas closing in and was about to get the court’s nod to enter the resort and get voice samples of the MLAs, had dropped sedition charges and shifted the case with reported conciliatory moves between the warring groups. The charges were dropped as it would have invited intervention of the NIA, making things ugly.As per sources, the MLAs have been constantly complaining of being bored and lack of enough luxury in the other two resorts and immediately wanted to return to ITC Grand Bharat. As soon as the SOG left, the MLAs were transferred in batches and have been checked in though none of rooms are booked in their names. The MLAs have reportedly been given their smartphones back and allowed to indulge in outdoor recreational activities too.
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||18th foundation day of INSO celebrated||Indian National Students Organisation (INSO) founder Ajay Singh Chautala said the INLD students’ wing had contributed to strengthening the voice of students during 17 years of its existence.He said this while addressing the youth during an online rally on the 18th foundation day of the INSO today.Ajay said, “I founded the INSO 17 years ago so that it would become the voice of students in the struggle for their rights. In December 2013, the INSO had organised an eye donation camp and subsequently its name recorded in the Guinness Book of World Records.” — TNS
06-08-2020||Panipat||Karnal cops submit interim report to Anil Vij||The Karnal police have submitted their interim inquiry report about the alleged murder case of three children of Binjhol village in Panipat to Home Minister Anil Vij.The Karnal police have also sought three weeks more from the Home Minister to investigate the matter properly. Meanwhile, the villagers continued their dharna in the village choupal on Wednesday.SP Surinder Singh Bhoria said we had been analysing the details received from various sources and the complainants. “We have also taken the doubts of the victims’ family members into consideration. We have conducted Covid test of four accused named in the FIR. The FSL has decided to conduct their polygraph test on August 6.”The case of the three children’s death is based upon technical investigation and without clarity over the cause of death of the children, the investigation cannot be completed, he said. We are hoping that we would get the reports of viscera and diatom test in a day or two, the SP said.“We have submitted an interim inquiry report to Home Minister Anil Vij and also sought three weeks time to investigate the case thoroughly,” the SP added.The bodies of three children — Lakshya, Vansh and Arun — of Binjhol village were found in the minor canal flowing next to an illegal bleaching unit on July 8. — TNS
06-08-2020||---||Singer catches imposter who duped people on Facebook||Panipat, August 5Haryanvi singer Vikas Kumar of the “Hat ja tau pache ne” fame on Wednesday caught hold of a man from Saharanpur (Uttar Pradesh), who, he said, had been impersonating him for a year and duping people on the pretext of being in dire straits.The name of the Saharanpur resident is being withheld as the FIR has not been registered. Vikas handed the imposter to the police later.He learnt about the Saharanpur man a year ago and, subsequently, informed the police, but no action was taken on his complaint, the singer claimed. “So I took upon myself to nab the imposter.”Vikas, a resident of Model Town here, told the media that the imposter had created a fake ID on Facebook in his name and started demanding money from people claiming to be in trouble. “He has duped more than 10 people in the past one year,” he said.On Wednesday, he unknowingly sent a message to the singer’s wife on Facebook Messenger and demanded Rs 50,000 on the pretext that his mother was unwell.Playing along, the singer’s wife asked the imposter to come to the Panipat bus stand to collect the money on Wednesday. The imposter instead sent two of his accomplices to the bus stand.The accomplices were nabbed and were made to call their boss to come to the bus stand. As soon as he reached the bus stand, he was nabbed and handed over to the police.Inspector Yogesh Kataria, SHO City police station, said the police had launched the investigation.MODUS OPERANDI
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||It’s historic day: Haryana Chief Minister on Ram Temple||Describing today as a historical day, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said by laying the foundation stone of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had realised the dream of crores of people of the country.In a tweet, Khattar congratulated the people of the country and urged them to celebrate this joyous moment by lighting a ‘diya’ at their homes and give the message of brotherhood.Om Prakash Dhankar, BJP state president, today offered prayers and participated in a yagya at the party’s office in Panchkula to mark the stone-laying ceremony in Ayodhya.Dhankar, later, addressing mediapersons after the ceremony, which was attended by Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria, Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, state general secretary Sandeep Joshi, among others, said the entire nation was celebrating the historic occasion.The BJP state president said it was an emotional day for those associated with Lord Rama and Indian culture.Sweets distributedKarnal: Celebrations to amrk the day were held in the district too. People distributed sweets and danced to the beat of drums. They organised havans at various places.BJP workers led by Mayor Renu Bala Gupta celebrated the occasion at the CM’s residence in Prem Nagar and distributed sweets among locals. The Mayor said it was like a dream come true. “The struggle of 492 years bore fruit today when the PM laid the stone of the majestic Ram Temple,” said the Mayor.Tension in GurugramGurugram: To celebrate the day, various organisations painted the city saffron. While it remained mostly joyous, tension gripped the Jama Masjid area, Sadar Bazaar, where a Nuh resident was thrashed by a mob on suspicion of carrying beef a few days ago.Various Hindu outfits and local traders’ associations put saffron balloons and played music today. Scared of a tiff, local meat sellers and other Muslim traders chose to keep their shops shut. — TNS
06-08-2020||---||Bhiwani Municipal Council official caught taking bribe||Chandigarh, August 5In a crackdown on corrupt officials, the Haryana State Vigilance Bureau caught Executive Officer, Municipal Council, Bhiwani, red-handed while accepting illegal gratification of Rs 35,000.An official spokesman of the Bureau said Deepak Goel was caught red-handed while accepting illegal gratification from complainant Vishal (contractor), a resident of Hanuman Garhi Chonk, Bhiwani, in lieu of passing his bills.An FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against Goel.
06-08-2020||---||Revisiting past, Irrigation Department instals water wheel||Yamunanagar, August 5The Irrigation and Water Resources Department has fabricated a ‘water wheel’ and installed it in the Western Jamuna Canal (WJC) (downstream of rapid head regulator) at Dadupur head of Yamunanagar district to show the old system of irrigation to the new generation.Motivated by Haridev Kamboj, Executive Engineer, Water Services Division, Dadupur, social worker-cum-entrepreneur of Yamunanagar Randev Tyagi helped the Irrigation Department financially with the fabrication and installation of the water wheel.“We recently installed the water wheel in WJC at rapid head regulator, Dadupur head, and it is being used for watering plants at the park here,” said Kamboj.He said that it was becoming a centre of attraction among visitors as people come here every day. On weekends, they come in large numbers.“Behind the installation of this water wheel, our purpose is to show the country’s old system of irrigation to the new generation. A number of people from Yamunanagar district come here as tourists every day. This water wheel is becoming a centre of attraction among them,” said Kamboj.According to information, the Britishers had installed a water wheel here in 1890 for irrigation purpose for the land at the office, rest house and irrigation colony here.“The water wheel installed by the Britishers worked properly till 1966. After that, no one took care of it and it became non-functional. It was completely destroyed by flood water in 2010. Now, we have fabricated a new water wheel and made it functional,” said Kamboj.
06-08-2020||---||Now, e-waste disposal a call away in Ambala||Ambala, August 5The disposal of electronic waste is now a click away in Ambala Cantonment. The civic body has hired a private firm to collect and dispose of e-waste as per the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT).The company can be reached through a mobile phone number (7082880008) and soon, a mobile app will also be launched for the public to register their e-waste collection requests, a senior MC official said here on Wednesday.He said the identified major e-waste producers had already been issued notices to dispose of their electronic waste items through the hired private firm with whom the MC had entered into a two-year agreement.As per the agreement, the company will collect it from the source, take it away, dispose and recycle the e-waste as per the prescribed norms of the NGT.The firm will directly pay the price of the collected e-waste to the owners and deposit 1 per cent of the paid amount with the civic body on a monthly basis.The MC has warned local residents against disposing of their e-waste here and there and asked them to contact the private firm for the purpose.According to the agreement, the company will collect the e-waste exceeding 20 kg from the caller on the same day of getting the call while e-waste less than 20 kg will be collected within a week of registering the request.The callers will be apprised of the price of their e-waste on registering their collection request while the mobile app will have the item-wise price list available for the users.Besides e-waste, waste items like old newspapers, magazines and other paper and plastic waste will also be collected by the private firm, depending upon the item, its disposal and the recycling facility available with it.Last month, the MC had hired another private firm to collect and dispose of biomedical waste in the town. The health institutions are no longer allowed to dispose of their biomedical waste without following the laid down norms.Civic body hires a Private firm
06-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Gurugram gyms get lukewarm response||Gurugram, August 5Despite the government mandate of using oximeters and allowing entry to people with more than 95 per cent oxygen saturation, majority of local gyms got a lukewarm response on the opening day, in the absence of these rules.While owners and patrons had been protesting for long to allow opening of gyms, there were hardly any visitors on the first day. The industry needs to work out a way to evade the spread of Covid infection while using common equipments. “Oximeters involve physical touch and using the same oximeter for everyone can be dangerous. We cannot afford to get seperate oximeters for all, and cannot ask the members to get their own. Use of common equipments, including dumbbell can be problematic. Frequent sanitisation can rust machines. The number of people we saw today was only 5 per cent of what we saw before the lockdown,” said Vicky, a gym trainer.“We have three gyms in the city, and we have started them in shifts in compliance with the SOPs. Only 10 persons are allowed in a shift. The gyms are sanitised after every shift. We are trying to follow all guidelines,” said Anand Dangi, owner of Bodyline Gym.“Over 12 persons joined the gym today morning, and we allowed them only after checking their temperature and following the stated rules. We are sanitising gyms regularly,” said Rajan Chauhan, a gym operator.
06-08-2020||---||400 service centres in Rohtak shut||Rohtak, August 5More than 400 common service centres (CSCs) have been closed for not working as per the government’s guidelines in Rohtak. In all 240 centres among them were being run in urban areas while 160 were located in villages. At present 316 common service centres are working in the district.‘Were issued show-cause notice’All these centres were issued show cause notice in June but none of them could file satisfactory reply. Hence, all 400 centers were shut recently. — Bhupinder Singh, District Manager, CSC, RohtakThe common service centres are run by private persons under the Digital India programme and these are access points for delivery of essential public utility services, social welfare schemes, healthcare, financial, educational and agricultural services in rural, remote and urban areas.As per norms, every common service centre located in rural area is required to make at least 50 transactions per month while the number is 100 in urban area. Majority of 400 CSCs were found not fulfilling the condition.“Lack of awareness among people about government schemes, online services and working of the CSCs, nominal commission in lieu of making transactions and high number of CSCs in the district are the major reasons behind the closure of 400 common service centres in the district,” said a common service centre operator, adding that location of the common service centres also mattered a lot.“We audit the performance of every common service centre in regular intervals. During the audit, more than 400 common service centres were found not working as per the guidelines. All these centers were issued show cause notice in June but none of them could file satisfactory reply hence all 400 centres were shut recently,” said Bhupinder Singh, District Manager, common service center, Rohtak.He said some of the common service centres were lying non-functional for past some months as their operators got the jobs in other fields. These centres were located in Rohtak, Sampla, Kalanaur, Lakhan Majra and Meham blocks of the district, he added.Conditions not fulfilledAs per norms, every common service centres located in rural area is required to make at least 50 transactions per month while the number is 100 in urban area. Majority of 400 CSCs were found not fulfilling the condition. The common service centers are run by private persons under the Digital India programme.
06-08-2020||---||Farmer murdered in Sonepat village, three booked||Panipat, August 5A 54-year-old farmer was shot dead in Juan village of Sonepat district. The police have allegedly booked three persons for murdering the farmer.The deceased has been identified as Narender Singh of Juan village.Amit, son of the deceased, in his complaint to the police, said his father went to fields for irrigation on Tuesday evening, but did not return home till late night. He, along with his uncle Manjeet, went to the fields and found his father lying in a pool of blood in the verandah of the tubewell room. He had been shot dead.After getting the information, the Mohana police reached the spot and sent the body to the mortuary for postmortem.Amit alleged that a farmer named Sanjay, his son Nitin and his son’s friend Prince of the village had murdered his father.A case has been registered against the accused under various sections of the IPC and the Arms Act.The body was handed over to the victim’s kin after postmortem on Wednesday. A probe into the matter has begun.
06-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Two killed, 5 hurt in road accidents||Two persons were killed, while five others were injured in road accidents that took place on the Panchkula-Yamunanagar national highway on Tuesday.Jalandhar residents Parambir Singh and his friend Sushil Kumar were going to Haridwar (Uttarakhand) from Dera Bassi on a two-wheeler when a bus hit them. Parambir died on the spot, while his friend received injuries.In another accident, a three-wheeler hit a stationary truck near Sudhail village, injuring all five occupants of the vehicle. They were taken to the Civil Hospital, Jagadhri. One of them, Nafees, was referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, because of his critical condition. He died on way to Chandigarh. — TNS
06-08-2020||---||Minor ‘forced into’ prostitution by kin||Kurukshetra, August 5The district police have arrested four men for forcing a minor girl of their family into prostitution, and extorting money from a person. The suspects have been identified as minor girl’s father, two uncles and a cousin. They were produced before a court, which sent them to two-day police remand.A case was registered at the KUK police station. On June 15, a resident of New Laxman Colony, in his complaint to the police, alleged he had sent his 17-year-old daughter at his brother’s house, but she had gone missing. He alleged that her daughter had been taken away by a person with the motive of marriage.The case was handed over to sub-inspector Praveen Kaur, and during investigation, the police found that the complainant and his family had forced the girl into prostitution, and they used to threaten the person, with whom they used to send the girl, get a case registered, and later settle the matter after charging a hefty amount.After the girl was recovered, she was produced before the court, where she admitted that her family used to force her into prostitution, and later charge money from the person after threatening to implicate him in a case. Her father, two uncles, and her cousin had done the same thing twice in the past also.
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Additional charge for 2 officers||The government has ordered that J Ganesan, Director, Secondary Education, will also look after the additional charge of Director, Citizen Resources Information Department. Meanwhile, Pratima Chaudhary, CEO, Shivalik Development Agency, has been given the additional charge of Administrator, MC, Ambala Dadar. — TNS
06-08-2020||---||More judges test +ve for Covid virus||Chandigarh, August 5Covid continues to hit the judiciary hard in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, as two Additional District and Sessions Judges have tested positive for the virus. They were stationed at Ambala and Yamunanagar.The Panipat court complex, meanwhile, has been shut for five days after 10 officials tested positive.In Punjab, a judicial magistrate at Jagraon in Ludhiana district also contracted the virus. About 25 court officials have been quarantined in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.Earlier, about 600 judicial officers, their members of families and staff in the two states and Chandigarh were quarantined. Among the infected judicial officers was a District and Sessions Judge.Three Additional District and Sessions Judges and Judicial Magistrates also tested positive. The secretary of a High Court Judge also contracted virus.
06-08-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||In Faridabad, 600 cases of power theft detected in two months||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 5The Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) detected about 600 cases of power theft in the past two months in the district. To curb this practice, it imposed a penalty of Rs 3.5 crore on erring consumers.‘Accused face arrest’The Power Department has revived the drive to detect power theft and curb line losses. Accordingly, fine will be imposed on erring consumers. The accused face arrest if they fail to pay the penalty. — Naresh Kakkar, Superintending Engineer, DHBVN, Faridabad circleNaresh Kakkar, Superintending Engineer, DHBVN, Faridabad circle, has confirmed this.“The Power Department has revived the drive to detect power theft and curb line losses. Accordingly, fine will be imposed on erring consumers,” he said.Revenue rises41 crore April233 crore June280 crore JulyAmong the erring consumers are 44 farmhouse owners of Faridabad and Greater Noida (Uttar Pradesh) as they drew electricity illegally. They face a penalty of Rs 1.04 crore. A resident of the district’s Dadasiya village allegedly supplied them power.The DHBVN has lodged an FIR against farmhouse owners and four of its employees — two Junior Engineers and two Assistant Line Men (ALM).“The accused face arrest if they fail to pay the penalty,” Kakkar said.Meanwhile, the DHBVN improved its monthly recovery of dues after the lockdown restrictions were lifted. In April, the DHBVN had collected Rs 41 crore as dues. The next month, its earnings shot up to Rs 233 crore. And in July, it recovered Rs 280 crore dues.Sources say the department faces financial crisis because dues have been pending for long, swelling to more than Rs 600 crore.
06-08-2020||---||Faridabad surpasses Gurugram; 7 more die, 752 new Covid cases||Chandigarh, August 5Faridabad surpassed Gurugram in the cumulative number of Covid cases on Wednesday. With 169 fresh cases, Faridabad’s Covid tally now stood at 9,510, highest in the state, followed by Gurugram at 9,412.The district is already ahead of Gurugram in active cases and fatalities due to Covid. Meanwhile, with 752 fresh cases and seven more deaths, the Covid tally in the state jumped to 38,548 on Wednesday.Two deaths were reported from Faridabad and one each from Gurugram, Karnal, Jhajjar, Panchkula and Kurukshetra.A 66-year-old man from Bhudutt Colony and 72 -year-old man from Jawahar Colony in Faridabad succumbed to the viral disease. They were suffering from co-morbidities.Held for violating norms, man gets bail
06-08-2020||---||Court quashes order to summon MLA||Rohtak, August 5The court of Rohtak Additional District and Sessions Judge Ritu YK Bahl on Wednesday set aside an order pertaining to the summoning of Meham MLA Balraj Kundu in a criminal defamation case filed by former Haryana minister Manish Grover.The court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Ashish Kumar Sharma had earlier summoned the MLA to face trial regarding an offence under Section 500 of the IPC.“We had filed a revision petition against the summoning order. The Additional Sessions Judge allowed the revision petition and set aside the summoning orders issued by the lower court,” said advocate Peeyush Gakhar, the counsel for Kundu.Advocate Rakesh Kumar Sapra, the counsel for the former minister, said they had a strong case and would move the HC after receiving the copy of today’s orders.At a news conference convened at Rohtak on January 3, Kundu had accused Grover of indulging in rampant corruption during his tenure as minister and instigating violence during the Jat agitation for grant of reservation in February 2016.Maintaining that the allegations levelled by the MLA were baseless and derogatory which had defamed him in public view, Grover later stated he had got a legal notice served to Kundu to withdraw his remarks.
06-08-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Beds empty, hospitals want review of Covid tag||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, August 5With medical tourism hit badly and domestic patients avoiding visiting hospitals in view of the Covid pandemic, private health facilities in Gurugram have approached the district authorities to review the notification of Covid beds. More than 60 per cent of Covid beds in private beds are empty.Of the 4,000 beds notified as Covid in private hospitals, only 248 are occupied — 68 by patients from the district and 180 by those from other states.Small hospitals have demanded denotification of their premises so that they can treat patients suffering from other ailments, while big ones want reduction in the number of Covid beds.Some hospitals notified as Covid centres claim they don’t have a single patient suffering from the virus, the Covid tag has led to a massive drop in the number of patients visiting OPDs and wards.An official said, “Gurugram hospitals thrived on medical tourism and patients from neighbouring areas. Because of the pandemic, the tourism is dead. Besides, people have postponed their scheduled surgeries, fearing contracting Covid. The number of patients who require hospitalisation is fewer. If the number doubles, many hospitals will still be having empty beds. Thus, hospital have approached us, seeking denotification of Covid beds.”
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||14 Haryana sanitiser samples fail test, violators booked||Fourteen hand sanitiser samples, of the 248 taken by the Haryana Food and Drug Administration for checking, have failed quality tests with five containing toxic methanol.The exposure to methanol can cause blindness, nausea, seizures, coma, permanent damage to nervous system and even death, say experts.State Drug Controller Narendra Ahooja today presented a report to Health Minister Anil Vij, who ordered stern action against the violators.Ahooja said an FIR had been registered in Hisar against Saurabh Kumar as two of the samples from his shop had methanol. Another FIR has been registered against Kishore Kumar of Kaithal, whose three samples contained methanol. The accused was manufacturing the sanitisers by mixing ingredients.Nine samples of M/s Global Bottlers Private Limited of Karnal also failed quality test. The FDA also got seven more FIRs lodged against firms and individuals. — TNS
