06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Proposal to bring ordinance for giving 75% private jobs to Haryana youths approved||The Haryana Cabinet on Monday approved a proposal to bring an ordinance to give 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs to the youth of the state.The draft of the ordinance will be placed before the Council of Ministers in its next meeting.Providing 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs to the youth of the state was a key poll promise of Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janta Party, which is coalition partner of the BJP.The Cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, approved the proposal “for drafting Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020” to address the aspect of unemployment of the local population on priority basis, an official statement said.“The draft of the Ordinance, that will be brought before the Council of Minister in its next meeting, will provide for 75 per cent of the new employment to be given to local candidates for jobs having salary of less than Rs 50,000 per month in various privately managed companies, Societies, Trusts, Limited Liability Partnership Firms, partnership firms etc. situated in the State of Haryana,” it said.However, the employers will have the option to recruit local candidates from one district to only 10 per cent. Exemption clause shall also be provided if suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category of industry.“Availability of suitable workforce locally would definitely enhance the efficiency of the industry/commercial establishment. The state government has also decided to give preference to local candidates in low-paid jobs as it is socially, economically and environmentally desirable and any such preference would be in the interests of the general public,” the statement said.Speaking after the meeting, Chautala said, “Today is a historical day as now this would be mandatory for the industries or companies in private sector to give 75 per cent jobs to the Haryana youths.”        He said the BJP-JJP government is committed to employing the youth.The deputy chief minister said the employees getting monthly salary below Rs 50,000 would have to register on the portal of labour department, which would be a free of cost facility.He said the responsibility of registration would lie on the company concerned or job provider.Chautala said the companies which would not register on the portal, would face a penalty from Rs 25,000 to Rs one lakh.Under the Haryana State Employment to Local Candidates Act -2020, all private industries, units, firms and employment providers which would have more than 10 employees in its premises would be covered in this Act. These rules would apply to recruitment after the date of notification of this ordinance.The deputy CM said a domicile certificate would be mandatory for the candidate to take the benefit under this scheme, which would be implemented by the labour department.He said all those companies which would be covered under this Act would have to register the entire data of employees on the portal.Private companies would have to inform the labour department if they are unable to find the employees according to their requirement after which they would be permitted to give jobs to the youth belonging to other states. PTI
06-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Covid cases in Haryana show a downward trend||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6Not just fresh cases but deaths related to Covid-19 have also come down in Haryana in the last two weeks. This has happened despite the testing being ramped up in the state. The number of people getting cured per day has also increased significantly.In the week between June 22 and 28, the Covid cases in Haryana dipped by 7.4 per cent as 456.3 cases per day were recorded compared to 489.6 cases per day in the previous week of June 15-21. The deaths due to coronavirus in the same period came down from 10.3 to nine per day, revealed the health authorities.  There was further dip though marginally – 0.6 per cent – in the week from June 29 to July 5, as 453.7 cases per day were recorded. The deaths came down to six per day.  The doubling rate, which is a parameter to reflect on how fast the disease is spreading, was at 10 days on June 21, but rose to 14 days on June 28 and on July 5, it was 18 days. This also signals a slowdown.There was 7.7 per cent rise in tests in the week from June 22 to June 28, as 4,937 tests per day were conducted in comparison to 4,582.1 per day in the previous week (June 15 to June 21). But from June 29 to July 5, the tests per day jumped by 58.6 per cent as 7,829 tests were conducted per day.   The number of people recovering per day has also increased. There was a rise of 31.5 per cent in people getting cured between June 22 and June 28 as 480 persons got cured per day compared to 364.9 per day in the previous week.It further jumped to 575.3 per day from June 29 to July 5, a rise of 19.9 per cent from the previous week.“There is more awareness among people now and there is more coordination between them and health authorities. People are reporting about Covid on time, decreasing possibility of fatalities. The doubling rate has increased significantly and so has the recovery rate. We have improved on all the parameters,” said Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General Health Services (DGHS), Haryana.
06-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||‘35 pc Covid cases in Gurugram are private sector employees’||Gurugram, June 6With 35 per cent of total Covid patients being in involved in private jobs, district health authorities have decided to focus on offices for extensive screening and testing to contain the spread of the virus.Till date, the city has reported 1,682 private employees testing positive, majority having contracted the virus between May 15 and June 15 during the ‘unlock’.  The numbers have set alarm bells ringing and authorities have now started reviewing the procedure pertaining to screening and sanitisation of offices.“We record the profession of every person who comes for sampling and maximum patients are privately employed and seemed to have contracted the infection at the place of work or while commuting to office. The workplaces are emerging as infection pool and thus we have started a special drive to review and deal with office bred infections,” said a senior health department official.The district has recorded 5,949 cases till yesterday. The maximum number of around 1,700 infected patients recorded profession as “private jobs”. This is followed by 748, who identified themselves as housewives. Majority of these women contracted the infection from their privately-employed husbands. As per the data, 480 senior citizens have also been infected so far. Apart from this, 11 guards and 21 vegetable sellers have also been infected.On the other hand, 308 employees of Health Department have also been infected. These include doctors, ASHA workers, nurses, ANMs and lab technicians. In addition, 87 children, including four toddlers, were infected.The highest number of cases have been found in MCG zone-1 and zone-2 comprising old Gurugram; whereas zone-3 and zone-4 have seen fewer patients. “While preparing a record of infected patients their occupation is also asked. So that it can be known which class is affected the most. In such a situation, people of that section will be made aware of the danger and authorities can focus on them,” said Dr Jayprakash Rajiwal, Spokesperson of Health Department.
06-07-2020||---||Adhere to Unlock 2 norms, Gurugram resident associations told||Gurugram, July 5Strictness Beyond NormalDespite having the highest number of Covid patients in the state, Gurugram has started marching towards the ‘new normal’ guided by the Ministry of Home Affairs’s (MHA) Unlock 2.0 guidelines.Amidst the opening of malls and resumption of public transport, the Municipal Corporation has issued a directive to local resident welfare associations (RWAs) to allow all activities permitted by the MHA without any hindrance or additional restrictions.The RWAs are notorious for allegedly imposing their own lockdowns in their societies and residential areas in the name of Covid precautions.The RWAs have been asked to strictly abide by the guidelines and allow all residents to resume normal activities, including employment of maids and unrestricted mobility if the area is not a containment zone.As per the orders issued recently, the RWAs have been asked to allow all to enter or exit the gates for work outside or inside the area with due precautions of thermal scanning, hand sanitisation and social distancing.Entry of house helps to the houses of residents will be allowed with SOPs like mandatory use of face mask, thermal scanning and hand sanitisation at the entry gate. The order urges residents to go for live-in maids but clarifies it is just an advice, not a mandatory instruction.Local maids have been at loggerheads with the RWAs which have been restricting their entries despite the unlock announcements. The maids had moved the administration claiming that they had lost their livelihood and blamed the RWAs for their draconian orders like mandatory Covid testing and non-usage of lifts in high-rises.Similarly, a lot of complaints were received by the administration against certain the RWAs barring morning and evening walks leading to discomfort to senior citizens and pet parents.The RWAs have been asked to allow walks though walks in common areas are to be restricted by staggering the morning and evening times (between 5 am and 10 pm) on the basis of odd-even house numbers to avoid crowding.Meanwhile, the RWAs are rattled by the directive. “Our stringent measures kept societies Covid-free. RWAs are democratic bodies where people take collective decisions. We have the right to take our safety measures,” said a RWA president at Golf Course Road.
06-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar village celebrates Dharma Chakra Divas||Dharma (Dhamma) Chakra Divas was celebrated at Topra Kalan village of Yamunanagar district on Saturday evening. The chief guest of the programme was Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar.He said Dharma Chakra Day was celebrated all over the world to commemorate the first sermon that Gautama Buddha gave to his five ascetic disciples.Padma Bhushan awardee Darshan Lal Jain said for the first time in Indian political history, a national address was jointly hosted by PM Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind to commemorate Dharma Chakra Divas.Sidhartha Gauri, general secretary of NGO ‘The Buddhist Forum’, said that such an event would help in the revival of Buddhist culture and tradition of Haryana.Gauri said Topra Kalan village of Yamunanagar district was a historical village as about 2,300 years back, Emperor Ashoka had erected a monolithic ‘Dharma Stambh’ (currently called Ashoka Pillar) in this village.“The village brought that glory back by installing the biggest iron Dharma Chakra of India. This feat was registered in the Limca Book of Records in 2019,” said Gauri. — TNS
06-07-2020||Parveen Arora
||Showers expose Karnal’s monsoon preparedness||Tribune News Service Karnal, July 5 The first spell of monsoon rain in the wee hours of Sunday submerged several roads, exposing the preparedness, rather a lack of it, of the local Municipal Corporation. Most of the stormwater drains in the CM’s constituency were overflowing.  Though the rain has brought the mercury down, a relief from the hot weather, waterlogging posed problems for residents of Sector 13 (oldest sector of the city), Patel Market and Ranwar Road.  In most of the areas, the sewerage was choked. Residents blamed the MC for not cleaning the drains in advance. “The stormwater pipes were laid in Sector 13 last year. One spell of showers and sewerage pipes could not take the load of rainwater,” said Rajesh Kumar Sharma, a resident. Vir Vikram Kumar, BJP leader and councillor from Ward No. 10, blamed the civic body for not cleaning the drains before the monsoon. “I will raise the matter with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. I was surprised to see the entire Sector 13 flooded,” he added. Residents demanded that all stormwater drains must be cleaned before the second spell of rain hit the city. Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-MC Commissioner, said, “I will get it checked why the drains were not cleaned.”
06-07-2020||---||Hooda challenges Khattar to contest Baroda byelection||Panipat, July 5Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday challenged Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to contest the byelection to the Baroda Assembly seat.Hooda said he would be willing to take on CM Khattar if he is confident to seek votes on the performance of his government.Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda was interacting with mediapersons during a press conference held in Sonepat city on Sunday.“If the government is confident of its development work, CM Khattar should be the candidate in the Baroda byelection. If he contests, I am ready to contest against him. Let the Baroda bypoll decide, instead of 2024, if the people are satisfied with the development work and vote on the popularity of the government,” Hooda challenged.The former Chief Minister said that today, the people of the country and the state are troubled by 5Cs. The whole world is troubled by China and Covid, but the people of Haryana are being hit by the monsters of corruption, crime and casteism too, he added.The former CM termed Chief Minister Khattar’s statement in Baroda as irresponsible. The Chief Minister had said if the people of Baroda want a stake in the government, they should vote for the BJP.Hooda reminded the Chief Minister that he holds a constitutional office and should not make such an irresponsible statement.Taking a dig at the BJP-led state government, the former CM claimed it increased the debt on the state from Rs 60,000 crore to Rs 2 lakh crore. Despite this, the BJP did not establish any major university, medical college, big institute, big industry, new railway line or metro line in its entire tenure,” he said.
06-07-2020||Jhajjar||Brothers shot dead in Jhajjar village||Two bike-borne assailants shot dead two brothers in the Beri subdivision on Saturday night. The assailants fled after committing the crime. The deceased have been identified as Anand, alias Nanda (42), and his younger brother Kulbeer (33) of Chimni village here.The reason behind the murder is yet to be ascertained. The police have started the investigation after registering a case against Vicki of the same village and his cousin on the complaint of deceased’s father Om Prakash.Accused known to victims’ family: SHOThe victims’ and the accused’s family had good relations. Therefore, the exact reason for the crime will be ascertained after the two accused are arrested. —Jai Bhagwan, SHO, Beri police stationIn his complaint, Om Prakash said the accused first shot dead his elder son Anand when he was sitting at his dhaba on the Kalanaur road in Beri. Then they came to his house in Chimni village, where they opened fire on Kulbeer from a close range. He was rushed to the PGIMS, Rohtak, in a critical condition. He succumbed to his injuries at the hospital.Jai Bhagwan, SHO, Beri police station, said Anand had taken the dhaba on rent two months ago. “The police are conducting raids at the possible hideouts of the accused,” he added. — TNS
06-07-2020||Ambala||51K intoxicating tablets, 100 syrup bottles seized||The CIA-1 staff of the Ambala police held two men and seized 51,000 intoxicating tablets and 100 syrup bottles from them on Saturday.The police have recovered 100 bottles of chlorpheniramine maleate and codeine phosphate syrup, and 51,000 Lomotil tablets (850 strips containing 60 tablets each).The suspects have been identified as Kulbir Singh and Vijay Pal Singh, both residents of Punjab. They were sent to a two-day police remand. On a tip-off, they were arrested from a spot near a Haryana Roadways workshop. They failed to produce any licence or permit regarding the tablets and syrup bottles.A case has been registered under Section 21 (c) of the NDPS Act. — TNS
06-07-2020||Jhajjar||Rs 84 lakh power bills not paid on time, two firms booked||The police have booked Omaxe City and Shanvi Management Services Limited on charges of fraud on the complaint of the president of Residents Welfare Association Royal Street Omaxe City-2, Bahadurgarh.Dharmendra Singh Dhillon, president, said Omaxe City had deployed Shanvi Management Service Limited to collect cash from the residents to pay their bills as power was supplied through a meter to over 200 people residing there.“The firm used to collect money but did not deposit it with the UHBVN on time. The power bill of Rs 84 lakh is due on Omaxe City. Subsequently, the UHBVN disconnected the power supply several times during the past month,” said Dhillon.Denying the charges, Lavnish Saxena, sales manager, Omaxe City, said, “There is some technical issue due to Covid in paying the bill. As much as Rs 22 lakh has been paid while the remaining dues will also be paid soon.” — TNS
06-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||75% drop in sale of furniture in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 5The Covid pandemic has hit the local furniture industry hard, as it has seen a drop of 75 per cent in the sales ever since the lockdown was imposed.They say the scare of Covid, closure of educational institutes and restrictions on the number of guests on weddings are responsible for the state of affairs. They fear the situation will remain the same for three to four months.“More than 60 customers used to visit my showroom every day before the lockdown. Now, the number has reduced to 15 to 20. Only those who are in need of furniture visit the showroom. I always had advanced bookings in April, May and June because of weddings, but the Covid has played a spoilsport,” said Chander Prakash, a furniture trader.He further said, “Usually in July, chairs, desks and computer tables were supplied to colleges, universities, and coaching and computer centres. This time, there have been no orders as all institutes are closed.”Devi Singh, another furniture trader, pointed out other aspect of the situation: rising input cost. “The price of wood and other items have increased by 15 to 20 per cent. The rising input cost is also making customers put off their plans to buy furniture,” he said.For workers, the situation has been precarious. Ajay, who works on daily wages, said: “By the grace of God, I always had work in the past 10 years. Furniture traders used to approach me to get fancy items made. But now, the situation has taken an about-turn. Now, I make rounds of furniture shops in search of work.”
06-07-2020||---||Caseload crosses 17,000 mark in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 5With 457 fresh cases, the state Covid tally today reached 17,005. So far, 265 deaths have been reported in the state.As many as 161 new cases were reported from Faridabad, followed by Gurugram (120), Rewari (34) and Panipat and Kurukshetra (19 each). Of the five new deaths, three were reported from Faridabad and one each from Gurugram and Ambala.The number of Covid deaths in Faridabad district has reached 92. The victims included a 45-year-old man from Chauhan colony, a 49-year-old resident of Gounchhi village and a 73-year-old man from the New Janata colony.In Panipat, 19 more persons tested positive for Covid, taking the caseload to 244. Civil Surgeon SL Verma said 95 cases were active in the district and 142 had been discharged.As many as 26 persons tested positive in Rewari today. Seven of them are from Rajgarh, three from Maheswari, two each from Dhaaruhera and Kayasthvada, and one each from BMG Tower, Manchanda, Tejpura, Gurawara, Sangwadi, Yadav Nagar, Budani, Jaisinghpur Khera, Palhavaas, Shiv Nagar and Nayi Aabadi.Of the 13 new cases reported from Jhajjar district, five are from Bahadurgarh town, three from Kharar village, two from Jhajjar and Barhana and one from Dadri Toa village.Besides, six fresh cases have surfaced in Mahendragarh. The tally in Palwal has risen to 362.
06-07-2020||---||Haryana  gets 98 more 'vyayamshalas'||Chandigarh, July 5Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday inaugurated 98 newly constructed parks-cum-‘vyayamshalas’ in the state through videoconferencing.He had opened 12 ‘vyayamshalas’ in Sonepat district yesterday. With today's inauguration, the number of such sports facilities in the state has reached 511. Work on 300 more facilities is expected to be completed in the next few months.Khattar said this year, the state government had proposed to set up 1,000 parks-cum-‘vyayamshalas’ in the state, for which Rs 250 crore had been allotted. Besides, in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for promoting Ayush health and wellness centres, the state government was contemplating setting up such facilities in all parks-cum-‘vyayamshalas’.He inaugurated one park-cum-‘vyayamshalas’ each in Ambala, Gurugram, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Panchkula, Panipat and Rewari districts, 10 in Bhiwani, six each in Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Karnal and Mahendragarh, seven in Fatehabad, four in Hisar, nine in Jhajjar, 13 in Jind, two each in Palwal and Yamunanagar, eight in Rohtak and 12 in Sirsa. These centres have been constructed at a cost of Rs 28.29 crore.Earlier, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala thanked the Chief Minister for inaugurating parks-cum-‘vyayamshalas’ in different districts and said it would prove to be a milestone in strengthening the rural sports infrastructure in the state.
06-07-2020||---||2 booked for duping Yamunanagar man of Rs 36L||Yamunanagar, July 5A case has been registered against two persons for allegedly duping a retired government employee of Rs 36 lakh on the pretext of getting him a ticket for the Assembly elections held last year and providing a job to his son in the Haryana Police.On the complaint of Jaipal Singh of Shiv Puri-B Colony of Yamunanagar, a case has been registered against Manjit of Panchkula and his accomplish Vishnu under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC.Jaipal alleged Manjit promised a government job to his son and took Rs 5 lakh for the work. When the accused failed to keep his word, Jaipal sought his money back. “But Manjit said he would get me a ticket from the Sadhaura Assembly segment of Yamunanagar for the 2019 Assembly elections,” said Jaipal.“Manjit and Vishnu took Rs 36 lakh from me in several installments in 2018,” alleged the complainant.
06-07-2020||Karnal||Pulse oximeters for health check||Webinar on folk cultureKurukshetra: A webinar has been conducted by Vijay laxmi Foundation on ‘Haryana’s culture Jakari folk songs discussing women issues’, in which more than 100 people from across the country participated. Certificates have been given to all attendees. The main aim of the webinar was to make people aware of our folk songs, which show emotions of a woman from her puberty to motherhood. The key speaker was Archana Sushasini, a Haryanvi artiste and cultural conservationist. Devender Kumar, another key speaker and professor at Banaras Hindu University, created a documentary on Jakari folk songs. Kirti Dahiya, a renowned Hindi and Haryanvi poet, and Shallu Pahal, a research scholar at Amity University, were other speakers.Cloth donated for face masksKarnal: The management of Joylap Play School handed over 100-metre cloth for face masks to the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Karnal. On the call of the DLSA, face masks are being prepared by inmates of district jail. A spokesperson of the DLSA said the process was initiated by Amit Sharma, secretary, DLSA-cum-CJM, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Harish Goel and Civil Judge Akshay Chaudhary under the guidance of District and Sessions Judge Jagdeep Jain.
06-07-2020||Rewari||Webinar on yoga and immunity||Tributes paid to former PMKurukshetra: Kurukshetra University Registrar Dr Bhagwan Singh Chaudhary said the ideals of Bharat Ratna and former Prime Minister Gulzari Lal Nanda need to be held in life. “A person who adopts his virtues will surely achieve his goal,” he said. He spoke on the behalf of Gulzari Lal Nanda Ethics-Philosophy Centre Museum and Library at a function organised to commemorate the birth anniversary of Gulzari Lal Nanda on Saturday. Earlier, a havan yajna was performed. Dr Chaudhary, KDB CEO Gagandeep Singh and other dignitaries paid floral tributes at Nanda’s virtuous tomb. The Registrar said Bharat Ratna Nanda contributed significantly to the development of Kurukshetra. Dr SM Mishra, Director of the centre, explained various activities of the centre.Online group discussionHisar: The Training and Placement Cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised an online group discussion (GD) contest under its fortnightly virtual speakathon programme. In all 27 students of various departments participated in the online GD. Pankaj Chaudhary, Director, TIMES, Hisar, was the chief judge of the event assisted by Rajneesh from TIMES and Dr Savita, Associate Professor from the Haryana School of Business. The programme started with orientation about “How to participate effectively in GD” by Pankaj Chaudhary. He said in most of the placements or admissions, GDs are used as an elimination process and therefore it was important to be good in it. He said using GD tool assessor judges the communication skills, knowledge of the topic, confidence, content, interpersonal skills, maturity, problem solving skill, leadership skill, body language and creativity of the candidates.Developers of ‘Desi Kalakar’ laudedHisar: Students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, Kishan, Rahul and Rohit who passed out BTech IT in 2017 were lauded for developing an App named “Desi Kalakar” on which various small videos can be downloaded/uploaded for entertainment purpose. One more student namely Sushant of same batch of the university is also associated with them. The app is a challenging alternate of TikTok which has been recently banned by the Government of India. This already has 21,000 downloads and has got 4.8 ratings. The team of these students is very conscious to take views of the users for making it more user-friendly. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Prof Harbhajan Bansal, Registrar, Prof Usha Arora, Dean Academic Affairs, Prof Dharminder Kumar, Chairperson, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Partap Singh Malik, Director, Training & Placement Cell and Prof Sunita Srivastava, Department of Physics, congratulated the students. The VC assured them of any help required to extend the development of the application.Webinar on research methodologyMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) in collaboration with the Indian Council of Social Science and Research (ICSSR), New Delhi, and Students for Holistic Development of Humanity organised a week-long workshop on ‘Research methodology’. RSS Seh-prachar Pramukh Sunil Ambekar while addressing the participants as chief guest said amid the pandemic, time had come to proceed towards self-reliance and to do research on subjects that prove helpful in highlighting the way to relief in contemporary conditions.
06-07-2020||ON Saturday||Bus stand wears deserted look||Covid patients must quit smokingSEVERAL Covid patients in Gurugram have been put under home isolation. Though in quarantine, some patients have not yet quit smoking, harming them further. —Subhash C Taneja, GurugramBlocked drainage causes inconvenienceOUR locality near House No. 2113, 2115, 2116 in Sector 9, Ambala, is facing bad sanitary conditions. The drainage system is totally out of order. Contaminated water gets accumulated and develops into a breeding ground for mosquitoes. This can be a reason for spread of other fatal diseases such as malaria and other vector-borne diseases. The health and well being of the people near the locality is at stake. I had registered a complaint with the Municipal Corporation but to no avail. As per the workers at the lower level at the civic body, higher authorities are not providing equipment to them thus they were unable to perform their duty. The authorities must look into the issue and get the needful done to the earliest. —Akshay Rattan, AmbalaPeople flout Covid normsIN Tohana (Fatehabad), the shopkeepers, bike riders and most of the persons in the market and public places can be seen flouting guidelines issued by the government to check the spread of the pandemic. Despite strict orders by the local administration, the citizens from all walks of life are not keeping adherence to the guidelines such as social-distancing, non-spitting at public places and urinating in open, unnecessary roaming, gossiping in groups without wearing masks and gathering at banks and public offices. The civic body, local authorities, NGOs and police personnel should look into the matter and make people aware of the drastic and fatal effects of flouting government advisory to contain the spread of the virus as until a vaccine is developed, prevention is the best cure this virus. —Dilwar Ali Meerak, Azad Nagar, Tohanaabusive garbage collectorsAPATHETIC attitude of garbage collectors is a common sight in areas of Thanesar and Kurukshetra. They demand Rs 100 for April and May in which these didn't even provide their services and caused inconvenience to the residents. If somebody inquires then they start abusing. People seem to be unhappy by their untoward behaviour and the way they interact and use abusive language. The Executive Officer, Thanesar, is humbly requested to take a serious note of this act of negligence and accord public relief. —Gorve Pradeep, ThanesarWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
