06-04-2020||Gurugram||Six people arrested on charges of assaulting Gurugram family during Sunday’s lights-out||Grurgram Police have arrested six people for allegedly assaulting a Muslim family during the national lights-out that the Prime Minister called on Sunday night, officials said.The suspects are believed to have arrived at the family’s doorstop at Manohar Nagar chanting “Bharat Mata ki Jai” and demanded that they abstain from the activity because of their religion.When the family objected, they were attacked with bricks, police said.The family approached the police on Monday morning. All six lived in the same neighbourhood, police said.The complainant, Atif Warsi, said he had never seen anything like this in the neighbourhood in the six years he had been living there. “We were standing with mobile flash lights and making videos of our locality when they came. They started abusing and tried attacking my mother with a chair and hit me with bricks," said complainant Aatif Warsi.Police said they had arrested the suspects and were investigating the case."We got a call today about the family being scared as they were attacked during lights out. They have alleged communal harassment which owing to sensitivity of matter is being investigated. The accused however have been nabbed for attacking and thrashing family," an official communication from Gurugram Police said.The suspects are believed to have claimed it was “a normal argument that was being given a communal turn”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for a nine-minute “lights-out” on Sunday in the light of surging coronavirus cases in the country.
06-04-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus: Haryana Government to identify clusters in Gurugram, Faridabad||Haryana Government has decided to identify and quarantine clusters that have the most cases of coronavirus in Gurugram and Faridabad, an official said on Monday---a development that comes as health authorities scramble to contain the contagion.As coronavirus cases explode in the country, Haryana government has decided on what they call “micro-containment. The plan involves conducting anti-body testing---a quick test that would yield results within three hours---on community levels in districts with high population density. This is primarily to quickly identify clusters with high outbreak of coronavirus in an attempt to confine the infection to a defined geographical area and break the chain of transmission, health officials said.  Once areas with a high number of positive cases are identified, all residents within a three kilometre radius will be screened and quarantined, health officials said.Gurugram Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri said the containment plan would include geographic quarantine, social distancing measures, active surveillance, testing and isolation of cases as well as quarantine of their contacts. It also includes an awareness campaign on preventive public health measures.“We are working out an execution policy regarding same where we will identify the areas with positive cases. Active testing on community basis will be done using these rapid kits and within three hours we will know who all are positive. We will make it available to individuals also,"  Gurugram Chief Medical Officer JS Punia said. "This will help us concentrate on clusters at higher risk owing to more cases or high-people-to-residential-space ratio or cramped living conditions.”
06-04-2020||New Delhi||5 Haryana villages sealed over Nizamuddin event: MHA||More than 25,500 Tablighi Jamaat members and their contacts have been quarantined in the country till now after the Union and state governments conducted a “mega operation” to identify them, a senior Union Home Ministry official said on Monday.During the daily briefing, Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava told reporters that five villages in Haryana have been sealed and the residents have been quarantined as “foreign members” of this Islamic organisation had stayed there.She added that 1,750 foreign-based members of the Jamaat, out of the total 2,083, have been blacklisted till now by the Indian government.These people and their contacts were identified and quarantined after the Union government and states conducted a “mega operation”, she said.Action against Tablighi Jamaat members was taken after over 2,300 activists were found to be living at its headquarters in Nizamuddin West in Delhi last week, despite the 21-day nationwide lockdown imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus.At least 9,000 people participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin last month, after which many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country. Srivastava said Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has written to all the states and Union Territories on Monday asking them to ensure that the supply chain of medical oxygen, critical for treatment of COVID-19 affected people, should go on smoothly and these directions should be “implemented strictly” while following norms of social distancing and proper hygiene.“As you know, medical oxygen is a very critical item for COVID-19. It is very essential to keep its proper supply and stock in the entire country. This is also declared an essential item in both national and WHO list and its production, manufacturing and the entire chain is exempted from lockdown measures.”       “To reiterate this, the home secretary has again written to state governments and UTs today and has told them about the importance of medical oxygen and has directed that its entire supply chain should be properly monitored.” the officer said.Updating about the ongoing lockdown situation, Srivastava said the state governments are enforcing the lockdown with promptness and essential goods and services are moving satisfactorily in the country and the Centre was regularly monitoring the situation with states.“We are hopeful that with the enforcement of these measures we will be able to effectively enforce the lockdown and break the COVID-19 chain,” she said. — PTI
06-04-2020||Hisar||Hisar woman comes home to cheers after coronavirus treatment||A 54-year-old woman who tested positive for coronavirus late last month came home to Hisar  to loud cheers and claps on Monday. The woman tested positive for the virus on March 30 and had been admitted to PGI Medical College in Agroha town. She and her husband, who was quarantined at Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, returned home to a very warm welcome from their neighbours on Monday after she tested negative thrice.The woman returned from the US on March 17 and had been home quarantined. Her swabs were sent for testing on March 30 to PGIMS Rohtak after she began to show symptoms for coronavirus. She was moved to Agroha medical college immediately, and 22 of her contacts were traced and isolated.Every one of her contacts, including her husband, tested negative, authorities said.Health officials said the couple has been asked to isolate themselves for 14 days.Meanwhile, in Sirsa, two children---siblings aged 6 and 8---have tested positive after coming back negative the first time. Their mother, who tested positive before them, is undergoing treatment at PGIMS Rohtak.
06-04-2020||---||8 more test positive in Haryana’s Palwal; all cases of Tablighi Jamaatis||Palwal, April 6  Eight more people have been found Covid positive in Palwal. With this the total of such people in the district has gone up to 25.All the new cases are of those of Tablighi Jamaatis.While seven of the new cases are residents from outside the state, one is a resident of the district, who had been involved in Tablighi activity.Earlier, all 13 cases found positive were also those of the Tablighi Jamaat. All positive cases have been shifted to the medical college at Nalhar in Nuh district.The department has identified a total of 89 peoples involved in Tablighi activity, whose samples had been collected after their isolation, said the Civil Surgeon, Palwal.One repeat case was also found positive, besides the eight new cases, said the officials concerned.Six test positive in NuhIn what has caused panic in Nuh, six more people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi, tested Positive for COVID-19 on Monday, taking the total cases in the district to 14.All of them were evacuated from local mosques and had entered Nuh after a brief stop at Palwal.Out of six, five are foreign nationals, hailing from Sri Lanka, South Africa, Indonesia and Thailand. The sixth person hails from Kashmir.All of them had been lodged in isolation and shifted to a hospital in Nalhar.Local health authorities are waiting with bated breath for test results of 229 other Tablighis."We had sent 96 samples for testing and 14 out them found positive. Reports of 229 samples are still awaited. In total 343 samples, 100 found negative," said Dr Virender Yadav, Civil Surgeon, Nuh.The district authorities are now on high alert and all geared up for door-to-door scanning of villages from where several Jamaatis were evacuated. Mewat quarantined around 600 Jamaatis, out of which 240 had been somehow connected to the Nizamuddin Markaz and visited the district post-February 29. The preliminary investigation of all travel histories indicates a stay at Hathin block in Palwal--possibly a centre of COVID transmission.
06-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Corona-negative Panipat patient's bid to escape hospital using bedsheets, IV sets proves fatal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 6A 55-year-old suspected corona patient died after falling from the sixth floor of KCGMC hospital here as he tried to escape using a rope made of bedsheets and IV sets on Monday morning.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav confirmed he was a suspected corona patient and was in isolation ward. His samples were collected on Sunday and the report had come negative, he said.The deceased has been identified as Shiv Charan of Noorpur village in Panipat. He was admitted here on April 1 with multiple ailments. He tried to escape from the hospital and fell from the sixth floor.
06-04-2020||Dr Arvind SahniGastroenterologist||Facts regarding Covid-19||IntroductionThe latest name for this virus is SARS-CoV-2 (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome-Corona Virus 2). Currently, this virus is causing a pandemic. Up to 30 per cent of the cases may be asymptomatic but scientific evidence suggests that they have a significant transmission potential of disease. The transmission of this virus may occur early in course of infection.Identification of chains of transmission and subsequent contact tracing are much more complicated if many infected people remain asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Thus one infected person has the potential to infect several thousand people within a short span of a few days.It is these asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic infected people who may potentially infect their family members and the community at large. The infected patients who are sick, who need hospital care can spread the virus to health care workers.Modes of transmissionThe commonest mode of transmission is by droplet infection. These droplets could spread from an infected person to a distance of approximately 1 to 1.5 metres. This is the basis of social distancing.To break the person-to-person transmission of this virus apart from doing social distancing, it is also important to have a complete lockdown strategy as is being done in our country.When an infected person coughs, different size droplets (usually less than 10 microns) are expelled into the surrounding environment as an aerosol. Scientific experiments have suggested that this SARS-CoV-2 virus may persist for up to 3 hours in the aerosol. This virus can also persist on fomites like cardboard and stainless steel for 24 hours and on plastic for three days. Hence, the need to disinfect these fomites, which are also an important means of spreading the infection.Spectrum of presentationApproximately 80 per cent patients will have mild symptoms, 15 per cent develop pneumonia and 5 per cent will need ICU care.Vulnerable populationElderly people, diabetics, people with underlying heart, lung and kidney diseases and people with weak immune system. However no age is exempt.Drugs and vaccinesThe WHO has begun a trial regarding the efficacy on drugs against this virus. India is one of the countries that is participating in this global trial. The prospects of developing a vaccine on a mass scale are at least one to one and half years away. To reinforce the words of Dr David Nabarro, special envoy to the WHO on CoVID-19, “Respect the virus.”Take home messageLet us all join hands to fight this global health emergency and pandemic. This is a highly infective virus. Practise social distancing and follow the complete lockdown instructions in an effort to break the human-to-human chain of transmission. Do not forget your basics of frequent hand washing with soap and water. Avoid touching your eyes, nose and face with your hands.
06-04-2020||CHANDIGARH||Haryana CM to head Relief panel||JJP for low-key Devi Lal anniversary NEW DELHI: The JJP on Sunday asked its leaders to tone down the proposed observation of the death anniversary of former Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal on Monday. Chief spokesperson Dinesh Dagar said an appeal had been issued to party leaders and office-bearers to light a ‘diya’ and offer a flower at their individual residences at 8 am on Monday in memory of Devi Lal on his19th death anniversary. Amid the Covid outbreak, it was natural that his followers would be cognisant of the grave health crisis, he added. TNSSuspected covid patient diesSONEPAT: Krishan (36) of local Ambedkar colony, who was reportedly suffering from fever and cough for the past few days, died after he fell on the green belt of local Sector 23 on Sunday. Suspecting it a case of Covid-19, health authorities have decided to conduct a postmortem after receiving the test report of Covid-19 from the BPS Government Women Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, in the district. Sub Inspector Usha, in charge of the police post at Sector 23, said Krishan was taken to the Civil Hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. OCTimber market marked epicentreAMBALA: The district administration has declared the timber market area of Ambala Cantonment as the epicentre after death was reported. While 3-km area adjoining to the timber market has been declared containment zone, another 8-km area has been declared buffer zone. Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma said “Duty magistrates have been appointed to keep a check on every activity in the entire area. A civil surgeon has been directed to educate the public about Covid-19 through ASHA workers and get the area sanitised.” TNSSirta road area sealedKAITHAL: Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh and SP Shashank Kumar Sawan today visited Sirta road and its adjoining areas after a positive case was detected in the town. Restrictions have been imposed in the area. All roads leading to locality were sealed and police deployed at all points. All those living in this area were undergoing thermal screening by teams of the Health Department. The residents will be provided all essentials by the administration at their homes. Deputy commissioner said. OC
06-04-2020||---||Firing at mosque in Gurugram village||Gurugram, April 5Unidentified miscreants fired at the main gate of a mosque in Dhankot village and fled. The neighbours informed the imam who then moved to the police. An FIR has been registered in this regard.A group of Muslims gathered outside the mosque but the police dispersed them. The police are ensuring that lockdown is strictly followed and there was no untoward incident. The police have recovered a bullet shell and are investigating about the miscreants. "I was not in mosque at that time. There was one person who is safe. However, there was no loss of life and property but the incident has left us scared and it is clear attempt to disrupt harmony," the imam said.The police have taken CCTV footage of the incident from nearby homes and local shops. “We have major leads and are trailing the accused. We will try and ensure that the situation remains calm," said Rajendra Park SHO Pankaj Kumar.
06-04-2020||---||Haryana govt releases Rs 169 cr for cane farmers||Chandigarh, April 5The Haryana Government on Saturday released an amount of Rs 169 crore to 10 sugar mills of the state to pay the dues of sugarcane farmers.Haryana Co-operation Minister Dr Banwari Lal said that the government released Rs 15.8 crore to Panipat’s cooperative sugar mill, Rs 27.3 crore to Rohtak’s cooperative sugar mill, Rs 18.3 crore to Karnal‘s cooperative sugar mill, Rs 21.1 crore to Sonepat’s cooperative sugar mill and Rs 3.7 crore to the cooperative sugar mill of Shahabad.
06-04-2020||Ravinder Saini||Official visits home of ‘needy’ seeking ration, exposes lie||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 5The district administrative authorities have started tightening the noose around those who are demanding rations by describing themselves as needy by making calls on helpline numbers.Such an incident came to the fore on Sunday when the authorities got a caller who demanded ration when he didn’t have any requirement for it. A man from the local Quilla colony made a call to the control room and demanded ration from the authorities stating that the economic condition of his family was not good and that they were unable to buy ration. They had nothing to eat at home, he claimed.The control room intimated Jhajjar SDM Shikha about the caller. She immediately asked municipal committee secretary Arun Nandal to provide ration to the caller.Nandal went to the caller’s house to give him ration but he sensed something fishy on reaching there. He inspected the kitchen of the house to see whether the family needed ration or not.The secretary found adequate ration in the kitchen. Then, Nandal not only told the SDM about the condition of the caller, but also made him realise his wrongdoing.SDM Shikha has now warned of action against those found guilty of demanding or getting ration without requirement. She said rations were available only for those who really needed it.
06-04-2020||---||Balloon from Pak lands in Sirsa village||Hisar, April 5A balloon from the Pakistan side was found in a field of Beharwala village in Sirsa district today. The land owner informed the police, who seized the balloon and sanitised it.According to information, farmer Balwant Bhakar found the balloon in his field this morning. The village sarpanch informed the authorities.SDM Dilbagh Singh and DSP Jagdish Kajla took possession of the balloon. A handwritten chit was attached to it, which had some calculations about vegetable market transactions written on it.
06-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Maintain social distancing, HC tells convict granted parole||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5The Punjab and Haryana High Court has allowed emergency parole to a convict for his father’s last rites after directing him to maintain social distancing and other lockdown conditions in view of the Covid outbreak.Justice Arun Kumar TyagiThe presence of the petitioner due to being the only son is necessary for performing the last rites of his deceased father.The Bench, through video-conferencing, directed the drugs case convict to comply with all the requisite conditions imposed under lockdown and curfew, including the rider on his medical screening and social distancing.Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi ruled that the convict’s application for temporary release on parole could not have been declined on the grounds that he had not completed a year of imprisonment after conviction. “The impugned order suffers from material illegality and is liable to be set aside,” JusticeTyagi stated.Pawan Kumar had moved the High Court against Haryana and other respondents for release on emergency parole due to his father Gyan Chand’s death.The Bench was told that the petitioner was convicted and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 10 years by the Hisar Additional Sessions Judge in December 2017 under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. The FIR in the matter was registered on July 27, 2017.The Bench was told that the petitioner’s father died on March 26 and he being the only son had to perform the last rites. The petitioner, through his mother, approached the Hisar Deputy Commissioner for 14-day emergency parole. The application was dismissed on the grounds that he had not completed a year of imprisonment after conviction.“Appearing” before the Bench, the state counsel submitted that the petitioner was convicted of possessing commercial quantity of contraband and had not completed one year of imprisonment after conviction. As such, he was not entitled to grant of parole, the counsel stated.Justice Tyagi ordered the petitioner’s release on 14-day parole on furnishing of personal bond.
06-04-2020||---||Man murders wife, kills self||Gurugram, April 5Frustrated for being ‘locked down’ with his wife for the past two weeks, a 31-year-old resident of Garhi Harsaru murdered his wife in a fit of rage and committed suicide. The couple’s daughter informed the police claiming that her parents had been fighting everyday for hours after being confined to home.The deceased has been identified as Pramod, who was a skilled labour and had been thrown out of work owing to the lockdown. According to the daughter, he would regularly fight with his wife, Sarita, ever since he was confined to the home.“They were having regular quarrels for the past two days and had even started hitting each other. My mother was working in the kitchen when he rushed inside and picked up pestle and hit her and she died. He then dragged me to the room and locked me,” she added.I then called the police, who found my father Pramod hanging from a grill of his bathroom window, she added.“Both bodies have been kept in mortuary where a post-mortem will be conducted. Further investigations in this regard will be on,” said Sector SHO Sanjay Kumar.
06-04-2020||---||Experts say home stay may improve family ties||Rohtak, April 5The lockdown and home confinement, which have been necessitated to prevent the spread of the Covid pandemic, may strengthen bonding amongst family members, provided they spend quality time with one another instead of remaining occupied with smartphones, television, laptops and other gadgets.Behaviour scientists, including psychiatrists and sociologists, maintain that people should utilise this period to improve their relationships by increasing interpersonal communication with their family members and doing things like cooking, praying, playing and housekeeping together.“We remain so engrossed in fulfilling our professional and social commitments that we hardly have any time for ourselves and our families. The lockdown has given us an opportunity to introspect and do whatever makes us happy,” observes Dr Neerja,a sociologist.She says, “We can strike a balance by devoting more time to ourselves and our loved ones.”Options to explore
06-04-2020||---||IOCL worker jumps off 1st floor, dies||Panipat, April 5A 54-year-old employee of the IOCL refinery died at a private hospital here after jumping from the first floor of the hospital on Saturday.The deceased was identified as Suresh Joseph of Assam. He was staying in the refinery township. The police said he was admitted to the hospital on Friday after sustaining some injuries on the head.He locked himself in the room when a staff nurse went to give him some medicine around 8 pm on Saturday. The hospital staff tried to coax him to come out, but he jumped from the first floor.He sustained serious injuries and succumbed to these at night. The hospital owner said he was mentally upset and an alcoholic. The police sent the body for postmortem examination.
06-04-2020||Ambala||20K poor get ration in Ambala Cantt||At least 20,000 persons from 4,000-odd poor families in Ambala Cantt were provided ration after being identified under a special campaign “Feed the hungry” launched by Home Minister Anil Vij here on Saturday.They were living without food after the imposition of the 21-day lockdown.Vowing not to let any single soul sleep hungry, at least in Ambala Cantt constituency, which he is representing for the record sixth time, Vij divided the identified poor families into 40 zones and appointed an incharge for every zone to supervise the food delivery operations and ensure that no family remained deprived of food during the lockdown.The campaign, funded by social organisations, will be operated from Aggarwal dharamshala in Ambala Cantonment, which had been made the nodal point to collect foodgrains, prepare packets and send these to the needy. — TNS
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Stay in resorts for doctors, paramedics||Doctors and paramedics who are fighting the battle against Covid will be able to stay for free in resorts of Haryana Tourism Corporation so that they can stay away from their families and to save them from exposure.On the directions of the government, the corporation has issued directions to resorts across Haryana that the district administration be allowed to use the rooms for board and lodging of doctors and paramedics.“You are aware that Covid has been declared an epidemic by the government and in the present circumstances, doctors and paramedics, who have been fighting the battle against the Covid pandemic, are the most vulnerable groups. The matter was discussed with the higher authorities and it was decided that the district administrations be allowed to use boarding and lodging facilities free of cost at the tourist complexes across the state for doctors and paramedics so that they can stay separately after duty hours without putting their family members at risk,” said a communication by the Managing Director of the corporation. — TNS
06-04-2020||Chandigarh||Singer Sonu Nigam salutes efforts of doctors, police||Bollywood singer Sonu Nigam, who was born in Faridabad, Haryana, has appealed to the people of the state to stay indoors in order to prevent the spread of Covid.He has saluted the hard work of the doctors and police personnel at this time.In a video message released here today, he told the people of the state that he was born in Haryana and has fond childhood memories of the state.He said his heart was in Haryana and he cares for its people. He said that today, the whole world is fighting the battle against the virus and India is also a part of it. PM Narendra Modi and Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar are making a lot of efforts. He requested the people of the state to cooperate in this regard. He said that he knew that the people of the country understood this but he still is appealing to them to stay at home. — TNS
06-04-2020||---||Haryana govt allocates Rs 288 crore to municipalities across state||Chandigarh, April 5The Haryana Government has allocated special funds amounting to Rs 288.92 crore to 87 municipalities to combat the situation arising out of the spread of Covid and to arrange various facilities for the public, especially the needy. All municipalities have been directed to apply available funds with them on preferential basis on the measures arising out of the pandemic.Sharing more details about the same, an official spokesman of the Urban Local Bodies Department said that 18 Coordinating Supervisory Officers (CSOs) have been designated for all the 87 municipalities wherein all 10 Municipal Commissioners and 8 Deputy Commissioners of the districts namely Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Rewari, Mahendragarh, Sirsa and Jind are assigned the jurisdiction for efficient functioning of municipalities regarding taking all measures targeted to combat the situation.He said presently 22,517 sanitation workers are engaged in the state for door-to-door collection, road sweeping, transporting and disposal of municipal solid waste by deploying 2,678 numbers of vehicles of various categories on a daily basis and 100 per cent door-to-door lifting of municipal waste is being ensured by all municipalities and the staff involved in this activity has been instructed to follow social distancing strictly.Besides, maintenance of all the essential services like sanitation, water supply, sewerage, fire and street lighting is being properly taken care of, by the municipalities by ensuring social distancing and by using PPE kits. The Urban Local Bodies (ULB) have deployed mechanical sweeping machines for cleaning of main roads.He said the sanitisation of public places like bus stands, railway stations, community as well as public toilets, government offices etc. were being carried out by deploying water tankers, fire vehicles and spray machines by the respective Municipalities. The use of thermal cameras and hand sanitisers are being ensured by deploying adequate staff at the entry of the public buildings by all the municipalities.He said that the helplines or control rooms had been established in all the 87 municipalities and adequate publicity is being carried out to enable the public to register their complaints and grievances regarding providing of 0. Public participation is being ensured through corporators/councillors, RWAs, ngos, social activists etc. Municipalities have started spreading public awareness through newspapers, pamphlets, munadi etc. as per the instructions of DIPR, Haryana.He informed that due date with regard to payment of water and sewerage bills, property tax and rent, tehbazari and licence fee on municipal shops or properties has been extended.556 community kitchens set up
06-04-2020||---||Migrant labourers in Haryana pass their time doing yoga, satsang||Karnal, April 5To keep migrant labourers busy and healthy in the 21-day-long lockdown, they are being involved in various recreational activities at all the five shelter homes which have been set up for them.Yoga instructors are imparting training to them from 6 am to 7 am to keep them healthy and spiritual movies and ‘satsang’ are being screened with the help of projectors in the evening.The migrant labourers are also enjoying the recreational activities. “No doubt, we are away from our home and have no certainty about our future in this lockdown, but we are happy with the hospitality of the Karnal people. Steps like yoga and screening of spiritual movies are appreciable,” said Sher Singh, a migrant labourer at Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan, Kambopura, where around 250 migrant workers have been accommodated.Another labourer Hemraj, who came from Gobindgarh in Punjab and hails from Gorakhpur in UP, said that earlier they had nothing to do, but now they are doing yoga which will help them keep fit.“In our daily lives as factory labourer, we never thought of getting yoga training, but now, we feel yoga is also an essential part of life,” said Khusi Ram, a resident of Badiyu in UP.Moreover, they are being offered work during the harvest season. “To keep them busy and healthy, we have roped in yoga instructors and sports coaches. Movies and ‘satsang’ are being screened in all the five shelter homes for their entertainment,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. “We have offered them work for the harvest season in the fields as well as grain markets. We have asked them to give their consent if they are willing,” he added.After the lockdown was announced, scores of labourers from Punjab and Haryana started moving towards their homes in UP and Bihar, leading to chaos in Delhi. After witnessing the huge gathering, the Union Government had put the state governments on alert and ordered all the state governments to make necessary arrangements to stop the migration.The state government had also asked the district authorities to set up shelter homes and provide them food. The Karnal administration had set up five shelter homes in Radha Soami Satsang Bhawans located near Kambopura, in Sector 32, on Kaithal road, in Nilokheri and in Gharaunda.Around 800 workers are presently accommodated in these shelter homes. They are being provided food which is prepared by the volunteers of the Satsang Bhawans. Their health is being checked daily.
06-04-2020||---||Colour-coded, labelled bins kept for bio-medical waste||Chandigarh, April 5The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has issued special guidelines for handling, treatment and disposal of waste generated from treatment of positive Covid cases at health facilities and suspects under home quarantine.As per the HSPCB, healthcare facilities with isolation wards for Covid confirmed or suspected cases have to keep separate colour-coded bins and use double-layered bags for collection of waste.The dedicated collection bins must be labelled Covid 19 and kept separately. The waste has to be lifted directly from the ward to common bio-medical waste treatment facilities (CBWTF) collection vans. In addition, the Board has to be informed about the starting of new sample collection centres and laboratories.Bio-medical waste generated from quarantine health facilities must be collected in yellow bags and bins and CBWTF has to be informed for its collection and disposal. For those in home quarantine, bio-medical waste has to be collected in yellow bags and handed over to authorised waste collectors engaged by local bodies.The local bodies then further would engage CBWTF to pick-up such waste either directly from such quarantined homes or from identified collection points. However, the rest of waste from homes of quarantined people has to be disposed of in routine manner.“There are 10 agencies which collect bio-medical waste in Haryana. No health facility can keep bio-medical waste for more than 48 hours. All healthcare facilities, including testing laboratories and CBWTFs, have to be keep record of waste generated from Covid,” said HSPCB member-secretary S Narayanan.Indian Medical Association, Haryana, former president welcomed the step. “It is important for health facilities to adhere to guidelines on bio-medical waste to stop spread of infection,” he said.
06-04-2020||---||Classes I to VIII kids to be promoted without exams in Haryana||Chandigarh, April 5Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said students from classes I to VIII would be promoted to the next class without any examination.Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterFestivals like Mahavir Jayanti on April 6, Shab-e-barat and Hanuman Jayanti on April 8, Good Friday on April 10, Easter Sunday on April 12, Baisakhi on April 13 and Ambedkar Jayanti on April 14 should be celebrated by the people at their homes.In his address to the people through a live telecast here today, Khattar said the Class X science examination had not been conducted and the result of the students would be declared on the basis of the subject examinations already held. However, students who opt for science subjects would have to take the test when the time was conducive.Khattar further said that the result of the students of Class IX was ready and would be declared next week. He said that the mathematics examination of Class XI was not conducted. Thus, the students of Class XI would be promoted to Class XII and the examination for the subject would be conducted later. He said the decision regarding the promotion of Class XII students has not been taken yet. “We will decide once the NCERT decides the matter,” he said.The CM also urged the people of the state to celebrate the upcoming festivals while staying at home and maintaining social distancing.He said though melas were organised during Baisakhi, the public should avoid going out anywhere during this time.The Chief Minister said people who had tested positive for coronavirus should be admitted to the hospital in quarantine. These people have to practice self-control and follow the instructions of the doctor. He said there were chances of spread of the virus due to the congregation of Tabligi Jamaat recently. “Those who attended it are being tested and I request those who had recently met these people should get themselves tested to prevent its spread further,” he said.
06-04-2020||Tribune Reporters||Surjewala attacks Haryana govt over toll hike||Chandigarh, April 5Randeep Surjewala, AICC communication incharge, today came down heavily on the Central and state governments over the reported increase in toll on national highways from April 1, which he alleged would play havoc with the state’s economy and lead to an unprecedented price rise.Addressing a digital press conference, Surjewala alleged that the hike in toll would hit the common man, who was already devastated by the recession in the wake of Covid pandemic.He said 32 national highways and three expressways criss-crossed the state and people had to pay toll even when going from one district to another.Since Haryana did not produce any minerals and raw material for various products were being brought from other states, the hike would hit road traffic hard, making the state’s products non-competitive in domestic and international markets, he alleged.All major trade and commercial establishments were closed and over 5.5 lakh migrants had left the state, delivering a severe blow to the state’s economy, he said. He questioned the logic behind the hike in toll in recession-hit times.Questioning the silence of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on the issue, Surjewala demanded immediate rollback of the toll hike.‘Farmers a worried lot’Kaithal: Surjewala on Saturday said farmers were a worried lot as the state government had not made any arrangements for procuring rabi crops so far.He said in view of the Covid lockdown, the Haryana Government should recognise all registered agents as the purchase centres and permit them to buy wheat and mustard at minimum support price. Surjewala was addressing a press conference via videoconferencing from his Kaithal residence.He said he had an extensive discussion with farmers associations, registered agents associations of Haryana and Kaithal labour unions. “It is now clear that the Khattar government has not initiated any steps for timely procurement of wheat and mustard. There is neither any preparation, nor any arrangement for the purchase of rabi crops,” he added.Surjewala said the procurement agencies had not even been allotted the grain markets for the procurement.
06-04-2020||---||Lockdown creates fodder crisis in Karnal gaushalas||Karnal, April 5The ongoing 21-day lockdown has created a fodder crisis in gaushalas and Nandishalas of the city.These gaushalas and nandishalas are dependent on dry fodder from rural areas as well as on donations by devotees. However, people are unable to visit these places due to the lockdown, leading to a crisis. Two gaushalas and a Nandishala are facing acute shortage of dry fodder.Notably, there are three gaushalas in the city, including one of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) and a Nandishala, which is also run by the KMC.“Due to the lockdown, we are not getting dry fodder that used to come from villages. We are also not getting donations due to which we are facing problems to feed around 850 cows in gaudham and around 300 oxen in Nandishala,” said Krishan Garg, former senior deputy mayor, who takes care of gaudham and nandishala near Phoosgarh.He demanded the authorities to allow the fodder vehicles to ply for gaushalas and also develop a mechanism so that people could give donations.A similar problem is being faced by Shri Radha Krishan Gaushala Arjun Gate in the city. Krishan Lal Taneja, president of the Gaushala Samiti, said they had 1,070 cows but were not getting dry fodder as the administration was not allowing the vehicles. “Due to the lockdown, we are not getting donations as well,” he added.He said there were around 25 gaushalas in the district and similar problems were being faced by most of them. He demanded the authorities to provide fodder to financially weak gaushalas.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said he had directed the Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, to look into the matter so that the gaushalas would not face any problem.
06-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Rs 250-cr farm implements yet to be dispatched||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 5With the enforcement of the 21-day lockdown to curtail Covid pandemic, the agricultural implements manufacturing industry of Karnal has received a major setback as implements of around Rs 250 crore are stuck in around 100 industries in the district. These implements were to be sent across various parts of Haryana, UP, Rajasthan, Bihar, Orissa, MP, Andhra Pradesh and other states. Most of the implements are related to wheat harvesting.Industrialists, who supply agricultural implements to more than 115 countries of the world, alleged that even after exemption of intra and inter-state movement of harvesting and sowing machinery, they were not able to dispatch the harvest machinery due to restrictions on movement of local labour and vehicles. They also said the authorities were not issuing clear guidelines about the operation of the industry.The entrepreneurs are worried about their recurring expenses such as wages and salaries to staff, electricity, fixed charges and bank interest. They demanded the government to waive interest on cash credit limit, payment of wages to workforce during lockdown period from ESI account, capping on salary to Rs 30,000 per month to employees during the lockdown period and waive off fixed electricity charges for next three months.“An order of around Rs 60 crore was to be dispatched in March from my industry, but it could not happen due to lockdown. Due to non-availability of labour and no guidelines on industry operations and movement of vehicles, I am not able to dispatch it. This has resulted in loss as most of the implements, including combine harvesters are related to wheat harvesting. After the season, no buyer will purchase these implements,” said Ravi Beri, senior vice-president, Karnal Agricultural Implement Manufacturers Association (KAIMA). “We request the government to allow the industry to operate smoothly. We will follow the protocol fixed by the government for employees,” he added.“Food is the basic requirement and agricultural produce cannot come in market and reach people, unless proper harvesting and sowing implements are provided to the farming community,” said Som Sachdeva, KAIMA adviser.Bhavuk Mehta, general secretary of the KAIMA, requested the government to fulfil their demands.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “The agriculture implements industry has a workforce of around 5,000 persons in Karnal. Allowing them outrightly will affect the implementation of lockdown. We will permit them on the recommendation of GM, District Industry Centre.”
06-04-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Babus flag equipment, ventilator shortage in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5Haryana IAS officers have highlighted non-availability of personal protection equipment (PPEs) and ventilators and influx of outsiders in Mewat as major challenges before the state in their feedback on the National Preparedness Survey on Covid-19. Doctors too had earlier raised concerns over shortage of protective equipment.The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DAPRG) had conducted a national survey based on responses from IAS officers. Civil servants, including Deputy Commissioners and those from 2014–2018 batches, voluntarily participated in the survey. The online feedback was collected from March 25 to March 30 where 410 officers registered, but only 266 complete feedback forms reached — nine from Haryana, five from Himachal Pradesh, four from Punjab and one from Chandigarh. The survey was released on April 2.In Nuh, which has seen highest influx of returnees from the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation, it has been pointed out that “many people are coming in the district from different areas of India and it is difficult to track and check all of them”.In Jhajjar, labour movement in rural areas due to the harvesting season has been listed as a challenge. The most serious gap in the district is in isolation and testing mechanism due to lack of health infrastructure and testing facilities.In Karnal, non-availability of PPEs for doctors and health workers is highlighted along with shortage of N95 masks and ventilators. In Jind too, inadequate supply of PPEs is listed. Similar is the situation in Bhiwani, where lack of health personnel and testing criteria has been highlighted.On shortage of protective equipment for health professionals, Additional Chief Secretary Health Rajeev Arora said that the state has 19,000 PPE kits, 90,000 N95 masks and 10 lakh triple ply masks. About 2.5 lakh PPE kits and 1.45 lakh N95 masks have also been ordered. “At present, we have 1,282 ventilators and 210 more have been ordered,” said Arora. Currently, the state has just 4.4 ventilators per lakh population.He said PPEs were given as per protocol and also testing would be carried out as per the laid down criteria. The state has tested 1,323 samples for Covid till the afternoon of April 3.In Himachal Pradesh’s Chamba, it was pointed out that tracking followed by effective testing was not possible due to shortage of testing kits and other infrastructure. Non-compliance by people to national lockdown is listed as a hindrance. In Hamirpur, inability to stop panic movement of people from place of work to their village locations is highlighted.2.5 lakh kits awaited
06-04-2020||---||Everyone need not wear PPE, says Harsh Vardhan||Jhajjar, April 5Claiming that the AIIMS has enough personal protective equipment (PPE), Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said everyone need not wear PPE, but there should be no compromise on protection at the quarantine centre. There is a guideline for everything. There is no need for everyone to use a PPE while doing routine work at hospitals.Vardhan was talking to doctors during his visit to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) at Badhsa village here on Sunday. The NCI run by the AIIMS, Delhi, is being used to treat Covid positive patients who are moderate or severely ill. A total 121 out of 162 Covid suspected/patients kept under isolation in the NCI are Covid positive.The minister also described lockdown and social distancing as a social vaccine against Covid and exhorted people to follow the guidelines of lockdown and maintain social distancing to combat the spread of Covid pandemic.“Scientists across the globe are carrying out research activities to develop a Covid vaccine and Indian researchers too have joined them but people should use social distancing vaccine till the vaccine is not available. The vaccine will protect individuals but the success of lockdown and social distancing will protect the entire society,” said Harsh Vardhan.He said exclusive medical facilities had been made available at the NCI to treat 310 critical patients. One floor of the NCI’s main building had been dedicated to doctors, nurses and other staff of the institute. Besides, the facility of 40 isolation beds and 25 ICU beds had also been provided at its main hospital. The condition of all suspected and confirmed patients admitted in the NCI was stable, he added.The minister claimed that ideal and scientific mode was being used to take care of patients at the NCI. Though doctors take the round of isolation ward twice in a day, patients can also talk to doctors and nursing staff through cell phone in case of any issue. The wi-fi facility had been provided to patients and food was also being served properly, he added.Earlier, Harsh Vardhan not only took stock of medical facilities and other arrangement made to treat Covid patients but also interacted with two patients through video call to receive feedback about the arrangements.
06-04-2020||---||Karnal farmer dies, Covid toll three||Chandigarh, April 5A 58-year-old farmer from a village in Karnal died of coronavirus at PGI-Chandigarh on Sunday, taking the death toll in the state to three. Six more persons tested positive for coronavirus in Nuh and Gurugram districts, taking the number of cases in the state to 76, the Health Department said.Health Minister Anil Vij said 29 Tablighi Jamaat members were among those who have tested positive for coronavirus in the state so far. “We believe we have tracked all of them. But still if a few of them are hiding, they should themselves report to the concerned district administration so that they can be quarantined. However, if they fail to do so over the next couple of days, then strict action as per law will be taken against them.”The deceased farmer, a resident of Raisin village in Karnal, was undergoing treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh, since April 1 and diagnosed as Covid positive on April 2.He was a diabetic and suffered from other ailments also. Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav, said if the family agreed to an electric cremation, it would be done in Chandigarh otherwise the body would be brought to Karnal.Of the six new cases, five have been reported from Nuh. Four are traveling Tablighis Jamaatis evacuated from various mosques in Mewat while one is a truck driver who used to frequent the Mewat-Gujarat route. Heath authorities are reviewing his contact trail.The sixth case is from Gurugram, the father of an Agra doctor admitted to Medanta. The father-son doctor duo was rushed to Medanta with Covid-like symptoms and their samples were sent for testing on Saturday. Local authorities have updated the Agra health authorities for contact tracing.CS for micro-level planningChief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora held a meeting of the Crisis Coordination Committee of Nodal Officers, including District Deputy Commissioners, through videoconferencing here.She directed the Deputy Commissioners to prepare and implement plans at the micro-level to prevent Covid outbreak in their districts. Besides, she said special care must be taken of patients with respiratory ailments and they should be hospitalised if they have any problem.5 private labs get nod for testsThe Chief Secretary said apart from two government testing laboratories, five private labs of Gurugram have been authorised by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to examine samples of patients. Collection centres have been set up in each district from where samples can be brought to the laboratories. She directed that a Supervisory Officer be deployed to monitor testing laboratories so accurate data could be collected.1.5L N95 masks availableThe Chief Secretary said the government has placed orders for additional thermal scanners and PPE kits and has about 1.5 lakh N95 masks. She said the government was considering converting Panchkula Civil Hospital, Mulana hospital and 550-bed Agroha hospital into Covid hospitals.Maximum testing in Gurugram Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Rajeev Arora said Gurugram was carrying out maximum laboratory tests of 400 persons per million, which will be increased to 1,000 per million in the coming days.Similarly, Nuh and Palwal have the capacity of testing 300 persons per million which will also be increased by the ratio of 500 per million. At the same time, in Faridabad and Panipat, the facility of testing will be provided at the ratio of 1,000 persons per million.Focus on increasing testingRajeev Arora said presently Covid samples were being tested at PGIMS-Rohtak and Bhagat Phool Singh Government Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, and two private laboratories at Gurugram, which started testing on Saturday. Rajeev Arora said that the government was in talks with a testing laboratory in Mohali and a memorandum of understanding will be inked soon to increase testing.
06-04-2020||Nitish Sharma||Low-cost ventilator ready, inventor invites companies||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, April 5Dr Lalit Mohan Saini, head of the electrical engineering department of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) in Kurukshetra, has developed a ventilator costing around Rs 3,500.He has invited companies to use his technology and sell ventilators on no-profit-no-loss basis. His former student Sorabh Tayagi and Dr Mathew of the PGI in Chandigarh have also worked on the project.Dr Lalit Mohan Saini, HOD, NIT, KurukshetraThe number of breaths per minute and volume of air can be set easily by the doctor using this machine. It works in case of electricity disruption as a 7AH battery has been installed for power back-up.“The machine provides artificial air to a patient who is unable to breathe. Doctors shared difficulties due to lack of ventilators during a workshop at the PGI. Taking a cue, we decided to develop a low-cost machine.” Dr Saini said.“The machine was developed some time ago. We have now decided to make it public as the world is facing shortage of ventilators due to the Covid pandemic. An application for patent in the name of the Kurukshetra NIT was filed on March 31. We have yet to be granted the patent,” he said.“Our aim is to provide a low-cost machine to the people and help in eliminating shortage of ventilators. Dr Mathew, who is the co-inventor, has tested this machine. Our efforts have been appreciated by doctors at the PGI,” he stated.“The number of breaths per minute and volume of air can be set easily by the doctor using this machine. It works in case of electricity disruption as a 7AH battery has been installed for power back-up,” said Dr Saini. He already had a patent on theft prevention on electricity lines.“It is our duty to work for society. If we use local equipment, service will be easily available and we can make modifications. We are ready to give our product to any company without fee. Since we need the machine in the market immediately, we will prefer any established company to come forward,” Dr Saini added.
