06-10-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram: Three shooters of Sube Gujjar’s gang, 2 cops critically injured in encounter||Three shooters of notorious gangster Sube Gujjar’s gang and two cops were critically injured after an encounter near Saapki Nangli village in Sohna late Tuesday evening.While reports of death of the trio are doing rounds, police have officially confirmed “critical status”.They are being treated in Sohna hospital. The police have recovered illegal weapons from the possession of the accused. An FIR has been registered at Sohna City police station.The encounter happened around 7 pm when the accused were headed to a gang war allegedly to eliminate a local wrestler.Getting a tip off, Sub Inspector Raj Kumar, head of crime unit, sector 39 chased them and they started firing which was returned by police. The cops were wearing bullet proof jackets. In the cross firing the shooters, Rajesh Fauji, Kamal alias Kamli, and Ludhiana resident Aman were hit.Two head constables Sunil and Abhilash too were injured.“The trio are wanted for many heinous crimes and crime unit has done a great job. A reward of Rs 2 lakh has been announced for the team. The arrested miscreants were active in the area and were regularly extorting money in name of Gujjar,” said CP KK Rao.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-three-shooters-of-sube-gujjars-gang-2-cops-critically-injured-in-encounter-151908
06-10-2020||Patiala||Cong tractor rally: Haryana authorities allow Rahul Gandhi, some party leaders to enter state||Amid high-drama at Haryana’s border with Punjab during Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s rally against farm laws, he was allowed to enter the state along with a few selective leaders and supporters by the authorities on Tuesday.Earlier, Youth Congress leaders and workers from Punjab Congress were stopped from entering Haryana.Barricades and nakas laid by Haryana Police were thrown by Congress workers who were ahead of the Rahul Gandhi-led tractor procession.Haryana Police made fervent appeals to Congress workers not to break law even as hundreds threw the barricades in a flowing choe near the passage.After winding up his last rally at Sanaur in Patiala, Gandhi drove a tractor to reach Haryana border on the concluding day of his “Kheti Bachao Yatra”.They have stopped us on a bridge on the Haryana border. I’m not moving and am happy to wait here. 1 hour, 5 hours, 24 hours, 100 hours, 1000 hours or 5000 hours. pic.twitter.com/b9IjBSe7BgHe was accompanied on the tractor by Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and senior party leader Harish Rawat.A number of Congress workers were accompanying Gandhi from Patiala district, but the procession was stopped on the highway near Teokar village on Pehowa border for an hour.Before Gandhi arrived at the Punjab-Haryana border, senior Haryana police officials at the spot told reporters that they would not allow more than 100 people to gather at one place as per the guidelines in place due to the COVID-19 restrictions.Gandhi and a few Congress leaders were later allowed to enter Haryana where the former Congress chief has a couple of programmes scheduled.On Haryana side, state Congress chief Kumari Selja, senior leaders Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Kiran Choudhary, Ajay Singh Yadav and party’s Haryana affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal were present.                   Ahead of Gandhi’s tractor rally in Haryana, the BJP-led government on Monday had said the Congress leader can bring a few people in the state but it will not permit a big crowd from Punjab which can “disturb” the atmosphere.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said Gandhi has the right to put forth his views but “if he comes with a big procession from Punjab, we won’t allow it”.Haryana’s Home Minister Anil Vij had said if Gandhi comes with “a big crowd from Punjab to disturb Haryana’s atmosphere, then we will not permit it. We are not going to allow that”. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-tractor-rally-haryana-authorities-allow-rahul-gandhi-some-party-leaders-to-enter-state-151853
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala tests positive for coronavirus||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.He has been isolated at home.सभी साथियों के लिए सूचना - मेरी Covid-19 की रिपोर्ट positive आई है। मेरा स्वास्थ्य ठीक है। आग्रह है कि बीते कुछ दिनों में मेरे संपर्क में आए लोग अपना ध्यान रखें और डॉक्टर सलाह दें तो टेस्ट करवाएं। pic.twitter.com/whuguUR3bp  Chautala announced the development on Twitter and said that he was asymptomatic. He urged those who had come in contact with him in the past week to get tested for the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-deputy-cm-dushyant-chautala-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-151848
06-10-2020||Deepender Deswal||Jind university dean suspended after row over appointments||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 6Chaudhary Ranbir Singh University (CRSU) in Jind, on Tuesday, suspended the Dean of the Physical Education Department, Prof Sandeep Berwal, who is sitting on dharna alleging irregularities in recruitment in the university.Vice Chancellor Prof RB Solanki issued the suspension order following a recommendation by the executive council (EC). The university has also banned the entry of the suspended dean in the administrative block and academic block and directed him to get prior permission for leaving the place of posting.On Sunday, high drama took place during the selection committee meeting for selection of Assistant Professors and Associate Professor in the physical education department. Berwal alleged that the recruitment process was meaningless as appointments were fixed. He maintained that when he tried to show dissent, he was misbehaved and manhandled in the meeting.Berwal also hit out at the role of the Vice Chancellor and alleged that his appointment, who joined the university on deputation from a college in Delhi, was illegal as he was not eligible for the deputation due to age bar. He demanded removal of the VC and setting up of judicial inquiry into his appointment.The Vice Chancellor, however, said the dean had misbehaved with other members of the selection committee.The members have submitted a complaint, after which the EC recommended his suspension. The EC has also approved the constitution of the high-power committee to inquire into the whole matter.Meanwhile, a retired registrar of the university, Rajbir Mor, has also submitted a representation to the Chief Secretary, Haryana, alleging that since the VC had less than four months in superannuation and thus, he should not be allowed to carry out the recruitments.Mor alleged that even the deputation of Dr RS Solanki from a college in Delhi to the university and subsequent elevation to the post of vice chancellor is under scanner as he had concealed certain facts in the process. The VC, however, added that he had replied to the charges levelled by the former registrar to the concerned authorities and denied the allegations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jind-university-dean-suspended-after-row-over-appointments-151845
06-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Private school teachers from Rewari, Mahendragarh visit Rajasthan for free COVID test||Tribune News ServiceRewari, October 5Teachers of private schools in Rewari and Mahendragarh districts have found a way to evade the fee slapped by the health authorities for COVID test for non-medical reasons.They are getting the test done from various healthcare institutions in the neighbouring Alwar district of Rajasthan, where the test is for free.Sources say the teachers working in Rewari are approaching the health centre in Bhiwadi town while those of Mahendragarh are visiting Behror town for a COVID test. On getting a negative report, they are submitting it to their school concerned for re-joining schools.COVID test is mandatory for teachers to check the spread of pandemic but the Haryana government has fixed Rs 1,200 for RT-PCR and Rs 650 for rapid antigen test for COVID for those who wish to get themselves tested for non-medical reasons.“I went to the Narnaul Civil Hospital to get my COVID test done before re-joining school but the official on duty asked me to pay the fee for the RT-PCR test, referring to the government order. I was not aware of the orders and came back. Later, a teacher, who had got him tested in Behror for free, suggested me to go there,” said a private school teacher in Mahendragarh.“The next day I tested negative and joined the school. Many other teachers are also following the suit,” he added.Another teacher from Rewari said they could not pay the hefty fee for the test, hence many teachers got themselves tested from Bhiwadi while several others got their test done while standing in the queue of suspected patients of COVID.“It is unfortunate that Haryana teachers have to go to other states to get themselves tested for free. The government must withdraw the order of charging a fee for a COVID test done for non-medical purposes,” said Anil Kaushik, chief, Progressive Private Schools Association, Haryana.Dr Adarsh Aggarwal, COVID in charge, Government Hospital, Behror, said: “We do COVID tests for free. People from the surrounding areas are coming to the hospital for the test.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-school-teachers-from-rewari-mahendragarh-visit-rajasthan-for-free-covid-test-151807
06-10-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||23 from first Super-100 batch qualify for IITs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5In a major success for the Super-100 programme, 23 students qualified for IITs on Monday, 17 of them being from disadvantaged sections.Kajal of Indachhoi village in Fatehabad secured 293rd rank in the OBC category. Daughter of a marginal farmer, she wants to pursue computer science. “We never had resources to take coaching for IIT. Super-100 programme came as blessing for me,” she said.21 out of 48 qualify in RewariOf the 48 students in Rewari, 21 qualified for IITs. Two of the 48 students at the Panchkula centre qualified. The others would join NITs and other engineering institutes.Praveen, son of a marginal farmer of Munnawali village in Sirsa, secured 434th rank in the SC category. “Before Super-100 programme, I did not know about IIT. I plan to pursue computer science or civil engineering. After that, I will prepare for the civil services. My parents and teachers are behind my success,” he said.Before Super-100 programme, I did not know about IIT. I plan to pursue computer science or civil engineering. — Praveen, SirsaA Dalit student hailing from Muvanpura village in Hisar, Sahil secured 871st rank in the SC category. “I want to pursue computer science. I am thankful to those who told me about the Super-100 programme,” he said. He wants to prepare for civil services after engineering.I want to pursue computer science. I am thankful to those who told me about the Super-100 programme. — Sahil, Hisar“It is a dream coming true. Students from underprivileged sections are making inroads into IITs,” said Mahavir Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, School Education. The government had rolled out the programme in 2018.“We conduct an entrance test for admission to the Super-100 programme and the cutoff is 80 per cent. We train them in Rewari and Panchkula. This year, we will train 750 students, with board and lodging facility for 300,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/23-from-first-super-100-batch-qualify-for-iits-151542
06-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram boy secures 5th rank in JEE (Advanced)||City resident Keshav Aggarwal secured fifth rank in the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced), the result of which was declared on Monday. He secured 329 marks out of 396. Keshav had secured 181st rank in the JEE (Main). He said, “I started preparing for the JEE from Class IX. Initially, I used to study for four hours daily and later I stretched it 10 to 12 hours.”  The mantra for success, according to him, is to focus on mock tests. “Practise hard and be consistent,” Keshav said. His father Naveen Kumar Aggarwal is an engineer and mother Meenu Aggarwal a homemaker. Keshav aspires to follow in his father’s footsteps. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-boy-secures-5th-rank-in-jee-advanced-151543
06-10-2020||---||21 die; 1,031 new cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 5With 1,031 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 1,34,909 on Monday. The state reported 21 more deaths, taking the toll to 1,491.Gurugram reported the maximum of 206 cases, followed by Faridabad (129), Hisar (75), Sirsa (72) and Rewari (63).Ambala reported five deaths, Jind four, Sonepat, Panipat, Karnal, Yamunanagar and Fatehabad two each and Faridabad and Jhajjar one death each.Dengue, malaria alert in Rohtak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/21-die-1-031-new-cases-in-haryana-151544
06-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC: Act against encroachers of panchayat, common land||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5Noticing that 3,569 acres was involved in cases where eviction orders passed had attained finality but possession was not taken back from the evicted persons, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed Haryana to initiate criminal proceedings against persons in unauthorised occupation of panchayat, shamlat deh and common land.‘Don’t encroach’The Bench also directed all panchayats in the state to ensure that the gram panchayat land was not encroached upon.Taking up a petition by Dharambir Sharma, the Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu asserted the state machinery was required to prevent encroachment and unauthorised occupation of panchayat, shamlat deh and common land.The Bench asserted: “The government has been issuing directions from time to time, but the revenue agencies have failed to implement those. The divisional commissioners must ensure due implementation of the orders issued by the government, more particularly concerning unauthorised occupation of panchayat, shamlat deh and common land.”The Bench also directed all panchayats in the state to ensure that the gram panchayat land was not encroached upon. “If encroached upon, steps be taken for eviction of illegal/unauthorised occupants immediately,” the Bench asserted.Expressing surprise that the state government had not handed over the possession of land to gram panchayats concerned even though the eviction orders passed had attaining finality, the Bench set three-month deadline for the government for the purpose.The Bench also directed all assistant collectors first grade in Haryana to decide within three months pending eviction proceedings regarding panchayat, shamlat deh and common land. The direction came after the Bench observed 11,669 eviction petitions involving more than 9,855 acres were pending before the assistant collectors till December last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-act-against-encroachers-of-panchayat-common-land-151545
06-10-2020||---||UP boy back with family after 2 years||Jhajjar, October 5The anti-human trafficking branch of the state crime bureau on Monday reunited an eight-year-old boy, identified as Anuj, with his family after two years.The Bahadurgarh police found the boy roaming in July, 2018, and sent him to a children’s home as he was unable to tell the name of his parents and village.“One day, I visited the children’s home and got information about Anuj, who did not remember the name of his parents and native village but he somehow told a village’s name in Hardoi district of Uttar Pradesh. We started searching his parents on the basis of this information and finally traced them with the help of social media,” said ASI Rajesh of the crime bureau.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/up-boy-back-with-family-after-2-years-151546
06-10-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||With 50 kids, Faridabad primary school has bigger campus than sr sec||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 5Call it negligence or mismanagement, one of the government primary schools here is occupying a bigger plot than a government senior secondary school.Sources claim that the Government Primary School in Sector 9, which has just 50 students on roll, is spread on around two acres, while the Senior Secondary School in neighbouring Sector 10 with a strength of 150 students is built on just half an acre.There is no condition on land sizeThough a primary school can have two acres or more area for future upgrade, there is no condition for the land size occupied by a government senior secondary school. — Satender Kaur, DEO“According to norms, the senior secondary school, which has higher number of students, staff and infrastructure, is required to have bigger premises than a primary one. But, the case is just the opposite here,’’ said an official on the condition of anonymity.Claiming that no audit of the alleged discrimination in plot size and infrastructure of schools has been done over the years, an employee on the condition of anonymity said there were atleast a dozen senior secondary schools facing such a problem.Seeking a survey and audit of the available infrastructure and facilities in the government schools, Kailash Sharma from Abhibhawak Ekta Manch, Faridabad, (an association of parents) said it was one of the many reasons parents preferred private schools despite those charging higher fees.Claiming that the plot size was an important criterion for providing affiliation to private schools, he said how government schools here were evading this condition.Chatar Singh, president, Haryana Primary Schools Teachers’ Association, alleged that several government primary schools in the district were operating from very small-sized plots or buildings, especially in the slum clusters. He said these schools should be shifted to spacious premises so that proper sports facilities were provided to students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-50-kids-faridabad-primary-school-has-bigger-campus-than-sr-sec-151547
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Decks cleared for redrawing administrative map of Haryana||Decks have been cleared for redrawing Haryana’s administrative map ahead of elections to the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) early next year.In fact, a recent order of the state government made it clear that the administrative units, including subdivisions, tehsils and blocks, could be redrawn till December 31, 2020. The order said the cap on the reorganisation of the administrative units would only be applicable with effect from December 31 till the completion of the Census 2021 operations, which meant that the state government had nearly three months to complete the exercise. In the wake of demand from a section of society, especially residents of Gohana and Hansi for district status, the state government last month gave six-month extension to a three-member ministerial committee led by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala till January 9, 2021. The panel was mandated to recommend reorganisation of subdivisions, tehsils, sub-tehsils and blocks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/decks-cleared-for-redrawing-administrative-map-of-haryana-151548
06-10-2020||---||Sonepat boy placed ninth||Panipat, October 5 Harshwardhan Aggarwal of Sonepat topped in the IIT Roorkee zone and bagged ninth rank in the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced), the result of which was declared on Monday. He aspired to join IIT-Bombay and had started preparation when in Class X. He did not waste time on social media during his preparation and avoided smartphones. He studied for 12 hours a day to achieve his goal. He had represented the country in the 50th Olympiad held in Israel.  Mahaveer Prasaad Aggarwal, father of Harshwardhan, who is Deputy General Manager in BSNL and Seema Devi, his mother, is a professor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-boy-placed-ninth-151549
06-10-2020||Karnal||PR-14 paddy variety fetches more  than MSP in Karnal mandis||Paddy variety PR-14 has brought some cheer for farmers as it is fetching good price in mandis of the district.It is being procured at Rs 1,900-2,000 per quintal, while the MSP is Rs 1,888. Farmers are happy that the variety may cover their losses to some extent. “I had brought PR-14 variety of 4 acres in the Karnal mandi and it was sold at Rs 2,000 per quintal on Monday, while earlier my PR-26 variety was procured at Rs 1,460 last week, below the MSP. PR-14 variety will help me recover losses,” said Gurdeep Chawla, a farmer of Nagla village. He said he got an average yield of 30 quintal this time.Manjeet Singh of Newal village was also elated as his PR-14 variety was procured at Rs 1,985. “I have brought paddy of seven acres and had hoped for a good price.”Asked about the reason for the good price, an arhtiya said the size of the grain was thin and strong and it could be mixed with other export-quality paddy. However, one of the rice millers denied the theory of mixing it with the export quality and said it had the quality of less breakage grain during processing, due to which it was procured on price above the MSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pr-14-paddy-variety-fetches-more-than-msp-in-karnal-mandis-151550
06-10-2020||Sushil Manav||Excise Dept not doing enough as liquor smuggling continues||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5Even as smuggling of liquor from Haryana goes unabated, the Excise and Taxation Department seems to be doing little to plug trafficking, which is causing huge loss of revenue to the state.Instead, the department seems to be passing the buck, with the police claiming to have unearthed most of the cases which have come to the fore in the recent past.No notice receivedHad there been any irregularity, we would have received a notice. We have not received any notice from the Excise and Taxation Department so far. It has shut one bottling hall unofficially without assigning any reason. — Shiv Kumar Sinha, executive vice-prez (sales & marketing), NV DistilleryThe unearthing of the liquor scam in Haryana started with the recovery of huge stocks in Sonepat and Panipat during the lockdown. It became murkier with raids at two godowns in Ambala and the arrest of two persons in Greater Noida, who were carrying IMFL from Ambala to West Bengal. Interestingly, liquor made per bottled by NV Distillery, having units in Ambala, Rajpura and some other places, was involved in all these cases.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, in charge of Excise and Taxation, said merely smuggling of liquor did not mean loss of revenue to the state as one had to check whether excise duty had been paid on the liquor being smuggled.He further said a police Gypsy was stationed outside every distillery and the police must know how liquor, if any, was being dispatched without payment of excise duty.When reminded that an official of the Excise and Taxation Department was also stationed, the Deputy CM said they were low-rung officials.Asked whether any action was taken against NV Distillery since its name appeared in almost every case of smuggling and at least 10 FIRs, mentioned in the report of the SET headed by IAS officer TC Gupta, Dushyant said the FIRs were about the Rajpura distillery and NV Distillery had multiple branches.“We carry out inspection of distilleries periodically,” he added. Asked whether any inspection was carried out at NV Distillery in Ambala in the recent past and the outcome thereof, he said “irregularities” were found during a recent inspection and senior officers of the department were looking into these.Home Minister Anil Vij said the police were doing their duty of catching smugglers and would continue to do so. He asserted that checking dispatch of liquor from the distillery without payment of excise duty was the duty of the Excise and Taxation Department.“The police are not even allowed to enter distilleries,” he said, rubbishing the suggestion that a police Gypsy was stationed outside every distillery. “The police unearthed smuggling of liquor at Kharkhoda in Sonepat and Samalkha in Panipat. They have now recovered a huge cache of illicit liquor in Ambala and 17 persons have been arrested so far,” he said.The Panipat police had arrested former MLA and JJP leader Satinder Rana in connection with the Samalkha case. Bhupinder Dahiya, a liquor kingpin, was among those arrested in connection with the Kharkhoda case.Shiv Kumar Sinha, executive vice-president (sales and marketing), NV Distillery, claimed that not a single irregularity has been found in their unit during any inspection. “Had there been any irregularity, we would have received a notice. We’ve not received any notice from the Excise and Taxation Department so far. It has shut one bottling hall unofficially without assigning any reason.”Sinha claimed that since NV Distillery was a reputed firm, with some of its products being exported to the USA, Singapore and Hong Kong, illicit liquor manufacturers tended to use its name on their items. Asked about the appearance of the distillery’s name in 10 FIRs mentioned in the SET report, Sinha said he was not aware of any such FIR. Shekhar Vidyarthi, Exciseand Taxation Commissioner, Haryana, didn’t respond to calls and messages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/excise-dept-not-doing-enough-as-liquor-smuggling-continues-151551
06-10-2020||---||Illicit booze  seized in Faridabad, five arrested||Faridabad, October 5In a joint operation by the police and Excise and Taxation Department, a team seized 50 cartons of illicit countrymade liquor from a workshop near Seekri village in the district on Monday.Five persons were arrested and drums and a car loaded with liquor recovered from the spot. A police spokesperson said the illegal factory was operational in a tin shed on the Shahpur Khurd road.It was claimed that the countrymade liquor was being manufactured using chemicals developed locally and no neutral alcohol or spirit was being used.The accused have been identified as Sunny, Rajnish, Saurav and Lakheram, hailing from Samastipur in Bihar, and Sandeep of Gohana in Sonepat district. The 50 cartons bore the mark ‘for sale in Uttar Pradesh’.The accused had reportedly shifted to this location about a week back. The police said a case was registered and they were probing all angles. The car bore an Uttar Pradesh registration number.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illicit-booze-seized-in-faridabad-five-arrested-151552
06-10-2020||Karnal||Check moisture meters every week, Khattar tells officials||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today directed the market committee secretary to get the calibration of moisture meters done every Sunday to ensure transparency in checking of moisture in grains.Rs 1,300 cr eastern bypass for KarnalThe NHAI has given the final nod for Rs1,300-crore projectThe length of the bypass will be 35 km and it will connect Kutel with Jhanjhari village“Market committee, agencies and arhtiyas should keep their meters with them during paddy auctioning,” he said during a visit to the Karnal grain market, where he took stock of paddy procurement.He listened to the issues of farmers, rice millers and arhtiyas. Farmers raised the issue that the “Meri Fasal Mera Byora” portal was not working properly and they were not getting messages regarding the timing for bringing their produce to mandis.“Farmers of UP are being stopped by the administration. They should be allowed,” a farmer told the CM, who claimed that the technical flaws of the portal had been resolved now.He assured that the UP farmers would’ve to get themselves registered on the portal from October 5 and they could bring their produce as per the schedule given to them. A farmer of Gharaunda alleged that even though the crop was procured at MSP, farmers were given less payment. The CM asked the farmers to give a written complaint in this regard and urged them not to accept less payment.Khattar got conducted the auctioning of paddy of two farmers and urgedo the farming community to bring their produce after drying it. “The government will procure each and every grain on MSP but the farmers should bring their produce after drying it. They should ensure the moisture in their grains should be up to 17 per cent,” he added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/check-moisture-meters-every-week-khattar-tells-officials-151553
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Rahul’s tractor rally cut short to one day in Haryana||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rally in the state against the three controversial farm laws has been cut short from two days to one.As per the revised schedule, the rally will enter the state from Kaithal’s Devigarh village on Monday afternoon. He will drive to Pehowa, where he will address farmers. Congress in charge for Haryana Vivek Bansal has confirmed this.From Pehowa, Rahul will move towards the Kurukshetra grain market, where he and other party leader will interact with farmers and traders. From there, he would drive back to Delhi, Bansal said.The stopover at Pipli and Nilokheri has been dropped from the schedule announced earlier.“The state party unit requested the government to give approval for two days, but we got the nod for a day only,” Bansal said.On Home Minister Anil Vij’s statement that only 100 persons would be allowed to enter Haryana in view of the Covid pandemic, Bansal refused to comment. “We will cross the bridge when it comes,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rahuls-tractor-rally-cut-short-to-one-day-in-haryana-151554
06-10-2020||---||Outfit protests three farm laws||Ambala, October 5 Activists of the Haryana Democratic Front led by its chief Nirmal Singh protested against the three controversial farm laws near the DC’s office here on Monday. They took out a tractor rally, raised slogans against the Centre and submitted a memorandum to the City Magistrate for the President. “The new farm laws are against the interests of farmers. The laws will dismantle the MSP regime and the mandi system,” Nirmal said. He criticised the UP Government for the Hathras gangrape incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/outfit-protests-three-farm-laws-151555
06-10-2020||Tribune Reporters||3 booked for gangrape||Palwal, October 5The police have registered a case in connection with the gangrape of a 25-year-old woman at a village in the district on Saturday.According to the complaint, Zahir Thekedar called the woman to a house in Hathin on October 3 to provide flowers for a marriage function.The woman was reportedly raped by Zahir, Doni and Minoo. The victim was threatened with dire consequences after the crime.The police launched a manhunt for the culprits after getting medical examination of the victim conducted, said a police official.Teen abducted, rapedGurugram: A 15-year-old girl was abducted and raped when she went to the toilet in a slum of Sector 46 here on Sunday morning. An FIR was registered under the POCSO Act.As per the complaint filed by the victim’s father, a neighbour gagged her, dragged her from the toilet to his house and raped her. “When we started a search for her around half an hour later, she came out of the neighbour’s room crying. He fled the spot after seeing us and we approached the police,” he told the police.The investigating officer said an FIR had been registered in this connection and they were conducting raids to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-booked-for-gangrape-151556
06-10-2020||Tribune Reporters||Nuh police trace stolen truck with five Mercedes in 4 hours||Chandigarh/Gurugram, Oct 5The police have cracked a loot incident within four hours in which a gang stole a container truck with five Mercedes cars worth Rs 3.5 crore at gunpoint in Nuh district. One of accused has been arrested.On Monday, a police spokesperson said the incident took place on the intervening night of October 4 and 5. The container truck driver, Raghvendra of Baliya in Uttar Pradesh, claimed that five armed robbers held him hostage at gunpoint before fleeing with the vehicle.Following a complaint by the driver, a case was registered at the Bichor police station. Special teams led by Inspector Krishan Lal, SHO, Bichor police station, were formed to recover the looted goods and nab the accused.Working on the intelligence and other inputs, the police teams conducted raids and arrested the accused named Razzak, a resident of Nai in Nuh district, from near Sahab Khan petrol pump in Singar early on Monday morning. The team also recovered the truck with Mercedes cars.The arrested accused is being thoroughly interrogated to nab the other gang members. “We have registered a case and recovered the container truck with Mercedes cars following the arrest of one accused. We are trying to nab the other accused, who are still at large. We cracked the case in just four hours,” the SHO said.Meanwhile, DGP Manoj Yadava congratulated the police officials involved in cracking the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nuh-police-trace-stolen-truck-with-five-mercedes-in-4-hours-151557
06-10-2020||Gurugram||Cong workers, cops clash over Hathras in Gurugram||The police and Congress workers led by Capt Ajay Singh Yadav clashed outside Police Lines here on Monday when Opposition members wanted to enter the premises to stage a protest against the Hathras gangrape incident.Law, order poor in UPJhajjar: Congress workers led by Beri MLA Raghuvir Singh Kadian staged a dharna at the Mini-Secretariat here on Monday in protest against the Hathras gangrape incident. “It has not only exposed the poor law and order situation in UP, but also raised a question mark on the functioning of the BJP govt as it stopped Congress leaders from meeting the victim’s family,” he said. TNSThe Congress workers wanted to protest near the Gandhi statue, which is installed in Police Lines.At first, the police refused entry to Congress workers, citing Covid threat. As the protesters did not budge and tried to force their way, they were allegedly roughed up by the police. A few Congress workers sustained minor injuries.“It’s not our fault that the sole statue of Gandhi in the area is in Police Lines. Our workers have sustained injuries. We have approached the Commissioner of Police in this regard,” Capt Yadav said.Not allowed entry, the workers then protested outside Police Lines.“Police Lines is a private residential complex. No gathering is allowed without permission. The police neither attacked nor roughed up Congress workers. They were violating norms,” a senior police official said.Later, the Congress requested the authorities to install the statue outside Police Lines. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-workers-cops-clash-over-hathras-in-gurugram-151558
06-10-2020||The DC and CEO Municipal Corporation Nishant Kumar Yadav deserves congratulations for widening the roads around Dinabandhu Sir Chhoturam Chowk built in a triangular shape on National Highway- 44 to beautify it and restore the figure of the missing Namastey over the years. Citizens have appreciated the name of this Chowk to Deenbandhu Sir Chhoturam Namastey Chowk and thanked the district administration. The residents are also thankful to The Tribune for publishing their problems and helping in solving them. Shakti Singh||Beautification of chowk in Karnal appreciable||Women a neglected lot at KMC officeI went to Karnal MC office for the payment of my house tax. As instructed, I stood in the queue at window No 6 for the payment of my bill. There was only one line for women at window 6. The woman staff there was very inconsiderate and slow at her work. For every woman, the turn came after around 30 minutes. If any woman would present her bill, she would return it and instead ask men to present their bill. I request the authorities to streamline the process for everyone. Alpana Bhargava, KarnalNo option for online plaintPreviously, 'Harsamadhan' was a very helpful and successful platform for lodging an online complaint of any department of the Haryana Government, which was closed for unknown reasons. I tried very hard to find a way to lodge an online complaint at present available at the 'CM Haryana window' but failed. The easiest way found was to lodge a complaint manually at various platforms but how can senior citizen, NRI, and sick citizen avail this facility. I request CM to provide an online complaint portal or add this facility to their existing website. Dolly Moga, FaridabadStubble burning damaging environmentThe innumerable cases of intentional paddy stubble burning by farmers in Haryana being reported in the media on a daily basis is rather grim/sad and shows the apathetic attitude of farmers. It's helpful effects are meagre compared to its harmful effects. The main adverse effects of crop residue burning is the emission of greenhouse gases that contributes to global warming. It has been cited as a major cause of toxic cloud air pollution in Haryana, Punjab and Delhi. The farmer community must introspect.Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/beautification-of-chowk-in-karnal-appreciable-151571
06-10-2020||Rohtak||Badminton tourney at Gandhi School||Online elocution contestHisar: The training and placement cell, GJUS&T, Hisar, organised an online elocution contest on the topic, "my role model historical Indian personality" under its fortnightly virtual speakathon programme. Registrar Dr Avnish Kumar was the chief guest of the event and said students must take all these competitions very seriously. Students need to update themselves according to the scenario. He said communication skill improved the professional communication which enhanced one's inner confidence. He also said "Samvaad" was a very important character in the Indian society. Pratap Singh Malik, director (placement), informed that starting from May 2020, this was the 12th sepakathon event in a series started to enhance the communication skills of students. Rashmi Joshi of BTech (CSE) and Muskan of MBA were first and second, respectively. The third position was shared by Unnati MSc (food tech) and Komal of BTech (CSE). Sangeeta of BSc (Hons) psychology and Vanshika of Mcom secured fourth position while Pranjali of Btech (ECE) was fifth.Webinar on career organisedRohtak: Motivational speaker, assistant professor of journalism and mass communication and director (PR) of Maharshi Dayanand University (Rohtak) Sunit Mukherjee stated that re-learning, re-skilling, re-setting (mindset), re-defining (oneself), as per changing times, coupled with resilience were the survival mantra for career success in the post-Covid world. Developing communication skills, soft skills, technical skills, stoking up creativity and innovation, strengthening critical thinking and problem-solving attitude were the essentials for career road map in these challenging times. He said this during a webinar on career organised by the Students' Welfare Department of Deen Bandhu Sir Chhotu Ram University of Science & Technology (DCRUST), Murthal (Sonepat) on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/badminton-tourney-at-gandhi-school-151573
06-10-2020||Ambala||4 caught over booze scam||18-year-old electrocutedAn 18-year-old was electrocuted while whitewashing a powerhouse when he came in contact with a live power supply line. The deceased was identified as Sahil alias Rahul of Saha. The police booked the owner of the construction company for causing death by negligence. TNSOne held with intoxicantsThe police arrested Rajan of Baldev Nagar, near here, and claimed to have recovered 536 intoxicating capsules from his possession. The accused was sent to two-day police remand by a local court. TNSOne arrested for rapeOne person was booked and arrested for raping a woman in her mid-30s. A local court remanded accused Harwinder Singh in 14-day judicial custody. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-caught-over-booze-scam-151575
06-10-2020||Ambala||Commission agent ends life in Ambala||A commission agent allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his shop in the Ambala City grain market here. He has blamed the Hafed DM for taking the extreme step in his suicide note.The deceased has been identified as Madan Lal Jindal, a resident of Sector 8, Ambala City. In his complaint to the police, Shubham Jindal, victim’s son, said they had a commission agent shop at the Ambala City Grain Market and also a rice mill at Sullar village. “His father was upset for the past three-four days and told us that Hafed DM Vikas Deshwal hasn’t been allowing him to run the rice mill due to some enmity,” he alleged. Ram Kumar, SHO, Ambala City, said “A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/commission-agent-ends-life-in-ambala-151671
06-10-2020||Patiala||Tractor roadshow won’t enter Haryana: Sunil Jakhar||The Congress has said the state leadership has planned a tractor roadshow, involving over 5,000 tractors, till Haryana border and “there are no plans as for now to enter the neighbouring state”.The statement comes hours after Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said it “has no problem if Congress leader Rahul Gandhi enters the state” for his tractor rallies tomorrow, but he wouldn’t be allowed to bring a big crowd to disturb the atmosphere.PPCC president Sunil Jakhar said: “A tractor rally of Congress workers and farmers will follow Rahul Gandhi from Dudhan Sadhan till Haryana border. We have no reason to disturb peace anywhere. The Congress leadership from Haryana will receive Rahul Gandhi and lead the rally there.”Rahul, who is holding tractor rallies in the state against the farm laws, is set to reach Pehowa town in Kurukshetra district of Haryana with his supporters tomorrow, following a public rally at Dudhan Sadhan in Sanaur. — TNSSidelightsGovt machinery busy with Rahul, crime rate up: AAPChandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state general secretary Harchand Singh Bursat on Monday alleged that the entire state government machinery, including the police force, was deployed to facilitate Rahul’s visit to Punjab, leading to a rise in loot, robbery and murder cases in the state. He termed the tractor rallies political theatrics. TNSCall special Assembly session, SAD asks CaptNew Delhi: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh not to sell the interests of Punjabis to corporate houses. He said: “It is better you (CM) call a special session of the state Assembly to repeal the amendments made by you in the APMC Act in 2017 as well as bring in new legislation to make the entire state a single ‘mandi’. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tractor-roadshow-wont-enter-haryana-sunil-jakhar-151634
