06-12-2020||---||BSF jawan, wife, daughter killed in Kaithal road accident||Karnal, December 6A BSF jawan, his wife and daughter were killed as a Canter hit the car in which they were travelling in, near Rajaund in Kaithal district on Sunday.The deceased were identified as Ashish Kumar Anand (35), his wife Soni (34) and daughter Hanshika (5), all residents of Sukhasan village in Madhepura district in Bihar, said Krishan Kumar, investigating officer posted in Rajaund police station.Ashish was posted in Ferozepur and was on leave due to Chhatt Puja. He along with his family members went to his native village and were on way to Ferozepur in a car from Delhi, said the IO.As per the IO, the accident took place at around 12.30 pm when the Canter hit their car from side. They were taken to hospital, where they were declared dead. The driver of the car, Uttam Narang of Kapurthala in Punjab sustained injuries and was taken to PGI, Chandigarh.He said a case has been registered against the unidentified Canter driver under Sections 279, 304A of the IPC.
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana agri minister appeals to farmers to include SYL issue as one of their demands||Haryana Agriculture Minister J P Dalal raised the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue on Sunday, saying he appeals to the farmers protesting against the new farm laws to include its construction as one of their demands during their talks with the Centre.He said that SYL was a “lifeline” for Haryana farmers and its construction was very important for the peasants of the state and he appeals to those participating in and directly or indirectly supporting the farmers’ protest to include the issue in their list of demands.Dalal, while addressing a press conference in Gurugram, said in the farmers’ protests near Delhi borders, “(From Haryana), some people, some Khaps, former chief ministers, INLD leaders and some Independent MLAs are supporting the farmers’ agitation.”“Everyone’s emotion is attached with the farmers, everyone says I am with the farmers. Even I say that I am first a farmer, then a minister,” the BJP MLA from Loharu said.“But the biggest issue for Haryana’s farmers today is water for irrigation. All issues are secondary. In 7-8 south Haryana districts, the situation is such that the water table has gone down alarmingly. In my area Loharu, there is a drinking water problem too in some villages. There is a shortage of irrigation water. When water won’t be there, how will crops grow and if there are no crops who will decide the price?” He appealed to the protesting farmers to include the SYL canal construction issue as one of their demands.“So, I appeal to all those taking part in the stir, directly or indirectly supporting them that in their main demands one line should be added that SYL canal should be constructed in Haryana,” he said.“When negotiations take place on demands and farmer leaders and representatives of the Centre sit and meet, this demand on SYL too should be kept. This issue has been lingering for 40 years. Even though the Supreme Court has ruled in Haryana’s favour, we are yet to get our rightful share,” he said.Haryana has been seeking the completion of the canal to get its share of 3.5 million acre feet of river waters.It has asserted that Punjab should comply with the 2002 and 2004 Supreme Court orders for the completion of the SYL canal for its share of the Ravi-Beas waters.When asked when there was the BJP-led government at the Centre and in Haryana why he did not raise the issue with them, Dalal said his comments made on the SYL issue were in his personal capacity and like everyone making various demands he too has the right to make one.“Like farmers have some demands, some Khaps, INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda too are keeping some demands pertaining to farmers, so I too am saying this in my personal capacity that this one line should be added as SYL is a lifeline of Haryana farmers,” he said.Replying to another question on the SYL issue, he said, “I am not going into what has been done in the past or present, I am only saying that I have a small appeal that one line should be added.”When pointed out how will adding one line by protesting farmers on the SYL issue help when it was the Centre that has to get the canal constructed, he replied, “I am not going into all that. I am saying when there are negotiations being held on farmers issue, this one line should be added, there is no harm...J P Dalal is saying this as a farmer, not as a minister.”Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have stayed put at various Delhi border points for over a week, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.He said in the next round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Centre he was hopeful that a “solution will be found soon and a decision which is agreeable to farmers will be arrived at”.Dalal also said the Modi-led central government and the Khattar-led government in Haryana have taken a number of steps and launched several schemes for the benefit of farmers. — PTI
06-12-2020||Rohtak||Punjab and Haryana school children join farmers' protests at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border||Just like college and university students, school children from Haryana and Punjab join the farmers' protest at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border.They would not only raise slogans, but will also help with 'langar' and other arrangements.“Asi ithe haq len aaye si. Jede Modi sarkaar ne teen kaale kanoon banaye si, oanu rad karaan aaye si. (We have come here to make right, and get three laws cancelled, which have been enacted by Modi government). I, and my uncle have been here for the past three days, and are supporting the Punjab farmers wholeheartedly,” said 13-year-old Harshdeep—a 9th class student from Sahuwala village (Sirsa)—who was spotted helping men with the langar.A 10th class student from Ratia, Fatehabad, Arshdeep, while sitting atop of a mini truck and waving a flag, said his father is a farmer, and he knows the ordeal of the farmers, hence, came here to strengthen the protest.“Come what may, we will force the Modi government to repeal three black laws,” he said, adding, that studying was equally important for him, but it was time to get the three laws cancelled.Another 15-year-old student from Fatehabad, Ramandeep, sitting beside Arshdeep on the truck said, that farmers are food providers, and no one would be able to survive in case the farmers devastate.Harmandeep Singh, a 14-year-old, a student of 9th standard from Sangrur (Punjab), said he was not only attending online classes, but have also brought books with them.“I study two-three hours daily, and devote the rest of the time to the protest. I have been, here, for the past a week and will return tomorrow to take the exams. Many more school children have also arrived here to support the farmers,” he added.Jaskaran Singh, a 13-year-old, a student of 7th standard from Bilaspur in Moga district, Punjab, holding a flag in his hand said, that they would not move back until the three laws were not cancelled.“The government is testing the patience of farmers by giving dates, but we will not bow down,” he added.
06-12-2020||Kurukshetra||Effigies of PM Modi, bizmen Ambani and Adani burnt in Shahabad||
06-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||‘Haryanvi swag’ becomes centre of attraction for farmers at Tikri-Bahdurgarh border||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 6Farmers from Haryana have become a centre of attraction for their style of supporting the ongoing protest at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border.Impressed by the style, farmers from Punjab are not only taking selfies with them but also appreciating their style on social media by giving the title of ‘Haryanvi Swag’.Some of the farmers donning white ‘pagdi’ from Rohtak take out a march while sitting atop a Tata safari car from the Jakhoda bypass to Tikri border while several others could be seen singing popular Haryanvi ‘ragni’ to boost the morale of their Punjab counterparts.“Haryanvis are known for their way of talking and promoting their culture and traditions, hence we are making our big brothers (Punjab farmers) aware of some styles of Haryana by supporting them in different ways. We take out a march of 10 km in morning and evening daily while sitting atop Tata Safari and raising slogans ‘Punjab-Haryana bhaichara jindabad’ and ‘Modi Sarkar murdabad’,” said Virender Hooda from Sanghi village (Rohtak).“Our group of 10 members daily goes to the dhana spot at Tikri border and entertains and encourages the Punjab and Haryana farmers by singing ‘raagnis’ based on the farmers’ plight and patriotism. Though Punjab farmers hardly understand the lyrics but they enjoy the music and style of singing,” said Jitender from Jhajjar, adding that many times Punjab farmers too entertained them by singing in their language.Harsharandeep Singh, a farmer from Moga (Punjab), said they were enthused and motivated by seeing the colours of Haryana being presented by local farmers during the protest.“We are telling our people in Punjab about the support of Haryanvi farmers by posting their pictures at WhatsApp groups, Facebook and Twitter,” he added.
06-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||Two JJP MLAs come out in support of protesting farmers, urge Centre to revoke farm laws||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 6The BJP-JJP government continues to be under pressure as another JJP MLA, Amarjeet Dhanda, has backed the protesting farmers on the issue of three agriculture Acts.The MLA has said he supported farmers on their demands and urged the Centre to withdraw the newly introduced Acts.Earlier, the JJP MLA from Narnaund assembly constituency, Ram Kumar Gautam, supported the farmers who are protesting against the three farm Acts and urged the Central Government to immediately withdraw the laws and to ensure the minimum support prices to the farmers.He said the Prime Minister should accept all demands of the farmers.“While farmers are producing foodgrain to feed the people, their children are protecting the frontiers of the country. The political leaders who are making inappropriate comments about the protesting farmers should be reined in,” he said.He demanded that all political parties in Haryana should also get together and adopt a resolution in this regard to be forwarded to the Central Government to accept the demands of the farmers.When asked whether he has raised the issue at the party level, Gautam said he did not go to the party meetings and also had not talked to the party leaders in this regard.
06-12-2020||---||Doctors informed me I would develop antibodies 14 days after second dose of Covaxin shot: Anil Vij||Chandigarh, December 6Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij on Sunday said the doctors had informed him before giving Covaxine shot that a second dose would be given after 28 days and that he would develop antibodies 14 days after the second dose.In a tweet on Sunday, Vij said despite taking precautions, he got infected with COVID-19.He is being treated in Civil Hospital, Ambala and was feeling better now.Vij was administered COVID-19 vaccine on November 20. He was given a shot of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine Covaxin as a volunteer and the second dose was to be given on December 18.Days after he was administered a COVID vaccine, Anil Vij tested positive for the virus on Saturday.The Union Health Ministry and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which is developing Covaxin in collaboration with the ICMR, said Vij testing positive was not a marker of the vaccine’s efficacy.They said Covaxin, one of India’s two indigenous COVID-19 vaccines, was a two-dose regimen and Vij had received only one shot so far as a trial participant in Haryana.“The antibodies against the infection build up in a human being only after a specific number of days pass after the second dose of the vaccine is taken. Since this is a two-dose vaccine. The minister in question has taken only one dose of the vaccine,” a Health Ministry official said.
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Law student bags  Rhodes scholarship||From playing five national badminton championships in her middle school and high school, Anupriya Dhonchak has made it big. The law student hailing from Haryana has bagged the prestigious Rhodes scholarship, along with another student Misbah Reshi. The two will now be pursuing post-graduate studies at the Oxford University next year. TNSRewariThree juveniles arrested for raping minorThe police on Saturday arrested three juveniles on the charge of raping a 12-year-old girl in HUDA Sector 6 here two days ago. They were produced before a juvenile court which sent them to juvenile home. TNSAmbalaOne held, 50 bottles of liquor seizedThe police have arrested Ram Kumar of Ambala City in a case of liquor smuggling and claimed to have recovered 50 bottles of illicit liquor from his possession here on Saturday. TNS
06-12-2020||Rewari||Cong leader Capt Ajay Yadav joins farmers' protest||State must intervene, says MLAKarnal: Nilokheri MLA and Haryana Forest Development Corporation chairman Dharampal Gonder on Friday urged the state government to raise the issue of the three farm laws with the Centre. He said if the government failed to resolve the issue, he would stand with the farmers. He said he would approach the Chief Minister and would request him to raise the issue with the Centre. He said he would not resign from the post of the chairman but would do so if people ask him resign. The Nilokheri MLA said, “I am hopeful that the issue would be resolved with dialogues by the Prime Minister.”
06-12-2020||---||1 dies, another hurt in separate mishaps||Ambala, December 5A pedestrian was killed while another sustained serious injuries in separate road mishaps reported in the district during the past 24 hours on Saturday. The police have registered separate cases of causing death and injuries by rash and negligent driving against the accused vehicle drivers, said the officials.
06-12-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Rs 165 cr property tax due in Faridabad, 300 get notice||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 5Launching a drive to recover pending arrears of property tax, the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) has issued notices to 300 defaulters. The authorities have warned to seal the properties in case the arrears are not cleared within the given time period. Property tax worth around Rs 165 crore is pending in the city.“With the notices being issued to the defaulters, who owe tax worth Rs 1 lakh or more, the civic body targets to issue such notices to 3,500 defaulters this month, who have failed to clear the dues for the period ranging between two to 10 years,” revealed the officials concerned. “We expect to recover another Rs 15 crore (excluding rebate) as property tax by December 31, which will make the total recovery to Rs 75 crore during the current financial period,” claimed Rattan Lal Rohilla, a senior taxation official of the MCF.ADDITIONAL REBATEThe defaulters include both private and government properties. Adding that December 31 was the last date for availing the 10 per cent rebate on arrears, he said sealing of properties would be done under Section 130 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act if the defaulters fail to clear the pending dues after the notice. He said while the annual property tax assessment was around Rs 62 crore, the recovery had been adversely affected over the years due to many tax payers not clearing their dues, though some of the defaulters had resorted to legal course.He said besides the regular 10 per cent rebate, the consumers had also been offered an additional 1 per cent rebate if the payment is done before the revised deadline of December 31, he said.Rebate up to 25 per cent on the total pending amount for the period between 2010 and 2017 has also been made if the arrear is cleared in one go.The number of property tax units in the city is expected to rise from 2.62 lakh to over five lakh by April next year as a survey to find new tax payers added since 2010 in the city is on. Online submission of tax has been made available on the website: onlineharyana.gov.in, it is added.
06-12-2020||Karnal||Body of kid thrown into canal found||The police have managed to fish out the body of Jhanvi (5), a resident of Nalipar who was allegedly thrown by her father into the augmentation canal along with her two siblings on November 23. The body of Shiv (8), brother of Jhanvi, was fished out on December 1. One child Dev (3) is still missing, said the police. The accused, Sunil Kumar, who was arrested hours after the incident, had allegedly thrown his three children into the augmentation canal near Kulvehri village.— TNS
06-12-2020|| ---||50 cartons of liquor seized in Palwal||Palwal, December 5 The police have seized around 50 cartons of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) allegedly transported in an illegal manner in a truck in Hodal sub-division in the district on Saturday. The driver of the truck managed to flee the spot leaving the vehicle behind. A case has been registered in this connection. Revealing this a police spokesperson said the seizure was made after a police team reached a spot near Ujjina drain, where a traffic jam had erupted due to a wrongly parked truck on main road. He said upon checking the truck which was driverless, the police found that the vehicle contained 50 cartons of illegal IMFL hidden beneath cotton packets.  He said the driver, who was yet to be identified, had escaped after halting the truck on noticing a police barricade ahead. He said a probe was on to find the source and destination of the liquor seized.
06-12-2020||---||Dengue spreads in Ambala district||Ambala, December 5The dreaded dengue fever has also started spreading its tentacles in Ambala district. At least 25 patients have tested positive of the over 100 suspected cases of dengue reported from different parts of the district in the recent past.However, the number of dengue cases could be much more as several patients had reported to private clinics, hospitals and some even went out of the district for treatment.Past recordDeputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma has pulled up the district health and civic authorities to pull all stops to check the spread of dengue in the district.He has asked the district health officials to set up a special fever ward in the civil hospitals of the district and ensure its 24x7 operation. A special laboratory technician for requisite tests of the fever patients was also directed to be made available round-the-clock in the civil hospitals.The DC further instructed to launch a mass public awareness campaign to educate the residents about the symptoms, prevention and cure of dengue fever.He asked the civic officials to launch a special cleanliness drive across the district to check the breeding of mosquitoes and flies. Besides directing the fogging of insecticide, Sharma also instructed the civic authorities to make the cleanliness supervisory staff accountable and responsive to the public. “I will check the work on the ground and anybody found wanting will be dealt with sternly,” he asserted.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh confirmed that few positive dengue cases had been reported in the district during the past month as the winter has set in. He, however, claimed that the situation was completely normal and the district Health Department was fully geared up and equipped as well to deal with any exigency arising out of the situation.The district Health Department has also launched a door-to-door checking drive to check the presence of dengue larva in Ambala.
06-12-2020||Karnal/Hisar||NDRI tops agricultural institutes of country||National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) in Karnal has been ranked first among 72 agricultural universities of India, including state agricultural universities, four deemed universities of ICAR and central universities with agriculture faculty, by the Education Division of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi. The award was declared by the ICAR. Director, NDRI, Dr Manmohan Singh Chauhan said it was a great moment of pride for the institute. He congratulated the staff members for their efforts in achieving this landmark. HAU ranked third  Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, was ranked third ‘Best State Agricultural University’ amongst 64 state and three central agricultural universities of the country. However, the university has been ranked overall sixth. — TNS
06-12-2020||---||More farmers join stir at Singhu border||Panipat, December 5 Farmers huddled in small groups playing cards over a hookah is a common sight at the Singhu border, where thousands of their brethren are protesting against the three controversial farm laws. Determined, they are holding the fort in chilly conditions. The protest entered the ninth day on Saturday as the number of farmers rise by the day. Slowly and slowly, Haryana farmers are joining their counterparts from Punjab. Scores of farmers, young and old, from nearby villages reach the dharna spot in the morning every day and return home in the evening.  Mahender Singh of Safidon said, “I, along with 50 of my village, have reached the dharna spot in solidarity with farmers. The participation of Haryana farmers is rising steadily.” Manjeet of Karnal’s Chaugama village said scores of farmers from Ladwa, Babbain, Indri, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Yamunanagar reached the Singhu border on the morning of November 27 after breaching several barricades on the way. “Punjab farmers had joined us during the Panipat night stay and doubled our strength. The protest gets local support. There is no dearth of essential items at the protest site,” he said, adding food for around 15,000 farmers protesting at the Ghazipur border in UP is sent from the Singhu border.  Farmers of Panipat’s Babbail village brought ration, juice, water, fruits and other items for the protesting farmers. One of them, Mahender Singh Ahlawat, said: “All 36 communities in the village support the protest. Villagers also collected money for the protesters.” Sonepat’s Thana Khurd village resident Jagbir Singh, who brought vegetables and fruits for the farmers, said villagers collected donation and food items for the agitators. “There is anger against the Centre for enacting the farm laws. Every resident of my village wants to contribute to the protest. Donating essential items is one of the ways,” he said. Mehar Singh of Kurukshetra said farmers not only from Punjab and Haryana, but other states such as UP, Rajasthan and MP had reached the border.
06-12-2020||---||Police beef up security at Tikri||Jhajjar, December 5  The Delhi Police have beefed up security at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border apprehending that the law and order situation would go out of control if the meeting between farmer leaders and the Centre remained inconclusive. “On Saturday, the police personnel deployed at the border for the past nine days were replaced with those from the Rapid Action police (RAF). Delhi cops were deployed behind the RAF personnel. Several boulders were placed along the barricades to prevent the entry of farmers,” said Hakam Singh walia, a Punjab farmer.  He is among the eight volunteers discharging duty at the barricade.  Sources say security arrangements have been tightened at other borders and routes leading to the national capital as well. A farmer leader said, “Police arrangements don’t matter to us, as we are capable of breaking the barricades and removing the boulders. We have been staging dharna at the border peacefully. We will not move from here till the time our leadership does not ask to do so. The beefing up of security is an indication that the Centre is afraid of us.” Members of the MDU Alumni Association, meanwhile, reached the dharna spot with a tractor-trailer laden with onions, potatoes and other food items. “I have distributed 50 gunny bags each of onions and potatoes, two quintals of ‘gur’, salt, ‘jeera’, sanitiser and masks among farmers,” said Suresh Rose, one of the members.
06-12-2020||Gurugram||For refusing to treat, three docs booked||The police have booked three doctors of a local private hospital for allegedly wrongly testing an ex-serviceman Covid positive and turning him out of hospital where he was admitted for pre-scheduled treatment.  The case has been registered at Sushant Lok police station following the inquiry report of a committee under Civil Surgeon, Gurugram. According to the complaint filed by SC Vaid (71), an Air Force retiree, on May 18, he was admitted to this hospital for treatment of ‘Ankylosing Spondylitis’ with a pre-approved amount of Rs 2,20,000 from ECHS, Gurgaon.  “I was advised to undergo a Covid test. Past midnight, they told me that I was positive. I was forcibly discharged saying I will not be given treatment there. I insisted on initiation of treatment, but to no avail. Instead, they handed me a bill of Rs 12,000. I refused as mine was a prepaid admission under ECHS, but still, I was made to pay Rs 6,000. They did not provide me my positive report and sent it on WhatsApp later.  On May 21, he was retsted and the result came out negative.  “The hospital’s negligence along with that of the lab left me and my family traumatised. My entire society that was declared a containment zone,” he added.  — OC
06-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Hooda: Why former Industries Minister not named in chargesheet?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda questioned leaving out his Industries Minister as accused in the Manesar land scam during arguments, but the CBI Special Court ruled that the complainant or accused could move the application for it during the trial.The case pertains to purchasing land from farmers at meagre rates in Manesar, Lakhnaula and Naurangpur villages in Gurugram and then earning huge profits by getting it released in connivance with bureaucracy and politicians.As per the CBI, Rs 1,044 crore would have come as profit had the project of IMT Manesar been finalised for which the land was being acquired.Regarding his order, dated August 24, 2007, for dropping land acquisition, which is cited as evidence of criminal conspiracy, Hooda said he could have “simply sat on the file for one day and the result would have been the same” but he acted like a “responsible public servant” and had ordered for a fresh notification.After that, a committee recommended not initiating acquisition in its report on March 26, 2008.The proposal for dropping acquisition proceedings was resubmitted on November 19, 2009, after Hooda’s re-election, with the concurrence of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) and the then Industries Minister approved the same on December 24, 2009.Hooda said he had approved the recommendations of the Industries Minister on January 29, 2010.He argued that “the fact that none of these officers who have approved the recommendations of the committee or the then Industries Minister have been arraigned as accused in the chargesheet filed by the CBI” and his implication “goes to show political vendetta”.He claimed that the registration of the FIR came in the background of the statements made by CM Manohar Lal Khattar and other BJP leaders that he would be sent to jail in land scams.
06-12-2020||---||25 deaths, 1,557 cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 5With 25 deaths and 1,557 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached to 2.42 lakh on Saturday.Eight deaths alone were reported from Hisar, five from Panipat, four from Gurugram, two from Mahendragarh and one each from Palwal, Jind, Yamunanagar, Rohtak, Ambala and Faridabad.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram at 395, followed by 333 from Faridabad, 86 from Rohtak, 85 from Hisar, 79 from Sonepat, 78 from Panchkula and 72 from Rewari.A total of 2,551 got recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of discharged cases to 2.27 lakh.
06-12-2020||---||300 from MP stuck at Palwal expressway||Faridabad/Palwal, Dec 5 A group of 300 farmers hailing from Madhya Pradesh is stuck at a point where the KMP and KGP expressways intersects in Palwal, as the police have stopped them in their tracks.  “The farmers can walk towards Delhi, and not on their tractors. They cannot take their vehicles beyond the expressway,” a police official said, adding MP farmers came on 18 vehicles, including 14 tractor-trolleys. Joga Singh, a farmer from MP, said, “We have no option, but to camp in Palwal. We cannot move without our tractor-trolleys, which is laden with food and clothes.” Meanwhile, another group of farmers from Palwal district on Saturday reached Ajronda Chowk in Faridabad on foot. They will camp there for the night and restart their march towards Delhi on Sunday Farmer leader Rattan Singh said, “We will stage a dharna at the Badarpur border on Sunday.”
06-12-2020||Sushil Manav||Haryana prepares vaccine rollout plan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5The state has prepared a plan for Covid vaccine roll out under which 67 lakh beneficiaries out of the total population of nearly 2.89 crore will be vaccinated in a span of one year.The beneficiaries will include healthcare workers (2.25 to 2.5 lakh), frontline workers (4.5 lakh), people aged above 50 years (58 lakh) and people below the age of 50 years with co-morbidities (2.5 lakh).Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) for Health and Family Welfare Rajeev Arora said to ensure smooth, effective, target based and robust vaccination, digital platform of Co-Win, an extended platform of eVin launched by the Centre recently, will be utilised for the enrolment of beneficiaries.Committees at various levels have been constituted in the state for preparation and implementation of the effective roll out of the vaccine, said Arora.The state steering committee headed by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan has Arora as convenor and it will hold meetings on monthly basis.A state task force headed by Arora with Mission Director of the National Health Mission of the State as convenor will meet every fortnight while the district task force and block-level task force headed by the Deputy Commissioners and SDMs/Tehsildars respectively will hold meetings on weekly basis.“The state steering committee is to review the status of healthcare workers, the state’s preparatory activities in terms of cold chain preparedness, operational planning and communication planning; financial planning for the introduction of vaccine, to ensure that regular meetings of the state task force and the district task force are held and also to involve media and other platforms to address rumours around the vaccine,” said the ACS.The state task force has a mandate for planning, execution and monitoring of vaccination and review of inclusion of potential vaccinators across government and private sectors to minimise disruption of routine immunisation services while introducing the vaccine.The district task force will monitor the roll out in the district for the progress made as well as for resolving bottlenecks.
06-12-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||SYL canal non-issue as farmers of Punjab, Haryana join hands||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 5The Centre’s farm laws have their flip side despite the “good intention” rhetoric of the government. This is evident from the raging farmers’ protest. However, inadvertently, there is one good these have done and nobody seems to be talking of that — the laws have brought estranged brothers back together and they can’t seem to have enough of each other.After being engaged in a war of words for ever, they are making the most of the ongoing agitation to catch up with each other and reach out in the most loving ways. They are chopping vegetables together for langar all along the protest site, cooking side by side, they are eating together and they are resting under the same tents.They have many faces but speak in one voice — Punjab is the elder brother and Haryana, the younger.The bitterness between the states from the creation of the Haryana SGPC has been reduced to a non-issue as they are united in their fight against the government. The war over the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal is forgotten as the farmers from both sides sit together and break bread.“We have a lot of stock of water and there is no shortage. We are sharing all that we have. The only issue we are faced with is saving our farms and farming,” says Paramjit of Kurukshetra as he extends a helping hand to Jagdeep of Punjab in chopping vegetables while a few others start a fire.This one sentiment binds the farmers of both the states together. Though Punjab took the lead in raising its voice against the laws and went right ahead in demolishing barricades that limited them, Haryana’s farmers, seen as reluctant starters, are fast making up for the delay and even pitching in with the supply of essentials.While a lot of water has flown under the bridge since the SYL created bad blood and continues to remain unresolved, the farmers are wary of the subject. “We don’t want any divisions along water lines. We are brothers and we will sit and sort these out without any third party being allowed to play politics at our cost. We have family relations in both the states and those playing politics must understand that at heart, we are one,” says Gurinder Singh, a graduate from Patiala, sitting at the protest site alongside Gurpreet, a youngster from Ambala.Among the elders, Sukhpal Singh of Batala and Ram Phal of Sonepat are of the unanimous opinion that the SYL is only a political issue raked up to keep politics of the politicians going. “Why does it surface only around election time? We are not going to fall victim to such politics that wants to keep us apart. Let the government first deal with the issue on hand. There is plenty of water for both the brothers to share,” they maintain.Brothers in arms, the farmers of Punjab and Haryana, the many faces of brotherhood and camaraderie, are sure of finding their way out of these troubled waters together. “The long and short of everything is — united we stand, divided we fall. Everybody here realises that,” quips Kewal Singh of Majhi Kalan in Samrala.
06-12-2020||Sonepat||Protester killed in road mishap||A 50-year-old farmer of Nawanshahr in Punjab was killed in an accident near Rasoi village of Kundli area on NH-44 on Friday night. The car driver who allegedly hit the farmer also died after his car collided with some unidentified vehicle.  The deceased has been identified as Surender Singh (50) of Hasanpur Khurd of Nawanshahr district.  Surender Singh along with his eight associates came to Kundli to bring food for the protesting farmers at Singhu border on Friday evening. He was standing near his tractor-trolley around midnight when a car hit him. Surender died on the spot. — TNS
06-12-2020||---||Toll agency’s operations suspended||Chandigarh, December 5 In a major development, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) issued an order on Friday for suspension of toll operations to Panipat-Jalandhar NH-1 Pvt Ltd, a SPV of Soma Enterprise maintaining Panipat-Jalandhar section of NH-1 in the states of Haryana and Punjab. According to sources, the company was in continuous defaults of its obligations regarding operation and maintenance, street lighting, signage, payment of Authority’s share in fee collected and completion of balance work of project highway. The project highway was lacking safety standards leading to unsafe conditions for commuters. Sources further revealed that several opportunities were earlier given to the concessionaire but to no avail. Therefore, NHAI was left with no other option but to issue order for suspension to the concessionaire. NHAI has authorised M/s Eagle Infra India Ltd to collect user fee till appointment of new agency on regular basis. NHAI has taken over all three of the fee plazas pertaining to Panipat-Jalandhar section.  i.e. Gharaunda toll plaza, Ghaggar toll plaza and Ladowal toll plaza.
06-12-2020||TWO decades ago||A day spent with farm protesters on the outskirts of Delhi||The reporter and I set out in our quest to find cotton fields and the farmers who worked on them, and at the first instance that we needed to ask for directions, we stopped near a group of men.“Aithey kapah de khet kithe ne?” I asked in my fresh city-accented Punjabi. The men indicated that I should repeat my question and I did, with more emphasis and some misplaced confidence.“Hindi mein gal karo, behenji, sanu angrezi nai samjh aandi,” answered a young man. “Speak to us in Hindi,” he said, “we don’t understand English.”It took me a while to recover from the shock and begin to laugh at my obviously useless accent. This week when I travelled to the Singhu and Tikri borders of Delhi to witness the massive mobilisation of farmers in protest against the farm laws, I was tempted to practise my rusty Punjabi again, but I didn’t. I was proud enough to understand everything that was being said and translate for my colleagues.“The culture of resistance, of being ready to sacrifice oneself in the fight for justice goes back centuries in Punjab,” shared Sukhwinder Kaur from Bathinda as she explained the context for the farmers’ agitation. “The second thing is that Bharti Kisan Union and other organisations have been creating awareness in the villages consistently. People know the process for agitation. Who is our friend, who is not an ally — we are aware of this.”While we were recording an interview with her, a man interrupted to ask, “Are you national media?”“Yes,” I answered, assuming that he would take us seriously and step back. I realised quickly that it was the wrong answer. We learnt that many news teams have removed identifying logos from their mikes to escape the wrath of protesters after they have been vilified as “terrorists and Khalistanis” on various Hindi channels.On the Tikri border, we walked nearly 4 km to reach the spot where many of the leaders of various farmers’ unions were camping. On the way, we passed groups of farmers who were cooking dinner or had wound up and were putting away utensils. Many of them invited us to share the meal with them.“When did you learn to cook?” I asked one group.“The Modi government has taught us to make rotis also,” laughed one young man, raising his rolling pin in jest. “I’ve watched our mothers and grandmothers all my life. They will be proud of me.”One farmer was on a video call with his adolescent daughter in Faridkot and was showing her tractors and trolleys parked along the highway till the camera could see. “This is the protest site. Look at it. See these people from Delhi, they have come to talk to us,” he said, turning the phone towards us. I waved at a girl on the screen. She was already tucked into bed and smiled back at me. “Hello, aunty,” she said.Lachhman Singh Sewewala, who is a leader of farm labour and Dalits and part of the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, unpacked the farmers’ demands in simple terms. “All Indians who want to live in a clean environment, breathe easily and in good health need to raise their voice against this black law.“When the government encourages contract farming by large companies, the question of what crop will be sown arises. Will the choice be dictated by the need of the people or according to what brings maximum profits to multinational companies? Corporatisation of agriculture will create food scarcity and the entire country will suffer the brunt of these laws,” he explained.My most inspirational meeting was with Harinder Kaur Bindu of BKU Ekta Ugrahan. The writer in me was trying to format the story simultaneously as I was listening to her on the history of the farmers’ struggles and their unionisation since 1984. “All farmers’ organisations are demanding the unconditional release of political prisoners,” she shared. “If intellectuals do not have the right to express their opinion safely, then all people will lose the ability to struggle and protest.”We made friends with Amolak Singh, who has been part of the street theatre and drama movement in Punjab since 1972. “We are performing many plays by Gursharan Singh as well as new scripts every day at the protest site and in the villages of Haryana around us. Come back and witness the cultural side of Punjab,” he said, handing us glasses of warm milk before we began our walk back to our car.We had had a long day, yet I returned with hope and energy. The farmers of Punjab may well be the spark that will ignite the inspiration we all need to see us out of the dark tunnel that the past few years have been.— The writer is an author and filmmaker natasha.badhwar@gmail.com
06-12-2020||Chandigarh/New Delhi||Days after jab, Vij tests positive; took only one dose, says Centre||Days after he was administered a Covid vaccine, Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij tested positive for Covid-19 today.Vij tweeted he had tested positive for Covid and was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantt.2 doses 28 days apartIn response, the Union Health Ministry and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which is developing Covaxin in collaboration with the ICMR, said Vij testing positive was not a marker of the vaccine’s efficacy. They said Covaxin, one of India’s two indigenous Covid vaccines, was a two-dose regimen and Vij had received only one shot so far as a trial participant in Haryana. “The anti bodies against the infection build up in a human being only after a specific number of days pass after the second dose of the vaccine is taken. Since this is a two dose vaccine. The minister in question has taken only one dose of the vaccine,” a Health Ministry official said.Politicians’ participation allays vaccine fear: ICMROn November 20, he was given a shot of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine Covaxin as a volunteer and the second dose was to be given on December 18.. Vij (67) has urged all those who came in contact with him recently to get tested.On November 29, Vij met Panipat MLA Pramod Vij, who tested positive on Tuesday. Sources said Vij was unwell for the past two days, but his Covid-positive status was known only this morning.A delegation of the JJP had met Vij yesterday to demand withdrawal of criminal cases against farmers. The delegation included Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala’s younger brother Digvijay Chautala and JJP’s state president Nishan Singh. Yog Guru Ramdev also met Vij at his office on December 1.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, nodal officer of the state for Covid-19 and Head of Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Unit at the PGIMS, Rohtak, who had been leading Covaxin trials, said it was not yet known whether Vij received a vaccine or placebo, as shots for volunteers were selected by computer randomly.
