06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana imposes ban on firecrackers||Haryana on Friday imposed complete ban on firecrackers to prevent the risk of spread of COVID-19 due to polluted atmosphere created by bursting of crackers.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar told the media that after a detailed discussion, it was decided to completely ban the sale of crackers in the state.A notification would be issued in this regard on Saturday, he added. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-imposes-ban-on-firecrackers-167032
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 2,267 fresh cases, 21 more fatalities in Haryana||Haryana on Friday reported 2,267 fresh novel coronavirus cases that included the biggest single-day spike of 704 infections in Gurgaon district, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.With these fresh cases, the state’s total caseload increased to 1,78,413.Haryana also reported 21 more COVID-19-related deaths, taking the toll in the state to 1,880, the bulletin said.Of the fresh fatalities, four were reported from Panipat, three from Rewari, two each from Gurgaon, Faridabad, Yamunanagar and Jhajjar and one each from Sonepat, Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Kaithal districts.Besides Gurgaon, which had reported 611 cases on Wednesday, other districts which reported a big spike in cases included Faridabad (452), Hisar (208), Rewari (103) and Rohtak (101), according to the bulletin.Of the total COVID-19 cases in Haryana so far, Gurgaon district has the maximum number of 33,269 followed by Faridabad which has so far reported 27,295 infections.The bulletin said of the total COVID-19-related deaths in the state, Faridabad has the maximum 259 while Gurgaon has 224.Active cases in the state currently are 15,357 while the recovery rate is 90.34 percent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-2-267-fresh-cases-21-more-fatalities-in-haryana-167023
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dowry deaths, attempts to rape, harassment of women on rise, Vij raises concern over ‘Love-Jihad’||Though dowry deaths, attempt to rape, harassment of women at public places, and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PNDT) Act and Dowry Prohibition Act cases, have risen in Haryana this year despite lockdown for months, Home Minister Anil Vij raised concern over ‘Love-Jihad’ on Friday during a discussion on calling attention notice on Nitika Tomar’s murder case.Tomar, a resident of Faridabad, was shot dead outside her college on October 26, after a failed kidnapping bid by Taufiq, a resident of Gurugram, and Rehan, a resident of Nuh. Replying to the discussion, Vij said, “I have directed to investigate this case from the angle of ‘Love-Jihad’. There have been complaints of first trapping in love and then forcing for change of religion. I have asked to collect data on the change of religion after marriage and whether couples are living peacefully after that, since the date of formation of Haryana.”He added, “We have to see whether it is an organised crime. We have to bring a law on ‘Love-Jihad’. Anyone can marry anyone. Anyone can fall in love with anyone. But not on the pretext of changing other’s religion.”  He said, “Taufiq belongs to a political family. In 2018, he attempted to kidnap her and an FIR was registered. But it was taken back due to pressure. He is a relative of one of the members of this House.” Vij assured the House that Tomar’s family would get protection and challan in the case would be presented in a day or two. He also presented data on Crime Against Women in the state, which reflected that there is a fall of 17 per cent in cases from January 1 to September 30 when compared with cases in the corresponding period of 2019. However, there have been 217 dowry deaths in the state till September 30, which reflects a rise of 4.3 per cent over the last year.  There is 22.2 per cent rise in attempt to rape cases as 209 FIRs have been registered till September 30 this year. There is rise of 5.8 per cent in cases of harassment of women at public places as 183 FIRs have been registered. The PNDT Act cases have witnessed a jump of 64.3 per cent as 23 FIRs have been registered till September 30. There were 12 cases of Dowry Prohibition Act till September 30, 2019, which has risen to 16 this year, a rise of 33.3 per cent. There is a fall of 11.4 per cent in rape cases, 10.8 per cent in molestation and 23.1 per cent in kidnapping of women.    INLD leader Abhay Chautala pointed out that ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ had started from Haryana but cases of crime against women had risen in the state. He called for providing protection to women students and said that such crimes shouldn’t be connected with religion. Congress MLA Neeraj Sharma pointed out lack of transportation facility for women students and called for police protection outside colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dowry-deaths-attempts-to-rape-harassment-of-women-on-rise-vij-raises-concern-over-love-jihad-166974
06-11-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Nikita murder case: SIT files 700-page chargesheet||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 6The five-member SIT probing the murder of Nikita Tomer submitted a 700-page chargesheet in the local court on Friday.Nikita (21) was allegedly shot dead by Tausif (22) outside the gate of her college in Ballabgarh here on October 26, and SIT was formed on October 27 to probe the case.“The chargesheet contains digital, forensic and material evidence besides statements of 60 witnesses, including a girl who was present at the spot and tried to help the victim at the time of the incident,” said the police.Besides the CCTV footage, the dying declaration of the victim was one of the key pieces of evidence that has been included in the chargesheet.While the chargesheet has been prepared under the direct supervision and guidance of senior officials, the SIT led by ACP (Crime) Anil Kumar has consulted legal experts to include all the angles to ensure that culprits do not get away, it is claimed.  As 10 teams of the police were engaged in the hunt for the accused soon after the crime, the main accused was nabbed within five and half hours. Nikita, a student of final year of the B.Com (Hons) was pounced upon by the accused as soon as she came out after appearing in the final semester exam. She was shot by the accused after he failed to abduct her in a car waiting there and the whole incident was captured by a CCTV installed outside a school opposite the college.''Nikita was murdered as she turned down the offer or pressure from the accused to marry him after converting to Islam,” claimed the kin.Three accused, including Tausif, his accomplice Rehan and one Arju who supplied the weapon have already been arrested.The weapon and car used in the crime has been recovered.The police had been under pressure in view of huge uproar and protest by the victim’s kin and residents who sought death penalty for the accused.The state government has already announced the trial of the case in a fast-track court. Besides providing a gun licence to the brother and maternal uncle of the victim, round the clock security has been provided to the family. “We are satisfied with the prosecution and hope that accused get death penalty soon,” said Mool Chand Tomer, Nikita’s father.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-murder-case-sit-files-700-page-chargesheet-166971
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mulling law against 'love jihad', Haryana minister tells assembly||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Friday told the Vidhan Sabha that the state government is considering a law against "love jihad" and has sought information from Himachal Pradesh, which had passed a bill on the issue.The Himachal Pradesh assembly had last year passed a bill against conversion by force, inducement or through marriages solemnised for the "sole purpose" of adopting a new religion."We are mulling to bring a law against love jihad in Haryana," Vij said replying to a calling attention notice drawing attention towards the Ballabhgarh's Nikita Tomar murder case.The home minister said a challan in the case will be filed soon and it will be listed before a fast track court.Vij also told the House that security has been provided to the victim's family.The accused--Tousif--belonged to some "powerful political family" and he was held within 12 hours of committing the crime, Vij said, adding that the murder has shaken the whole country.Nikita's family has alleged that the accused was pressuring her to convert to Islam in order to marry him.Some Hindu outfits have alleged the woman's murder is a case of "love jihad", referred to an alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love.Earlier, INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala sought from the state government to take adequate steps to protect lives of women.  He demanded that police security should be provided outside educational institutions having girl students to stop such incidents. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mulling-law-against-love-jihad-haryana-minister-tells-assembly-166945
06-11-2020||---||Nikita murder case: SIT submit chargesheet in local court||Faridabad, November 6The five-member SIT probing the murder of Nikita, on Friday, submitted the 700-page chargesheet in the local court.The chargesheet has been submitted in a record 11 days after the SIT was formed on October 27.Nikita (21) was murdered by Tausif (22) on October 26 outside the gate of a college here.Nikita was coming out of the college campus after appearing in the final semester examinations of BCom (Hons).It is alleged that the victim was shot by the accused after he failed to abduct her in a car.Three accused — including Tausif; his accomplice, Rehan, and Arjju, who supplied the weapon — have already been arrested.The chargesheet contains digital, forensic and material evidence besides the statements of 60 witnesses, including a girl who had attempted to help the victim to evade kidnapping at the time of the incident, according to the police.While 10 police teams were engaged in the work, the main accused was nabbed within five-and-half hours of the crime. The preparation of the chargesheet has been closely monitored by the Commissioner of Police here, who had formed the SIT led by ACP Crime Anil Kumar.Claiming that while all evidence had been collected and put on record, a senior police official said all legal angles had been taken care of to ensure the strictest punishment to the culprits.The police department here has been done under pressure in view of huge uproar and protest by the kin and residents, who have sought a death penalty to the accused. The state government has already announced to set up a fast track court for the trial of the case.The family members claim that Nikita was murdered as she turned down the offer from the accused to marry him after converting to another religion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-murder-case-sit-submit-chargesheet-in-local-court-166934
06-11-2020||Kurukshetra||KU invites online admission||International e-conferenceFaridabad: With the aim to realise the values of Rama as a hero of masses and vision of Ramrajya, the Haryana Unit of Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal (BSM) will organise a three-day international e-conference on the topic 'Srishti Nayak Ram the God and hero of masses: Overlapping cultural and literary horizons' from November 6 to 8. The patron of the Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal, Prof Dinesh Kumar, who is also the Vice-Chancellor of JC Bose University, YMCA, Faridabad, informed that the e-conference was being organised under the aegis of BSM's Anusandhan Prakoshth in collaboration with Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University (DCRUST), Murthal. The Vice-Chancellor of DCRUST, Prof RK Anayath, Registrar of Chaudhary Bansi Lal University, Bhiwani Dr Jitender Bhardwaj, the organising secretary of the BSM, Haryana, Sunil Sharma, were also present on the occasion. Kumar said the objective of the conference was to establish Rama as a progenitor of the civilisation not only in India but also in the world.Awareness on breast cancerFaridabad: The women cell of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised an awareness webinar on 'Breast cancer and thyroid'. Endocrine and breast surgeon from Maharaja Agrasen Hospital, Delhi, Dr Vivek Aggarwal, was an expert speaker on the occasion. The session was inaugurated by VC Prof Dinesh Kumar and spoke about the importance of such programmes to create awareness about women health issues. Earlier, the presiding officer of the women cell, Dr Neetu Gupta, welcomed the guest speaker and briefed about the objectives and activities being taken up by the women cell. Addressing the participants, Dr Vivek Aggarwal explained the causes, symptoms and preventative measures of breast cancer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ku-invites-online-admission-166874
06-11-2020||The encroachment opposite Sector 6 market||Encroachment of public space||HV Chaudhary, PanchkulaNarwana streetlights Non-functionalDuring the past two to three years, sufficient number of streetlights were installed at various locations in Narwana, but with the passage of time, a majority of these are lying defunct with the result most of the residential and commercial areas are in complete darkness, during the ongoing festival season. The administration should set these streetlights in order. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaEx-servicemen panel must take note of the issueOn Wednesday, I visited the CSD, Bahadurgarh, as I am an ex-serviceman, to get liquor but when my turn came the salesman refused to give liquor. He told me that my card was not of this canteen. I told him that it was issued in Mumbai, from where all naval persons retired. Then I approached the manager on the same issue, but all is vain. He told me either I got a NOC from Mumbai or applied for a fresh card from here. I told him that this card was applicable all over India. I hope Ex-Servicemen Welfare Committee takes note of this issue. Pankaj Kamboj, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you? THE TRIBUNE invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/encroachment-of-public-space-166873
06-11-2020||Ambala||One nabbed for murder||The police arrested Jashan Randhawa of Shahzadpur in a case of murder. Dalbir Singh of Shahzadpur had reported that the accused and his accomplices assaulted his 42-year-old son Talwant Singh, who succumbed to injuries . The accused was remanded in three-day police custody. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-nabbed-for-murder-166872
06-11-2020||---||Oppn tries to corner Deputy Chief Minister over land deed registry scam||Chandigarh, November 5The Opposition tried to corner Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday over the registry scam. He holds the charge of the Revenue Department. His uncle Abhay Chautala raised the registry scam through a calling attention notice.Dushyant replied that there was no loss of stamp duty and registration fee. “There is no truth in the fact that deeds registered in 32 towns of the state are illegal. Some sub-registrars and joint sub-registrars in the state did not comply with the provision of Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation Area (Amendment) Act 2017 at the time of registration of instruments of sale and lease of immovable property during the period from April 24 to June 30,” he said.He pointed out that one sub-registrar in Sohna and five joint sub-registrars in Gurugram, posted in Wazirabad, Badshahpur, Manesar, Sohna and Gurugram tehsils, were suspended and being charge-sheeted under Rule 7 of the Haryana Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules 2016. He added that six FIRs had been registered in this context.He told the House that on the report dated June 4, received from the Town and Country Planning Department, disciplinary action was initiated against the sub-registrars and joint sub-registrars concerned in Mahendragarh, Karnal, Sonepat, Rewari, Panchkula, Bhiwani, Faridabad and Kaithal districts, who had registered 1,555 instruments of sale from June 14, 2013, to May 31, 2020.He said all divisional commissioners had been asked to send their inquiry reports regarding violation of Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act 1975 from April 3, 2017, to December 12, 2019.Abhay countered Dushyant by claiming that the Chief Minister had accepted it as a scam, but the minister concerned was saying there was nothing wrong. Abhay said there was large-scale corruption in property registration in tehsils and share of money was passed to high-ups. “I demand a CBI inquiry into it. Big loot is taking place in the state. The Chief Minister left the House because he knew that I would raise this issue,” he said.On pending divisional commissioners’ report, Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary pointed out that time given for the report had already elapsed. Congress leader Kiran Choudhry also pointed that there was large-scale corruption and stressed that registration should be made time-bound.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oppn-tries-to-corner-deputy-chief-minister-over-land-deed-registry-scam-166832
06-11-2020||Jhajjar||Kin alleges murder, police stop woman’s cremation||The police on Thursday stopped cremation of a married woman, identified as Amita, in Patauda village here and took her body into possession while acting on the complaint of her brother that she had been killed by serving some poisonous substance. The police later sent the body to civil hospital for post-mortem examination. No case was registered till the filing of the news. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kin-alleges-murder-police-stop-womans-cremation-166828
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Obituary references||Tributes were paid to former President Pranab Mukherjee, Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Union Minister of State Suresh Angadi, former Union Ministers, a former Haryana minister, former MLAs, freedom fighters, Haryana martyrs and kin of MLAs. CM Manohar Lal Khattar read out obituary references. Tributes were paid to freedom fighter Kalawati of Rohtak district. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda also read out obituary references. Tributes were paid to 13 martyrs who had sacrificed their lives while safeguarding the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/obituary-references-166829
06-11-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Now, another turf war with Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5After the Sutlej-Yamuna Link canal issue, Punjab and Haryana are again on a collision course, with the Haryana Assembly on Thursday vowing to claim its territory, comprising 20 rooms, “illegally occupied” by its neighbouring state in the Punjab and Haryana Vidhan Sabha Complex.The stage for the fresh confrontation between the two neighbouring states was set following unanimous passage of an official resolution, which called for handing over of the “illegally occupied” portion by Punjab to Haryana.Moving the resolution, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar regretted that even 54 years after division of the Vidhan Sabha Complex between two states on October 17, 1966, Haryana was yet to get its rightful share of 20 rooms still “unauthorisedly occupied” by Punjab. “We will leave no stone unturned to get back our due share in the Vidhan Sabha Complex,” he said.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta urged the Punjab Speaker to accede to the demand of handing over 20 rooms as these were needed for use by its employees and political parties.It was highlighted that of the total area of 66,430 square feet of the Secretariat, Punjab was allotted 30,890 square feet while Haryana was allocated 24,630 square feet. An area of 10,910 square feet was earmarked for the Punjab Vidhan Parishad under the provisions of the Punjab Organisation Act, 1966.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-another-turf-war-with-punjab-166830
06-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon
||28 deaths in three days trigger panic in Sonepat||Tribune News Service Panipat/Sonepat, November 5 A sudden spurt in the number of bodies coming to the cremation ground at Mehlana road in Sonepat town triggered panic and forced the authorities to swing into action. A priest at the cremation ground said on an average 3-4 bodies used to reach here in a day for last rites, but 28 bodies had reached for cremation in the past three days. Almost all deceased were from four localities —- Indian Colony, Mayur Vihar, Pragati Nagar and Shashtry Colony on the Gohana road. Suresh Chand, an employee at the cremation ground, said 28 bodies had reached the ground in only three days. Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said a special team headed by Ravinder Kumar, DSP (Headquarters), was working to unearth the spurious liquor business. “A special drive has been initiated in the district, especially in the city, to unearth a racket of spurious liquor and the teams have unearthed two factories where spurious liquor was manufactured,” he said. “We have registered eight separate cases in various police stations and nabbed eight persons, including a woman, for allegedly selling spurious liquor and two men allegedly involved in manufacturing spurious liquor in the district,” the SP said. The accused, Vijay Singh of Nainatatarpur village, was arrested for his alleged involved in manufacturing of spurious liquor. “He was manufacturing the liquor illegally since 2015, while two accused —- Pratik and Naresh —- who were looking after the supply of illicit liquor had fled the spot,” said Ravinder Kumar, DSP, Headquarter. Prima facie it was revealed that the accused were supplying spurious liquor in the city as well as in the adjoining areas and the district, he added. The team had recovered two drums full of spurious liquor, 254 bottles of “rasila santra marka”, sealing machines, labels, chemical, syringes, 4,000 bottle cocks and other material, he said. Besides, another accused Ankit of Khanda village was nabbed for allegedly running an illegal manufacturing unit in a house in Kharkhoda and recovered 395 quarters full of spurious liquor, 8,800 quarters vacant, fake holograms, fake labels, a machine and other material from his factory, the DSP said. “We have also arrested Karambir of Kalupur and recovered 45 bottles of liquor from him,” he said. A woman, identified as Sunita from Adarsh Nagar, and Raju of Panchsheel Colony were arrested and 15 bottles and Rs 14.51 lakh were recovered from Raju’s possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/28-deaths-in-three-days-trigger-panic-in-sonepat-166831
06-11-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||EWS candidates get 5-year age relaxation in police jobs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5On a day that saw two ministers targeted by the Opposition for coming “ill-prepared” to the House, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, stealing the thunder from Home Minister Anil Vij, announced relaxation of five years in age for candidates of the economically weaker section (EWS) category in police recruitment.Khattar made the announcement during Question Hour after resumption of proceedings of the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha on Thursday. He was responding to a question by JJP MLA Ram Kumar Gautam, who sought to know if the government was considering any relaxation. Earlier, Vij, replying to the legislator, said it was a good suggestion and could be considered.Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma and Agriculture Minister JP Dalal were in the line of fire during Question Hour for failing to give “satisfactory replies” to questions pertaining to their ministries.During a supplementary question, Congress MLA Raghuvir Singh Kadian sought to know if the Murrah buffalo research centre at Lakadia in Beri would become functional since the new building was ready.Dalal was unable to respond since the main question pertained to opening of a regional centre of the veterinary university. An upset Kadian hit out at Dalal for not being able to respond to his query.Claiming that Dalal’s reply to a question on remodelling of the main drain in Karnal was unsatisfactory, Kadian said the minister was “ill-prepared” to reply in the House. Pointing to the Transport Minister’s response to a question on the Israna bus stand, Kadian said Sharma was unable to reply “satisfactorily”, because of which the Chief Minister had to step in.Later, in reply to a question by Congress MLA Kiran Choudhry on whether action had been initiated against any officer for colluding with owners of stone crushers, leading to operation of overloaded vehicles, Sharma gave the number of FIRs registered for the offence.Choudhry and Congress Legislature Party leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda, expressing surprise over the reply by the minister, repeatedly said there was a mismatch between the question and the answer. The Chief Minister, defending the minister, maintained that the question was “vague”, something both Congress leaders refuted while emphasising that the minister was not “prepared” with his reply.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said the construction of a subdivisional office building at Badhra in Charkhi Dadri would begin after identification of land in the next six months. He gave this assurance in response to a question by his mother and Badhra MLA Naina Chautala.Replying to a question on lack of facilities at the Israna bus stand for Sharma, Khattar said it had become ineffective due to the construction of a flyover. “There is a provision of a new bus stand in place of the existing one at the beginning or end of the flyover as per land availability,” he said, adding that a new bus stand would be constructed at Madlauda, provided the village panchayat provided the land required.SIDELIGHTSSome light moments in AssemblyConscious that she was asking a question pertaining to her constituency to her son Dushyant, JJP MLA Naina Chautala, looking at all members exchanging smiles, said before proceedings began, the CM had commented she could ask these questions even at home. “It is always better to ask constituency-related questions in the House,” she said, inviting laughter.When cm came under fireHome Minister Anil Vij’s it-is-a-good-suggestion reply to relaxation for the EWS category in police recruitment came as a disappointment for JJP MLA Ram Kumar Gautam. He responded by saying, “CM saab toh kanjoos hain, aapse yeh ummeed nahi thi (CM is a miser, but this was not expected of you).” To this, the Chief Minister got up and accepted the suggestion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ews-candidates-get-5-year-age-relaxation-in-police-jobs-166822
06-11-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Discussion on Centre’s three farm Acts today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5Congress MLAs led by former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda staged a walkout on Thursday over the demand for a discussion on the farm Acts.Kiran Choudhry’s resolution seeking condemnation of the farm laws was disallowed by Speaker Gian Chand Gupta.After Question Hour, Hooda called for a discussion. The Speaker told him they could have an extra sitting on Friday and discuss all issues, but Hooda was not convinced.Despite Gupta’s assurance that they could hold discussions on Friday, Congress MLAs reached the well of the House.Education Minister Kanwal Pal Gujjar said the Congress did not have any issue to discuss.Hooda stood up and tried to address the House, but his microphone was off. He then walked out with party MLAs. After this, Meham MLA Balraj Kundu tried to raise the issue, but in vain.When Gupta asked Abhay Chautala to read his calling attention notice on the registry scam, the INLD MLA asked the Speaker about his three private member Bills on the farm laws.Meanwhile, the Congress MLAs came back and Choudhry raised the issue of her resolution on condemnation of the farm laws. The Speaker told her as per opinion of the Legal Remembrancer and Advocate General, her resolution could not be allowed.CM Manohar Lal Khattar intervened, saying condemning Central laws would be a bad precedent. Hooda countered him by saying, “If we cannot condemn the farm laws, we can at least pass a resolution that a fourth law to make MSP mandatory should be passed.”Khattar replied, “I can bring in a resolution to thank the Centre for the farm Acts.” Finally, it was decided a discussion would be allowed on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/discussion-on-centres-three-farm-acts-today-166824
06-11-2020||Chandigarh||Crime Bill withdrawn, 3 others passed||The Assembly today gave its approval to the withdrawal of the Haryana Control of Organised Crime Bill 2019,  which was introduced for the prevention of criminal activities of organised syndicates. While seeking withdrawal of the Bill, Home Minister Anil Vij said the Cabinet had decided to withdraw the Bill on October 16 following objections by the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. The House passed three Bills — Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Haryana Amendment Bill, Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill and Haryana Water Resources (Conservation, Regulation, and Management) Authority Bill. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crime-bill-withdrawn-3-others-passed-166826
06-11-2020||
||Won’t sell land for AIIMS at Rs 30L, villagers tell officials||Rewari, November 5 The district administration has started searching for an alternative site for AIIMS after residents of the district’s Majra and Bhalkhi villages refused to sell off their land at the government rate of 30 lakh per acre. They, however, are demanding not less than Rs 50 lakh per acre.  Officers led by Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh visited Khaliawas and Kharkara villages near Masani Barrage on Thursday and inspected some sites. Of the 503 acres belonging to the Irrigation Department available in two villages, the district administration is eyeing 224 acres for the proposed project. The DC directed the officers to file their objections, if any, about the site in Majra and Bhalkhi villages within 24 hours.  “The state government is serious about executing the project at the earliest. It wants to construct AIIMS in Majra and Bhalkhi villages on priority. Having said that, the state is still looking for other sites in case there are any hurdles in finalising the site situated in the two villages,” an officer said, adding a meeting of the officers would be convened on Friday to discuss the matter. Meanwhile, the AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti termed the district administration’s move of searching for alternative sites as a “pressure tactic”. “The samiti will not let the district administration succeed in its plan. The demand for Rs 50 lakh per acre is justified. The samiti will launch an agitation if the project is shifted to any other place,” said Rajender Singh Nimoth, spokesperson for the samiti.  He added samiti members would stage a dharna on November 7 in support of their demand. Notably, a team from the Centre had visited the two villages on October 1 and found the proposed site suitable for the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-sell-land-for-aiims-at-rs-30l-villagers-tell-officials-166827
06-11-2020||Our Correspondent
||2 killed, 14 hurt as bus crashes into trailer||Gurugram, November 5 Two persons, including a bus driver, were killed and 14 others injured after a bus rammed into a trailer near Kalwadi village on the KMP expressway today. The double-decker bus was on its way from Ludhiana to Bihar with around 100 migrant labourers, who were headed home to celebrate Chath Puja and take part in last phase of voting. The incident happened around 5:30 am when bus driver Gurmeet Singh lost control over the bus and it rammed into a stationary trailer on the road. The driver and a passenger identified as Mohammad Akbar died on the spot. The injured were rushed to a nearby hospital. The bus left with 50 passengers from Ludhiana and 50 more boarded it from Jalandhar. Earlier, the bus was being driven by another man who is injured now. Gurmeet had taken charge around 4 am. As he was feeling sleepy, he lost control over the bus, resulting in the mishap.” “The arrangements are being made to send everyone home. The injured will be sent by ambulance,” said trainee IPS Hemender Meena, officiating SHO of PS Tauru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-killed-14-hurt-as-bus-crashes-into-trailer-166819
06-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav
||MNC executive shot at in Gurugram, dies||Gurugram, November 5 A 26-year-old woman, who was shot at in the head by three unidentified men on Tuesday, succumbed to the bullet injury on Thursday.  The victim, Pooja Sharma of Chhattisgarh, was admitted to Medanta hospital by her friend who escaped unhurt. She was unconscious and reportedly died around 3 pm. The police that was waiting for her statement is now investigating the matter.  The incident has yet again highlighted unsafe city roads at night and the increasing menace of robbers and carjackers.  It was on Tuesday night around 11.15 pm when Pooja was shot at by three bikers when she was travelling in a car with her friend. The accused intercepted their car and after Pooja did not comply with their demand of lowering the window pane, they opened fire on her and fled the spot. An FIR was registered at Sector 65 police station in which Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been added after her death today. A senior police officer said three teams of crime unit were investigating the matter and collecting information about the woman from her father Ravinder Singh. “The post-mortem examination will be conducted by Friday. The case seems to be a failed attempt to robbery and probe is on,” said Dheeraj Kumar, DCP, South.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mnc-executive-shot-at-in-gurugram-dies-166820
06-11-2020||---||High court permits Punjab, Chandigarh, Centre as parties||Chandigarh, November 5A day after a notice was issued on a petition for quashing an order directing the Duty Officers/Duty Magistrates and the police to stop farmers coming into Karnal district from Uttar Pradesh with their agricultural produce, the Punjab and Haryana High Court allowed the filing of petition with Chandigarh and Punjab as party.Justice Rajbir Sehrawat asserted since the question involved in the case was not restricted to the State of Haryana, the counsel for the petitioner was seeking time to amend the petition to implead the Union of India and Chandigarh, along with the State of Punjab, as parties to the petition. Fixing the case for November 12, Justice Sehrawat added: “In the meantime, the counsel for the petitioner may file his amended petition.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-permits-punjab-chandigarh-centre-as-parties-166821
06-11-2020||---||Haryana farmers block highways, want agricultural laws revoked||Chandigarh, November 5Several farmers’ organisations on Thursday joined a nationwide protest against the three controversial farm laws by blocking national highways and crucial road networks, severely affecting the movement of traffic from noon till 4 pm. There was no report of violence.They are demanding the withdrawal of the laws and introduction of a new Bill that will ensure the purchase of the produce at the MSP. Besides, they seek the implementation of the Swaminathan Commission recommendations.The call for the nationwide “chakka jam” from noon to 4 pm was given by the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.Karnal: Farmers of Karnal, Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar districts blocked the NH-44 near Raipur Roran village from 11.50 am to 3.35 pm. Before lifting the blockade, they announced their participation in the national-level protest in New Delhi on November 26 and 27. A meeting of Haryana and Punjab farmers will be convened in Chandigarh on November 11, while that of Haryana farmers alone will be held the next day in Kurukshetra.The protest remained peaceful, but commuters faced problems as they remained stuck in jams for hours. The police were deployed in large numbers to deal with any untoward situation. They diverted the traffic from the Baldi bypass to Kurukshetra via Indri and from Nilokheri to Kurukshetra via Sikri and Indri.Some social organisation arranged langar for the protesting farmers.Farmers slammed the BJP-led Central government for passing the controversial laws. They said the legislations would destroy the farming community and instead benefit Gurnam Singh Charuni, president BKU (Charuni), said the Thursday’s protest was not confined to farmers from Haryana and Punjab alone. “The agitation has taken the national character. I want to clear one more thing. The rumours about political backing to protests are false. The agitation is of farmers, and not of any political party.”Sewa Singh Arya, national vice-president, BKU (Arya), said the state government must assure farmers that the mandi system would continue.Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Rewari Chiranjeev Rao, who was on his way to Chandigarh to attend the Assembly session, stopped at the protest site for some time. He criticised the state government for being “anti-farmer”.In Kaithal, scores of farmers protested on the Kaithal-Jind road.Rohtak: Representatives of farmers’ outfits under the aegis of the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee blocked the Rohtak-Panipat highway near Brahmanwas village. They demanded withdrawal of cases registered against farmers.Preet Singh, district president, Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, said the three laws would not only abolish the mandi and the MSP system, but also destroy farmers. “The BJP government is spreading lies that the laws will double the income of farmers,” he said.Hisar: Protesters sat on a dharna on the Hisar-Chandigarh highway and in Adampur town. Farmer leader Balwan Singh said farmers were angry at the NDA government for introducing the contentious laws.Bhiwani: Peasants in Dhanana village blocked the Jind-Bhiwani NH-709 for about half an hour. Comrade Om Prakash termed the legislations as “black laws” and said these would spell doom for the farming community. “Farmers are prepared to take on the might of the Central government. They will oppose the Centre from implementing the laws,” he said.Sirsa: Farmers gathered in large numbers at Nathusari Chopta in the district and on the Haryana-Punjab border to register their protest. They said their struggle would continue till the Modi government withdrew the laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmers-block-highways-want-agricultural-laws-revoked-166815
06-11-2020||
||SDMs to probe ‘fake’ gate passes at grain markets||Karnal, November 5 An anonymous complaint related to allegations of ‘bogus’ gate passes being issued at various grain markets in the district has put the administration into action. Four teams led by concerned Sub-Divisional Magistrates (SDMs) have been constituted to probe the matter.  Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav had received an anonymous complaint that fake gate passes were being issued at various grain markets in the district to adjust the non-registered paddy being brought from other states and was being procured as PR varieties, which is procured by the government. The complainant also alleged that some of the arhtiyas and rice millers had already stocked non-registered paddy and mixing it with the registered varieties. “As soon as I received the complaint, four teams led by concerned SDMs were assigned to inquire into the complaint,” said the DC. All entry points are being checked by the SDMs at the grain markets that fall under their areas, he said adding that verification of the names on gate passes with the stock allotted to the arhtiyas and the stock lying there was being done.  The DC said the teams had been given a time of three days to submit their report. Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha, who is also leading one of the team, said he had started the investigation and the gate passes were being verified. “So far, the investigation is underway and I will submit my report to the DC in the given time,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sdms-to-probe-fake-gate-passes-at-grain-markets-166816
06-11-2020||Ambala||No paddy ‘glut’ in Ambala mandis||The usual “glut-like” situation is missing in all 14 grain markets (mandis) of Ambala district. The paddy procurement is in the final stages of completion here.Less arrivals, tardy lifting and delayed payments have been testing the patience of hundreds of farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents), who have been hit hard by what they allege is the indifferent attitude of government agencies to ensure smooth procurement arrangements.Tardy lifting, delayed payment hit farmersLess arrivals, tardy lifting and delayed payments have been testing the patience of hundreds of farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents), who have been hit hard by what they allege is the indifferent attitude of government agencies to ensure smooth procurement arrangements.The situation is so grim in the district’s biggest Ambala City grain market where arrivals this season were almost half as compared to the previous year. Till October 30, 1.81 lakh metric tonnes of paddy were procured while last year, 3.46 lakh metric tonnes of crop had been purchased here. In all the 14 mandis, over 6.07 lakh metric tonnes of paddy were procured till October 30 of which over 5.77 lakh metric tonnes of crop were lifted by government agencies. The mandatory registration on ‘Meri fasal, mera byora’ portal before bringing the crop to the mandis was cited as the major reason behind the lowest paddy arrival in the district’s mandis this season.While the district administration and market committee officials claimed that the “situation was under control”, the farmers and arhtiyas have alleged “total collapse” of the arrangements . “I had to wait for several days to bring my produce to the mandi as the government portal was not recording my data,” rued farmer Swaran Singh. DC Ashok Kumar Sharma said all efforts were being made to ensure speedy lifting of the procured stocks and the government agencies were also told to ensure timely payments to farmers and arhtiyas.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-paddy-glut-in-ambala-mandis-166817
06-11-2020||Ambala||No paddy ‘glut’ in Ambala mandis||The usual “glut-like” situation is missing in all 14 grain markets (mandis) of Ambala district. The paddy procurement is in the final stages of completion here.Less arrivals, tardy lifting and delayed payments have been testing the patience of hundreds of farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents), who have been hit hard by what they allege is the indifferent attitude of government agencies to ensure smooth procurement arrangements.Tardy lifting, delayed payment hit farmersLess arrivals, tardy lifting and delayed payments have been testing the patience of hundreds of farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents), who have been hit hard by what they allege is the indifferent attitude of government agencies to ensure smooth procurement arrangements.The situation is so grim in the district’s biggest Ambala City grain market where arrivals this season were almost half as compared to the previous year. Till October 30, 1.81 lakh metric tonnes of paddy were procured while last year, 3.46 lakh metric tonnes of crop had been purchased here. In all the 14 mandis, over 6.07 lakh metric tonnes of paddy were procured till October 30 of which over 5.77 lakh metric tonnes of crop were lifted by government agencies. The mandatory registration on ‘Meri fasal, mera byora’ portal before bringing the crop to the mandis was cited as the major reason behind the lowest paddy arrival in the district’s mandis this season.While the district administration and market committee officials claimed that the “situation was under control”, the farmers and arhtiyas have alleged “total collapse” of the arrangements . “I had to wait for several days to bring my produce to the mandi as the government portal was not recording my data,” rued farmer Swaran Singh. DC Ashok Kumar Sharma said all efforts were being made to ensure speedy lifting of the procured stocks and the government agencies were also told to ensure timely payments to farmers and arhtiyas.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-paddy-glut-in-ambala-mandis-166817
06-11-2020||---||23 more die; 2,064 cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, November 5With 2,064 cases, the total Covid cases in the state went up to 1,76,146 on Thursday. The death toll reached 1,859 with 23 more deaths.Gurugram reported a maximum of 555 cases, followed by Faridabad (372), Hisar (192), Sonepat (129) and Rewari (108). Fatehabad reported a maximum of four deaths, followed by Gurugram, Bhiwani and Jind (3 each), Faridabad, Ambala and Rohtak (2 each) and Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Hisar and Sirsa (1 each).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/23-more-die-2-064-cases-in-haryana-166818
06-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||12 more die in two districts of Haryana, toll rises to 42||Tribune News ServicePanipat/Sonepat, November 5With seven deaths in two Panipat villages and five more in Sonepat, the toll in the suspected spurious liquor tragedy across the two Haryana districts climbed to 42 today.The deaths in Panipat were reported from Dhansoli and Nanglapar villages of Sanoli belt. In Sonepat, 30 deaths had already been reported over the past four days while the five deaths today occurred in Gumar village.2 cops suspendedMohana police station SHO Shree Bhagwan and SI Surender have been suspendedAn official said viscera samples of the deceased had been sent for forensic examination to ascertain the exact cause of the deaths. “The process may take a month,” he said.The police, meanwhile, unearthed two units at Naina Tatarpur and Kharkhoda villages in Sonepat that were allegedly involved in manufacturing spurious liquor.Panipat SP Manisha Chaudhary said a special investigation team had been formed to probe the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-more-die-in-two-districts-of-haryana-toll-rises-to-42-166582
06-11-2020||Panchkula||Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao slogan meaningless: Haryana Cong incharge||Members of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) today observed ‘Mahila and Dalit Utpidan Virodhi Diwas’ over ‘rising’ crimes and atrocities against women and Dalits. A dharna was staged behind the Hafed building in Sector 5 here.Selja lashes out at Central GovernmentState Congress president Kumari Selja lashed out at the BJP-led Central Government for “failing” to ensure the safety of women in the country, besides blaming it for committing atrocities on Dalits. She said it was unfortunate that whether it was Haryana or Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP seemed to be defending the suspects in crimes against women.Haryana Congress incharge Vivek Bansal, state Congress president Kumari Selja, Haryana Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Kiran Choudhry and other senior party leaders took part in the protest.Addressing the protesters, Bansal said the BJP slogan “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” was meaningless. He added that when he and Selja went to meet the family of the slain Nikita Tomar in Ballabhgarh, BJP leaders raised slogans against them. He accused the BJP of politicising Tomar’s death. “Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar didn’t even feel right to visit the victim’s family,” he said.Selja lashed out at the BJP-led Central Government for failing to ensure the safety of women in the country, besides blaming it for committing atrocities on Dalits. She said it was unfortunate that whether it was Haryana or Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP seemed to be defending the suspects in crimes against women.“The BJP defeat in Baroda by-election will mark the countdown of the BJP-JJP government in the state,” said the CLP leader.Former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan, Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudhary and legislators Shamsher Singh Tyagi, Varun Chaudhary, Mewa Singh, Amit Sihag, Subhash Deswal, Neeraj Sharma, Shalley Chaudhary and Renu Bala were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/beti-bachao-beti-padhao-slogan-meaningless-haryana-cong-incharge-166687
