07-09-2020||Chandigarh||New standards in survey affected Haryana’s ease of doing business ranking, says Deputy CM||As Haryana slid to 16th in the “ease of doing business” rankings of states and UTs, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Monday said that adding new standards in the survey considerably affected its ranking.             Haryana was ranked third in the previous edition of ranking by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade.Andhra Pradesh retained the top position in the ranking of states and union territories (UTs) for 2019 based on the implementation of the business reform action plan, according to a report released by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday.Uttar Pradesh and Telangana were placed at the second and third place, respectively in the ease of doing business for 2019.“The ranking of ease of doing business, recently announced by the central government body, is actually for the financial year 2018-19. The status of the states shown in this ranking is not from the current year or the last financial year,” Chautala, a JJP leader, who also heads the industries department, said here.     He said that the Haryana government is implementing new Enterprises and Employment Promotion Policy in the state from October 1, which will cover all the key aspects and help improve the rankings once again.                    He said that not only Haryana, but many other states which were ahead earlier have fallen from their earlier spots in the 2018-19 ranking of “ease of doing business”.            “The rankings of some geographically small states and union territories have increased but the rankings of most states acknowledged for their industrial growth have gone down,” he said.                       “A survey has been conducted on the basis of new standards in 2019 to prepare the ranking of states under Ease of Doing Business. More than 25 new standards were added to this survey, while a few standards were removed. These significant changes have affected the rankings,” Chautala said, as per a statement issued by JJP.The latest rankings released by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DIPP) are not about the last financial year or the tenure of the present BJP-JJP coalition government, he further said.                  He also said that in this survey based on the new standards, “there has been an unprecedented rise in the rankings of some states, like Uttar Pradesh whose ranking scaled up from 12 to two. Delhi has also stepped up from 23rd rank to 12th rank, while Lakshadweep has fallen down from 15th rank to 34th rank and Andaman and Nicobar has gone down from 22nd rank to 31st rank.”      “On the basis of the new standards, Odisha has moved down from 14th to 29th position, while Haryana has also slipped from 3rd to 16th position in the rankings. The state of Bihar was ranked 18th, but as per the new survey rankings it has now dropped down to 26th position. “Kerala was earlier ranked 21st, which has now slipped to 28th, while Karnataka has also fallen from 8th to 17th position while Gujarat has slipped from 5th to 10th position,” he said.        Chautala said that “barring Uttar Pradesh, the rankings have not been favourable for any large and industrially developed state”.The rankings of smaller states and union territories like Daman Diu, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim, and Meghalaya have shown considerable improvement, he said.                Chautala said that the government is studying the changed standards adopted for the survey.He stressed that state government is committed to providing all facilities to the industrialists.          Meanwhile, he said due to Haryana’s close proximity to the national capital Delhi, vacant lands on both sides of the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway has a lot of potential for a new industry to be built.Besides this, the state government is preparing a proposal to lease Panchayati vacant lands for setting up new industries.In addition, clusters of small industries have been prepared at various places in the state, he said.       “More than 60 foreign companies have expressed willingness to invest in Haryana. In this backdrop, there is bound to be improvement in Haryana’s ranking in the current financial year and in future,” he said. PTI
07-09-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Woman arrested for killing month-old granddaughter in Gurugram village||Gurugram, September 7A Tauru resident allegedly killed her month-old granddaughter as she did not want a third girl in the family, police said on Monday.Luxmi (54) allegedly dumped the child in a septic tank and fooled all for three days by claiming the girl has gone missing.The police recovered the body and arrested the woman today.According to the police, the incident happened at Jorasi village where a month-old girl was reported missing under suspicious circumstances on Friday. They started investigation after the family filed a missing person report on Saturday.During the investigation, police found that something was fishy and the interrogation revealed the gruesome murder. A search was launched in the house today and after two hours police recovered the body of the toddler from the septic tank. When police interrogated the family, the grandmother confessed that she had killed the toddler.As per police, Luxmi said she was angry that her daughter-in-law gave birth to a girl for third time.She was produced in a city court.“We have arrested the accused woman. Sample has been taken for her Covid test and he will be send to judicial custody soon,” said sub inspector Beer Singh, the investigating officer.
07-09-2020||Gurugram||College authorities seek transfer of COVID-19 positive jail inmates from campus in Gurugram||The isolation of around 40 jail inmates of Bhondsi in main college building of Government College Sector 9 Gurugram has left the authorities harried.The college authorities all set to host exams in next one week have sought immediate transfer of the inmates to another isolation facility claiming that not only has this hampered or stalled preparations for holding examinations with Covid SOP’s but students have threatened a boycott with the current situation.The staff members have also demanded an immediate respite claiming they are on constant risk.“These are people who are positive and are in the same area as we come for work. With academic schedules and forthcoming exams we professors and all other non teaching staff have to come every day and many are old. This has put us in grave danger and we have asked theprincipal to either get the patients shifted and get premises sanitized or allow us to work from home,” said a senior professor of the college.“We have already written a letter to the administration. We have a lot of work to do to ensure we provide safe premises for conduct of exams and with the inmates lodging here it is impossible. The teachers are scared and students are writing to me saying they will not come as the infection rate is high. The administration is looking into the matter and promised quick resolution,” said Principal Satmanyu Yadav.While DC Amit Kahtri is working on a resolution, a highly placed source reveals that the Health Department is already at loggerheads with jail authorities over the issue who have not made any isolation or quarantine arrangements.“The patients should have been isolated in jail premises only but they have shun their responsibility and landed us all in this situation. It’s not just a health risk but 40 inmates who may not leave any opportunity to run should be in high security premises inside jail. The college is at risk and we are trying to reason with jail authorities but of no use,” revealed a senior official.
07-09-2020||Panchkula||COVID-19: Panchkula reports two deaths, 88 new cases||Panchkula reported 88 new COVID-19 positive cases and two deaths. The tally of cases in the district stood at 3,146, with 1,214 cases and 34 deaths.An 86-year-old woman from Sector 4, who was suffering from hypertension, succumbed to the disease.A 55-year-old woman from Pinjore with chronic kidney disease too passed away due to coronavirus.The fresh cases include 18 from Kalka, 11 from Pinjore, four from Sector 19, three from Sector 20, two each from MDC Sector 5, Sector 10, Sector 16, Sector 21, Sector 25, Sector 26, Sector 4, Tangra Kaliram and Tipra, one each Amrawati, Budanpur, Haripur, Indira Colony, Khera Sita Ram, Ratewali, Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 15, Sector 17, Sector 18, Sector 28, Sector 6 and Sector 8.To date, Panchkula has conducted 45,614 COVID tests.
07-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram-based EV ride-hailing platform BluSmart raises Rs 51 cr||The electric ride-hailing platform BluSmart on Monday announced that it had raised $7 million (nearly Rs 51 crore) in funding from multiple investors in the pre-series A round funding.The company will utilise the funding to expand the number of cars on the platform, set up more charging infrastructure, technology improvements and expand the geographical reach, it said in a statement.The Gurugram-based BluSmart previously raised $3 million in a seed round in September last year and is in discussions to raise venture debt.“We aim at bringing in a new narrative in the EV mobility space by giving the highest quality service as evidenced by our app rating, which is highest among all ride-sharing platforms,” said Anmol Singh Jaggi, Co-founder, BluSmart Mobility.The fresh funding round includes Inflection Point Ventures, Venture Catalysts, Survam Partners, Mumbai Angels, Chhattisgarh Investments Limited, JITO Angels, Lets Venture Fund and Kaplavriksh Fund.The company offers electric cabs to consumers in Delhi NCR and its USPs include zero surge mobility, zero-emission mobility and zero ride denials.It recently launched BluSmart hourly rentals product that allows customers to travel anytime, anywhere and everywhere in Delhi and Gurgaon with multiple stops.“We are also looking at augmenting the EV uptake by expanding fast electric car charging infrastructure for an easy charging practice,” added Punit K Goyal, another Co-founder.The company said it had covered more than 2,00,000 clean trips and completed over five million “clean kms”.BluSmart has partnered with the world’s leading electric vehicle manufactures and features mobility technology. IANS
07-09-2020||Rohtak||Phase 1 of human trials of Covid vaccine successful; Phase 2 begins at Rohtak PGI||Following the success of the first phase of clinical human trials of India’s indigenous COVID vaccine, Covaxin, medical experts at Rohtak PGIMS will begin screening the volunteers for the second phase of the trials on Monday.“In the first phase, two doses of Covaxin were given to 375 healthy volunteers in the age-group of 18 to 55 years across the country, of whom 81 were administered the vaccine at Rohtak PGIMS. In the second phase, we will give two doses of the vaccine to new volunteers in the age-group of 12 to 65 years. Nearly 250 volunteers have registered with us for the trials, and their screening will begin today,” Dr Ramesh Verma, co-investigator in the project told The Tribune.He disclosed that while only healthy volunteers were involved in the first phase of trials, the volunteers who have controlled diabetes, hypertension or asthma etc will also be involved in the second phase.The health investigator maintained that the permission to conduct the second phase of trials is granted after a four-fold increase is recorded in COVID antibodies in the blood samples of the volunteers who had been given doses of Covaxin in the first phase.“In the first phase, the volunteers were given two doses of the vaccine on Day 1 and Day 14. In the second phase, they will be administered the vaccine on Day 1 and Day 28,” he added.
07-09-2020||---||Sisters reunite with father after 8 years||Panchkula, September 6Two teenaged sisters from West Bengal, who had been missing for the past eight years, reunited with their father today due to the efforts of a Haryana policeman, who went an extra mile to find their families.For the past five years, the girls had been staying at Bal Sadan here, a home for orphaned and destitute women and children.ASI Rajesh Kumar of the anti-human trafficking unit of the Haryana Police, who often visited Bal Sadan for his work, had counselled the two sisters in September 2018 for the first time. When he initiated a dialogue with them, the sisters revealed that their parents were separated in 2012. Then, their paternal aunt (bua) had brought them to Chandigarh on the pretext of providing them with good education, but forced them to work as domestic help in bungalows.This went on for a few years before they were rescued by the UT police and sent to Bal Sadan in Panchkula.The ASI said: “After my first conversation with the two sisters, I came to know that they hailed from Lankapara in Alipurduar district. When I contacted an NGO in West Bengal, I got to know that the girls’ grandmother still lived in their house. When the NGO tried to reach their grandmother again in March 2019, she had passed away.”“It was a setback, but I was determined. I then decided to contact an NGO in Meghalaya. I shared the photos of these girls with the NGO. Their team found the sisters’ paternal aunt (chachi). We then got to know that their father worked in Himachal Pradesh,” said the ASI.Their father identified them through a video call. After all formalities were completed, the father reached Panchkula today and met his daughters.
07-09-2020||---||Police remand for conman using Sports Minister’s name||Kurukshetra, September 6The man arrested on Saturday for allegedly using Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Sandeep Singh’s name for duping seven youths was on Sunday produced before a court, which sent him to one-day police remand.Pehowa resident Maya Ram, in his complaint, had alleged that Mandeep Saini would introduce himself as a Hindi daily journalist as well as a close aide of the minister and assured of arranging jobs in Kurukshetra University and Power Department. In all, he pocketed Rs 78,560 for jobs of seven youths.Sports Minister Sandeep Singh had directed the police to register a case and investigate the matter after Maya Ram apprised him of the incident.Pehowa police station SHO Dinesh Kumar said: “Mandeep was produced before a court, which sent him to one-day police remand. His previous record is being checked. We have got Rs 28,000 so far and the remaining money will be recovered during the remand.”
07-09-2020||---||IMA docs roped in to monitor patients||Karnal, September 6With the rising number of Covid patients in the district, the Health Department has roped in doctors of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Karnal chapter, to monitor the health of infected persons under home quarantine. About 950 patients are under home isolation in the district.Each doctor, who has volunteered to help the department, has been given the responsibility of 10 to 15 patients. Doctors are required to call up the patients, monitor their condition for 10 days, boost their morale and report back to the department.One volunteer for 10-15 personsThis, the health authorities say, has helped in reducing the burden on the government machinery to a great extent and keeping the patients in high spirits in this hour of need.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said, “I held a meeting with IMA doctors and sought their help in providing free consultation to patients under home isolation. The IMA accepted the proposal and provided us with a list of doctors willing to help.”Private doctors say serving the humanity in the time of the global pandemic is a learning curve for them. “It is a new experience for us. While interacting with patients, we learnt a lot,” said Dr Kamal Charaya, a physician from the city.Ortho surgeon Dr Balbir Singh Virk said, “The battle against the deadly virus has to be fought fighting against an invisible enemy, so there is a need of a joint efforts to fight against the virus,” said Dr Virk.IMA president Dr Arun Goel said, “The entire team of the IMA has been putting in their efforts to monitor the health of patients as well as boosting their morale. Initially, we provided a list of about 100 doctors who were willing to help. Now, about 350 doctors have volunteered.”The IMA has launched a website, karnalcovid.in, for Covid-related information.
07-09-2020||---||Congress MP Deepender Hooda among 2,277 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 6Deepender Hooda, Congress Rajya Sabha member from Haryana, has tested positive for coronavirus. The 42-year-old son of former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda was admitted to Medanta in Gurugram.In a tweet on Sunday, Deepender announced that he had contracted the infection and urged those who had come in contact with him to get themselves tested.“My Covid report has come out positive. As per the advice of doctors, other tests are being conducted,” Deepender said in his tweet.The state reported the biggest single-day spike in Covid deaths today. A total of 25 deaths took the toll to 806. With 2,277 fresh cases, the number of cases went up to 76,549.Gurugram reported the maximum of 306 cases, followed by Faridabad (276), Karnal (246), Kurukshetra (230), Ambala (190) and Panchkula (137).Panchkula reported a maximum of four deaths, followed by Kurukshetra (3) and Faridabad, Ambala, Rohtak, Panipat, Karnal and Kaithal (2 each). Hisar, Rewari, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Yamunanagar reported one death each.With two more deaths reported in the past 24 hours, Covid toll in Faridabad rose to 178. The number of Covid cases rose to 13,896, with 276 fresh cases having been reported today.The patients who died included a 48-year-old man from Sanjay Colony and a 70-year-old man from NIT. The number of recovered patients reached 12,596, with 182 patients discharged today.In the highest single-day surge, Kurushetra reported 230 fresh cases. Three deaths were reported — a 60-year-old man from Yara village, a 13-year-old girl from Majri Kalan who was undergoing treatment at the PGI in Chandigarh and a 65-year-old woman from New Colony.In a major spike, 190 fresh cases were recorded in Ambala, while two deaths were also reported. A 65-year-old man from Baldev Nagar and a 58-year-old woman from Ambala Cantonment died due to the infection.
07-09-2020||---||Administration revamp delayed||Chandigarh, September 6The pandemic has cast its shadow over Manohar Lal Khattar government’s ambitious exercise to redraw Haryana’s administrative map.With the committee headed by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala getting six-month extension, the wait for new administrative units is set to be longer.Constituted on April 10, the committee, with ministers Kanwar Pal Gujjar and Banwari Lal as members, was given a three-month deadline, till July 9, to submit its report.Among other things, the panel was mandated to recommend reorganisation of subdivisions, tehsils, sub-tehsils and blocks. Vijay Vardhan, Financial Commissioner (Revenue), through a notification dated September 2, extended the tenure of the committee to January 9 next year.
07-09-2020||Kurukshetra||‘e-care’ app to keep watch on Covid patients||The Kurukshetra administration has developed the application ‘e-care kurukshetra’ to monitor Covid-related activities and patients.Besides mobile version, the application will also have a web version for desktop. The application is being tested by officials and will be formally launched in a couple of days.Officials will be able to track and monitor active cases, communicate with patients and check their health status, while patients will be able to raise grievances.It will help the administration in compiling data and status of Covid patients and their contacts. Details regarding the number of beds available will also be visible. — TNS
07-09-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rendered jobless amid Covid, he sells fruit, veggies in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 6Covid came like a bolt from the blue for Rinku (32), plant head at a Delhi-based electrical appliances manufacturing company, and his elder brother Rajesh (36), supervisor at the same plant, as they lost their jobs.They are now selling vegetables and fruits to make ends meet. Their father Prem Singh, making a living by driving private vehicles before the lockdown, hardly got work since.“I worked as head at one of the three plants of the company, where pump sets of air coolers were assembled, for five years. The company shut the plant in March-end during the lockdown, rendering over 70 employees jobless. The other two plants were closed later,” said Rinku of Sri Nagar Colony.“I had never thought that circumstances would force me to sell vegetables and fruits for arranging two square meals for my family. My brother and I contacted many companies and factories to get work, but to no avail,” he said.He maintained that initially, they planned to open a grocery shop, but shelved it as the investment required was beyond their budget. “Selling vegetables and fruits is the only business which can be started with less investment. We took a loan for Rs 40,000 from a relative for buying a ‘rehri’ attached to a motorcycle,” said Rinku, a graduate.“I sell vegetables and fruits on a ‘rehri’ attached to the motorcycle across the city. Another ‘rehri’ taken on a rent of Rs 800 per month has been set up outside the house, where my brother, mother and other family members sell vegetables,” he said.Rinku said there was no possibility of the plant getting reopened in the next five or six months. He claimed that a large number of employees working in private companies and factories in Rohtak had lost their jobs during the pandemic.
07-09-2020||---||Jagadhri SDM to investigate sale deeds of church properties||Yamunanagar, September 6Jagadhri SDM Darshan Kumar will investigate the sale deeds of properties owned by “Church of North India Trust Association” in Yamunanagar and Jagadhri.The inquiry will be done on the basis of a complaint lodged by a delegation of Christian community to Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar, requesting him to protect the church property from forceful possession by some persons on the basis of forged and fabricated power of attorney.The delegation also handed over a complaint to City Magistrate Bharat Bhushan Kaushik and other officers of the local administration in this connection.False representationOn the basis of forged power of attorney, some persons are falsely representing themselves to be owner or authorised persons. They are indulging in usurping church properties. —A delegation of Christian communityAs per a claim made by the delegation comprising J Vishwas Mal, Jacob Masih, Johnson Lal, Dr CA Harrison, Willson Masih and several other persons, the Church of North India Trust Association is in possession of church properties situated at Fountain Chowk, St Thomas School, Jagadhri, Yamunanagar church, Christian hospital and graveyard.“On the basis of forged and fabricated power of attorney, some persons are falsely representing themselves to be owner or authorised persons. They are indulging in usurping church properties by executing fictitious sale deeds and other documents and forcefully trying to possess it,” alleged the delegation.The Jagadhri SDM said the Deputy Commissioner had marked an inquiry to him to probe the issue of sale deeds related to properties of church. “I was entrusted with the responsibility of probing this issue two days ago,” he added.
07-09-2020||---||Cotton crop hit by whitefly, girdawari must: Minister||Hisar, September 6Agriculture Minister JP Dalal has said that preliminary survey reports have suggested considerable loss to the cotton crop on account of whitefly and other diseases such as parawilt and leaf curl. He demanded a special girdawari to assess the damage.“Every affected farmer will be compensated. About 50 per cent of farmers have their cotton crop insured under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana. They will get the insurance claim. Those who did not opt for the scheme will be compensated by the state government,” the minister said here on Sunday.Official-insurance firm nexus claimedThere is a nexus between revenue officials and insurance firms. They have deliberately shown losses below 25 per cent so that farmers cannot claim compensation. —Sampat Singh, Former ministerThis season, about 7.37 lakh hectares are under cotton cultivation across the state.Farmers have been demanding a girdawari, while unions have launched an agitation seeking compensation for crop failure.The minister said, “I had a word with Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who holds the revenue portfolio, on the situation. Deputy Commissioners have been told to submit reports on crop loss. The Agriculture Department has sent the preliminary report to the government. I hope it will soon order a girdawari.”Kisan Sabha state president Phool Singh Sheokand said, “The extent of financial loss is yet to be assessed, but it is apprehended to be more than Rs 1,100 crore suffered in 2015-16.”
07-09-2020||Gurugram||Inspector shot at near ACP office in Gurugram||An inspector with the Gurugram police was shot at by two unidentified assailants opposite the office of Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) in the Palam Vihar area here this evening.The accused came on foot and fled after the incident. Inspector Sonu Malik receiving a bullet injury in his right shoulder. He was taken to Columbia Asia Hospital, but was referred to Medanta due to non-availability of a surgeon.Sources said personal enmity could be the cause for the attack. Malik’s uncle had been shot dead some time back.According to the police, the incident took place around 8 pm when Malik was reportedly coming out of a property dealer’s office in Palam Vihar. Two men came towards him and opened fire. — OC
07-09-2020||Panipat||RMP, wife killed in house collapse||A couple died after their house collapsed in Farmana village in Kharkhoda of Sonepat district late on Saturday night. The police have begun a probe into the matter. The deceased have been identified as Raghuveer (60) and Krishna (58) of Baliana village of Rohtak. Raghuveer was a rural medical practitioner (RMP). — TNS
07-09-2020||---||Transfer rape case to another district, Karnal SP urges IGP||Karnal, September 6After questions were raised over the working of the police in the high-profile gang rape case registered on the complaint of a woman teacher against the owner of the same private school and a tehsildar, the Karnal Superintendent of Police (SP) Surinder Singh Bhoria has requested IGP Karnal Range, Bharti Arora to transfer the case to another district.He has written a letter in this regard to the IGP requesting her to transfer the gang rape case as well as the extortion case against the woman teacher. She was arrested in this case allegedly for accepting Rs 7.25 lakh for withdrawing the rape charges against the owner and tehsildar.She is now out on bail and had accused Shiv Kumar Gonder, son of an Independent MLA from Nilokheri Dharampal Gonder, for trapping her in the “false” extortion case in connivance with the school owner and the police.She has also produced some audio clips before the media which are said to be of a conversation between her and the MLA’s son. However, the MLA’s son has denied the allegations.“We have registered two separate cases –- one of gang rape against the owner of a private school and a tehsildar on the complaint of the woman teacher on July 6 under Section 376D, 323, 506, 34 of the IPC. It is being investigated by SIT head DSP Jagdeep Singh. Another FIR was registered on August 21 under Section 384, 389, 506 of the IPC against the woman teacher on the complaint of the school owner. She was arrested by the police,” said SP Bhoria.“These cases are being highlighted in social media to a great extent and unnecessarily, the district police are being dragged in the controversy by the levelling of allegations and counter-allegations by both parties. Many audio recordings are being played in the media which the woman has never produced before the SIT during the course of the investigation,” said the SP in the letter, a copy of which is with The Tribune.IGP Bharti Arora said, “I have received the letter from Karnal SP to transfer the case. The order to transfer the case will be taken on Monday.”
07-09-2020||STRAY dog and cattle menace is scaring people visiting Chaudhary Devi Lal Park at HUDA Sector 1 in Rohtak city. Stray animals can be seen roaming in the park freely. They not only pose a serious threat to the visitors but also make the park dirty by defecating there. Recently||Stray animal menace at Rohtak park||Intersection turns accident-proneHEAVY vehicles coming from the road leading from the city’s New Grain Market to Bajida Road towards Ghoghripur Railway overbridge pose a threat to commuters at Kanhaiya City intersection. The district administration and the Municipal Corporation should construct speed breakers at this intersection at the earliest. —Shakti Singh, KarnalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
07-09-2020||Mahendragarh||Central University of Haryana online exams from Sept 14||Faculty development programmeFaridabad: The Department of Environmental Sciences of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here will organise a week-long faculty development programme (FDP) on ‘Green technologies and environmental sustainability’ (GTES-2020) from September 8 to 12. In all 250 participants from interdisciplinary backgrounds from across the country and abroad had registered themselves for the programme. National convenor of RSS Paryavaran Vibhag Gopal Arya, vice-president of Vigyan Bharti and former Director General of the Indian Meteorological Department, New Delhi, Dr LS Rathore, and president of Solar Energy Society of India (SESI), New Delhi, Dr Prafulla Pathak will be the guest speakers at the inaugural session of the programme which will be presided over by Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar.
