07-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 33 positive cases, majority Jamaat members||Haryana on Tuesday reported 33 cases of coronavirus, the highest in a single day, with most of them being Tablighi Jamaat members, health officials said.With the new positive patients, the total number of cases in the state rose to 129. Nearly 80 of these are Jamaat members, who returned from the congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz in March.Health Minister Anil Vij told the media that 1,526 Jamaat members have been identified and given a 24-hour deadline to report their whereabouts to the nearest police station, or else face criminal prosecution.Out of the 33 cases, 23 were reported from Muslim-dominated Nuh, two from Gurugram, one from Jind and the remaining from Faridabad.According to the state’s medical bulletin, out of 129 confirmed cases, six patients were from Sri Lanka and one each from Nepal, Thailand, Indonesia and South Africa.Fifty patients were from other states, comprising 11 from Uttar Pradesh, eight Bihar, seven Tamil Nadu, five Kerala, four West Bengal, three each from Maharashtra and Jammu and Kashmir, two Telangana and one each from Punjab, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Assam.While two patients died, 17 have been discharged so far. --- IANS
07-04-2020||Our correspondent||4 nabbed for firing at mosque||Gurugram, April 6The Gurugram police have nabbed four persons for firing at a mosque in Dhankot village on Sunday. The accused confessed of being disturbed by the Covid -19 spread through Jamaatis and eventual evacuation of Tablighis from the mosque. They claimed that they wanted to save any further threat to the city and had gone to check if anyone was hiding in the mosque and fired as they could not open the door.The accused attributed their fears to various social media posts being circulated about Jamaatis from Dhankot. All four were produced in a court and were sent into judicial custody. The accused have been identified as Vinod (40), Pawan, alias Fighter (41), Aalam Khan (39), and Harkesh (18).“The accused revealed that they were sitting and discussing about Covid-19 and found many posts about Tablighi on social media that how they were contributing to the increase of corona cases in the country. Soon, they decided to raid a mosque and check if any more Jamaatis were being harboured. They banged the gates and tried to break it open but when failed, they fired twice and fled,” said ACP, Crime, Preet Pal Singh Sangwan.
07-04-2020||A call from a foreign number (+13174208592) to a youth||Kaithal Hoax call creates panic||CHANDIGARH Rs 20K for sanitising villagesDeputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said the Haryana Government had approved Rs20,000 for sanitisation activities in villages to contain Covid spread. Dushyant said on demand for additional funds by various districts, the state government decided to give nod to gram panchayats having own resources to carry out sanitisation and grant Rs20,000 to those having an annual income of less than Rs2 lakh from its own resources (including interest income from FDs). He said that the ADCs were directed to provide details of such gram panchayats of their respective districts so that the necessary funds may be released. TNSAMBALA two more suspected casesTwo more suspected Covid patients were reported in Ambala district on Monday, taking the tally to 157, including 95 Tablighi Jamaat attendees, Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said. The fresh cases are a 60-year-old paternal uncle of a 21-year-old Patiala youth, who had tested positive and was admitted to Ambala City Civil Hospital, and a 44-year-old woman, who had travelled to Punjab recently. Since the Patiala youth was no showing symptoms anymore, his sample was sent for clinical examination, said Dr Singh. TNSAMBALA 2 held for lockdown violationThe police have arrested two persons and booked another for violating the District Magistrate’s order imposing lockdown till April 14, officials said here Monday. The arrested persons are Dilbagh Singh of Ambala Cantt, who was roaming outside, and Gulshan of Ambala City, who had opened his shop. While Dilbagh was sent to jail by a local court, Gulshan was released on bail, the officials added. In a separate case, Kamal of Saha near here was booked for selling illicit liquor during the lockdown. He was yet to be arrested, the police said. TNS
07-04-2020||---||6 arrested for assault on Gurugram family||Gurugram, April 6 The Gurugram police have arrested six persons for allegedly assaulting a Muslim family on Sunday night during the PM’s 9-minute lights-out call. The accused who reportedly arrived at the victim’s doorstep chanting ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ with phone torches turned on, asked them not to participate in the activity or videograph it as they were Muslims. When the family tried to reason, they attacked them with bricks. Scared, the family went to the police on Monday and following an FIR, all accused who lived nearby were nabbed.  Meanwhile, the accused pleaded that it was a normal argument between neighbours, which was being communalised to gain sympathy.
07-04-2020||---||Patient’s bid to escape using bedsheets proves fatal||Karnal, April 6A 55-year-old patient died after falling from the sixth floor of KCGMC hospital here when he tried to escape using a “rope” made of bedsheets and IV sets in the wee hours on Monday. He was a suspected Covid patient and was in the isolation ward of the hospital. His samples were collected on Sunday and the report had come out negative.The deceased was a resident of Noorpur village in Panipat. He was admitted in the hospital on April 1 with multiple ailments. He was suffering from acute pancreatic and kidney problems. He showed symptoms in an x-ray report, following which his samples were collected, said the hospital authorities.The incident took place at around 3.30 am when he tried to escape from the hospital by using bedsheets and IV sets. He fell and died on the spot. After the confirmation that his report was negative, his post-mortem examination was conducted and the body was handed over to the family members.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said that the reason behind his attempt to escape is yet to be determined.
07-04-2020||Sunit Dhawan---||To keep students connected, schools begin e-classes||Tribune News Service Rohtak, April 6 In order to keep students connected to academics during the lockdown, several private schools have started conducting e-classes to facilitate home learning. While some schools are holding live online audio-visual classes with the help of internet-based communication platforms and e-learning apps like Zoom and Fliplearn, owners and managers of several other schools plan to follow suit.  “The utility of such e-teaching modules is that teachers can teach and students can attend classes sitting at home without the fear of contracting Covid,” observes Tanuj Ghai, an online service provider. He pointed out that there were several e-communication platforms and apps which could be used in the given scenario to run schools on e-education mode, wherein teachers and students had live online audio-visual classes through smartphones and laptops. The parents of schoolchildren hailed the e-teaching regime though they felt that students of primary classes should not be overburdened with daily online classes and assignments. “Commencement of e-classes is a commendable initiative for students of Class VIII onwards, but young children should be allowed to learn and grow at their own pace. Instead of putting undue pressure on tender minds, the school authorities should go easy,” said Dr Sunita Dhingra, university teacher and mother of two schoolchildren.
07-04-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Covid-positive cop cremated in Sonepat, admn unaware||Tribune News ServicePanipat, April 6A huge negligence has come to the fore where a Covid-positive Sub-Inspector (SI), who died at a private hospital in Delhi, was cremated in Sonepat without fulfilling the norms set for such patients by the government.However, after cremation it came to the fore that he was infected with Covid following which the district administration quarantined 28 persons and also lodged a case against the Delhi hospital for negligence.The deceased was identified as Khila Ram of Shiv Colony on Devru Road in the city. He was admitted to the Maharaja Aggarsen Hospital, Punjabi Bagh, New Delhi, on March 13 due to brain haemorrhage.He died on April 4 during treatment and the hospital administration had handed over the body of the deceased to the victim’s kin. The family members performed his last rites in Rishi Colony here in which relatives and friends were present.The hospital did not even inform about the patient to the administration while handing over his body.As per reports, Khila Ram had tested positive for Covid on April 2, just two days before his death. But no precautionary measures, as per the guidelines of the government for Covid-positive patients, were adopted by the hospital and the deceased’s family members.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa wrote a letter to the DC to immediately quarantine the persons present during the cremation of Khila Ram. The SP also sent a list of 19 persons to the DC to quarantine them to avert Covid spread.A case has been registered against the Delhi hospital under Sections 51A and 51B of the Disaster Management Act and 188, 269, 270, 271 and 336 of the IPC on the complaint of Duty magistrate Rajesh Vats, the SP added.Meanwhile, Dr Adarsh Sharma, Principal Medical Officer, said 20 persons had been quarantined at their homes.
07-04-2020||---||Warm welcome for Hisar Covid survivor||Hisar, April 6 A 54-year-old woman who tested positive for Covid on March 30 returned home to a warm welcome on Monday upon completion of treatment at the PGI medical college in Agroha town. Her husband who was quarantined at Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology here also tested negative and returned home with the woman. Neighbours cheered and clapped as the couple arrived, while medical staff welcomed them with flowers. Their home was sanitised before their arrival. Her husband said it was a psychological battle for him and his wife and they emerged victorious with help from the medical staff.  Medical staff said the woman returned from the US on March 17 and stayed in Hisar before coming to Hisar. She also visited the Military Hospital and the civil hospital before being home quarantined on March 22. Health authorities sent her samples for testing to the PGIMS-Rohtak on March 30 after she showed symptoms of Coronavirus. She was shifted to the Agroha medical college and about 22 contacts were also quarantined. However, the samples of all others — including her husband — tested negative. Health officials said the couple will stay in home quarantine for 14 more days.  Jitender Sheoran, president of the Sector 16-17 Resident Welfare Association, urged people to take precautions and maintain social distancing.
07-04-2020||---||4-tier structure to reach out to last man in queue||Chandigarh, April 6To provide benefit of welfare measures to the last man in queue, the Haryana Government has decided to form a four-level administrative structure involving NGOs, civil society organisations and volunteers.The four-level administrative structure will comprise committees at polling booth level, sector, zone and district, says a letter from Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora, dated April 4, to all DCs.A government employee will head a polling booth level committee which will comprise local volunteers or members of NGOs or civil society organisations. Such a committee will take care of 250-300 households. There are 19,433 polling booths in the state.This committee will carry out listing of all households in its area while needy and poor households will be identified separately and their requirement of dry ration or cooked food will be determined. The committee will ensure that ration to poor is disbursed free for April.With help from welfare organisation, it will provide ration to those also who don’t have ration card. Other requirements of specific class of households such as old age persons, single women and those with children with special needs will also be recorded and would be provided with food and essential items, including medicines.For financial assistance, the polling booth level committees will also ensure verification of unorganised labour, eligible households for Mukhya Mantri Parivar Samridhi Yojna (MMPSY) and registered construction workers.A Sector Committee would supervise 12-15 polling booth level committees. It will be headed by a government employee while other members will be prominent members of Civil Society Organisations or volunteers or social workers.At the third tier will be a cluster of 15 sectors supervised by a Zonal Committee headed by a BDPO or Executive Officer of local body or Secretary of local body with NGOs or civil society organisations as members. It will report to DC on a regular basis and ensure that the entire implementation of relief measures within the block reaches out to each and every needy and poor family of the block.A district-level committee will be headed by the Deputy Commissioner while members of NGOs or social workers or volunteers will be part of it.
07-04-2020||Mukesh Tandon||12 days Panipat nurse will never forget||Tribune News ServicePanipat, April 6“I had no history of direct contact with a Coronavirus patient and it shocked me when I tested positive… I went into depression, but being a health worker I soon reconciled with my diagnosis and resolved to fight the virus,” says Payal, who was Panipat’s third Covid patient. And, she put up a brave 12-day fight and won.The 23-year-old staff nurse at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram was discharged on Friday from the general hospital here after two consecutive tests on Monday and Friday returned negative. Her family welcomed her at their Model Town home by showering petals on her.Payal had been working at Medanta Hospital for 7-8 years and was posted in ICU Ward 8. She completed morning duty on March 18 and the same evening got a severe headache. She went for a checkup in the Emergency the next morning. On March 20, she developed a severe headache, body pain, sore throat and mild fever and again went to the Medanta Emergency. “Doctors started me on antibiotics and said it was a simple viral fever and advised rest,” recalled Payal.She took the Metro to get home and warned passengers to maintain distance from her due to her ailment. She then caught a bus and reached her Panipat home on the night of March 20.“Being a health worker, I quarantined myself at home for two days, but my health deteriorated. My parents took me to the general hospital on March 23 where doctors attending to me also said I had a simple flu as there was no history of direct contact with a Covid patient,” she said.But since she was a health worker, doctors admitted her and her preliminary test for Covid came positive on March 24 following which she was shifted to the isolation ward right away. “The report confirming Covid came on March 25. Coronavirus is very dangerous and the patient has lot of pain in the throat, headache, bodyache, fever and other complications. I felt mild breathlessness while sleeping and pain in calf muscles and severe headache, but recovered in 4-5 days,” she said.Though Payal had not come in direct contact with any Covid patient, staff members of her ward were sent for duty to the Covid Ward on the 14th floor. “I may have come in contact with them. I also travelled from Panipat to Gurugram in the first week of March,” she said.As per protocol, Payal’s family was also tested for Covid. “The test reports of my family members also relaxed me, as I had hugged my mother when I reached home,” she added.She spent 12 days from March 23 to April 3 in the isolation ward where staff members, doctors, nurses, her friends from Medanta and family members motivated her over video calls. “Everyone’s love and concern helped me beat the virus,” said Payal.
07-04-2020||Sushil Manav||Rapidly evolving situation calls for strategy shift: Addl Chief Secy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6The Covid situation in Haryana, like in other parts of the country, is evolving fast, forcing the health authorities in the state to shift their strategy.In an exclusive interview with The Tribune on Monday, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, Haryana, Rajeev Arora said the Covid situation had changed fast in the state in the past couple of days with Nuh and Palwal districts becoming the new hotspots of infection due to the cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event.“Of the 96 positive cases in Haryana till Monday evening, 57 are connected to Tablighi Jamaat and a majority of these patients are from 20 villages of Nuh district and five villages of the Hathin block of Palwal district. The villages have been converted into containment zone and our teams are doing a door-to-door survey of the entire area to find out the infected people,” Arora added.He said though it was a big challenge, the Health Department had been able to track down all contacts of these people and quarantine them.“In the last 3-4 days, 1,718 people have been quarantined in the state. Of these, 1,308 are those who attended the Jammat event and their contacts. During the same period, 1,007 samples of people associated with Markaz have been taken,” Arora said.Arora said initially, Gurugram and Faridabad were been considered to be hotspots — the former because of its cosmopolitan character and the latter due to its dense population.However, Nuh and and Palwal have now come up as the new hotspots and the health authorities have been laying special emphasis on these areas for the containment of Covid.Of the 96 positive cases, 26 are in Palwal, 18 in Gurugram and 14 each Nuh and Faridabad, he added.“With 15 patients having recovered and discharged from hospitals, practically, we have 79 positive cases, of which 57 are connected with the Jamaat event,” he added.When The Tribune drew his attention towards the complaints of lack of sufficient safety gears with doctors and paramedics fighting frontline battle against Covid, Arora claimed that all those who need gears were being provided with the material.“As of today, we have a stock of 1.35 lakh N95 masks. There is no dearth of triple-ply masks. We have a stock of around 10 lakh such masks. As far as personal protective equipment (PPEs) is concerned, we have 26,000 units and will get another 10,000 in the next 4 or 5 days. Since these are all consumable items, we are constantly in touch with suppliers from Maharashtra and Punjab and also from the HLL Lifecare, a Central Government undertaking company,” he said.Asked how the videos of Asha workers are without even basic masks are going viral, Arora said there could be some mismanagement at some level, but as such there was no shortage of masks.On the allegations that the Haryana Government is not doing enough number of tests for Covid, Arora said initially, it was Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) protocol that there should be no indiscriminate testing and those with travel history and close contact with patients to be tested.Later, the protocol was eased to allow sampling of those suffering from severe acute respiratory syndrome were included in it.Now, the protocol has been eased further to do rapid diagnostic tests in hotspots.He said the number of tests had been increased considerably and of total 2,194 tests, 775 had been done in the past 3-4 days.On the state government’s preparedness in the event of a bigger outbreak, Arora said a government medical college situated in Nalhar in Mewat had been exclusively designated as the Covid hospital.Isolation wards set up in the ESIC Medical College, Faridabad, and Maharaja Agarsen Medical College, Agroha, will also be utilised, if cases start coming from that direction.“Going by the trajectory of the positive cases so far, we are confident that we will be able to contain the disease and there may not be a bigger outbreak. But it is a continuously evolving process and hence we are keeping our fingers crossed,” he added.Asked if there is any chance of the infection getting milder with the advent of summer, Arora said though he was not a public health specialist, but doctors, too, were making guesses on the basis of behaviour of viruses coming in the past.“How this novel coronavirus will behave, only time will tell,” he concluded.
07-04-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Cluster containment plan in Gurugram, Faridabad soon||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, April 6Citing these districts to be most vulnerable to the cluster transmission of Covid, the state government is all set to introduce “micro-containment plan” in Faridabad and Gurugram.The districts with highest density of population shall go ahead with intensive community testing with rapid antibody tests that will yield results in three hours.9 Palwal villages in containment zoneAccording to health officials, they shall work towards containing the disease within a defined geographic area by early detection of cases, breaking the chain of transmission and preventing spread to new areas. The clusters or areas with positive cases will be identified and households and residents within three-km radius shall be screened and quarantined.Gurugram DC Amit Khatri said the containment plan would include geographic quarantine, social-distancing measures, enhanced active surveillance, testing all suspected cases, isolation of patients, quarantine of contacts and communication to create awareness.“We are working out an execution plan, where we will identify the areas with positive cases. Active testing on community basis shall be done through rapid kits. Passively, we shall make it available to individuals as well. This shall help us in concentrating on clusters at higher risk, owing to more cases or people to residential space ratio or cramped living conditions,” said Gurugram CMO JS Punia.
07-04-2020||---||Urban Local Bodies staff told to rejoin duty, order later amended||Chandigarh, April 6 Employees of the Urban Local Bodies (ULB) headquarters got a surprise on Monday when they received an order to rejoin office from April 7. However when the news spread, the order was amended to include only those posted as branch heads in administrative, establishment and fire-fighting sections of the department. Earlier, the order was issued to all officers or branch heads to call their subordinates on the phone to ensure the presence of all employees from April 7 — like it used to be before the lockdown. It was also intimated that if any employee remains absent, action will be taken against him as per rules. “It was against the orders issued by the Centre. It is the Union Government which has asked the state government to ensure lockdown. How can the ULB department call all its employees?” said an officer on the condition of anonymity. After objections were raised, the ULB Department amended its order and called for the presence of only officers or branch heads.
07-04-2020||Chandigarh||20 new Covid cases in a day take total up to 96||Haryana saw a sharp spike in the number of Covid cases which touched 96, with most of them linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event, officials said on Monday.Of the fresh cases, nine are from Palwal district, six from Nuh, four from Karnal and one from Charkhi Dadri, according to the state Health Department’s bulletin in the evening. The positive cases on Sunday stood at 76 and the state recorded a jump of 20 cases in a single day.“We had sent 96 samples for testing and 14 out them returned positive. Reports of 229 samples are awaited. Of total 343 samples, 100 have tested negative,” said Dr Virender Yadav, Civil Surgeon, Nuh.At present, there are 79 active cases in the state, 15 patients have been discharged while the state has recorded three Covid-related deaths. Reports of 459 samples were awaited. Among the total positive cases reported, six are Sri Lankan nationals and one each is from Nepal, Thailand, Indonesia and South Africa while 29 are from other states of the country, including Jammu and Kashmir (UT), Tamil Nadu, Assam, Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana and Punjab, as per the bulletin.Home Minister Anil Vij said 40 of the total active cases in the state were those linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. He said that until Monday, 1,526 Jamaat members, which include 107 foreigners, had been tracked down by police in the state, out of which 678 were traced from Nuh district, all of whom have entered the state before the nationwide lockdown was announced.Among other districts, 231 Jamaat members have been tracked down from Yamunanagar district, 136 from Faridabad and 117 from Panchkula, he said. He warned that all those Jamaat members, who may still be hiding, are given time till 5 pm on April 8 to report to concerned district administration, failing which strict action will be initiated against them as per law.Vij, who is also the state’s Health Minister, said as against earlier decision to take samples of only those Jamaat members for Covid testing who had entered the state less than a month earlier, now it has been decided that all of them will be tested irrespective of when they entered Haryana.Meanwhile, Chief Minister ML Khattar, during a televised address to people of the state on Monday, informed that 13 of the 14 Italian tourists, who were admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon last month after they were found Covid positive, had been discharged.Khattar touched upon various steps which the state government has been taking to check the spread of Covid, besides extending help to those poor sections of the society who have been adversely hit in the wake of the lockdown. He said the state has adequate number of personal protection equipment available. — PTI
07-04-2020||---||Lockdown may go beyond April 14, indicates Khattar||Chandigarh, April 6 Referring to doctors and paramedics as “gods in white”, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said that they were giving exemplary service while indicating that the lockdown could continue beyond April 14. He underlined the need to form smaller clusters to reach out to the public and maintain the supply chain of essentials. In his address to the public, Khattar said, “We have been following the Prime Minister’s instructions. We should continue cooperating whether the lockdown is extended or lifted in phases after April 14.” Urging political leaders to rise above party politics  in this hour of crisis, Khattar said that he was directly in touch with  all leaders through an apex body formed for coordination. “We have told Deputy Commissioners to maintain the supply chain by directing the constitution of 20,000 committees and reduce the number of households under each committee to 250 to cater better to their needs,” he explained. Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora directed nodal officers across the state to start psychiatric counselling for people through telemedicine and ensure that both government and private hospitals reviewed their protocols as per guidelines. The Chief Secretary gave these directions through video-conferencing in the meeting of the crisis coordination committee of nodal officers appointed for Covid. She said that the people needed help and counselling in these times. She asked the officers to prepare the micro-level planning module for their respective districts at the earliest. She directed the officers to visit all hospitals in their areas and ascertain the availability of necessary kits and equipment, including oxygen cylinders. She directed them to make adequate stay arrangements for staff working at Covid hospitals at suitable places. The Chief Secretary directed that control rooms in Faridabad, Gurugram and Karnal should be made functional at the earliest. She stated that a district-level committee had been constituted to fix prices of food items. She sought compilation of comprehensive data of migrant labourers, including information of their hometowns, so that adequate arrangements for transportation could be made. Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said that the state had collaborated with two private laboratories for Covid testing.  DGP Manoj Yadava pointed out that fake news and rumours were creating problems and there  was a need to keep a tab on these. The Chief Secretary directed the officers to guard against fake news and malicious rumours regarding the spread of Covid and prepare jingles and videos to disseminate authentic information.
07-04-2020||---||Kin cry negligence, inquiry begins||Karnal, April 6A team of the Rohtak PGIMS on Monday reached Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) to inquire the allegations levelled by the family members of the first Covid patient who died at the PGI in Chandigarh on Sunday.Source of infection remains a mysteryThe family members alleged negligence on the part of the doctors of the hospital and delay in collecting the samples that led to the victim getting exposed to the medical staff, family members and other patients in the ward.The team members took the record and would file a report to the VC of PGIMS in Rohtak. The report would be sent to the government. Dr Gunjan, spokesperson of the hospital, confirmed the team’s visit and inquiry.
