07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Six deaths, 274 fresh coronavirus cases in Haryana||Haryana on Thursday reported six more coronavirus deaths, taking the fatality count to 2,940, even as 274 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 2,64,161.According to the state Health Department’s daily bulletin, the deaths were reported from Gurgaon, Faridabad, Hisar, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Jind districts.Gurgaon reported the maximum 82 cases, followed by Faridabad (37).Currently, the state has 2,563 active cases while 2,58,658 people have recovered from the infection so far with the recovery rate hovering around 97.92 per cent, the bulletin added. PTI
07-01-2021||New Delhi||Haryana group meets Tomar to seek discussion on SYL issue during farmers’ meeting||A farmer group from Haryana on Thursday met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, seeking their participation in the eighth round of talks to be held on Friday with the protesting unions and said it wants to raise the long-pending Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal issue.Separately, Punjab’s Nanaksar Gurdwara head Baba Lakha, a renowned religious leader of the state, also met Tomar here and discussed the issues related to farmers’ protest.The representation made by Haryana Yuva Kisan Sangarsh Samithi (HYKSS), headed by former MLA Naresh Yadav Ateli, however focussed on the SYL issue.A delegation of 20 farmers reached the national capital by walking for over 130 km from Ateli town in Mahendragarh district for eight days from December 30.Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Ateli said, “I told the minister that you are inviting farmers’ leaders for the January 8 meeting. Please invite our 11 members as well. We are also farmers and want to raise the SYL canal issue.”       While the SYL Canal issue is 45 years old, the protest over new farm laws is a recent development, he said, adding the government should give priority to settle the SYL Canal issue with the Punjab government.Ateli said the Supreme Court order was in favour of Haryana and had the canal work been completed, the state would have got the much-required water to irrigate dry patches of lakhs of hectares of farm land.The HYKSS president said the issue has been raised with the Union Jal Shakti Ministry as well.“If the Punjab government is stubborn, then some agency should begin the work of SYL Canal because the water level has gone down below 1,800 feet affecting lakhs of hectares of land,” he said.The only way to save the farmland in the dry belt of Haryana is to irrigate it from the canal water. The water level is so low that even tubewells cannot be installed, he noted.“The minister said we will look into this issue (SYL Canal),” Atelli said.Asked if there was a discussion on new farm laws in the meeting, he said, “Our main demand is water because there cannot be farming without water. Farm laws have come now. The SYL issue is very old.”                He also alleged that the Punjab and Haryana politicians are playing politics on the SYL Canal issue.“We could have got water had they risen above politics.”  On the farm laws, Ateli said, “Politics is happening on this issue... If any farmers’ leaders or political parties say that the laws are not good, then they should come up with proper proof. If the laws are wrong, then what is right?”     Asked if HYKSS supports the new laws, he said, “My fight is on water. I have not gone into details of the new laws. Laws are passed in Parliament, they will end their only. That is the work of Parliament.”     He also mentioned that ongoing protest at Delhi borders is causing inconvenience to the public due to the road jam. — PTI
07-01-2021||Hisar||Mentally challenged SC woman raped in temple in Jind village||A mentally challenged woman belonging to Scheduled Caste was lured and taken to a temple where she was allegedly raped by a man of the same village in Jind district on Wednesday.The police registered a case of rape under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and the SC/ST Act against the accused identified as Sunil and arrested him today.The women police station SHO in Jind, Inspector Geeta Rani informed that they got a complaint from the father of a victim woman, 35, who is mentally challenged.The complaint stated that the victim was taken to a temple in the village by the accused Sunil, 40, of the same village today.The SHO said she visited the spot on getting the complaint. She said that two boys aged around 15-16 years informed her that they spotted the man taking the woman inside a room in the temple. The SHO said that boys informed the family members of the victim after which a person of the girl’s family arrived at the temple and tried to catch hold of the accused but he fled from the spot.The victim was married but had returned to live with her parents in the parental village for last some time.The SHO said that the police have registered a case against the accused, while the victim was taken to the hospital for medical examination.
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal levels in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions continued in Punjab and Haryana even as the minimum temperatures stayed above normal levels in both the states on Thursday.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its low at 12 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective minimums at 9, 12 and 13.5 degrees Celsius, up to seven degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 8.8, 12.3, 12.2, 12.3, 11.4 and 10 degrees Celsius respectively.In neighbouring Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their respective lows at 12.1, 11.9 and 13.2 degrees Celsius, up to six degrees above normal.Minimum temperatures of Narnaul, Rohtak and Sirsa settled at 10.6, 13.8 and 10.5 degrees Celsius respectively. — PTI
07-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||Set up panel to redraft Act, ensure MSP to farmers: Agri scientists to Centre||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 7Agriculture scientists led by a former vice chancellor of the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) have suggested to the Centre to keep the new Agriculture Acts in abeyance for one year and redraft the Act by setting up a committee having representation from diverse sections of the society, including farmers.The Agriculture experts held an online meeting today chaired by former HAU vice Chancellor Dr KS Khokhar. The meeting has retired agricultural scientists from different states, agricultural universities and ICAR institutes as participants to discuss the present scenario emerging due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. NS Verma, former Associate Director and Head of Extension Education at the HAU, was convener.Dr Khokhar stated that the participants agreed that the demand of the farmers to give statutory provision to the minimum support price (MSP) of their produce is genuine. “The Government is also not having any objection to continue it and prepared to give a written guarantee, hence, it should be given a legal sanction through a new Act,” he said.Besides, the former VC stated, since both the Government and the farmers are posturing their rigid stands with regard to new Agriculture Acts, the agriculture scientists suggested that these Acts should be held in abeyance at least for one year. “ln the meantime, when the aforesaid Acts are not under implementation, a committee having representatives of farmers, agricultural experts, economists, lawmakers, and other stakeholders should be constituted to redraft the Agriculture Acts so that these are acceptable to all who are having a stake,” he maintained.The participants appealed to government to show magnanimity for accommodating the point of view of the farmers and also urged the agitating farmers to maintain their stir peaceful in any eventuality and restrain themselves from falling prey to any clandestine design to flare up the situation. The participants also pay homage to the farmers who lost their lives during the 42 days of agitation.
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana offers sops to realty sector to boost affordable housing||In a bid to boost affordable housing, the Khattar Government has amended the state's Affordable Housing Policy-2013 by doling out major sops to the recession-hit realty sector.Under the new policy, the builders have been extended major incentives in the matter of project area norms, commercial component and parking area norms.These incentives are intended to draw the big real estate players into the affordable housing sector which is set to become popular in the post-Covid scenario.While the minimum area norms for setting up the housing project has been reduced from 5 to 4 acres, the maximum area norms have been extended from 10 acres to 30 acres.The commercial component has been increased from 4 per cent to 8 per cent of the net planned area.A notification issued by AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department, said the builders would also be able to provide 0.5 equivalent car space (ECS) to the allottees on chargeable basis(not more than 5% of the flat cost) under the new policy.The allottees already get 0.5 ECS free under the existing policy which would mean that now the car parking problems of the allottees would be taken care of under new policy.Meanwhile, the under-construction projects would also be able to avail these benefits with some riders.BK Sanghi, a real estate expert, opined that the new policy would make the housing in the affordable segment more affordable as the more commercial component in the projects would make go along in keeping the prices competitive."Moreover, provision of car parking for all allottees would draw more end-users and end users into the affordable segment boosting sales," he asserted.Policy implications:*Relaxed area norms to draw big realtors into the affordable housing segment.*More commercial component to keep prices of apartments competitive.*Individual car parking to boost sales in the housing projects.
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava gets extension||Director General of Police Manoj Yadava, who was due to return to central deputation, has been given extension "beyond" February, 20, 2021.Yadava, a 1988 batch IB officer, had been called back to his parent state in February 2019 and appointed DGP for a two-year term.An order issued by Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Rajeev Arora, said that Yadava's term had been extended by the Governor beyond February 20 this year, when his tenure was scheduled to end.
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Modi dedicates Rewari-Madar section of Western Dedicated Freight Corridor to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday dedicated the 306-km New Rewari-New Madar section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (WDFC) to the nation.Through video-conferencing, Modi also flagged off the world's first double-stack long-haul 1.5-km-long container train hauled by electric traction from New Ateli-New Kishangarh.On this occasion, the Prime Minister said, "The 'mahayagya' to modernise the country's infrastructure today gained a new momentum."  This dedicated freight corridor project is being seen as a game-changer for India in the 21st century, said Modi."After the hard work of the last five to six years, today a big portion of it (project) has become a reality," he said.Modi also listed several projects which were dedicated to the nation in the last 10-12 days."A few days back, India approved two Made-in-India corona vaccines. India's own vaccine has given a new confidence to the countrymen," Modi said."Today, the call of every Indian is that neither do we stop, nor do we get tired. We will all move faster," he said.Haryana Governor Satyadev Narayan Arya, Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion.The New Rewari-New Madar section of the WDFC is situated in Haryana (approximately 79 km in Mahendragarh and Rewari districts) and Rajasthan (approximately 227 km in Jaipur, Ajmer, Sikar, Nagaur and Alwar districts).The opening of this stretch will benefit various industries in the Rewari, Manesar, Narnaul, Phulera and Kishangarh areas of Haryana and Rajasthan and also enable a better usage of the container depot of the CONCOR at Kathuwas, officials said. PTI
07-01-2021||---||Farmers hold tractor march, say govt has time till Friday to repeal agri laws||New Delhi, January 7Ahead of the meeting with Union ministers on Friday, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said the government can try as much as it can, but the farmers will not go back home till the three Acts are repealed.“The government has time till tomorrow. It can make a law on MSP and take back the three laws."Today's tractor march was a trailer, the entire movie will be shown on January 26," he said.Not expecting any breakthrough before the eighth round of talks with the Union Government, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha in a show of strength started took out a tractor rally.The protesting farm groups started their tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway.Armed with Google maps and contact details of points-persons appointed to guide them, the farmers descended on the KMP from four different locations. Those camping at the Singhu and Tikri borders will be entering the expressway from Kundli and Sampla, respectively. The two groups will then meet mid-way before returning to their respective bases.Similarly, the farmers camped at the Ghazipur border will meet farmers coming from Rewasan in Palwal and return to their campsites later in the day.Shingara Singh Maan, president of Haryana unit of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), said the tractor rally was only the start of a long-drawn-out battle for their rights.“This rally is an example of our strong resolve because we know this will take a long time and we are prepared to sit for many more months. Today’s show of strength will only empower our farmers to join in,” said Maan, who is leading the group from Tikri border towards Palwal.Maan said they were not expecting any breakthrough from the scheduled eighth round of talks with the Union Government’s representatives led by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.“We don’t think we will get anything substantive from the meeting. Kal kuch nahi hona (nothing significant will come out of the meeting). We have known for a while that this will be a long-drawn-out battle to get those bills repealed and all of us are prepared for that,” he added.
07-01-2021||New Delhi||Farmers' protest: Security increased along Delhi borders||Security was increased along the borders of the national capital ahead of a tractor rally of farmers on Thursday morning.The farmers will hold the rally at 11 am at four borders of Delhi in protest against the Centre's agriculture laws. They had on Tuesday deferred their proposed tractor march from January 6 to January 7 due to bad weather forecast.The city has been receiving rain sporadically over the past four days.Braving severe cold and sporadic rain, thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and some other parts of the country have been camping at several Delhi border points for over 40 days, demanding repeal of farm laws, a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops and two other issues.The seventh round of talks between protesting unions and three central ministers ended inconclusively on Monday as farmer groups stuck to their demand for the repeal of three laws, while the government listed out various benefits of the new acts for the growth of the country's agriculture sector.Since the farmers arrived at the national capital's borders, the Delhi Traffic Police has been posting alerts on its official Twitter handle to inform commuters about road closures across the city.In a series of tweets, it had said Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders were closed for traffic movement."Please take alternative route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44."The Chilla and Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternative route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Bhopra & Loni Borders," the traffic police said.It said Tikri and Dhansa borders are also closed for traffic movement."Jhatikara Border is open only for LMV (Cars/Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement," another tweet read.According to the traffic police, people travelling to Haryana can take the routes via Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. PTI
07-01-2021||Vibha Sharma||What to expect from eighth round of talks between Centre and farmers||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 7Ahead of the eighth round of talks with Union ministers on Friday, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said the government can try as much as it can but farmers will not go back home till the three Acts are repealed. “The government still has time till tomorrow. It can make a law on MSP and take back the three laws and fulfil demands of the agitation.“The tractor march today was a trailer, the full movie will be shown on January 26 (Republic Day when farmers have planned a tractor parade),” he said. Meanwhile, slamming the “attempts to defame the agitation”, Dr Darshan Pal of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said “few anti-social elements are disturbing the protests by various activities”.“The discipline committee is investigating reports and individuals concerned will be handed over to the police. We are again reminding the government ahead of tomorrow’s meeting that these laws should be completely repealed and remunerative MSP should be made into a legal right of all farmers. We will never accept the amendments offered by government and towards fulfilling our demands, we will continue to intensify the protests,” he said, making clear unions’ stance at the meeting. While after the January-4 talks, it is more or less clear the government has ceded all it intends to persuade farmers to end the agitation speculations are it may offer or propose the choice of implementation of the three contentious laws on States, giving them the power/freedom to enforce them.Farmer’ leaders say after what Punjab BJP leaders said after their meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi that “Maoists have infiltrated the movement, the PM knows best and farmers should listen to him, it is clear the government has not understood the gravity of the situation”. “It is not about which party is in power in which State, it is about farmers,” they say. However, while farmers threaten escalation it seems the government too is prepared for a long haul. Sources say the government has already relented on the proposed Power Act, the Ordinance on stubble pollution and offered amendments to the three Acts. “They (farmers) should tell us something new, we are ready to discuss the three Acts clause by clause,” they say. Given the kind of support/traction the agitation has received from common people, the matter has moved out of the hands of unions’ leaders for any resolution on lesser terms, this farmer and government negotiators know well. “It is now a people’s movement,” says a union leader.  But as Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has also pointed on many occasions, for the government “it is the matter of the entire country and not just Punjab and Haryana”. Politically, it is the question of 23 Lok Sabha seats of Punjab and Haryana and it remains to be seen how far the BJP-led Centre is willing to go to save those. Small and marginal farmers comprise almost 80 to 85 per cent. Plus if the government relents any further, it risks the chance of opening fronts of other such protests.
07-01-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Govt must resolve farmers’ issue||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Govt must resolve farmers’ issueTHE Kisan Andolan, biggest ever agitation, has entered the 43rd day causing serious losses to the nation in many ways. Long-route commercial vehicles carrying materials are unable to commute. Toll plazas and communication towers have been vandalised at many places. Umpteen lines of SUVs, waterproof tents and people from various agricultural states sojourned on Delhi borders gives a clear message that situation is going to be grim near the Republic Day, if timely solution is not worked out. Some parties have embroiled the situation to make personal gains. They are neither concerned of the welfare of agitators nor the sovereignty and security of the country. Neighbouring countries such as Pakistan too are keeping an eye on the situation through social media platforms. Involvement of some anti-social factions too cannot be denied into the stir. Several advocates, ex-servicemen and traders particularly commission agents had come to succour the agitators. Despite the pandemic, a large number of people are gathered at the Delhi borders and agitating. The government must look into the issue immediately and get the matter resolved soon. Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityIncreasing number of pending cases cause for concernTHE increasing number of pending cases in the Punjab and Haryana High Court and district courts to is a matter of concern for the judiciary and the state government. Delay in justice to afflicted or needy persons for any reason means denying them justice which is not appropriate in any case. The government and judiciary should take concrete steps in this direction and every person should get justice within a stipulated time under any circumstances. Every effort should be made by the judiciary, Central and state government to ensure that people's trust in the judicial system never diminishes. Shakti Singh, KarnalPending property tax arrears in hisar add up to croresHOUSE tax/property tax worth crores is laying outstanding against a large number of owners in Hisar. The Municipal Corporation, in a bid to bring down the arrear, had also given many chances and provided benefit of interest waiver, but total recovery is still a distant dream. The moot reason behind this is that the nagar nigam utterly fails to issue recovery notices on yearly-basis. This lax approach further becomes a headache when the owners are handed over inflated recovery notices for years together. No iota of doubt is left that whatever amount of tax is unpaid, it is solely due to perfunctory handling of records. The MC should issue yearly tax notices in order to obviate the situation of rising arrears. Baljeet Singh Deep, Hisar
07-01-2021||Karnal||STEM programme at government school||Digital learning a game-changer: VCRohtak: Vice-Chancellor, Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Prof Rajbir Singh said digital teaching and learning was a game-changer, which had brought about a paradigm shift in higher education. He was addressing the gathering during a faculty development programme (FDP) on “Addressing challenges of online teaching-learning”. The programme is being organised by Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Chandigarh, and HRDC, Panjab University. The VC said the university had established a full-fledged digital learning centre (DLC) for the dissemination of digital education. Amid the pandemic, online teaching and learning had proved to be a boon for many students. He laid stress on creating quality e-content for higher education.
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||2 IAS, 1 HCS officer transferred||The Haryana Government has issued transfer and posting orders of two IAS officers and one HCS officer with immediate effect.Faridabad Municipal Corporation Commissioner Yash Garg has been posted as Gurugram Deputy Commissioner.Faridabad Deputy Commissioner Yash Pal has been given the additional charge of Faridabad Municipal Corporation Commissioner.Meanwhile, HCS officer Sushil Kumar-I has been posted as Cooperative Societies Additional Registrar. — TNS
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Schemes for Scheduled Caste farmers launched||The Central and state governments have started various schemes for the welfare of Scheduled Caste (SC) farmers, for which a provision of Rs 193.63 crore has been made for 2020-21.An official spokesperson said under the National Food Security Mission, subsidy was provided by the government on fertilisers for wheat, pulses, coarse grains, sugarcane and cotton crops as also on gypsum pesticides, bio-fertilisers, seed distribution and spray pumps to farmers.He said under the Atma Scheme, other than giving training to SC farmers, they were also taken on tours and demonstration activities. — TNS
07-01-2021||Sunit Dhawan---||Uncertainty over Covid SOPs in govt schools at Rohtak||Tribune News Service Rohtak, January 10 Uncertainty prevails over the observance of Covid standard operating procedure (SOP) in government schools in the district, especially during the conduct of the pre-final tests for Classes IX to XII. As per the SOP, only those students who bring medical fitness certificate and permission letter from their parents can attend school. However, a majority of students fail to furnish the said certificate and permission letter due to which they are not allowed to take their pre-final tests. On the other hand, headmasters/principals of some schools have allowed the students to appear for tests even if they do not have the said documents.  “The attendance in our school was thin as most of the students could not bring the required certificate and permission letter. However, our headmaster has decided to allow the students to take the tests after their thermal scanning. A student is sent back only if he/she has fever,” said a teacher at a government school in the district. On the other hand, Rohtak District Education Officer (DEO) Vijay Laxmi Nandal said observing SOP was mandatory and if any school head allows the students not having the requisite documents to attend classes or take exams, it would be at their own risk and responsibility. “The students can take the exams online as well. The question papers can be collected by their parents from the school or sent on their smartphones through WhatsApp,” she added. On being pointed out that the students can copy from their books/notebooks if they are allowed to take the tests from their home, the DEO said the purpose of these tests was to get them acquainted with the pattern of the final exams. “The students will learn something by taking the pre-final tests, which will be made a regular feature,” she added.
07-01-2021||Ambala||Private schools seek nod to reopen for Classes V-XII||Private school operators in the state have started raising the demand to restart physical classes for students of Class V onwards. Earlier, the government had allowed the schools to reopen for Classes IX to XII.Saurabh Kapoor, Chief, Integrated Pvt School Welfare SocietyParents willingAcademics have already suffered a setback and even the parents are now willing to send their children to schools.Saurabh Kapoor, president, Integrated Private School Welfare Society, said the government had earlier allowed to reopen schools for Classes IX to XII. Like the Punjab Government has allowed the schools to reopen for Classes V-XII, the Haryana Government should also give the permission for the same. Academics have already suffered a setback and even the parents are now willing to send their children to schools.Prashant Munjal, state vice-president, Haryana Progressive School Conference, said “The school operators have been discharging their duties by providing online education. The level of education will improve further when the students will start attending physical classes.”Meanwhile, Kulbhushan Sharma, president, National Independent Schools Alliance, said: “We have requested the state government to allow the private schools to restart in physical classes. The students have suffered and if the schools remain close for more time, they will lose interest in studies. The government should come out with a strategy and allow the schools to restart.” —TNS
07-01-2021||---||Karnal prisoner found carrying UK virus strain, shifted to Punjab||Karnal/Sangrur, January 6The swab sample of a jail inmate, which was taken on December 5, has been tested positive for UK virus strain. Initially lodged in Karnal jail, the inmate was later shifted to a prison in Sangrur.Another traveller found infectedThe 22-year-old was arrested by the Karnal police in a theft case on December 2. He was tested Covid positive on December 5. After testing negative on December 13, he was shifted to Sangrur jail, said Amit Bhado, Jail Superintendent, Karnal.Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, Karnal, said the inmate’s sample was selected randomly for genome testing. “We have already tested over 100 of his contacts and all turned negative,” he said.In Sangrur, Dr Anjna Gupta, Civil Surgeon, said: “The inmate is no longer Covid positive. But we have again taken his sample. Its report will come tomorrow. We have tested around 40 inmates of his barrack and all are negative.”The inmate, meanwhile, claimed that he had never gone abroad or met any NRI during his bail period from August 10 to December 2.
07-01-2021||---||Another FIR in multi-crore fixed deposit scam||Ambala, January 6Another case has been registered in connection with an alleged multi-crore fixed deposit scam perpetrated by a bank employee and his partners, who had allegedly lured people into investing money in a society on the pretext of higher returns and duped crores of rupees.18 persons bookedThe scam had surfaced in February last year.In the fresh case, 18 persons have been booked under Sections 406, 409, 420, 467, 468, 471, and 120-B of the IPC at the Naraingarh police station.These include six — Rasal Chand, Sunil Kumar, Kuldeep Kumar, Vinod Sharma, Randhir Singh, Pawan Kumar — who were named in the first FIR registered in connection with the scam. The 12 other accused named in the second FIR, registered on Monday, are their members of family.The accused were allegedly office-bearers, partners and members of The Nationalised Bank Employer and Other Public Cooperative T&C Society Limited, Naraingarh.In his police complaint, SBI employee Shyam Lal said his colleague in the Naraingarh branch, Sunil Kumar, and his partners lured him into depositing money in their society, promising a return of 13 per cent.He deposited Rs 3 lakh in 2013. Lal said the accused kept luring him and he renewed his FD every year. He had also deposited Rs 3 lakh in his son’s name in the society.Lal alleged when the FDs matured, he got nothing in return. He has reportedly suffered a loss of Rs 12 lakh.Another complainant, Suman, a resident of Naraingarh, said she and members of her family had deposited money in the society. The maturity value of the FDs was more than Rs 1 crore, but she got nothing, she alleged.The victims alleged the accused had perpetrated a scam to the tune of more than Rs 100 crore.Naraingarh SHO Gurmail Singh said, “The main accused — Rasal Chand, Sunil Kumar, Kuldeep Kumar, Vinod Sharma and Randhir Singh — have already been arrested in connection with the first FIR. The police will get their production warrant and question them in connection with the fresh FIR.”
07-01-2021||Parveen Arora||Month later, cane growers await dues||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 6Hundreds of sugarcane growers who have sold their produce at Piccadilly Sugar Mill in Bhadson village have been waiting for their dues, amounting to around Rs 45 crore. Farmers say the mill has not started making payment to them though six weeks have passed since the start of the crushing season.Santosh Jai Kumar Kumbhar, Mill Unit HeadWHAT MILL SAYSSugar is yet to be sold, due to which we are facing problems. We are also waiting for subsidy from the government. We will start clearing the dues in a day or two.“The mill started the crushing season on November 25. Hundreds of farmers have already sold their produce, but the mill has not started making payment to us,” said Rampal Chahal, executive president of the Ganna Kisan Sangharsh Samiti Haryana.He stated that they had been running from pillar to post to get their dues. “We have been assured many times that payment will be disbursed in a day or two, but no payment has been made though more than a month has passed,” he said.He said farmers had to wait for a long time for their dues last year as well. “We want the mill the release payment so that farmers can meet their daily needs,” he added.Ram Kumar, a farmer, said he had sold sugarcane in early December, but no payment had been made to him so far. Like him, scores of farmers had been making the rounds of the sugar mill office for payment, but had not received a satisfactory answer.The mill authorities stated that they were waiting for subsidy from the government. They also cited a fund crunch as sugar was yet to be sold.“Sugar is yet to be sold, due to which we are facing problems. We are also waiting for subsidy from the government. We will start clearing the dues in a day or two,” said Santosh Jai Kumar Kumbhar, unit head of the sugar mill.
07-01-2021||---||Two Rohtak youths die in accident near Narkanda||Shimla, January 6Two tourists, both residents of Rurki in Rohtak district from Haryana, were killed as their vehicle skidded off the road and fell into a gorge near Narkanda last night.Preliminary investigations revealed that the slippery conditions on the road following snowfall led to the accident.The deceased have been identified as Ashish (25), son of Ram Rattan, and Naveen (28), son of Vijender, both belonged to Rurki village in Rohtak.
07-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak MC falls short of property tax target by 60%||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 6The Rohtak Municipal Corporation has achieved merely 40 per cent of a target set to recover property tax from residential and commercial buildings that fall under its jurisdiction. The effect of Covid pandemic on the earnings of the building owners is believed to be the reason behind the below-expectation collection of the tax.Jagdish Chander, Zonal Taxation OfficerDate for rebate extended to March 31The date of depositing property tax with an exemption of interest from the period of 2011-12 to 2019-20 and a rebate of 10 per cent on the tax amount for the year 2020-21 has been extended to March 31. The MC authorities had set a target to receive Rs 48 crore as property tax up to December 31 but managed to get merely Rs 19 crore by the deadline, despite launching a special campaign to motivate the people to pay the tax before the last date to avail a special rebate and interest waiver on the amount.Sources said more than 250 building owners were also put on notice asking them to pay house tax without further delay but merely 50 per cent turned up to pay the tax. However, some owners deposited the outstanding amount after their buildings were sealed on account of non-payment. Property tax due on the government departments was also extending the list of non-payers further, the sources added.“More than Rs 27 crore property tax is due on buildings of various government departments. These have been served several notices for paying the dues but the offices wash their hands off pleading that head offices have been requested to release the funds for depositing the tax. The tax will be paid on getting the funds,” said an official of the MC.He said the Covid pandemic had hit the businesses hard across the state, resulting in drop in the earnings of people and being the major reason behind below-expectation collection of tax this time.Zonal Taxation Officer Jagdish Chander said the date of depositing property tax with an exemption of interest from the period of 2011-12 to 2019-20 and with a rebate of 10 per cent on the tax amount for the year 2020-21 had been extended up to March 31. He has called upon the taxpayers to avail the benefit by paying their dues.
07-01-2021||---||Bird flu: Centre rushes teams to Haryana, Kerala||New Delhi, January 6The Centre today said no cases of avian influenza had been detected in humans so far even as it rushed multi-disciplinary teams to the affected districts of Kerala and Haryana. Teams have been stationed at Alappuzha and Kottayam in Kerala and Panchkula in Haryana.The Department of Animal Husbandry on January 4 notified avian influenza (H5N8) in samples of dead ducks from Alappuzha and Kottayam. Similar reports came from poultry samples in Panchkula. Dead crows have been detected from Daly College in Indore, Madhya Pradesh as well, triggering fears of a spread.No human case so farIn a letter to counterparts in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Kerala, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan today asked for active surveillance among birds and humans alike saying avian influenza is highly pathogenic and can transmit to human beings.“Till date no human case avian influenza has been detected in India. It is however critical that effective containment plan among birds and poultry population be initiated and active surveillance be done among humans. Identify the risk zones and undertake surveillance among human habitations of high-risk zones and affected villages. Also keep a vigil on unusual deaths among birds and poultry and share relevant information with the Health Ministry,” Bhushan said in a letter to the health secretaries of the four states.Bhushan flagged the issue of dead crows detected from Indore in his letter to the state authorities today. Avian influenza has also been reported from Jhalawar in Rajasthan and Bhind in MP.
07-01-2021||Faridabad||One arrested in Faridabad for causing death in accident||FIR over illegal felling of trees in YamunanagarYamunanagar: The Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Municipal Corporation has lodged an FIR against unknown persons for illegal felling of three trees at a park in ward 8. On the complaint of municipal engineer Mrinal Jaiswal, a case was registered under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC on January 4. The incident was reported on December 13 last. Earlier also, on the complaint of Executive Engineer, MC, Ramdas Dhiman, a case was registered against unknown persons on December 19 for allegedly axing trees at Maharana Pratap Park, Model Colony, Yamunanagar. TNSUP CM’s chopper fails to land due to fogRohtak: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath could not attend the ‘teiya’ ceremony of Baba Hazari Nath Yogi at Shri Baba Mastnath Matth here today as his chopper could not land due to fog. Sadhus belonging to the Nath sampraday from across the nation participated in the ceremony. 108-year-old Hazari Nath Yogi breathed his last on January 3. TNS
07-01-2021||---||Robbers throw chilli powder in man’s eyes, flee with Rs 3L in Rewari||Rewari, January 6In a broad daylight incident, two motorcycle-borne armed miscreants allegedly robbed a trader of his scooter and Rs 3 lakh after throwing chilli powder in his eyes in the Ganj Bazar here on Wednesday. The accused also opened fire in the air before fleeing.Victim Saurabh Gupta of Pathar Ghati colony was on his way to deposit the cash to HDFC Bank on Circular Road when the incident took place. The cash was kept in the scooter dicky.As soon as he reached near the bank, the robbers hit his scooter from behind following which Saurabh fell down. One of the miscreants threw chilli powder in his eyes and took away his scooter and cash.Although Saurabh tried to stop them, one of the accused pointed a pistol at him. A police official said they were scrutinising the footages of CCTV cameras installed near the crime scene to identify the accused.
07-01-2021||---||5 held for running sex determination racket||Jhajjar, January 6With the arrest of five persons from Sonepat, a team of the district health authorities, led by Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Achal Tripathi, on Wednesday unearthed a racket which was illegally conducting pre-natal sex determination tests.Dr Tripathi said acting on a tip-off, they used a decoy customer, who struck a deal with an agent, identified as Balram of Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan, for Rs 1.15 lakh. Balram called the customer to Narela in New Delhi on Wednesday and then took her to Sonepat, where a woman and three other persons joined them.The decoy customer was then taken to a private ultrasound centre where the test was done. The police arrested the accused from the spot.Further investigations are underway.
07-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court sets aside extension to Red Cross Society general secretary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the state or its instrumentalities are required to follow the service rules once these have been framed, notified and adopted. The assertion came as Justice Anil Kshetarpal of the High Court set aside extension in service granted to DR Sharma on the general secretary’s post in the Indian Red Cross Society, Haryana.Justice Anil Kshetarpal, Punjab and Haryana High CourtRules not followed, says courtThe court is left with no choice, but to intervene if the authorities at the highest level do not adhere to the rules. If the appointment is considered to be direct recruitment, it is required to be made after issuing a recruitment notice in newspapers. A selection committee is also required to be constituted. But the same was not followed.Justice Kshetarpal asserted the extension granted to Sharma was clearly beyond what was provided in the Staff Rules, 2017. As such, it was liable to be set aside. Elaborating, Justice Kshetarpal asserted the court was left with no choice, but to intervene if the authorities at the highest level did not adhere to the rules. If the appointment was considered to be direct recruitment, it was required to be made after issuing a recruitment notice in newspapers. A selection committee was also required to be constituted. But the same was not followed. If it was considered to be by way of promotion, the case of first three senior district secretaries was required to be considered. It was also not the stand of the respondents that the appointment was by promotion.Justice Kshetarpal was hearing a petition filed against the Indian Red Cross Society and other respondents by Sumer Singh through counsel Sangita Dhanda after it was alleged that the general secretary was granted extension till his superannuation in violation of the rules.Appearing before Justice Kshetarpal’s Bench through videoconferencing following the Covid outbreak, Dhanda contended the relevant rules made it clear that there was no provision for the grant of extension to the existing incumbent occupying the post of the general secretary after the completion of the initial term of three years. She further contended that respondent Sharma has been granted extension till his superannuation on April 30, 2022, in violation of the rules framed.Dhanda said the respondent’s appointment on the general secretary’s post was illegal, unconstitutional and in violation of the statutory rules.
07-01-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||33% dip in Faridabad GST collection in April-December||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, January 6Faridabad has registered a sharp decline of 33.3 per cent in the GST collection till December 2020 in comparison to the corresponding period in 2019.It is attributed mainly to the Covid crisis and lockdown, which led to disruption in manufacturing and sale of the industrial and commercial products.According to details available from the Department of Excise and Taxation here, the district sales tax department collected a total of Rs 1,738 crore from April till December 2020, which is Rs 867.85 crore lower than Rs 2,605.85 crore GST collection in the corresponding period in 2019. However, according to officials, the revenue collection in December 2020 surpassed the amount collected in the corresponding period in 2019 by a margin of Rs 5.1 crore. The monthly collection in December 2020 has been Rs 288.49 crore against Rs 283.39 crore in 2019. However, this collection in November 2020 remained Rs 21.35 crore less than Rs 298.10 crore collected in November 2019, according to officials.Describing the downfall due to the lockdown conditions and low manufacturing and sales since April last year, Ravinder Singh, Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, said though the collection was expected to rise further, the overall figures were likely to remain lower this financial year (2020-21). The GST collection had declined by 60.94 per cent in the first quarter (April to June) of the current financial year (2020-21). It was only Rs 277.96 crore in comparison to Rs 899.01 crore in 2019-20.
07-01-2021||Sonepat||Huge waterproof tent comes up at Singhu||The farmers’ protest against the three farm laws at the Singhu border continued for the 42nd day on Wednesday. The farmers had been facing a hard time due to rain for the past three days as water entered their tents and langar area.The farmers made arrangements to brave the rain and cold wave by erecting a huge waterproof tent near the central stage at the Singhu border on Wednesday. The farmers brought waterproof tents, tarpaulin sheets, large bamboo sticks and iron pipes to the protest site.Rupinderjeet Singh of Ludhiana said they changed the tarpaulin sheet of his trolley on Wednesday as the previous sheet had been damaged due to heavy rain.Waryam Singh of Rajpura said the wood used as fuel to prepare langar got wet due to heavy rain on Tuesday, after which they covered their trolleys, langar material and wood with tarpaulin sheets.Meanwhile, Amrik Singh Bharsinghpur, district president of the Jalandhar BKU (Kadian), said they had made all arrangements to save themselves from the rain and cold wave. — TNS
07-01-2021||---||Massive tractor march in Karnal||Karnal, January 6Hundreds of farmers held a tractor march here on Wednesday, giving out a message to the state government that they would not allow the BJP to hold a kisan panchayat to be chaired by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Gharaunda’s Kaimla village on January 10.Jagdeep S Aulakh, Member, BKU (Charuni)Show of strengthFarmers assembled in Karnal to show their strength to the CM, who claimed that their was negligible participation from the state. We all are from the CM’s district and we support the ongoing stir.They also announced their participation in a tractor march to be held at the KMP expressway on January 7 and on the Republic Day in Delhi.The Wednesday’s tractor march held up traffic on major roads of the city for an hour. The police had a tough time managing the traffic flow.On the call given by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), a large number of farmers reached the local grain market in tractors, SUVs, cars and on motorcycles. They traversed through Nirmal Kutia, Hospital Chowk, Mahatma Gandhi Chowk, Ambedkar Chowk, Committee Chowk, Hansi Chowk and Bazida road, covering a distance of 7 km.“Farmers assembled to show their strength to Khattar, who claimed that the participation of state farmers in the protest was negligible. We all are from the CM’s district and we support the farmers’ agitation,” said Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, a member of the state core committee, BKU (Charuni).He questioned the government for planning a kisan panchayat. “On one hand, farmers are protesting in the bone-chilling cold against the three farm laws and, on the other, the Khattar government is going to start a kisan panchayat. We will oppose it tooth and nail, even if it means getting arrested.”Bhupinder Singh Virk, a farmers’ leader, said several panchayats had banned the entry of BJP and JJP leaders to their villages and they would oppose the kisan panchayat in Kaimla village.Rampal Chahal, executive president, Haryana Ganna Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said farmers in large number would reach Delhi on January 26 to make the tractor rally a success.Another leader Balbir Singh Sirsa said the Wednesday’s tractor rally was a rehearsal of the one to be held on Republic Day.
07-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Case lodged for cutting  power supply to tower||The police today registered a case against unknown persons for allegedly snapping power supply to a Reliance Jio tower at Malikpur village in Ismailabad block of the district. The incident took place on December 29.In his complaint to the police, an assistant manager of Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL) alleged that the miscreants also denied access to RIL employees to its infrastructure and centre.The official said the infrastructure being damaged by the miscreants was essential to provide uninterrupted telecommunication services in the state.SHO, Ismaibalad police station, Satish Kumar, said a case had been registered under Section 25 of the Indian Telegraph Act-1885 and Section 427 IPC. Efforts were on to nab the accused. — TNS
07-01-2021||Rohtak||Tractor rally: Elderly Rohtak women gear up for action||Women from several villages in Rohtak are all set for the tractor rally to the Delhi borders on Thursday in support of the agitating farmers.Not just young women, but even the elderly have pulled up their socks and are ready for proactive participation in the rally.“Young boys from farmers’ families have been putting up on the roads for over a month despite the rain and cold wave, but PM Narendra Modi is unmoved. We will proceed towards Delhi by tractors on Thursday and the struggle will continue till the farm laws are withdrawn,” said Bhanmati.The 75-year-old resident of Khidwali village in Rohtak drove a tractor with several other women during rehearsal for Thursday’s rally. — TNS
07-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Farmers ready for e-way rally today||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, January 6Jaspal Singh, a farmer from Fazilka (Punjab), who is camping at the Tikri border, had a busy evening readying his vehicle for the “Tractor March” to be taken out tomorrow morning. The call for the march has been given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha.THE ROUTEJaspal put up a flag on his tractor, filled its fuel tank and checked the music system, to be fully ready to participate in the first cavalcade of 400 tractors on Thursday morning.Having put everything in order, he started helping other farmers in readying their tractors for the march.“Farmers, especially the youth, are enthusiastic about the march that will start at 9 am. They have put everything in order this evening itself. Music systems installed on the tractors have also been checked,” Jaspal Singh said.There would be three farmers on every tractor. Women protesters would continue dharna along with other farmers and prepare langar. The march would be peaceful and the tractors would ply in a row, he added.“My tractor developed a snag yesterday. I got it fixed today itself to ensure my participation in the march,” said Jaskaran Singh, another farmer from Punjab.BKU state chief Joginder Nain said the farmers would assemble at the Bahadurgarh bus stand in the morning. “Thereafter, they will proceed towards Aasodha village. From there, they will drive down the KMP highway to reach Singhu. Similarly, farmers from Singhu will proceed towards Tikri,” he added.The police have beefed up security along the march route. “Adequate arrangements have been put in place to maintain law and order during the tractor march,” said Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal.
