07-05-2020||---||Don’t accept IAS officer Rani Nagar’s resignation, Haryana urges Centre||Chandigarh, May 7The Haryana government on Thursday requested the Centre not to accept resignation of a 2014-batch IAS officer Rani Nagar, who resigned from service on May 4 citing “personal safety on government duty”.In its recommendation to the Central Government, the Haryana Chief Secretary, however, recommended that the officer should be sent to her parent state Uttar Pradesh on inter-state deputation.Sources said the chief secretary sent the recommendation to the Central Government after nod from Chief Minister Manohar LaL Khattar.The issue had snowballed into a major embarrassment for Khattar Government in Haryana with Opposition targeting it on the issues of women safety.Meanwhile, Faridabad MP Krishan Pal Gujjar was quick to thank Khattar for “rejecting” Nagar’s resignation and recommending her inter-state deputation to UP.Nagar, former Additional Director, Social Justice and Empowerment, and Additional Director, Archives, had sent her resignation to the chief secretary on May 4 with a request to forward it to the competent authority in the Central Government for acceptance.Nagar, in a Facebook post last month, had expressed her desire to resign from the service ‘after the lockdown’ and go back to her native place Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. She had citing issues related to her safety for the past over couple of years.It may be recalled that in June 2018 Nagar had levelled harassment charges against a senior IAS officer, who was posted as additional chief secretary, animal husbandry and dairying department. The charges, however, were denied by the officer.Earlier while posted as SDM in Dabwali in 2017, she had also raised issue of her safety.
07-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||COVID enters Mahendragarh, 2 Railway cops report positive||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, May 7Two Railway Police constables reported positive for COVID-19 at the Narnaul town here on Thursday.Posted at Delhi, the duo had arrived at their relative’s house at the Housing Board Colony in Narnaul on Wednesday night and informed the district authorities of their condition after receiving their reports from a private lab in the national Capital this afternoon.The authorities in a hurry not only isolated them at the civil hospital in Narnaul but also sealed the Housing Board Colony.  One of the youths belongs to a village in Narnaul, while the other hails from Charkhi Dadri.“They got their COVID test done at a private lab in Delhi on Wednesday and came to Narnaul in the night. They got a positive report this noon and approached us. The duo has been isolated while their samples have been sent for laboratory test for confirmation,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Ashok Kumar.Dr Kumar said the duo should not have travelled to Narnaul before getting their reports. Close contacts of the two are being identified and will be put in home quarantine. Their report will come on Friday, Dr Kumar added.Earlier, Deputy Commissioner Jagdish Sharma and Superintendent of Police Sulochna along with other officers reached the Housing Board Colony and took stock of the situation.The area was immediately sealed and entry of outsiders was also restricted. The house was later sanitised.Mahendragarh was one of the two districts in Haryana with no COVID case till Wednesday.Now, Rewari is the lone district in the state, which is free from COVID.
07-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Haryana students get permission to return from Bengaluru||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 7As many as 34 boys belonging to various districts of the state finally got the permission to travel to their home from Bengaluru, where they studied at Rashtriya Military School.Two buses, one each from Hisar and Sirsa, left for Bengaluru on Wednesday to bring the students back.Among them, seven students are from Hisar, six each are from Rohtak and Jhajjar, while the remaining are from Sirsa, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Jind, Gurugram, Mahendragarh and Rewari districts.“Our children are stuck in the Bengaluru school for over a month now as no class is being conducted there due to the lockdown. We were trying to get the permission to bring them back. An application was moved online to get the movement pass from Hisar authorities, but it was rejected. Later we approached Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda, who helped us in securing the permission,” said Vinod Kharman, a parent.He maintained that two parents were travelling in the buses that would reach Bengaluru on Thursday night. They would leave for Haryana on Friday morning and would arrive here on May 10 via Hyderabad, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi after dropping off students hailing from these places, Kharman added.“It is my duty to help the people of my state in this time of crisis. I had talked to the officers of Hisar and Sirsa over phone when the students’ parents approached me for help. The parents have been exhorted to follow the lockdown protocols while bringing the kids back,” said Deepender Hooda.
07-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||6 months on, Rohtak farmers await compensation for damaged crops||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 7Farmers from several villages of Rohtak district whose crops had been damaged due to untimely rain and hailstorm in the last six months are still awaiting compensation for the losses.Surveys were conducted to assess the extent of damage caused to crops not covered under the Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme, but so far no compensation has been provided to the farmers.Sources said the government officials who conducted the survey recommended compensation totalling Rs 7.28 crore, but the amount is yet to be paid to the affected farmers.Even the farmers who had got their crops insured have so far not received the amount claimed by them from the insurance firms.“We are not staging any dharnas or protest demonstrations to press for the grant of relief to the farmers due to the ongoing lockdown,” said Preet Singh, president of the district unit of the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS).“The state government and insurance firms should provide the compensation and release the pending dues of sugarcane growers, mustard and wheat producers at the earliest in the larger interest of the farmers,” Preet Singh added.AIKS district unit secretary Sumit pointed out that paddy, wheat, mustard and vegetable crops of hundreds of farmers had been damaged due to untimely rains and hailstorm between October 2019 and March 2020. “But the affected farmers are yet to get the compensation for their losses,” said Sumit.The Kisan Sabha has submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner, demanding provision of compensation and payment of other dues at the earliest.When contacted, District Revenue Officer Poonam Babbar said her department had sent the data pertaining to crop damage and grant of compensation to the uninsured farmers to the state authorities and due relief would be provided as soon as the amount was released.
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Parole of 4,000 inmates of Haryana jails extended by 6 weeks||Staring at the return of about 4,000 inmates back into Haryana prisons after completing their parole or interim bail, a high-powered committee (HPC) under Justice Rajiv Sharma of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has not only enhanced the relief granted to them by six weeks but has also ordered for mandatory Covid test and 14-day quarantine for them before allowing their re-entry. Earlier on March 24, the committee had framed the rules for release of prison inmates on parole and interim bail to decongest jails. Now, as they are set to return, the parole or interim bail has been extended.   “...readmitting around 4,000 prisoners released on parole or interim bail back into the jails at this stage is a huge risk. Readmitting of such a large number of inmates at this point is likely to increase risk of Covid infection to the existing inmates and will defeat the whole objective of releasing inmates on parole/interim bail,” said the high-powered committee, which also comprised Haryana Home Secretary Vijai Vardhan and Haryana DGP Prisons K Selvaraj.To tide over the impending crisis, the committee has extended the parole period of the convicts for another six weeks from the date of their first surrender. Initially too, the parole was granted for six weeks.Similarly, the duration of interim bail for undertrials has also been extended by six weeks from the date of their surrender. Earlier, they were allowed 45-day interim bail extendable to 60 days.The committee has also made Covid test mandatory for prison staff returning to jails after availing leave on emergent grounds.“Such prison staff shall be allowed to join back his or her regular duties only on the receipt of negative Covid test report and fitness report from the medical officer of the jail. The Director General of Prisons, Haryana, is hereby requested to take necessary steps in this regard,” said the minutes of meeting of the committee, dated May 5.Recently, a jail staff member was tested positive in Gurugram. The committee was formed on the order of the Supreme Court, dated March 23, which passed the order for decongesting prisons in view of Covid pandemic. Those convicted and undertrials of NDPS case with intermediate or heavy quantity or rape or Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSOA) or snatching or acid attack are not considered for any relief. Foreign nationals are also not considered for any relief. There are 19 jails in Haryana.
07-05-2020||---||Leopard with its paw cut falls into water tank in Panchkula village; rescue operation launched||Panchkula, May 7A leopard with one of its paws cut fell into a ground-level water tank at Tikri village of Morni block in Panchkula district on Thursday.The animal was in agony because of its severed right paw, the result of suspected poaching activity. This leopard seemed to have escaped from a jaw-trap. One leopard was resuced from a trap a few months ago.After hearing the leopard's moans, villagers found the animal in the tank, which had no water, and informed wildlife officials.The officials then launched a rescue operation using a tranquiliser gun and net.
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana allows payment of retirees’ dues, staff’s GPF withdrawal, medical reimbursement||In a relief to retirees and Haryana Government staff, the Manohar Lal Khattar-led government allowed the payment of retirees’ dues, including general provident fund (GPF), gratuity, pension commutation and leave encashment on Thursday.Besides, the Haryana Government staff has also been allowed conditional withdrawals from the GPF and medical reimbursement.Through the new order, the BJP-JJP Government has taken a U-turn as these payments were virtually put on hold in the last two months in the view of the economic crisis triggered by the Covid-19 lockdown.Hundreds of the bills of the serving government staff and those retiring in March and April were stuck in the state and district treasuries. The Additional Chief Secretary(Finance) has ordered the treasuries to clear these bills. However, all other bills will have to be cleared after the Finance Department’s approval.Besides retirees’ mandatory dues, the withdrawal from GPF on account of marriage advance, higher education and purchase of plot/house will now be allowed besides payment of medical reimbursement for state government staff.During his video-conferencing with employees’ representatives, Khattar had faced employees unions’ ire for putting on hold the above payments during the pandemic.Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), claimed that decision was the offshoot of relentless pressure mounted by the SKS on the state government.“In view of economic distress faced by the employees due to coronavirus crisis, the state government should allow all GPF withdrawals and rollback decision on freezing DA and LTC,” Lamba added.What staff, retirees will get:*State treasuries will clear retirees’ bills relating to GPF, pension commutation, leave encashment and gratuity.*Government staff can seek withdrawals for marriage advance, higher education and purchase of plot/house.*Medical reimbursement bills also to be cleared.
07-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||3 more test coronavirus positive in Jhajjar; 4 in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, May 7Three more people—a six-year-old girl, a 55-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man--tested positive in Jhajjar district on Thursday, taking the total count to 73.All these belong to Bahadurgarh town here and are close contacts of the two Covid patients who are undergoing treatment at different hospitals.Randeep Singh Poonia, Civil Surgeon, said all three were put under quarantine at their homes. Two of them were in contact with a Covid positive Bahadurgarh man who works as a pharmacist at a hospital in Delhi while the third is the family member of a vegetable seller working in Bahadurgarh.“The first report of one of the fresh cases was found negative when his sample was taken on the suspicion within a couple of days of his quarantine period. Despite all, we decided to keep him under home quarantine till the end of 14-day period. His sample was again taken two days back and his report has now been found positive,” said the civil surgeon.Poonia maintained that all three had been admitted to the PGIMS in Rohtak for treatment. As many as 55 of the 73 cases were linked to the vegetable market in Bahadurgarh town hence all those were being identified who bought vegetables/fruits from these Covid positive persons so that they could also be quarantined.4 test positive in FaridabadFaridabad Four more people were found coronavirus positive in Faridabad on Thursday.This takes the total count to 82.The new cases are from Old Faridabad and Jawahar Colony here, where two people had tested positive a few days ago.As many as 45 patients have been discharged so far.
07-05-2020||Sushil Manav||In Haryana, over 50% jobs in unorganised sector may go||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6Surinder Kumar (28) worked as a plumber in Fatehabad town of Haryana along with his two brothers.He was diagnosed with kidney ailment last year and was undergoing dialysis at regular intervals in a charitable hospital in Sirsa, costing him Rs 1,100 for each visit.Though he was not able to work much, his brothers’ income helped him continue his treatment. However, the lockdown clamped across the country over the coronavirus outbreak has left him without work and rendered his brothers jobless too. He is unable to continue his treatment, let alone arrange two square meals for the family.Surinder’s is not an isolated case of a family devastated by the lockdown. Radha, a daily wage earner at a footwear factory in Bahadurgarh, and Rajesh, who was employed in a textile unit in Panipat, are without work since March 22, when Janata Curfew was imposed across the country followed by the lockdown.The lockdown impact in Haryana is particularly telling in the unorganised sector. “In Panipat district, we had 3.5 lakh labourers working largely in the textile industry. Nearly 90 per cent of them didn’t have a regular job. They didn’t have any identity cards. Lockdown meant complete loss of jobs for them. Distressed, at least one lakh of them have already left for their states while many others are running from pillar to post to be shifted to their native places,” said PP Kapoor, convener of the Indian Federation of Trade Unions (IFTU), Haryana.Rajiv Chawla, chairman of the Integrated Association of Micro, Small and Medium Entreprises of India, Faridabad, said the real impact of lockdown on jobs would be known only by month-end.“Though we have been allowed to run units with 50 per cent workforce, only 10 to 15 per cent are being called because industries don’t have any orders,” said Chawla.He said industrialists might pay salaries for April because of the government advisory, but from May only those actually working would be paid.Rakesh Chhabra, president of Rai Industrial Association, said at least 50 per cent of the workers would lose their jobs and none had any idea when normalcy would return.The situation is worse in hospitality, real estate and several other sectors, where curbs continue.Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of Industries, said it was too early to speculate on job loss.
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||For medical courses, Haryana modifies seat distribution||Less than a week after the Punjab and Haryana High Court stayed the counselling for admission to postgraduate medical courses in the medical colleges across Haryana on the allegations of 87 per cent reservation, the state has modified the seat distribution here today. As a result, 84 out of 156 seats would now be in open category as against 34 at the time of filing the petition.Through videoconferencing, the Bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain and Justice Jaswant Singh was told that the matter had been re-examined and the seat distribution for admission to MD/MS/MDS courses would be in accordance with the state reservation policy.The Bench was also told that after modification, 30 seats would fall under the SC category, 26 under the Backward Class “A” and 16 under the Backward Class “B” category. It was added that 5 per cent seats for persons with disabilities and 25 per cent institutional preference seats would be provided horizontally within each category. For economically weaker section (EWS), the reservation would be provided on the increased EWS seats. It would follow the Government of India’s approval to the Medical Council of India (MCI) recommendations for increase of 10 seats for EWS in state.“After perusing the petition, the replies and hearing the counsel for the parties in detail, we are of the considered opinion that this petition has become infructuous in view of the averments made by respondents,” the Bench asserted.Earlier, Haryana Additional Advocate-General Deepak Balyan filed a reply stating that the principles governing seat distribution were re-examined and re-considered after the High Court order by a committee under the Rohtak Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences Registrar.It was assured that the modified seat distribution would be uploaded before undertaking the counselling for admission.
07-05-2020||Rohtak||Two Rohtak mills ‘owe’ cane growers Rs 82 crore||The Rohtak district unit of the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has claimed that the Haryana Cooperative Sugar Mills at Bhali Anandpur and Meham owe sugarcane farmers Rs82 crore and demanded that the dues be cleared at the earliest to enable preparations for sowing of the next crop.“The Bhali Anandpur sugar mill is yet to make payments amounting to Rs46 crore, while the Meham mill owes about Rs36 crore to sugarcane farmers,” said Preet Singh, president, AIKS district unit.Managing director, sugar mill at Bhali Anandpur, Manav Malik said of the total dues of Rs155.98 crore, Rs108.57 crore had been paid by April 30.“We have to get Rs9.20 crore from the Directorate of Sugar under the Union Ministry of Agriculture for the sugar exported by the mill during 2018-19. A payment of Rs5 crore for the electricity supplied by the mill and a loan of Rs8 crore pledged to the Rohtak Central Cooperative Bank is also awaited,” he said. —TNS
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||53L MT of wheat procured in Haryana||Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare and Cooperation, said here on Wednesday 2.82 lakh Metric Tonnes (MT) of wheat was procured from 25,550 farmers across the procurement centres of Haryana. With this the progressive total of 53.63 lakh MT has been procured from 3,34,901 farmers in the state in the last 14 days.He also added that on Wednesday 18,505.72 MT of mustard was procured from 6,906 farmers at 163 procurement centres of the state and a progressive total of 4.58 lakh MT of mustard had been procured from 1,65,899farmers. —TNS
07-05-2020||---||Panipat district sees 1st Covid fatality||Chandigarh May 6Panipat district reported its first Covid death on Wednesday and the state recorded a massive 40 fresh cases. The virus has now claimed seven lives in the state and positive cases have increased to 577.A-24-year-old youth of Panipat’s Dinanath Colony died due to coronavirus late Tuesday night. The Health Department received his Covid-positive report on Wednesday. As per information, the man had come from Delhi on Monday evening to meet his grandmother. He was a labourer and living with his father, a fruit vendor.The Health Department team visited the area on Tuesday after the man’s death and a team collected a swab sample of the body and sent it for checking. Officials said the youth had symptoms like fever and cough. Dinanath Colony has been sealed and the deceased’s grandmother, her neighbour and her son have been quarantined. Two more persons also tested positive in Panipat – a 34-year-old man and his six-year-old son, residents of Kalkha village.Gurugram reported a whopping 20 cases followed by five in Karnal, four in Ambala, three each in Sonepat and Panipat, two in Faridabad and one case each in Jhajjar, Fatehabad and Jind.While 10 of Gurugram patients are vegetable sellers or employees of shops in Khandsa Mandi, three are health workers of Madaan Hospital and four are primary contacts of a patient from Muzzaffarnagar. The other cases are that of a girl of Sector 18, who lived with a Panipat girl who was a Covid suspect. An Islampur man contracted the infection from his father who tested positive few days ago and a Surat Nagar woman, a peon with a bank, also tested positive.In Karnal, five persons of a family from Pakhana village in the district tested positive. Doctors said they had returned from Nanded Sahib on April 30. Their first report on May 2 returned negative, but the second report on Wednesday was positive. KCGMC Director Dr Jagdish Dureja said the 44-year-old man, his wife, 21-year-old daughter, 68-year-old mother and 67-year-old mother-in-law had been sent to Adesh Hospital in Kurukshetra. He said Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan and his staff also got themselves tested for Covid and were reported negative.Four fresh cases were reported from Ambala on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 41. Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said all four were returnees from Nanded Sahib. They include a nine-year-old girl and three adult males.Faridabad reported two more positive cases in the past 24 hours taking the district’s tally to 78. Two more patients were discharged from the hospital in Faridabad, taking the number of received in the district to 45.The patients are a 72-year-old woman and 14-year-old boy living with his grandparents in Greenfields Colony. He may have contracted the disease from his maternal aunt who visited their house recently and tested positive. As he is his asymptomatic, the health authorities have put him under home isolation, according to Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Ram Bhagat. The boy’s grandparents have shown no signs of the Covid so far. The source of infection of the Sector 28 woman is not known. Her house family members have been quarantined.In Jind, a 26-year-old who returned from Delhi on April 18 tested positive. He gave samples on May 4 in Uchana and his reports were received today. The Health Department has traced 14 of his contacts and quarantined them.In Fatehabad district, a 23-year-old girl who returned on May 2 from Delhi where she was preparing for examinations tested positive. She has been isolated at Agroha Medical College. Her family members who accompanied her back to their village in a cab have tested negative. Jhajjar’s newest case is a close contact of a vegetable seller of Bahadurgarh town who tested positive and is the district’s 65th.
07-05-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad hospital sealed for ‘negligence’ in Covid case||The district health authorities sealed a private hospital here on charges of gross negligence in matter related to a Covid positive case.According to Nodal officer, Health department, Dr Sanjiv Bhagat the accused medical service provider has been identified as Lotus Hospital located on Sohna road. It had referred a woman patient found as Covid positive to a diagnostic centre for ultrasound test, thus violating the guidelines for treating such patients and putting life of several others at risk.It was further claimed that the hospital owner had also failed to inform the authorities on the admittance of such a patient who was later shifted to ESI hospital for treatment.While this is first such hospital to face an action, the department has already issued a detailed circular and notification to all private clinics and hospitals regarding observance of the guidelines issued to keep a check on the spread of the disease, as told by Civil Surgeon Dr Krishan Kumar.
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Warriors get ayurveda, homoeopathy boost||Police personnel, sanitation workers, Panchayati Raj personnel and other officials performing duties to contain Covid are being provided with ayurvedic and homoeopathic medicines in Haryana to improve their immunity.Guduchi ghan vati, sumshmani vati, anu tail, agashtya haritki and sitopladi churna are some of the ayurvedic medicines and arsenicum album-30, a homoeopathic drug, are among the medicines being distributed to the Covid warriors.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also asked people to adopt ayurvedic immunity-boosting measures for self-care during Covid crisis and also shared general steps to enhance body’s natural defence system.“While there is no medicine for Covid as of now, it will be good to take preventive measures to boost our immunity during this time. As the Covid crisis is deepening up, the ayurvedic immunity-boosting measures are important for people,” he said.He added that ayurvedic medical officers were distributing these medicines to persons of different departments involved in Covid duties.He said instructions had been issued for distribution of immunity-boosting medicines among workers and senior citizens in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Palwal and Jhajjar districts.An MoU has been signed between Shaheed Hassan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, in Nuh district, which has been designated exclusively as a Covid hospital in the state and Shri Krishna Ayush University, Kurukshetra, to start ayurvedic treatment for Covid patients.Arora said 206 Ayush medical officers were being recruited across the state to tackle the Covid crisis effectively.
07-05-2020||Sonepat||Foreign experts dwell on Covid management, challenges||A two-day online workshop on Covid disaster management and future challenges, organised by India International Intellectuals Society in association with the Central University of Pondicherry and DCR University of Science and Technology, Murthal (Sonepat) concluded here on Wednesday.Experts from countries, including US, Canada, Mexico, Belgium, etc provided short expert lectures during the event. Over 600 experts, scholars and students joined up for this workshop, presided by Dr Gurmit Singh, Pondicherry University VC. — OC
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, social distancing violation to attract fine||The Urban Local Bodies Department has issued directions for imposing penalties and fines for violation of social distancing norms in market areas within the municipal limits.An official spokesman said DCs would constitute a committee at the district level consisting of members from the labour, revenue and disaster management and other departments for the purpose of monitoring the implementation of guidelines for maintaining social distancing during the opening of market areas in the extended period of lockdown up to May 17.He said all Municipal Corporations, Municipal Councils and Municipal Committees have been directed to ensure the compliance of these guidelines and directions and strictly issue challans as per provisions of Section 381 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 and Section 233 of the Haryana Municipal Act, 1973.He said that action could also be initiated under the provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005 as well as under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 against the violators as per the severity of violation on a case-to-case basis.
07-05-2020||---||Hisar varsity’s gesture towards victims’ wards||Hisar, May 6The Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar, has created a supernumerary seat for the ward of deceased of Covid for admission to various courses at the university.A GJUST spokesperson said the university had invited online applications for admission to dual degree BSc (hons) physics-MSc (physics), similarly that of chemistry, mathematics, biotechnology, computer, economics and psychology programme through regular mode for the 2020-21 session.The spokesperson said the online application forms were available at the university website, www.gjust.ac.in, and the last date for payment of fee through net banking or debit/credit card was June 15 while the last date for correction in category in online information of the candidate(s) through email: ucic.gjust@gmail.com was June 22. The university planned to conduct entrance test in the July end.
07-05-2020||Hisar||1st Shramik train chugs off from Hisar||The first Shramik Express train with 1,205 workers onboard started from Hisar for Katihar in Bihar in the afternoon today.The 24 coach train will take 24 hours to reach its destination where the passengers will be quarantined for 14 days before taking them to their native places in seven districts of Bihar. Train number 04721 Shramik Special of Bikaner division of the North Western Railway will cover 1,455 km to reach its destination.The workers who boarded the train were also provided packets of dry food for their journey. The train coaches have water, milk, sanitisers and masks for the passengers. As many as 1,060 workers from Hisar and 145 workers from Hansi town headed back to their native places.Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni said that the workers were examined medically before they boarded the train. She said that it will be non-stop train till its destination in Katihar.“The state government has made arrangements for the fare (Rs 640 per passenger) for the journey. It will amount to Rs 7.86 lakh,” she said.The DC informed that the migrant workers from six districts of Bihar — Araria, Purnia, Madhepura, Sitamarhi, Bhagalpur and Supaul — have been sent back in the train.Another train has also been scheduled for migrant workers from Bhiwani railway station to Gaya in Bihar on May 7. Kamini Chauhan, railway official in Bhiwani, informed mediapersons that the Bikaner division of NWR has decided to run six trains from various places in Haryana to take migrant workers back to their home state.The workers who have registered on the web portal of the Haryana Government for taking a train to reach their home were happy after they were selected for the journey. “We had been rendered jobless due to the lockdown. It was getting difficult for us to stay here in the absence of work and resources,” said one of the workers. Police personnel deployed at the railway station ensured that workers adhered to social distancing while boarding the train.
07-05-2020||Gurugram||Liquor vends open; special queues for women, Covid warriors in Gurugram||After 45 days of lockdown, tipplers in Gurugram cheered on Wednesday with the opening of liquor vends.High spirits were clearly visible in a ‘socially distanced’ way as people stood patiently in very long queues, battling high temperature.Brisk business in Karnal districtKarnal: A large number of people thronged liquor shops in the district on Wednesday. The district administration allowed 96 of the 108 liquor shops in the district to open from 7 am to 7 pm as per the state government orders. However, some shops remained closed due to non-availability of liquor as the contracts had expired on March 31 and new contractors couldn’t take charge from April 1 due to the lockdown. New contractors started shifting their stocks on Tuesday night. At some places, residents began queuing up outside liquor shops since early morning. “I was consuming liquor by purchasing it at exorbitant prices. I am happy the government has opened liquor shops,” said a customer. TNSBut what made the Gurugram vends the talk of the state was that liquor shops had reserved special queues for women, senior citizens, specially abled and even Covid warriors. They were also given special discounts.Overcharging plaints in FaridabadFaridabad: Long queues were seen at a majority of liquor vends on Wednesday. In all, 114 liquor vends opened, but many of these were accused of overcharging and not displaying the rates. Also, 46 vends in containment zones have not got the nod while 52 others have either not been auctioned or haven’t deposited minimum security with the Excise Department. A local at a vend near Sector 8 alleged that he was charged 10 to 15% more than the MRP. “We’ll allow all eligible vends to open as soon as they deposit the security,” said SPS Chauhan, DETC, Excise, who claimed that no complaint of black marketing or overcharging was received so far. TNS“Like any other industry or citizen, we owe a lot to Covid warriors. So, to honour them, we not only made special queues for them but also gave discounts to doctors and other frontline warriors. As far as women are concerned, they are regular customers and keeping their convenience in mind, we kept separate queues for them,” said a vend owner of DLF city.Showing solidarity with Handwara martyrs, one of the liquor vend owners in Baadshahpur area offered special discounts and queues for Army veterans and even gave free liquor to the next of kin of martyrs on production of valid I-cards.“This is all I can do. We come from a village where every house has a soldier. Liquor is like any other commodity. Had I been running a grocery store, I would have given grocery for free,” said Satish Yadav, the vend owner.The Gurugram police were on their toes all day to keep people and vehicles in check. Interestingly, the number of vehicles increased by 40% today as compared to the past two days of relaxation.However, the border proved to be a tougher fight with many people from Delhi trying to enter Gurugram to get liquor stock, citing the closure of vends there or higher rates.“The police had extra workload but we pulled it off perfectly. Unlike national pictures of chaos at vends, we ensured social distancing and no nonsense. We have told all vend owners and people that self-discipline is key to keeping things running,” said Mohammad Akil, Commissioner of Police.Low on stock, most Shops shut in AmbalaAmbala: Of 112 authorised liquor vends in the district, 64 were opened on Wednesday. But low availability of stock kept a large number of liquor vends shut and those opened had no long queues on the first day. Raman Aggarwal, a wine contractor, said “There is not much clientele at present and liquor vends also didn’t have much stock. New wholesale licences were issued on April 1 but due to lockdown no more are being issued following which we couldn’t get the liquor stock. The available stock was shifted to godowns and now it is being brought back.” NK Grewal, DETC, said “New licences for wholesale godowns are being allotted and the stock issue will be resolved soon.” TNS
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||CM Haryana: Form teams to combat smuggling||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed all DCs and SPs to form district-level teams to eradicate the smuggling of illicit liquor across the inter-state borders and prevent the supply of non-duty paid booze from the distilleries to the vends.The teams will be headed by a magistrate and comprise officers of the Police, Excise and Taxation Departments. Khattar said this while presiding over a meeting with the DCs and SPs through videoconferencing here on Wednesday. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala also attended the meeting.The CM directed the DCs and SPs to ensure quick installation and regular monitoring of flow meters in every distillery. While directing the SPs to identify illegal godowns of liquor, if any, in their districts, he said an inventory of such liquor seized by the police should also be prepared.Khattar asked the DCs and SPs to ensure that vehicles carrying mining material and having valid e-Rawana slip should not be stopped unnecessarily. He said 400 to 500 vehicles involved in illegal mining had been impounded in the state with maximum number of such vehicles from the districts of Sonepat, Ambala, Faridabad, Narnaul, Palwal and Panchkula. He asked the DCs of these districts to ensure that if the owner failed to get their vehicle released, they should start the process for the auction of such vehicles.Khattar said though the migrant labourers were eager to return to their hometowns, the DCs concerned should try to pacify them to remain in Haryana as after the lockdown, industrial and other economic activities had been resumed in the state in a phased manner. For agricultural and migrant labours from other states keen on returning, the registration process has been started at the local level.He said on Thursday, the state government had sent a special train for migrant labourers from Hisar to Katihar in Bihar. Apart from this, eight more trains would also be sent to various destinations in the next one or two days. In addition, arrangement of buses has also been made for the migrant labourers going to Uttar Pradesh. He said as the Home Department had issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in this regard, all DCs and SPs should ensure that these were followed in letter and spirit to facilitate the return of migrant and other agricultural labour in a safe and systematic manner.The CM also asked the DCs to ensure the supply of distress ration for May and June to the unorganised labour, who did not have any ration cards. He said it should be ensured that no such person remains deprived of food.
07-05-2020||Sonepat||SHO suspended, 6 cops booked for liquor theft in Sonepat||Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO Kharkhoda police station, has been suspended and a case registered against six cops and four others, including liquor smuggler Bhupinder Singh of Sisana village, for liquor theft.Talking to mediapersons here on Wednesday, SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said action was taken after a probe found that around 5,500 boxes of seized liquor worth Rs25 lakh were found missing from the godown where it was stocked by the police and excise departments. These boxes were found in the godown reportedly owned by mother of Bhupinder Singh.DSP Harender Kumar, assisted by DSPs Ravinder Kumar and Jitender Kumar, has been deputed to conduct the inquiry in this case.The SP said a complaint was received alleging that a large stock of seized liquor was kept in the godown allegedly owned by Bhupinder. Preliminary probe found that the seized stock of liquor had also allegedly been disposed off from the godown.A large stock of liquor seized during the last about one-and-a-half year, including seizure of 6500 boxes of liquor from seven trucks in 2018, was kept in this godown.SIT constitutedMeanwhile, Home Minister Anil Vij has ordered an inquiry by an SIT comprising a senior IAS officer, an ADGP-rank police officer and a senior officer of the Excise and Taxation Department into the liquor theft. The SIT will submit its report in 20 days. — OC
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||To save water, Khattar urges farmers to shift from paddy||Appealing to farmers to conserve water and move away from paddy cultivation and diversify to other crops, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar launched ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’ scheme here today.Making this announcement during his address here today, Khattar said that under this scheme, farmers who switch to alternative crops like maize or pulses or diversify into horticulture or growing vegetables in place of paddy during the season would be given an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre.Referring to dark zones where depletion of the water table had doubled in the past 12 years, Khattar said that the scheme was specifically being launched for the eight paddy-intensive blocks. These are Ratia, Siwan, Guhla, Pipli, Shahabad, Babain, Ismailabad and Sirsa.The non-paddy dominated blocks — that include Badhra of Charkhi Dadri district, Bahl and Loharu of Bhiwani district, Khol of Rewari district and Mahendergarh block of district Mahendergarh — where the depth of ground water is more than 40m will be included in this scheme.Farmers have been urged to sow 50 per cent of paddy in other areas where water is available to improve the groundwater level.Khattar urged the farmers to make up their minds to sow crops which require less water than paddy such as maize, arhar, urad, guar, cotton, bajra, til and grisham moong (Baisakhi moong) to ensure availability of water for future generations.Assuring farmers that pulses and maize would be purchased at the minimum support price, Khattar said that equipment required for maize sowing and dryers would also be arranged by the state government besides offering 80 per cent subsidy on micro-irrigation and drip irrigation systems.A web portal would be developed with the necessary information about the scheme and farmers wanting to shiftfrom paddy to other less water-consuming crops could also avail of this scheme.The CM said wherever panchayat land is given on lease and where the depth of ground water has gone below 35m, the sowing of the paddy would be prohibited.Clarifying that no fare is being charged from migrant labourers who wish to return to their home states, the CM urged them to stay put.
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||High Court orders CBI probe into youth’s death||Rapping the state police for not carrying out “thorough and proper probe” into a youth’s alleged murder after he was in touch with a girl of another community, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday ordered a CBI inquiry into the matter.Justice Lisa Gill’s Bench, among other things, was told that victim Rahul’s murder in the girl’s house was being passed on as suicide and the police officials in connivance with the accused were not probing the matter properly.In his petition against the State of Haryana and other respondents, victim’s father Ram Kumar had submitted that both the boy and the girl were deeply attached. But their association was not to the liking of the girl’s family.On April 4, 2017, Rahul was taken to the house of the girl’s father and allegedly murdered by the accused before being hanged from a ceiling fan. The police were informed by the Rewari hospital authorities, but the FIR was not registered till April 10, 2017.“The evidence on record does not prima facie point to a suicidal death. In any case this aspect has clearly not been probed properly...there’s a clear-cut need for an in-depth inquiry. So, the probe is required to be handed over to CBI,” Justice Gill said. — TNS
07-05-2020||Karnal||Patient jumps from Karnal hospital’s 4th floor, critical||A man (35) allegedly jumped from the fourth floor of the KCGMC. He is critical.As per the hospital authorities, he was a Covid suspect and his report came out negative this afternoon.Rubal of the Sadar Bazar area of the city was admitted with a liver problem due toalcohol consumption, said Dr Gunjan Choudhary, KCGMCspokesperson. His sample was sent for testing yesterday and the report came out negative. Rubal was informed about it in the afternoon, he said, adding that his liver was damaged. He said sudden withdrawal of alcohol led to his unstable mental condition. — TNS
07-05-2020||Hisar||School owner booked in Hisar||The police have registered a case against a school owner and two teachers for opening the school in a village in Tohana, Fatehabad district today.ASI Jogender Singh said that he was on duty when he found a school functioning. The police have booked the owner and two teachers in the case and started investigation. — TNS
07-05-2020||---||AC repair work yet to take off||Karnal, May 6The temperature is getting warmer everyday but mechanics of appliances like ACs and coolers are hardly getting complaints due to restrictions owing to the Covid lockdown. Apart from daily wagers, these mechanics, who depend on season-specific work, are bearing the brunt of the lockdown.“Our work season starts from mid-March and lasts till the end of May, but due to the lockdown this year, people did not call us to their houses to repair their ACs and coolers. The authorities allowed movement on May 4 but even now, we are not getting any calls,” said Puneet Kathuria, an AC mechanic.He said in the last season, he used to attend 15-20 complaints daily. But now, his work is yet to take off. Another mechanic Naresh Kumar said, “I am at home and have no earnings as my whole year depends on the summer season.” People are also afraid to invite anyone to their home these days, said Suraj, a cooler mechanic.
