07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Reserving 75% pvt jobs for locals in Haryana won’t hit employed workers: Dushyant Chautala||With Haryana Government planning to bring an ordinance to reserve 75 per cent of private sector jobs in the state for local candidates, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday said the new law will not affect the already employed workers.“Nobody who is already employed is going to lose the job,” said Chautala, who is also the state’s industries minister, seeking to ward off fears on the government’s plans.He said the new condition will apply to new appointments only after the ordinance is promulgated and notified.The deputy chief minister said the government‘s main objective is to make more and more youths of the state employable by skilling them.If suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category of job, a provision will be made in the law for the labour commissioner to allow firms to hire candidates from outside the state.The people who are already working in state’s industries need not panic at all as they will not be removed from their jobs, he added.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, meanwhile, said the state government is laying special emphasis on skilling youths to make them employable.He made the remark while interacting with the beneficiaries of Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) during a webinar organised here on Tuesday by the newly formed Department of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Haryana. The chief minister had on Monday said the state Cabinet has approved a proposal for drafting “Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020” to address the unemployment of local population on priority basis.It aims at reserving 75 per cent of new jobs with salaries less than Rs 50,000 a month in private firms, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms and partnership firms for local youths, he had added.The draft ordinance is to be placed before the Cabinet in its next meeting.Providing 75 per cent quota in private sector jobs to local youths was a key poll promise of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janta Party, which is a coalition partner of the BJP government in Haryana. PTI
07-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||More than one-third Covid cases in Haryana are private professionals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7More than one-third of Covid patients in Haryana have been engaged in private jobs or doing business, finds an analysis by health department, on occupation-wise distribution of patients. The second most affected category is of housewives, while the major cause of concern is that every 18th Covid case is of a health professional.The analysis is up to July 5 when there were 17,005 cumulative number of Covid cases in the state. Out of them, 6,380 having been doing private job or business. They comprise 37.5 per cent of the total cases.Housewives, the second most affected category, comprise 15.1 per cent of the total cases as 2,564 have been confirmed for Covid. “Women are usually care givers so they are bound to be infected. They are frontline workers inside home. Similar scenario was observed in previous pandemics too,” said Aswini Kumar Nanda, Health Economist, Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh.Though schools and colleges are closed but despite that 1,574 students have been infected, comprising 9.3 per cent of the total cases.The government employees, including Army and police personnel, comprise 5.6 per cent of the total cases, as 954 have been affected. The government departments have been operating since long but with a reduced strength. However, the police personnel have been deployed on Covid duties since day 1.The labourers and farmers comprise 2.7 per cent (464 cases) of the total cases, while drivers contributed 0.7 per cent (116) and vendors just 0.8 per cent (139) to the total burden of Covid.Health staffFour doctors and five paramedics of a private hospital tested positive in Karnal on June 30. Eight staff members of a private hospital tested positive in Kaithal on June 29. Not just State Nodal Officer for Covid but also Chief Medical Officer of Faridabad, the second most affected district, have had tested positive in the past.A total of 950 health professionals, which comprises 5.6 per cent of the total cases including doctors and paramedics, have been infected of Covid in the state.Haryana Indian Medical Association President Dr Prabhakar Sharma said, “It is unfortunate. It is pretty high. As OPDs are working in most of the government and private hospitals, the health staff comes in contact with asymptomatic or very mild or mild Covid cases.”“The doctors and paramedics are usually at higher risk. The OPDs are functioning and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) have been issued to all. The protective equipment is being used but sometimes lapses do take place in case of asymptomatic or mild patients,” said Director General Health Services Haryana Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj.The Tablighi Jamaat members, whose contribution once stood around 50 per cent of the total cases in April has now been reduced to less than 1 per cent. The total cases attributed to Jamaat are 149 or just 0.9 per cent.There are 1,858 cases (10.9 per cent) which are in miscellaneous category and another 1,857 (10.9 per cent) are under investigations.
07-07-2020||Pradeep Sharma||In a relief to employees, Haryana allows all GPF withdrawals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7In a huge relief to the state government employees, Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP government has allowed all general provident fund (GPF) withdrawals.Currently, ‘restricted’ withdrawals from GPF on account of marriage advance, higher education and purchase of plot/house are allowed, a decision which had sparked resentment among the state government staff.Now, employees would be able to withdraw their GPF for any purpose as was the practice till March-end, when the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic put the state government's finances under stress.A senior official in the Finance Department said the decision was the outcome of easing of the financial situation of the state government and had been taken for the convenience of the staff.Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), while welcoming the decision, said it was the result of the pressure mounted by the employees unions on the government.During March-April, the state government had put on hold the GPF withdrawals and retirees’ dues, including GPF payment, gratuity, pension commutation and leave encashment.However, the government restored ‘restricted’ GPF withdrawals, retirees’ dues and reimbursement of medical bills in May.
07-07-2020||Karnal||Coronavirus: Karnal reports 12 new cases, Haryana tally rises to 17,516||Haryana on Tuesday reported 12 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 17,516.Karnal reported the 12 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 433. Gharaunda reported five cases, Vikas Nagar (1), Mehta Farm (1), Vikas Nagar (1) and four a family tested positive in Sector-6.On Monday, Haryana reported 499 new cases of COVID and 11 more persons died of the virus.
07-07-2020||---||Nod to scheme for clearing EDC dues||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6The Cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here today, approved “Samadhan se Vikas”, a one-time settlement scheme to enable the recovery of long-pending dues on account of external development charges (EDC).The scheme would be applicable in respect of full outstanding amount on account of EDC, interest and penal interest. This was announced in the Budget on February 28.In case a coloniser deposited 100 per cent of the outstanding principal amount against EDC and 25 per cent of interest and penal interest within six months from the date of notification of the scheme, 75 per cent interest and penal interest would be waived.In case a coloniser deposited at least 50 per cent of the outstanding principal amount against EDC and 50 per cent of interest and penal interest within six months, 50 per cent of interest and penal interest would be waived.The remaining 50 per cent principal amount would be recoverable in four six-monthly installments with interest at 8 per cent per annum on the period of delay and 2 per cent per annum on default period.The first six months for deposit of the first instalment would start from the date of deposit of 50 per cent principal amount and 50 per cent interest and penal interest.The Cabinet approved revision of rates of various fees and charges for grant of licence and change of land use (CLU) permissions in Panchkula. Khattar had, in his Budget speech, announced a revision of fees and charges for Panchkula to bring it on a par with Mohali in Punjab.The Cabinet approved introduction of an ordinance to amend the Industrial Disputes Act for empowering the state to grant exemption from certain provisions for 1,000 days to a new undertaking or any class of new establishments.The draft was expected to help the industry, increase investment and provide employment. A similar ordinance would be brought in for the Factories Act.Extending relief measures for the real estate, the government decided to grant moratorium on compliance and interest payment from March 1 to September 30 for all existing projects.A policy for allotment of land of urban local bodies for social, religious or charitable purposes to trusts and private institutions was given the nod.Land up to 3,000 square metres could be allotted. The rate of sale up to 2,000 square metres would be 50 per cent of collector rate and proportionate cost of development and incidental charges would be imposed.For land between 2,001 square metres and 3,000 square metres, 100 per cent of collector rate would be taken and proportionate cost of development and incidental charges imposed.The Cabinet approved the Haryana Enterprises Promotion (Amendment) Bill, aimed at strengthening ease of doing business.Other decisions
07-07-2020||---||11 more die of Covid, toll 276||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6The state recorded 499 new cases of Covid on Monday, taking the tally to 17,504. Besides, 11 more persons died of the virus. With this, the toll has reached 276.The deaths were reported from Rohtak (four), Faridabad (three), Sonepat (two), Gurugram (one) and Nuh (one).Mayor tests +veHisar: After BJP MP from Hisar Lok Sabha constituency Brijendra Singh tested positive for Covid, Hisar Mayor Gautam Sardana also tested positive on Monday. The Mayor had met the MP here on Wednesday last week. He has also been meeting local residents. When the MP tested positive after his Hisar tour, Sardana also got himself tested and was found Covid-positive. TNSIn Faridabad, a 67-year-old woman from Kheri Kalan village, a 35-year-old man from Greenfields Colony and a 60-year-old man from New Medha Apartment succumbed to the deadly disease.Of the 499 cases, the most were reported from Faridabad (123) followed by Gurugram (109), Rohtak (104), Sonepat (82), Karnal (16), Nuh (13), Palwal (12), Kaithal (nine), Jhajjar (eight), Sirsa (seven), Yamunanagar (five), Ambala (four), Panchkula (three), Panipat (two) and Fatehabad (two).The fresh cases in Palwal surfaced from Mandkol, Sallahgarh, Sapnaki, Teharki, Khokiyaka, Bahin, Mitrol, Andhop and Asawata villages, and Guptaganj Bazaar, Shyam Nagar and Ekta Nagar.Meanwhile, 391 persons got cured in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 13,335 with a recovery rate of 76.18 per cent.
07-07-2020||Nitish Sharma||Pink slip for 1L private school staff in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 6At least 1 lakh teaching and non-teaching staff of private schools in the state have lost their jobs during the Covid-induced lockdown. Around 60,000 of them are teachers and the rest are drivers and attendants of school buses and Class IV employees.The process had begun during Unlock 1.0, when schools were not allowed to reopen. Activity teachers and non-teaching staff were shown the door initially, but now, nursery and subject teachers were being told to leave as well.“There are nearly 10,000 school buses with at least 10,000 drivers and an equal number of attendants. As schools are closed, they have been rendered jobless. At least 20,000 Class IV workers have been shown the door,” said Kulbhushan Sharma, president of the Federation of Private Schools Welfare Association.“It is being believed that there will be no nursery admission this year even after schools resume operations. Nearly 50,000 teachers who look after nursery students have been told that their services are not required now,” he stated.“Subject teachers are also being told to leave. Since schools are still not getting fees, staff strength will be reduced further. Schools will be left with around 50 per cent of their staff strength if the situation does not improve,” he added.“I have been told that since the school has not been getting fees and there is no new admission in kindergarten, the school is not in a position to pay salaries. After putting in eight years of service, I have been sacked along with eight other teachers,” said a teacher.“I have been working for a school for six years. I was told in April the school was unable to pay salaries since it was not getting fees. I have no job now,” said a 34-year-old school bus driver.
07-07-2020||Sushil Manav||Congress gears up for Baroda bypoll||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6The Congress has started gearing up for a byelection to the Baroda Assembly segment in Sonepat district, which fell vacant due to the death of party MLA Shri Krishan Hooda on April 12.Govt doing little to contain virus: HoodaLeader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday accused the state government of not doing enough to contain the spread of Covid and alleged the state was going slow on testing, which was the key to controlling the disease. He told the media it was a well-known fact that there was no cure for Covid and the best any government could do was to contain its spread by vigorous testing. TNSLeader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today chaired a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party at his residence today to begin preparations for the bypoll. The Congress has 30 MLAs in the Vidhan Sabha. According to party sources, 21 legislators attended the meeting today.“Bharat Bhushan Batra from Rohtak and Kuldeep Vats from Badli are unwell and in hospital. Samalkha MLA Dharam Pal Chhokar is busy because a family member is indisposed,” said the sources.Hooda told MLAs to keep in touch with the electorate and be prepared for the bypoll, which could be announced anytime.Baroda is a part of the Sonepat parliamentary seat and is considered Hooda’s stronghold. His candidate Shri Krishan Hooda won thrice consecutively since 2009.“The seat fell vacant on April 12 and hence, a bypoll could be announced any moment. We are expecting the byelection along with 24 seats in Madhya Pradesh, which are likely to go in for a bypoll soon. We will win the Baroda seat,” Hooda told The Tribune.Some MLAs requested Hooda to appoint Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda as incharge for the bypoll as he had a good following in the area.Before the meeting, Congress MLAs observed a two-minute silence for the 20 Indian soldiers who had laid down their lives in the Galwan valley and two policemen killed in Sonepat recently. They also paid tributes to Baroda MLA Shri Krishan Hooda.Meanwhile, politics in Haryana heated up with the speculation of an early election, though there was no announcement from the Election Commission so far.Responding to Hooda’s challenge to contest the bypoll against him, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today took a dig at the former CM, reminding him of the results of the Lok Sabha poll. “Hooda and his son Deepender Hooda had lost the elections. Hooda’s son reached the Rajya Sabha riding on the back of his party’s MLAs. Baroda is a part of the Sonepat parliamentary seat and the BJP-JJP alliance will win comfortably,” Khattar said at a press conference today.
07-07-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad DC office set to go paperless||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 6The DC office here is set to become the first paperless office (e-office) in the state. July 15 has been announced as the deadline for the purpose.Claimed to be the first of its kind in the state, all the paper files will be replaced by digital ones, facilitating the officials concerned to dispose of the daily or routine work on desktops, laptops and even on smartphones, thus eradicating the use of paper and pen completely.“A digital workplace solution comprising a suite of products will pave the way for an efficient and open government by streamlining workflow for both inter and intra government processes and making them paperless,” claim the officials concerned.It will be based on the platform (e-office system network) developed by NIC (National Informatics Centre). The office which is headed by the DC comprises over a dozen branches or sub-offices. It has subordinate officials like the City Magistrate, Superintendent, Deputy Superintendent, assistants and clerks.All the documents reaching this office will get scanned automatically to be converted into digital form and will reach the officials or employees concerned through e-mail or electronic messages rather than the usual paper files. As the matter will be in PDF or other electronic form, no change or alteration in the order or directions passed could be done at any stage which otherwise was possible in the paper files.“We are working overtime to make it operational by the due date as it will simplify the disposal of files within minutes and on one click of the mouse or finger. Officials can work from anywhere even when they are on leave or at some outstation,” said DC Yash Pal Yadav.It will eliminate the use of paper as documents and files would be converted into digital form, he added.While it will be the first paperless DC office in Haryana, such a concept had been put into practice in the office of Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Gurugram, in March 2019 and it is still functional.Palakkad district of Kerala and Jagatsinghpur district of Odisha have already gone paperless in July 2015 and March 2020, respectively. Besides this, the new building of Jharkhand State Assembly inaugurated in September 2019 has also been paperless.
07-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Karnal slaughter shops to be shifted outside city||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 6The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has given a no-objection certificate (NoC) to the municipal corporation for shifting all 42 slaughterhouses to the effluent treatment plant (ETP) situated along the banks of the Western Yamuna Canal, which is located outside the city.With this, the ETP can generate more bio-CNG which is produced after treating paddy stubble, animal’s excreta, waste from slaughterhouses, sewage, biodegradable waste and wet solid waste.At present, the plant is generating 150 to 160 kg of bio-CNG by using around three tonnes of biodegradable waste. Now that the approval to shift the slaughterhouses has been granted, the ETP will get around three tonnes more waste, which will help in generating around 150 kg more bio-CNG.“One kg of bio-CNG is equal to two units of electricity, which helps in powering around 100 streetlights daily in nearby areas,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, MC Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner.“The district administration has served ultimatum on all slaughterhouses to shift their operations to the ETP by July 5, failing which their shops will be closed. The ETP will ensure proper disposal of waste generated from abattoirs and help in generating electricity,” he added.Manish Aggarwal, Assistant Engineer (Electrical) at the ETP, said, “The plant was working smoothly. The plant’s capacity is to generate 900 kg of bio-CNG daily after processing 15 tonnes of waste.”The MC had allotted the project of generating bio-CNG to a Delhi based company in 2016-17 for five years. It had cost around Rs 1 crore. The company had started trials in January 2018, but it had witnessed several hiccups. In the initial days, the ETP worked smoothly, but it stopped functioning later.
07-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Owners fined for vehicle fitness renewal delay||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 6Nearly a month after the state government order on not levying fine on delay in fitness renewal, owners of private vehicles are compelled to pay the penalty. The road transport authorities, however, cited technical reasons for taking the penalty.The government had issued the order on May 26 after The Tribune highlighted the issue in these columns on May 25, stating that the Centre’s order on the extension of the validity of fitness, permit and driving licence (which got expired after February 1) till July 31 were thrown to the wind by penalising the vehicles. The state government’s orders had infused a sense of confidence among the owners but these have not yet been executed, forcing the vehicle owners to take to Twitter to register their protest.“How much time will the State Transport Commissioner take to implement his own as well as the Centre’s orders? Still fine is being levied on all types of renewals. The dealing hand says that they are waiting for the Centre to make necessary amendments to the software,” said Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private Schools’ Association, in his tweet to CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Union Minister Nitin Gadkari.Raju, a driver, said he went to the transport office to get the fitness of his pick-up vehicle renewed as it was delayed by a month following the lockdown, but he had to return empty handed after finding a penalty on the renewal.Admitting the fine being slapped on delay, Surender Siwach, Motor Vehicle Inspector, said there was an online system to pay the fee, hence the local authorities could not do anything.“Moreover, even when we request the vehicle owners to wait for some more days, they still insist on renewal,” Siwach claimed.
07-07-2020||Panipat||Gurugram MC told to pay Rs10,000 to RTI activist||State Information Commissioner (SIC) Jai Singh Bishnoi has directed the municipal corporation (MC) of Gurugram to pay Rs 10,000 as compensation to RTI activist PP Kapoor of Samalkha for not providing complete information about a Chinese company, Eco Green Private Limited.Directing the MC to provide complete information, a show-cause notice has been issued to the MC, asking it to explain the reasons for delay. — TNS
07-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Virtual support groups for Covid +ve patients||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 6Struggling with Covid blues, over 900 patients isolated in Gurugram have been detected with clinical depression and anxiety.Health teams keeping a regular tab on these patients have raised an alarm over the despair levels of not only the patients, but also their families as they are house-isolated.Taking note of it, the local administration has started virtual communication groups on the lines of various socio-anonymous groups to let the patients connect with one another and a trained psychologist to help them fight the emotional and psychological effects of the disease.“The patients may not have much physical trouble but confess to be scared. They put a brave face for the family and vice versa but they don’t discuss the despair which takes a toll on mental health. This is serious issue and hence, we have started a daily virtual communication group. It is a group of around 50 patients who are going through a similar situation and they talk about it. The psychologist and psychiatrist are the coordinators who moderate the communication and observe the patients,” said DC Amit Khatri. The families of patients too have been provided their own groups.The local administration has also provided psychiatric and psychological help to some patients who had reported suicidal thoughts. Meanwhile, the Covid-positive patients who have defeated the virus have been urged to share their experiences to motivate the current patients. They have been asked to upload videos about their experience.
07-07-2020||---||5 held for Kaithal priest’s murder||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 6The Kaithal police have arrested five men in connection with the murder of a priest, Ram Bhaj Das of Dera Sanghan, who died after an attack by contract killers who he had hired to kill another priest, on June 24.The police said it was a case of contract killing gone wrong.The investigation has brought out that Ram Bhaj Das had allegedly hired contract killers for Rs 5 lakh to murder the 98-year-old priest of Hanuman Mandir in Kaithal so that he could take control of the temple and its property worth Rs 70 to 80 crore.But the contract killers had an altercation with Ram Bhaj Das over the advanced payment of Rs 50,000. Consequently, they attacked him, resulting in his death, said Kaithal SP Shashank Kumar Sawan.The accused have been identified as Gurmeet of Karak Pandva, Rajan of Narwana, Anil of Hisar, Vikas of Narwana and Manjeet of Dakal. Gurmeet and Rajan were sent to three-day police remand, the SP said, adding their accomplices were on the run.The police had registered a case of murder and loot the day Ram Bhaj Das was killed.“Another priest Baba Chavi Das was supposed to succeed the 98-year-old priest, but Ram Bhaj Das wanted to take charge of the temple and its property. So he hatched a conspiracy with Ajay Mehra, a resident of Narwana, to kill the 98-year-old priest and put the blame on Chavi Das,” the SP said.On June 24, Mehra called Ram Bhaj Das near a canal in Kharak Pandva. They had an argument over the advanced payment, following which Mehra attacked the priest, the SP added.The priest succumbedto injuries while he was being taken to the PGIMER in Chandigarh.
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Performance benchmark introduced for NHM staff||To enhance the quality of work and instil a sense of positive competition among the employees of Haryana, National Health Mission (NHM) Minimum Performance Benchmark is being implemented in a phased manner in the state.This process is being carried out by the state government and the NHM as per the Centre’s directions.Mission Director, NHM, Prabhjot Singh said that the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued guidelines to implement the performance benchmark in 2019-20 to enhance the quality of work among NHM employees so as to make it an integral part of the contract renewal of the employees.In compliance with these instructions, orders have been issued by the NHM office to Civil Surgeons in all districts of Haryana.He said there are 449 categories of posts under the NHM and in the first phase, it has been implemented for eight categories at the district level, including District Programme Manager, District Accounts Manager, District AshaCoordinator, DEIC Manager, District Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, District Bio-Medical Engineer, Fleet Manager and RBSK Coordinator.Similarly, work evaluation formats have been prepared for the employees of the NHM Headquarters according to their positions.Prabhjot Singh clarified that the evaluation of the work of employees is based on their efficiency and is not related to Covid. He stated that the objective of implementing this performance benchmark is only to increase the quality of work and instil a sense of positive competition among employees at work.Prabhjot appealed to NHM staff to avoid getting influenced by false publicity. The process has already been implemented in states like Assam, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, MP, Bihar and UP. — TNS
07-07-2020||Panipat||Father-daughter duo dupe trader of Rs 1.55 cr, booked||The police have booked a Bengaluru resident and his daughter for allegedly duping a Panipat businessman of Rs 1.55 crore for establishing a company in the UAE.In his complaint to the SP, Jaswinder Singh of Virat Nagar said he had good relations with the accused, Venkat Ashok Kumar Reddy of Bengaluru, for the past 30 years. They had been working on mining projects in Tanzania, Africa, for the past 10 years.He alleged that Ashok came to his house on March 21, 2018, and offered an investment plan. After that he called his son Amandeep and his friend Ranpal Singh Rana on the same day and told them about the scheme.Ashok and his daughter Meghna Reddy lured that they would start a mining company in Dubai and also offered that it would be named M Great Dyke Minerals and Mining Company FZE LLC and would also start one in Zimbabwe.On their assurance, Jaswinder transferred Rs 82 lakh, his son did Rs 18 lakh and Ranpal put Rs 55.22 lakh in their accounts, which amounted to Rs 1.55 crore.But the duo didn’t transfer the amount in the company account and committed a fraud. They did not even appoint his son and Ranpal as directors in the company.Following the complaint, the Model Town police have registered a case against the duo under Sections 420, 406, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC and began further probe into the matter. — TNS
07-07-2020||Panipat||Woman among 3 arrested for killing spouse||The Sonepat police claimed to have solved a murder case of a 26-year-old man by arresting three persons, including the deceased’s wife.Sandeep of district’s Guhna village was found dead in his fields on Sunday. The autopsy revealed that he was strangled.The police booked a youth of Bhatgaon village and members of his family in connection with the murder. But during probe, it came to fore that the deceased’s wife, Nirmal, was behind the murder as she was reportedly in a relationship with one of the accused, Sandeep, alias Boda.Subsequently, Nirmal was nabbed. During interrogation, she admitted to have asked Boda to kill her husband.Boda was arrested on Sunday and he reportedly admitted to have killed Sandeep. He disclosed his friend Asha of Gohana was also involved.Nirmal and Asha have been sent to judicial custody, while Boda remanded to a two-day police custody. — TNS
07-07-2020||Nitin Jain & Parveen Arora||Band artistes worst-hit by Covid||Tribune News ServiceAmbala/Karnal, July 6It has been more than three months since weddings and social gatherings were suspended following the Covid-induced lockdown. Brass band artistes are among the worst-hit by the lockdown.Traditional music during marriage and pre-wedding functions was the main source of income for a large number of brass band artistes.“We have been incurring heavy losses with rent, wages and other committed establishment expenses,” said Rulda Ram, an octogenarian brass band owner.“I have a team of 30 professional band players, whom I have been paying without any work for three months,” said brass band service provider Sunder Sham.Brass band providers charged between Rs 11,000 and Rs 51,000, depending on the number of artistes and type of instruments.“We are facing a double whammy by retaining artistes and paying them during the lockdown,” said Krishna, a band service provider.Families of hundreds of artistes were engaged in petty work to earn a living. Some of them were transplanting paddy, while others were working as labourers.Around 500 weddings had been cancelled or postponed in Karnal in April and May. Ranjeet Singh, working as a band master for the past 30 years, said he had not seen such a situation earlier. “The wedding season is our only source of income, which has been hit by Covid this time. “I am the sole breadwinner of my family of six and it is very difficult to sustain in such a situation,” he added.The pandemic forced Satpal, a band artiste, to do labour work in the fields. “Bands are not allowed in weddings, turning me jobless. I have no option but to do labour work.”Lal Singh, who had been playing musical instruments at weddings, was also working as a labourer. “The period from March to May is the peak season for us. The government should support us.”
07-07-2020||Kurukshetra||Bus overturns in Kurukshetra, 29 injured||At least 29 persons were injured when a private bus overturned near Barshami village in Ladwa this evening. The bus, carrying migrants, was on its way from Yamunanagar to Bihar.The driver and conductor fled. The injured were taken to a hospital. They said the driver was driving rashly. — TNS
07-07-2020||Nitin Jain||Trader who caused Rs 2.5 cr GST loss booked||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 6The investigation into the multi-crore Goods and Services Tax (GST) scam has brought out that at least 26 fake firms caused a loss of more than Rs 13 crore to the state exchequer in the past seven months. A senior police officer has confirmed this.The multi-crore scam was unearthed in November last year when 17 fake companies were found to have caused loss to the exchequer. The Excise and Taxation Department had then detected that more than Rs 13 crore transactions that these firms had made during 10 months last year without paying tax but claiming more than Rs 2.35 crore as input tax credit.The latest case was reported last week, when it was found that a trader caused a loss of Rs 2.5 crore to the exchequer after registering a fake firm online and availing input tax credit without paying tax to the department.On the complaint by Excise and Taxation Officer (ETO) Dhanpati Bhardwaj, the police have booked the trader, identified as Sandeep Kumar, under Sections 120B, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC.Surprisingly, the casewas registered after more than five months of lodging the complaint.The senior police officer suspected the involvement of department officials in the racket. “The police are investing how the accused got themselves registered on the GST portal by providing fake information. Since the accused are from Haryana and other states, we are coordinating with our counterparts in other states to track them down,” the cop added.
07-07-2020||---||State freezes DA, DR till July 2021||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6Following in the footsteps of the Centre, Haryana today issued orders freezing dearness allowance (DA) for employees and dearness relief (DR) for pensioners at the current rate of 17 per cent till July next year.The Finance Department, in its order, said no additional increment of dearness allowance and dearness relief would be released for January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020, and January 1, 2021.The department said any order issued by the state government to restore payment of dearness allowance and dearness relief with effect from July 1, 2021, would be effective with prospective effect.No arrears would be paid for the period from January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, the order added.
07-07-2020||Hisar||Webinar on career in psychology||Talk on critical study of poetryKarnal: A national level e-seminar on the topic “Critical appreciation of a poem” was organised by the English Literary Society of RKSD College, Kaithal. Retired Prof Dinesh Dadhichi, former head of the English Department of Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, was the keynote speaker. While explaining the meaning of the critical study of poetry, Prof Dadhichi said it was necessary to evaluate and analyse a poem in order to understand it better. “After doing all the analysis and evaluation, the reader should first describe the poem and then explain it comprehensively in his own words,” he said. Around 1,600 e-registrations were received for the webinar, from across the nation and some were from foreign countries too. Around 500 viewers attended the seminar on e-mediums such as Zoom, YouTube and Facebook Live. A poem recitation was also organised at the end of the seminar in which Prof Dinesh presented one of his ghazals and Prof Geeta Goyal and Prof SP Verma also presented their self composed poems. The event was made live on YouTube by Prof Richa Langyan. Principal Sanjay Goel welcomed the chief guest and other participants.Online viva for PhD studentsRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) conducted online viva voice for PhD students wherein Prof H Venkateshwarlu from Osmania University, Hyderabad, as the external examiner, faculty members and research scholars participated. Dr Pinki Rani, research guide, said research scholar Suman Jangra gave a presentation on “Customer satisfaction in organised real estate sector with special reference to residential sector in NCR”. Dr Tej Singh, Chairperson of Commerce Department, congratulated everyone for the success of the event.Cancellation of DEd exams soughtRewari: The Haryana Self Finance Private College Association has demanded cancellation of theory and practical exams of Diploma in Education (DEd) on the pattern of other courses in the view of the prevailing Covid pandemic. The association has also submitted a memorandum to Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar in this respect. “Students of DEd course are confused about their exams as the Board of School Education Haryana has issued the orders for postponement of their exams but has not yet cleared whether the exams will be held or not,” said Satish Khola, president of the association. Khola said since conducting exams was not possible in the present situations hence the DEd students should also be promoted to the next class without exams.Talk on Covid impact on educationAmbala: Professor Kuldeep Dhindsa, former Director General JCD Vidyapeeth, Sirsa, in his address during a webinar orgainsed on ‘Challenges and opportunities in higher education after Covid crisis’ by GMN College, Ambala, said the temporary closing of schools, colleges, and universities was causing havoc in the education system. “This has led to enormous anxiety and uncertainty among various stakeholders associated with the education sector. The shift from traditional to technology-driven teaching -learning process, which was being forecasted by experts for a few decades has now started happening due to the pandemic. The crossover to online learning which was moving at a snail’s pace for over 20-30 years has taken a sudden kick-start since the imposition of lockdown,” he said.Webinar on stress managementKarnal: Department of Psychiatry, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, and organisation for social and cultural awareness (OSCA) organised a national webinar on “COVID-19 pandemic: Boon or bane?” Dr Ram Pal Saini, Principal, DAV PG College, Karnal, Prof Ankur Saxena, Professor, Faculty of Social Work, The Maharaja Sayaji Rao University, Vadodara and Dr Manisha Kiran, Associate Professor and Head, Department of Psychiatric Social Work, Ranchi Institute of Neuro-Psychiatry and Allied Sciences (RINPAS), Ranchi, were the key speakers, while Dr Arun Kumar Pandey, Head, Department of Psychiatry and Dr Prashant Srivastava were the organisers. Dr Bhupendra Singh, assistant professor and Head, Department of Psychiatric Social Work, Institute of Mental Health, Rohtak, delivered the welcome address, while Dr Ashok Kumar Sharma, Assistant Professor, Music, Kurukshetra University, delivered vote of thanks. More than 200 participants took part in the webinar and gave their views and discussed various issues related to the Covid pandemic and its effects on population.
07-07-2020||MANHOLES lying uncovered for the last over 10 days between the PWD Rest House and Vishwakarma Chowk on Ambala road in Kaithal town have virtually turned into death traps as any person or cattle can fall in these holes. Due to the rain last night||Over a dozen manholes lying open in Kaithal||Satish Seth, kaithalErratic power supplyWE wish to bring to the notice of the power authorities the problems being faced by residents of Sector 16 and other sectors of Panchkula. The power supply to Sector 16, more often remains erratic due to faulty transformers as they cannot take the load resulting in damage and loss to gadgets. Invariably, there are prolonged outages during the peak hours and nights. The problem persists throughout the year. Numerous complaints have been lodged and requests made to the higher authorities over time, but no action has been taken so far. The authorities must look into the issue and get the needful done.Col Mahesh Chadha, PanchkulaPoor upkeep of monumentsTHE Kalsia Riyasat Chhachharauli fort in Yamunanagar district is in a state of neglect. The government has housed some of its offices in this large fort having high boundary wall. Even religious building also exists, but the dilapidated main entrance shows the apathy of the Central and state government towards its upkeep. It will be appropriate, if the Archaeological Survey of India can get it repaired once and day to day management may be given to the Haryana Tourism Corporation to preserve the historical monument.Hanish Dhiman, Jagadhri YamunanagarNo end to Stray dog menaceMANY complaints regarding stray dogs menace and the increasing number of dog bite cases have been reported to the maintenance agency set up by Ansal Group for the welfare of Ansal Town, Sector 20, Jagadhari residents, but no step has been initiated by them to check the menace. Stray dogs chase and bark at passersby every now and then. Several incidents of dog bites have been reported in this sector, but the above authorities have not taken any action.NK Dhiman, Ansal Town, JagadhriPlant one sapling each this monsoonTHE monsoon has arrived and each one of us should plant at least one sapling. It can be done in our house/garden/locality/public park or along a road. Once planted, we must also look after it. Let this season see an increase in the number of trees in Ambala. This will not only give us happiness and satisfaction, but also help in improving our environment. Colonel R D Singh, Ambala CanttWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNE invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||75% quota in private jobs for Haryanvis soon||The Haryana Cabinet which met under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here today approved a proposal for drafting “Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance 2020” to address unemployment on a priority basis.Rs 50,000 salary capThe draft of the ordinance that will be brought before the Council of Ministers at its next meeting will provide for 75 per cent of the fresh employment for local candidates in jobs having salaries less than Rs 50,000 per month in privately managed companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms and partnership firms situated in Haryana.However, the employers will have the option of limiting the candidate count from one district to 10 per cent.Deputy Chief Minister and JJP leader Dushyant Chautala put the proposal for a draft of ordinance before the Cabinet which was immediately passed. The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) had promised the youth 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs.Terming it a “historical day”, Chautala said it would be mandatory for industries and companies in the private sector to give 75 per cent jobs to Haryana youth. The BJP-JJP government was committed to providing employment to the youth, he added.Chautala said the companies would face a penalty from Rs 25,000 to Rs 1 lakh if they were not registered on the portal. — TNS
