07-08-2020||---||Thai woman gangraped in Hisar hotel, two booked||Hisar, August 7A Thailand resident woman was gangraped in a hotel in Hisar on Thursday night.The police have registered a case against two persons, including the hotel owner and another person, after registering a case today.According to the police, the woman (40), who came to Delhi from Thailand on March 3, visited Hisar yesterday with some of her friends. The woman complained that she was drunk when the hotel owner entered her room and raped her.She also alleged that another person, too, tried to sexually assault her but she escaped from the hotel.The victim, in her statement to the police, said she was sitting along the roadside in a state of shock after the incident when some passer-by offered her help and took her to the police station.The police spokesperson informed that a case under section 376 D (gangrape) had been registered in the case and one of the accused, hotel owner identified as Gulshan, had been arrested.
07-08-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Khattar formally inaugurates Haryana’s first plasma bank in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 7Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday formally inaugurated the first plasma bank of the state, set up in the ESIC Medical College and Hospital here, through video conferencing.Though the bank had come up last month and had been functional since, it had been awaiting the formal inauguration. Claiming that conception and inception of the plasma bank was a step to provide efficient treatment based on the latest evidence and understanding of COVID-19, the CM said that it had already started to serve the purpose of saving the lives of the people affected by the viral infection.“The setting up of the plasma bank was possible due to the determination of authorities concerned, which include the ESIC hospital, which had been functional as Covid hospital and has treated hundreds of patients so far,” said Khattar, adding that the bank will continue to serve the purpose till the pandemic is wiped out. “The ESIC hospital is equipped with a capacity of 510 isolation beds, a 60-bedded ICU, 24 ventilators and state-of-the-art diagnostic facilities,” said the DC Yashpal Yadav.“With a capacity of conducting 750 tests daily, the hospital has so far conducted over 35,000 RT-PCR tests and treated over 4,800 patients,” he added.The plasma bank remains functional round the clock and has the capacity to store 400 units of convalescent plasma at any point of time, Yadav said, adding that a drive has been launched to encourage more people to donate their plasma for a faster recovery of the infected patients.Union Minister Santosh Gangwar also joined via video conferencing for the inauguration.
07-08-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Defamation case against Meham MLA not dismissed, options open: Manish Grover’s counsel||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 7Former Haryana minister Manish Grover’s counsel Advocate Rakesh Kumar Sapra has maintained that the defamation case against Meham MLA Balraj Kundu had not been dismissed and all legal options were open for them.“The case is going on and the matter has been posted for hearing on September 7,” Sapra said in a statement issued here on Friday.The former minister’s lawyer pointed out that the court of Rohtak Additional Sessions Judge Ritu YK Behl had only set aside the trial court’s order of summoning the MLA.“Kundu camp is propagating that the case has been dismissed while the dismissal had neither been sought in the revision petition nor is the said court competent to dismiss the case, as the Judge has stated in the orders,” asserted Sapra.Maintaining that all legal options were open before them, the former minister’s counsel said they could challenge the order of the Additional Sessions Judge before the High Court and also present more evidence before the court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate.Addressing a news conference at Rohtak on January 3, 2020, Kundu had accused Grover of indulging in rampant corruption during his tenure as minister and instigating violence during the Jat agitation for grant of reservation in February 2016.Maintaining that the allegations levelled by the MLA were baseless and derogatory and had defamed him in public view, Grover later got a legal notice served to Kundu to withdraw his remarks, but he did not apologise despite having got the notice, following which the former minister filed a complaint before the court.The court of Rohtak Chief Judicial Magistrate Ashish Kumar Sharma summoned the MLA to face trial regarding an offence under Section 500 of the IPC.However, Kundu then filed a revision petition, following which the summoning order was set aside.
07-08-2020||Vijay Mohan||Water in key dams lower than normal, monsoon too slips into negative||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7While the level of water in key dams in north India has remained below normal through the summer, the monsoon in the region has also slipped below the long-period average.The storage level in reservoirs in Himachal Pradesh is 13 per cent below the 10-year average while in Punjab, it is 24 per cent below the average, data released by the Central Water Commission (CWC) on August 6 reveals.Rains in the first week of August have been seriously deficient in all three states.The water level recorded at Bhakra Dam, that lies on the Sutlej in Himachal, was 495.32 meters against the full reservoir level of 512.06 meters. This translates to the current storage being 52 per cent of its total capacity. This figure was 75 per cent for this time last year and 61 per cent for the past 10-year average.At Pong Dam, that lies on the Beas in Himachal, the water level was 408.93 meters against the maximum of 423.67 meters. The current storage in the reservoir is 44 per cent against last year’s 49 per cent and the past 10-year average of 51 per cent.The CWC data shows that the water level at Thein Dam on the Ravi in Punjab was 508.99 meters against the top level of 527.91 meters, implying that the current water availability is 45 per cent of its total capacity. Availability was 64 per cent at this time last year while average availability for the past 10 years was 60 per cent.As far as monsoon this year is concerned, rains in Punjab and Haryana remained above the long-period average through June and July before slipping below par in August. In Himachal, monsoon remained deficient all through.According to the data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the period August 1 to August 7, rains were deficient by 73 per cent in Haryana and by 70 per cent and 62 per cent in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, respectively.Some areas in these states received varying amounts of rain, with Mewat in Haryana being the only district in these states to receive surplus rain.During the first week of August, Haryana received 11.2 mm rain against the normal of 42.1 mm while Punjab received 14.4 mm against the normal of 47.5 mm. Himachal received 25.5 mm rain against the normal of 67.5 mm.For the cumulative rainfall received during the entire season from June 1 till date, Himachal has shown a deficiency of 33 per cent. In Punjab and Haryana, rains have been below the long-period average by nine per cent and eight per cent, respectively, for the season.
07-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||Haryana rights body terms infant deaths in state during lockdown as ‘serious violation of human rights’||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, August 7  The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has taken suo motu congnisance of The Tribune news report – Health services restricted, Haryana infant deaths rise 46 % in lockdown – published on August 4, and termed the fatalities as “serious violation of human rights”.Based on the RTI information from the Birth and Death Registration wing of Haryana’s Health Department, The Tribune news report mentioned that infant deaths during the months of April, May and June this year had risen by 46 per cent as compared to the corresponding period in 2019.The health experts believed that it could be due to restricted access to health services during the lockdown.  The HHRC, in its order dated August 6, issued notice to the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Health, Haryana with a direction to “submit the report as to what steps have been taken so far or are proposed to be taken by the government/Health Department for the adequate treatment of the infants/children so that the death rate may not increase in future due to any pandemic disease like Covid-19”.   Also read: Health services restricted, Haryana infant deaths rise 46% in lockdownThe rights body also observed that the Health Department should have taken extra care and caution for the treatment of the infants even during the lockdown on the account of Covid-19.It further said that the Health Department couldn’t wash off its hands on the ground that extension staff like ANMs and ASHA workers were busy in Covid duty, there was no transport facility available and OPDs in both government hospitals and private ones were closed.  “Providing treatment to every citizen whether infant or old person is the primary duty of the government. If any pandemic disease like Covid-19 has developed then the government should have taken immediate steps for the treatment of infant patients along with the other patients," the Commission noted.  In April, May and June of this year, a total of 1,208 infants died, including 559 females, as per the information available with the Civil Registration System (CRS). On the other hand, there were 828 deaths, including 418 males and 410 females, in the corresponding period of 2019. It implies a rise of 45.9 per cent.   During these three months this year, the maximum 377 infant deaths occurred in Rohtak, followed by 97 in Nuh, 79 in Faridabad, 76 in Hisar and 64 in Karnal, as per the CRS.In the corresponding period of 2019, Hisar led with 119 infant deaths followed by 110 in Nuh.   A total of 1.07 lakh births took place in April to June this year, while it was 1.04 lakh in the corresponding period of 2019.The next date of hearing is September 23.
07-08-2020||Ambala||Biker killed in mishap||A motorcyclist, Sunil, alias Sunny (25), of Shahzadpur was killed after a trolley hit his bike on the Patrehri-Saha stretch of the Naraingarh road near Gharauli village, the police said on Thursday. According to information, the biker died on the spot. Trolley driver Munish Kumar of Uttarakhand was arrested and later released on bail. TNS3 held for vehicle theftsThe district police have arrested three persons in separate cases of vehicle thefts. A stolen car and a motorcycle have been recovered, officials said. Aman of Naraingarh and Akash Kumar of Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh were arrested with a car of Ajit Singh of Mahesh Nagar, which was stolen on the intervening night of July 27 and 28. In another case, Sahil, alias Bunty, of Naraingarh was arrested with a motorcycle of Kapil of Mullana, which was stolen on June 10. The accused were remanded in judicial custody . TNSOne held on rape chargeThe district police have arrested Abhishek, alias Sunny, in a case of rape and criminal intimidation, officials said here on Thursday. According to the police, a woman had reported that the accused raped and threatened her with dire consequences in June last year. The accused was sent to 14-day judicial remand by a local court, the police added. TNS
07-08-2020||Karnal||Students excel in  political science||Havan organised at KVA DAVKarnal: To mark the beginning of the new academic session 2020-21, the 'Arya Yuvati Parishad' Club of KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, organised a havan on Thursday. Principal Sujata Gupta, convener of the club, Dr Sushma Thakur, co-convener, Dr Sabira Sharma, senior faculty members Renu Mehta, Santosh Bisla, and other faculty members participated in the havan. The principal prayed for the entire humanity from the dreadful Covid pandemic.Music as tool for well-beingRohtak: A national webinar was organised by the department of psychology of Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU) on using music as a tool to facilitate well-being and mental health, in which eminent psychologists Prof. Vandana Sharma, (Retd.), department of psychology, Punjabi University, Patiala, and Prof R Gopalakrishna (Retd.), department of psychology, Bangalore University, emphasised on using music as a tool to facilitate well-being and mental health.Retd lecturer wins writing contestKarnal: Gian Chand Bansal, a retired lecturer of English in Kaithal, was given Rs 25,000 award for attaining first position in the state in the " Dhai Aakhar letter writing competition" in English organised by the Indian Postal Department for the English session 2019.KU team wins hackathonKurukshetra: A team from the UIET, Kurukshetra University, has won the Smart India Hackathon (SIH)-2020- Software Edition. SIH is organised every year by the MHRD innovation cell and Government of India since 2017. This year SIH was virtual due to the Covid pandemic . Many Government Ministries and private organisations had shared problems that they faced on a day to day basis. Majestic coders lead by Ruchika, had selected the problem of "DR113-stray cattle challenge" by the Government of Goa. The team members were Ankur, Aanchal Narwal, Rishabh Jain, Aman Langoo and Ashutosh Sangwan. They were mentored and guided by Dr CC Tripathi, Director, UIET, KUK.
07-08-2020||Under the Haryana Lokayukta Act||Lokayukta must be given more powers||Ditch a nuisance in NarwanaResidents of Birbal Nagar locality in Narwana have been protesting since long to improve the sewerage system because sewage gets mixed up with potable water supplied to homes. With great efforts, finally the employees of the Public Health Department dug up a ditch at the centre of the main entrance and abandoned the job halfway, leaving the residents fuming. Now residents have threatened to sit on a dharna with their families if the work is not completed within a week. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWaterlogging in Sector 9Residents of Sector 9 are facing problem due to waterlogging after rain. There is waterlogging in front of housesin Ambala City. The authorities concerned should take action at the earliest. Jugal Kishore Mehra, Ambala cityReplace overhead power cablesIt has generally been experienced that electricity supply is cut off in Panchkula the moment heavy rain or hailstorm strike the city and it usually takes quite some time before the same is restored by the Electricity Department. It's therefore suggested that the overhead power cables should be replaced with underground ones here. SK Gupta, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
07-08-2020||Ambala||Girl abducted||A minor girl has been reportedly abducted in the city. According to information, a local woman reported to the police that some unknown person abducted her 15-year-old daughter on Tuesday. A case has been registered. — TNS
07-08-2020||Ambala||2 proclaimed offenders held||The district police have arrested two proclaimed offenders – Mohinder Singh of Karnal and Arun Kumar of Mahesh Nagar. They were wanted in separate criminal cases. The police said Mohinder was wanted in connection with some crime in Baldev Nagar and Arun faced a case in Saha. Both will be produced before a court on Friday, the police added. — TNS
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar urges virus survivors||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday urged cured Covid patients to motivate people to take precautions against catching infection rather than fearing the disease.The CM also appealed to the cured Covid patients to donate their plasma for treatment of others. “All survivors should encourage people to take precautions against the disease,” he said. — PTI
07-08-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana to conduct impact study on 47 watershed projects||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6In Bhiwani’s Kitlana, a pond has drastically changed the picture of the village with nearly 70per cent of household water flowing directly into it, addressing the problem of stagnation of waste water, increase in crop production, improved sanitation and ensuring free water for irrigation to farmers who could ill-afford to buy it.Kitlana is among the 490 other villages which has benefitted from the 47 watershed projects being run in seven districts of the state. Having accomplished their mission of soil and water conservation, these projects are being wound up by the end of this month. Started in 2011-12 in 29 blocks, these projects of the Government of India(GOI) under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana (erstwhile Integrated Watershed Management Programme) were due for closure earlier this year, but were extended till August in view of the Covid lockdown.“Once these are over, we will commission a study to assess the overall impact of these projects in their respective pockets. The study will be outsourced and will give us a clear picture on the change that has come about since these were started. Though individual projects do give us many positive results which are evident in the form of changing cropping patterns and availability of more water, we want to prepare a detailed report on the benefits accruing from such projects for the locals. This study will be commissioned once we receive the completion report from the districts,” says Principal Secretary, Panchayat and Development, Sudhir Rajpal.These projects were part of the first batch sanctioned for Haryana. At present 75 such projects are on in the state. While Haryana got 13 projects 2012-13, another 15 came to the state in 2013-14. The areas, too, are identified by the Government of India based on various parameters, including scarcity of water, over-exploited pockets where water depletion is high, the SC population in that area, contiguous project areas among others and the states have no say in the matter. The GOI carries out its own assessment before allocating a project.“These projects are run by the Centre in collaboration with the state on the basis of a 60:40 ratio for funds. These have proved to be beneficial in specific areas where they operate since we keep getting reports on how ponds have been revived, crop patterns have changed, handpumps and tubewells have been revived. However, once these are complete, we will have a better perspective from a before and after study,” explains BS Duggal, the Department’s Technical Expert (Agriculture).        District : projects
07-08-2020||Nitin Jain||899 street vendors registered, 635 rejected in Ambala Cantt||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 6As many as 899 street vendors have been registered while 635 others were rejected in Ambala Cantonment. This was done after a private firm hired for the purpose identified 1,534 street vendors in the town during the survey.Those fulfilling the eligibility and criteria prescribed by the Town Vending Committee were registered, others were denied registration. Beneficial to all Reviewing the progress of the ongoing survey to identify and register vendors in the district, Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma directed the private firm to immediately issue smart identity cards and provisional certificates to the registered vendors.The registered vendors will be eligible for availing benefits under the PM’s Street Vendors Atma Nirbhar Scheme.The DC asked Lead District Manager DK Gupta to ensure the immediate approval of the online applications of all eligible registered vendors who had applied for bank loans under the PM’s scheme. He told Gupta to issue instructions to all bank branches in the district in this regard.Under the Centrally sponsored scheme, the vendors can avail Rs 10,000 one-time interest and guarantee-free bank loan with a provision to return in 12-month instalments. Those who will repay the loan before one year will get 7 per cent and the digital payments of loan instalments will provide cashback from Rs 50 to Rs 100.Know your vendorsNext time you visit any street vendor in Ambala, you will be able to know his credentials as the registered ones are being issued chip-based identity cards in the district.While over 3,000 street vendors had already been registered in the district, the remaining or left out will also be registered in coming days, officials said.The pilot project, which was launched in Ambala City, was replicated in other towns of the district as well.Under the project, chip-based identity cards will provide the name, address, age and photograph of the vendor besides specifying whether he/she was stationary or mobile in nature.Part of street vending planThe project is part of the street vending plan, under which the roadside sellers are being registered, relocated and given a dedicated place to work in Ambala district. With this, crowded public places, busy roads and streets will be freed of congestion caused by the unregistered vendors in the district. To implement the scheme, a private firm had been roped in to conduct a survey and carry out the logistics in the field.Divulging the details, the DC said all street vendors operating in the district would be identified during the survey following which they would be registered, given identity cards and a dedicated place to carry out their business.
07-08-2020||---||Tenure of elected Cantt board members extended||Ambala, August 6The tenure of the elected members of the Cantonment Board Ambala has been extended for six months. The election of the board was scheduled to be held in February but citing administrative reasons, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) had postponed it for six months, resulting into an extension of term of the current House which is scheduled to end on August 10.Speaking to The Tribune, Board vice-president Ajay Baweja said, “The extended term is scheduled to end on August 10. There are 62 Cantonment Boards in the country of which the term of 55 boards ended on February 10 while that of remaining seven boards ended in May. The elections can be postponed twice, but not for more than a period of six months each time.”“The Central Government is amending the Cantonment Act. It was last amended in 2006. But, the then government failed to give much relief to civilians. Following repeated representations, the Ministry had formed an expert committee in 2018 to study the existing Cantonment Act. The Bill is ready but is yet to be tabled. The process for the election may begin from December end, and after the delimitation and reservation of wards the elections are likely to be held in February. Till previous elections, the vice-president used to be elected by the elected members but in the next election the voters will directly elect vice-president too,” he added.The vice-president said, “In the letter received today, the Ministry of Defence had said that since it had not been possible to hold elections to the Cantonment Boards due to administrative reasons, the Central Government has extended the term of the office of all elected members up to a period of six months or till the date of the constitution of the board, whichever is earlier.”
07-08-2020||
||Rape  accused arrested after 28 years||Hisar, August 6 The Fatehabad police have arrested a rape accused, who was declared proclaimed offender, after 28 years of the incident.  The accused, Dev Singh alias Deva, a resident of Samana in Patiala district of Punjab, was booked in the rape case in 1992 and was declared PO in 1993.  Rajesh Kumar, SP, said that a case of abduction and rape was registered against five persons in Ratia police station in 1992. Three of the accused were arrested in the case but two others, including Deva, were absconding. A local court declared Deva PO in 1993. During a vigil near Kulan village in the district, a sub-inspector of Ratia police station detained a person on suspicion. During interrogation, the man identified himself as Deva who was one of the five accused in the 1992 case. Deva revealed that he has been changing his hideouts from one place to another after he was declared PO. The accused was produced in court which sent him to judicial custody today.
07-08-2020||
||Minor killed for ‘honour’, three held||Karnal, August 6 A 15-year-old girl was allegedly killed by her family members in the name of honour in Badsikri village in Kaithal district on Thursday. Her cremation was under way when police officials, after getting information, took the half-burnt body for a postmortem at the PGI, Rohtak. The police have detained the victim’s mother, brother and cousin. According to cops, they have confessed to their crime. As per the preliminary investigation, the girl had an affair with a relative, which was not acceptable to the family. She was strangled to death, the police said. Kaithal SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the police got information about it following which a DSP-led team was sent to the village. Upon reaching there, the cops stopped the cremation midway. “We have sent the half-burnt body to the PGI Rohtak for a postmortem examination,” the SP said, adding that the deceased’s mother, brother and cousin had confessed to their crime.
07-08-2020||---||No institutional quarantine for foreign returnees now||Chandigarh, August 6The people returning to Haryana from abroad under the Vande Bharat Mission are no longer required to remain in seven-day institutional quarantine as per the new guidelines issued by the Union Home Ministry for Unlock 3.Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora said that according to the Crisis Management Group’s meeting held here, if a person presented a medical certificate confirming Covid negative status 48 hours before his trip, he would not be required to be kept in quarantine. But it will be mandatory for him to stay in home quarantine for 96 hours.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who presided over the meeting, urged the recovered patients to come forward and motivate Covid patients to put up a tough fight against this pandemic. It was informed that for the Covid sample collection, toll free numbers 108 and 1075 had been set up. Anyone can dial these numbers following which a mobile van will be sent to collect his sample.The CM directed the officials concerned that at least one Covid testing lab should be opened in each district where testing should be conducted through RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) method instead of antigen testing.The CM was apprised that at present, under the inter-state transport services, about 150 buses of Haryana Roadways were being run in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Haryana buses are plying with 30 passengers. The number of commuters has exceeded 1.5 lakh per day.Amit Agrawal, Director General, Urban Local Bodies Department, said the number of electric crematoriums was being increased in cities and work had been allocated to establish 14 such crematoriums. At present, additional 11 crematoriums have been constructed on the premises of the existing crematoriums, he said.DGP Manoj Yadava said the rate of policemen getting the infection was lesser as compared to other states. So far, 587 policemen have been found positive, which is 1.14 percent of the total force.Five under home quarantine flee
07-08-2020||Tribune News Servicw
||HC notice on plea against examination||Chandigarh, August 6 The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice of motion to Haryana, the Dental Council of India and Rohtak-based Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences on a petition alleging that holding examination was in violation of the government’s guidelines. The petitioner, Rasik Dahiya, sought rollback of the date sheet issued by the respondent university on July 10 for conducting examination for the BDS course. Appearing through a videoconference before Justice Rajbir Sehrawat, the petitioner referred to an order issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs dated July 29.
07-08-2020||
||No mask, 26 Yamunanagar shopkeepers fined||Yamunanagar, August 6 A team of the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, on Wednesday issued challans to 26 shopkeepers for not wearing masks.  The team also got a case registered against three shopkeepers for opposing the team from conducting the inspection. A team headed by MC Zonal Taxation Officer Ajay Wala visited several markets, including Railway Road, New Market, Khera Mohalla, Railway Station, Kamani Chowk, ITI area, Sasauli Road, Model Town, Rampura Colony and Azad Nagar in Yamunanagar, and inspected shops. “In all, 26 shopkeepers were found not wearing masks during the inspection. We have issued them challans and penalised them,” Ajay said. He said a case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered against three shopkeepers for opposing the move of the team at the City police station. Ajay said that on the direction of Dharamvir Singh, MC Commissioner, a drive had been launched against shopkeepers and workers who didn’t wear masks while working.
07-08-2020||---||755 new cases, 3 more die in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 6With 755 fresh cases reported on Thursday, Haryana’s Covid tally reached 39,303. Three deaths pushed the tally to 458.Faridabad reported a maximum of 161 cases followed by Gurugram (83), Ambala (78), Rohtak (60) and Panchkula (54).While two deaths were reported from Faridabad, one from Ambala. The death of a 42-year-old doctor posted at the LNJP Hospital, Kurukshetra, was not reflected in the state health bulletin. He died at a private hospital in Panchkula.With two more deaths on Thursday, the tally has gone up to 139 in Faridabad district. The total number of positive cases surged to 9,671 with the addition of 161 new cases.The tally of recovered patients has also moved to 8,676 with 217 patients getting discharged in the past 24 hours. The patients who died today are a 48-year-old man from New Janata Colony and a 49-year-old male from NIT here. They were suffering from co-morbidities, it is claimed.Ambala reported 78 fresh cases on Thursday, Civil Surgeon Kuldeep Singh said. He said a 76-year-old man of Ambala City, who was also suffering from diabetes and kidney ailment, died at a private hospital in Panchkula.Mahipal Dhanda, MLA Panipat (Rural), tested positive on Thursday. He tweeted about it. Besides, 37 persons tested positive, taking the tally to 1,445 cases in the district.Covid-19 CasesDISTRICT-WISE COUNT
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sero survey in Haryana from next week||Haryana will begin the sero survey across all districts in collaboration with the PGIMER, Chandigarh, from next week.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said: “We plan to conduct 960 tests in each of the 22 districts of the state.”A sero survey is testing of a group of individuals to monitor trends in the prevalence of the disease. — TNS
07-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||4,000 Gurugram children drop out||Gurugram, August 6Over 4,000 children in Gurugram have either opted out of school in the past few months or never been to any educational institute.As per a survey conducted by an NGO in collaboration with the Education Department, 4,183 children in Gurugram district are not enrolled in school. Most of them have dropped out of schools owing to various reasons, like financial crisis or indulgence in child labour.Of them, 2,881 are from Gurugram block. Sohna block has 771 such children, Pataudi 227 and Farrukhnagar block has 364 such cases. Most of them hail from rural areas and have reportedly admitted to dropping out following lockdown, mainly due to lack of infrastructure for online classes.“Education will be provided to such children according to their age. Anubhuti Foundation, an NGO, will provide volunteers, who will take classes. In many cases, parents don’t want their wards to attend school as they want them as an extra earning hand,” said Deputy DEO Ritu Chaudhary.
07-08-2020||---||All set for ordinance to plug loopholes in registering land||Chandigarh, August 6The state is set to bring in an ordinance to undo an amendment to the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act made in 2017 to plug loopholes that helped some real estate developers circumvent laws allegedly in connivance with revenue officials for registering sale deeds of costly chunks of land in Gurugram and other districts during the Covid-induced lockdown.The ordinance aims at making a no-objection certificate (NoC) by the Town and Country Planning Department mandatory for any empty plot (insteadof agriculture land earlier) less than one hectare (instead of two kanals earlier) in an urban area.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala confirmed that the draft of the ordinance is ready and sent to the Governor for approval. It will be notified in a day or two.“The ordinance will undo the amendments made to the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act in 2017, wherein the condition of one hectare (20 kanals) was diluted to merely two kanals. We have also brought in another change by replacing the word ‘agriculture land’ by ‘empty land’. This will stop the practice of circumventing land laws by real estate developers for carving out illegal colonies on empty land in urban areas,” Dushyant said.The state government had last week booked seven revenue officials, including a tehsildar, in Gurugram for allegedly registering documents in violation of rules. The accused were suspended on July 31.On the orders of the Additional Chief Secretary-cum-Financial Commissioner, Revenue, Vijai Vardhan, issued on July 21, the registration of documents was stopped till August 15.Sources say it has come to the notice of the Commissioner, Gurugram Division, that tehsildars and naib tehsildars have been registering sale deeds without obtaining the NoCs from the Town and Country Planning Department.The Haryana Revenue Officers Association, meanwhile, has objected to the FIR registered against their members.
07-08-2020||Hisar||3 addicts  drive away bus in Sirsa, arrested||Three youths reportedly under the influence of drugs were arrested on the charge of driving away a Haryana Roadways bus with 30 passengers aboard from the Sirsa bus stand on Thursday.The driver and the conductor of the bus were having lunch at a dhaba when the incident took place.Police spokesperson Surjeet Singh said the youths had been identified as Pradeep and Lajpat, both residents of Mahendragarh district, and Sukhbir of Sirsa district.They have been booked under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC on the complaint of bus driver Ladhu Ram.They were caught when another HR employee, Ranjit Singh, who was going home after finishing his shift, got suspicious when the driver did not stop the bus at a designated stop near Jat Dharamshala.When Ranjit and other passengers questioned the youth driving the bus about it, he said his friend had asked him to drive the bus, pointing to the youth sitting on the conductor’s seat and that he was bus owner. Ranjit informed the police and the bus driver, Ladhu Ram. The youth was forced to drive the bus back to the bus stand. Upon reaching there, the police arrested the accused. — TNS
07-08-2020||Sushil Manav||Excise Dept ‘laxity’ to blame for unloading of liquor in transit in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6Liquor from neighbouring states meant to be delivered to some other states by using Haryana roads for transit is being unloaded in the state with impunity because of laxity by the Excise and Taxation Department, much to the detriment of its revenue.Despite provisions in the state’s excise policy, the Excise and Taxation Department has not been implementing transit slips for vehicle carrying liquor from other states through Haryana resulting in unloading of consignments for other states in Haryana. The Special Enquiry Team (SET) led by Additional Chief Secretary TC Gupta constituted to probe the ‘liquor scam’ involving theft of liquor from warehouses of the Excise and Taxation Department has highlighted this as well as several other shortcomings in the functioning of the department.“A provision for carrying transit slips by vehicles carrying liquor for other states through Haryana existed in the state’s excise policies for more than 10 years. The relevant position said that to keep control over vehicles carrying liquor from other states or UTs through the state of Haryana, transit slips have to be carried so that the liquor for other states may not be unloaded in the state. However, no such system has been implemented by the department which has led to non-tracking of such vehicles, which — under the garb of transiting liquor from the neighbouring states — have managed to unload the consignments meant for other states in Haryana,” says the report by the SET.
07-08-2020||Mukesh Tandon||9 more illegal bleaching units sealed in Panipat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, August 6The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has sealed nine more illegal bleaching units after getting the closure nod from the headquarter, while three more such plants were found operational in the district on Thursday.Besides, the district administration has directed the Revenue Department to provide land records and the UHBVN to disconnect the power connection of these bleaching units.The board had launched a special drive against illegal bleaching units in July and found as many as 136 such plants in the district, of which 62 were found dismantled while 50 were operational and have been resealed by the board.Sources said some illegal units had again started working after breaking open the seals of the pollution board in the district.Besides, the team has found 22 new bleaching units in the district and cases have been sent to the headquarter seeking an approval for their closure, of which nod was given for 14 plants.Following the directions of the headquarter, a team led by Assistant Environment Engineer Vipin Kumar sealed three bleaching units in Badoli and Chhajpur village on Wednesday and the rest in Balana, Palri and Didwari and nearby villages, and found three new plants operational in Palri, Didwari and Balana.We had sought a closure notice for 22 new illegal bleaching units in the district from the headquarter, of which approval for 14 have been received, said Shailender Arora, Regional Officer (RO).We have sealed nine bleaching units in two days, while notices have been served to three new bleaching units in the district, he added. Moreover, the power connection of 17 illegal bleaching units have been cut by the UHBVN, while we have sought detailed reports of the disconnection from the officials and also sent them reminders, Arora added.We have also sought a report from the Revenue Department of the land on which these illegal units had been established and sent them reminders too, but haven’t received compliance reports so far, he added. The sealing drive against these illegal bleaching units would continue, the RO said.
07-08-2020||Gurugram||Iraqi drug smuggling: 2 chemists held for drug smuggling||Two chemists have been nabbed from Agra and Jaipur by the SIT probing the recently busted Iraqi drug smuggling module. The SIT is interrogating the accused to find out how did they sell drugs related to Covid and cancer treatment without experts’ prescription.The accused have been identified as Hariom Tikkiwal (42) of Jaipur and Amit Aggarwal (45) of Agra. Hariom runs his firm (Chrome Pharmaceuticals) and is a wholesale distributor of Hetero Healthcare. Amit Aggarwal is also a wholesaler besides co-owner of MK Distributors.“Hariom revealed that he placed an order with Hetero Healthcare for Remdesivir for Rs 4,200 per injection and sold it to Amit, who along with his brother Mukesh supplied these medicines to a Delhi chemist, who has already been arrested. He sold it to two others who supplied it further to Iraqi nationals at exorbitant prices. The rate of injection started from Rs 4,200 and it cost Rs 18,000 to Rs 20,000 to the Iraqi drug racket members, who priced it at Rs 1 lakh,” said a SIT officer.Other chemists — Pradeep, Tarun Goyal, Sajid and Faizan — have already been nabbed. The sleuths are questioning them to ascertain details about the supply chain. — OC
07-08-2020||Hisar||4 nabbed with 31-kg poppy husk||The Fatehabad police have seized 31 kg of poppy husk and ‘ganja’ and arrested four persons.A police spokesperson said today that the CIA staff of the district police, during an inspection, intercepted a car and a Canter on the Sirsa road.During search, the police team found 31 kg of poppy husk, 1.2 kg of ‘ganja’, besides one pistol and six cartridges from four persons.The spokesperson said that the accused have been identified as Vinod, Balwinder, Virender and Hari Singh.The accused revealed that they used to procure drugs from Rajasthan to supply these in Haryana and Punjab. — TNS
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana probe report indicts 2 top officers||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij today recommended action against Excise and Taxation Commissioner Shekhar Vidyarthi and former Sonepat SP Pratiksha Godara after a special inquiry team formed to probe a liquor scam indicted them.The minister also called for further investigation by the state Vigilance Bureau.The probe panel was headed by Additional Chief Secretary (Power) TC Gupta with Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner Vijay Singh and Gurugram Commissioner of Police Mohd Akil its members. The scam involves theft of liquor during Covid lockdown from excise godowns in Kharkhoda. The godowns were located on the premises rented from the family members and a relative of alleged liquor smuggler Bhupinder Dahiya.According to the probe report, Vidyarthi failed to provide information on inspection of the stocks of wholesale liquor licencees. The panel had to complain to the Home Department in one such case. It also said that Vidyarthi blocked their visit to NV Distillery based in Rajpura after its name cropped up in various cases.On Godara, the panel said despite knowing Dahiya was an alleged liquor smuggler, she “provided him two gunmen and even recommended an arms licence to him”.Asked why the confiscated liquor was kept in a godown when the premises was owned by Dahiya’s kin, Godara could only say “she was unaware of the ownership fact”.Vidyarthi and Godara did not respond to phone calls, text messages and emails.
