07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana school education board to declare Class 10 exam result on Monday||Haryana Board of School Education will declare results of Class 10 examination on Monday.“Haryana Board of School Education, Bhiwani will declare results of 3,38,096 candidates, who appeared for the secondary examination, on June 8,” a Board spokesperson said on Sunday.Out of 3,38,096 secondary school students, 1,86,153 are boys and 1,51,943 are girls/ notably, exam for science subject could not be conducted as the coronavirus lockdown was imposed.He said according to the instructions of Education Minister Kanwar Pal and the Department of Education, Haryana the result will be declared on the basis of evaluation of four subjects by including the average marks of the fifth subject (science subject).The candidates opting science stream in class 11, however, will have to take examination in it later. PTI
07-06-2020|| ||Three deaths, 106 new COVID-19 cases in Faridabad||Faridabad, June 7The district, on Sunday, recorded three more deaths and as many as 106 fresh COVID-19 cases.With the three more deaths, the death toll in the city has climbed to 14, with the number of positive cases risen to 771. This is the highest number of deaths and new cases in a single day in the district so far.The health department, however, claimed that of the 14 deaths, no patient had died exclusively of COVID-19.Giving details about the deaths, a spokesperson of the health department said two men aged 52 and 65 years and a woman patient, aged 65, died in the hospital. All three deceased was a victim of multiple co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and uncontrolled blood sugar.They had contracted the infection from the persons already tested positive and were admitted in the hospital recently.While the woman hailed from SGM Nagar, the 52 and 65-year-old men were residents of Baselwa colony and Sector-28, respectively. Their condition had turned critical just after they were admitted in the hospital.The fresh cases have surfaced from the localities of Old Faridabad, Ballabgarh, NIT, Dabua Colony, Tigaon, Panhera Khurd village, Ac Nagar, Bharat Colony and Chhainsa village.A total of 231 patients are getting treatment in hospitals while 287 have been under home-quarantine. As many as 239 persons have been discharged.
07-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Underprivileged students support stranded migrants in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 7Proving a source of inspiration, the teachers and students of Gandhi School, a Rohtak-based informal school for underprivileged children, have been engaged in collecting ration from the residents and distributing it amongst the stranded migrants and others in need.The volunteers of Gandhi School, who belong to families of construction workers and other labourers, have so far collected more than 36 quintals of ration material, 1,000 litres of milk and other items of daily need. They have distributed it amongst more than 1,100 families of migrant workers stranded at Rohtak in the lockdown. Student-volunteers Deepak, Rohit, Sarita, Jai Kumari, Pooja, Sonu, Arvind, Raj, Khushi, Golu and Aarti have been doing their bit during the lockdown by preparing ration kits and distributing these amongst the needy.They maintain a proper record of the ration material distributed by them and follow social-distancing and other safety norms.Apart from distributing ration, the volunteers of Gandhi School have also been providing logistic support to the families of stranded migrants by collecting funds from well-meaning residents.“We have been getting immense support from members of the society in this collective social endeavour. The idea behind involving the students in the exercise is to inculcate social and human values in them,” says Naresh, the headmaster of the informal school.It may be pertinent to mention here that a number of voluntary social organisations of Rohtak have reached out to the stranded migrant workers who have been rendered jobless owing to the ongoing lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid pandemic.Social organisations like Sati Bhai Sai Dass Sewa Dal, Hari Om Sewa Dal and Jan Sewa Sansthan have been distributing food packets and ration material amongst the needy ever since the imposition of the lockdown, apart from organising blood donation camps and supporting unattended patients at the local PGIMS.
07-06-2020||Rohtak||BJP leaders flout social-distancing norms during campaign to publicize Modi govt’s feats||The BJP launched a campaign to publicize the achievements of the completion of one year of the second term of Modi government at the Centre in Haryana on Sunday.As per the party’s state leadership, the ruling party aims to reach out to 20 lakh families across Haryana and apprise them of theirgovernment’s achievements during the past year.Haryana BJP’s organizing secretary Suresh Bhatt kicked off the publicity drive-cum-mass contact programme in the Rohtak Assembly segment on Sunday morning.Bhatt, who was accompanied by the party’s district unit president Ajay Bansal, general secretary Satish Ahuja and RSS nagar sangh-chalak Suresh Bansal, distributed pamphlets enumerating the achievements of the Modi government on completion of one year in office.However, the BJP and RSS leaders flouted social-distancing norms during their door-to-door campaign as they did not cover their faces with masks while interacting with residents.On being questioned about the matter, BJP’s Rohtak district president Ajay Bansal maintained that he wore a mask on his neck during the campaign, although he did not cover his face with it.“I will take care to cover my face in future,” he stated.In a recent media interaction at the Haryana BJP headquarters in Rohtak, the party’s state unit president Subhash Barala had asserted that the party leaders would maintain social distancing and distribute 10 lakh face-covers and 10 lakh sanitizer-bottles among the state residents during the drive.BJP keeping politics above health of people: CongComing down heavily on the ruling BJP for flouting social-distancing norms during the campaign, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda said it seemed that the BJP considered itself “above the rules” and was considered politics above the health of the people.“The BJP leaders are openly violating the MHA guidelines as well as rules framed by the Haryana government, which prohibit holding of political programmes and mandate adherence to social-distancing norms,” he stated.The Congress leader remarked that if the party wanted, they could hold much bigger rallies to expose the failure of the BJP government, but the need of the hour was to provide relief to the people by rising above the political considerations.“The BJP leadership should also think about it and reconsider their plan to hold mass gatherings in the name of workers’ meetings and rallies. If they fail to do so, the people will reject them,” he added.
07-06-2020||---||Haryana reports highest spike of 496 Covid cases in single day||Chandigarh, June 7Haryana reported the highest spike of 496 Covid-19 cases in single day on Sunday besides three more fatalities, taking the death toll to 28. The state’s tally of coronavirus cases stands at 4,448.Gurugram reported a highest of 330 cases followed by Faridabad (106), Sonepat (73) and Rohtak and Mahendragarh with 25 cases each.Faridabad recorded three more deaths and 106 fresh positive cases. While the tally of deaths has gone up to 13, the number of positive cases has risen further to 771. This is the highest number of deaths and new cases in a single day in the district so far.A spokesperson of the health department said that two male persons aged 52 and 65 and a female patient (65) died in the hospital during the treatment. All the three deceased were a victim of multiple co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension. They had contracted the infection from the persons already tested positive and had been admitted in the hospital recently.While the woman hailed from SGM Nagar, the two others were residents of Baselwa colony and Sector 28 here, respectively. Their condition had turned critical even after they were admitted to the hospital for treatment, it is learnt.The death toll due to Covid has gone up to 14, which is highest among all the districts so far. However the health department has claimed that no one has died exclusively due to Covid so far. The first death had taken place on April 29.In Rohtak, 25 fresh cases of Covid were reported today, taking the total number of cases in the district to 159. As per the information provided by the district Health authorities, 126 cases are active as of now, while 32 have been discharged after treatment and one patient has died.Similarly, 25 persons, including two prisoners lodged at district jail, tested positive on Mahendragarh on Sunday, taking the district’s total tally to 101. One of them belongs to Rajasthan while three are from Mahendragarh city. Two new Covid cases were reported from Jhajjar.In Karnal, a female (29) of Sector-5, a man (34) of Karan Vihar, a male (32) of Dadupur Roran, a man (35) of Basant Vihar, a middle-aged man of Timber market, a youth (24) of Salwan, a man (46) of Sector-16, and a 13-year-old boy of Prem Nagar, have tested positive, taking the number of positive patients to 99. As many as 41 patients have been discharged and two had died.In Rewari eight persons, including a doctor couple and a businessman, tested positive taking the district count to 57. The doctor couple contracted infection from a lady patient who came to their hospital for treatment.
07-06-2020||Rohtak||COVID-19 effect: It’s double whammy for horse-carriage businessmen in Rohtak||People running horse-carriage businesses here are facing a double whammy due to COVID-19 situation. On the one hand, they have lost their source of livelihood due to restrictions on gatherings in weddings and other religious functions, while on the other, they are finding it difficult to feed the mares. "I have 16 mares and over Rs 4,500 has to be spent on their feed daily, while there is no hope of weddings and other religious functions with much-fun fare this year. The selling price of mares has also reduced to half hence we cannot think about their sale,” said Gaurav Chhokra, a horse-carriage businessman.Gaurav added that they had taken advance payment from people for weddings, which were scheduled in April, May, and June. Several weddings took place during the lockdown, so several people are mounting pressure on him for returning the advance.  “I had taken a loan to construct the house. Now, paying the EMI of Rs 10,000 per month without any income is also adding to my woes,” he added.Billu Bhatia and Gaurav Saluja are also going through a similar crisis. They have no other choice than to wait for the situation to get back to normal. “I had to borrow Rs 2 lakh from my relatives to come to terms with circumstances, as there is no chance of receiving any booking in the next year, due to the restrictions on the gatherings, and the coronavirus fear among the people, hence, I will have to pay rent for the shop and feed the mares without an income,” said Bhatia.He urged that the state government should help them financially for bailing them out of the crisis.Saluja said they had been running the horse-carriage business for the past four decades and their livelihood was totally dependent upon it.“All those engaged with this business are in deep trouble and under stress after losing their source of income. We have no option but to bear the losses as the majority of us have been doing the business for a long time, and are not in a position to switch over to any other business,” he added.
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||But for Gurugram, Faridabad, malls to reopen in Haryana||Except in Faridabad and Gurugram, places of worship, restaurants and shopping malls will reopen across Haryana on Monday. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala made the announcement today after a meeting with CM Manohar Lal Khattar and state Home Minister Anil Vij.Gurugram with 1,692 positive cases and Faridabad with 690 patients comprise 66.3 per cent of the total cases in the state (3,952). Dushyant told mediapersons restaurants/eateries had been allowed to open across the state but with 50 per cent capacity. The district administrations concerned would issue orders in this regard.He said temples, churches, gurdwaras and mosques would have to maintain social distancing. “Religious congregations like jagrans, namaaz and Sunday Mass are prohibited,” he said. — TNS
07-06-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Dushyant: No lapses by Excise Department||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala today washed his hands of the liquor scam, dismissing allegations that Excise and Taxation Department officials were hand in glove with smugglers. “There has not been any lapse by the department. A theft at the police malkhana is being termed as a scam. The Excise Department has nothing to do with it,” he told The Tribune on Saturday.Pointing out that every seized liquor bottle was mentioned in the police record, he said: “I am told, the Excise Department never verifies this stock. Only when it is to be destroyed is a team of the department called. There are police personnel guarding the malkhana in Kharkhoda (Sonepat). It is not the duty of the Excise Department to check that malkhana every day.” At the same time, the Deputy CM said that a Special Enquiry Team (SET) was probing the matter and any official found involved in the scam would face stern action. On the alleged delay in handing over information by the Excise Department to the SET, he replied: “I have signed a file related to submission of eight set of documents to the SET. It is the prerogative of the department to decide whether or not to provide documents to the SET on matters that are not within its purview.”
07-06-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Excise Dept gave godown keys to kingpin’s kin: Probe||Tribune News ServicePanipat, June 6Police investigation in Kharkhoda liquor scam has revealed that after seizing illegal liquor, officials of the Excise Department used to hand over keys of the godown to a close relative of liquor smuggling kingpin Bhupender Singh of Sisana.The probe has revealed that the liquor godown is on 2,500 square yards and it has 8-9 big halls where Bhupender reportedly kept his legal and illegal liquor. But this premises had a single gate and the godown is in the name of his mother.The police as well as the Excise and Taxation Department used the building for the storage of illicit liquor seized by them during raids.As per sources, the Excise Department had seized a huge stock of illegal liquor of Bhupender Singh in 2019 and sealed 4-5 halls of the godown. It was revealed during investigation that Excise Department officials had given the keys to Bhupender’s brother-in-law.Bhupender’s brother-in-law is also an accused in several excise cases. Besides, the Excise Department had also imposed penalty of Rs 25 lakh on Bhupender, sources said. But the department made no efforts to recover this penalty from him.The Excise Department has not even registered any case against him and never moved to attach his property to recover the penalty, sources added.Besides, the Kharkhoda police had also stocked seven trucks of illicit liquor connected to kingpin Bhupender Singh at the same godown.The sources further said that the Excise Department never visited the godown after sealing it. When it had to count the stock after the liquor theft came to the fore, the department found 7,000 liquor cases more in the seized liquor stock.SP Jashandeep Singh Randhwa said that we are verifying the connivance of excise officials in the liquor scam. The Excise Department never informed the Police Department about the seized illegal liquor in that godown, he said.
07-06-2020||---||Government should continue wheat procurement, says Hooda||Chandigarh, June 6Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday opposed the government’s decision to stop the purchase of wheat and other crops as it had earlier assured to continue the purchase till June 30. He said the farmers of the state need to be given more time to sell their crops, in line with the earlier schedule.He alleged that the details of a scam in the purchase of mustard were in public domain and it showed that a large amount of purchase had only been made on paper.Talking about the minimum support price (MSP) declared by the Union Government, Hooda said farmers were deeply disappointed as they were expecting a reasonable increase in the MSP of kharif crops. “The government has increased the MSP of paddy by just 53 paise per kg which is an increase of only 2.9 per cent. The increase in price of manure, seeds, irrigation, fuel, labour, harvesting, transportation and inflation too is many folds. At this rate, the farmers will not be able to recover even basic costs thus the state government must give appropriate bonus to them,” said Hooda.The former CM said the state government continues to be adamant on banning paddy cultivation in parts of the state, despite protests by farmers and Opposition.
07-06-2020||Ambala||Immigration fraud: 19 FIRs in Ambala, Kurukshetra||In all 19 more cases of immigration fraud have surfaced in Ambala and Kurukshetra. The police have registered FIRs against travel agents after the people deported from the US accused these persons of duping them of lakhs of rupees. — TNS
07-06-2020||---||Gurugram again, sees over100 cases||Chandigarh, June 6With 355 cases in a day, the highest so far, Haryana’s tally reached 3,952 today. Fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (129), Sonepat (89), Faridabad (39), Rohtak (23), Palwal (19), Karnal and Yamunanagar (10 each), Kaithal (9), Fatehabad (8), Panipat (5), Hisar and Ambala (4 each), Jind (3), Kurukshetra (2) and Sirsa (1).Gurugram, Sonepat and Faridabad accounted for 72.4 per cent of today’s cases. Meanwhile, 71 patients got cured in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recoveries to 1,280, with a recovery rate of 32.39 per cent.In Faridabad, fresh cases were reported from Vishnu Colony and Tilpat village (4 each), Jawahar Colony (3) and Dabua Colony, Mujedi village, Lakkarpur village, Ismailpur, Sector 49, Dayalbagh Colony and Sector 28 (2 each).In Yamunanagar, eight family members of a woman, who came to the house of her brother in Atma Puri Colony of Old Hamida from Delhi on May 25, tested positive. A person who had returned from Nigeria to Jathlana village was also among the positive cases.The 10 cases in Karnal included three from Nissing and two from Anand Vihar. In Ambala, three cases were reported from Ambala Cantonment and the fourth was a foreign returnee.A 52-year-old man from Kurukshetra was among the two cases reported today. In Panipat, a 22-year-old of Mukhija Colony and a 26-year-old and 20-year-old of Jatal village were among the fresh cases.‘Ensuring pupils’ safety vital before reopening schools’Panchkula: Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti and Social Justice and Empowerment Rattan Lal Kataria on Saturday said the government should only re-open schools after meticulous planning as the safety of pupils is the top priority. He was addressing a press conference on the completion of one year of Modi government 2.0 at the BJP district headquarters in Sector 2 here.
07-06-2020||---||Panipat Congress leader, son face murder charge||Panipat, June 6A 60-year-old man was stabbed to death here last night. The deceased, identified as Gurbachan Singh of Jawahar Nagar, was staying alone.Accused of assaulting a former district president of the Congress, he was out on bail. The police registered a case under Sections 302, 34 and 120-B of the IPC against the Congress leader, his son and three others.Gagandeep Singh, son of the deceased, told the police that he and his brother Inderjeet Singh reached the hospital after receiving a telephone call that someone had assaulted their father.He said doctors referred his father to the PGIMS in Rohtak, but they took him to a local private hospital. He said his father succumbed to injuries before reaching the hospital.He said his father had a monetary dispute with former district Congress president Prem Sachdeva, his son Deepak Sachdeva, vegetable vendor Prem and Jagdish Mata and his son Sachin Mata, their relatives.Panipat DSP Bijender Singh said Gurbachan called up the police control room after someone stabbed him. He said when the police reached his house, the gate was locked from outside and they broke open the locks to enter.
07-06-2020||Ambala||2-mth lockdown fetches Rs 4.15-cr fine in Ambala||The national lockdown imposed following the Covid pandemic has fetched over Rs4.15 crore to the Ambala police range, comprising Ambala, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra districts.While over 1,000 persons had been arrested for violating the lockdown prohibitory orders, over 20,000 vehicles had been challaned for various offences and over 1,500 vehicles had been impounded in the conglomerate of three districts since March 25. — TNS
07-06-2020||Hisar||MC staff protest assault on colleague in Hisar||Employees of market committees staged a dharna at various towns across the state today, demanding the arrest of BJP leader Sonali Phogat for beating up Hisar MC secretary Sultan Singh yesterday.The Sarv Karamchari Sangh, arhtiya associations and Congress termed the incident as shameful and unfortunate and threatened to launch a stir.Hisar SP Ganga Ram Punia said the police had started the probe and recorded the statements of Sultan and two associates who were present when the incident occurred.He said the MC secretary repeated his charges against Sonali and seven others in his statement to the police today. The case lodged by Sonali was referred to the mahila police station and was under investigation, he said.The MC staff in Hisar, Fatehabad, Rohtak, Gohana, Narnaul, Bahadurgarh and Bhiwani staged a dharna in their respective offices today.Chandigarh: The Sarv Karamchari Sangh decided to hold a statewide protest on June 9 if no action was initiated against Sonali. It asked the government to expel Sonali from the party and drop the case registered against Sultan. — TNS
07-06-2020||---||Private hospital CMD booked||Gurugram, June 6The police have booked the CMD of a renowned private hospital here and 52 others on the charges of corruption and money laundering following the orders of the Additional District and Sessions Judge.The case was registered on the basis of a complaint by RTI activist Raman Sharma, who had highlighted disparities in development of the hospital in 2009 and raised questions over its ownership rights.As per the FIR, a complete project, including research centre and medical college, was to be developed on the allotted land, but only the hospital was completed in 2009 and no further progress made thereafter. — TNS
07-06-2020||Rohtak||PGIMS doctor working for National Boxing Academy||The PGIMS has found a resident doctor working for the Rohtak branch of the National Boxing Academy (NBA), being run by the SAI.It has recommended police investigation following an inquiry by the Deputy Medical Superintendent.According to the inquiry, Dr Gaurav Nandal, a postgraduation student at the orthopedic department, went on foreign tours with boxing teams without permission, while he was marked present in the record. — TNS
07-06-2020||Parveen Arora||Bitter times for sweet shop owners, sale down to 20%||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 6Sweetmeat shops, which used to witness a huge rush prior to the Covid-induced lockdown, are witnessing a dismal response as customers are refraining from buying their favourite treats, fearing lack of sanitisation.Owners are struggling to meet the daily expenses in the lockdown as they are witnessing 20-25 per cent sale. They fear the sale is unlikely to pick up pace for another couple of months.There are around 500 sweet shops in the district. They were allowed to reopen during Lockdown 3.0 with directions to ensure social distancing and not to allow customers to sit or eat at the shops. They were also asked to keep sanitisers at shops and make masks mandatory for staff and customers.“Prior to the lockdown, our desi ghee sweets were in full demand. We were allowed to open shops from May 9, but people are not showing any enthusiasm. Only a few customers are turning up to purchase sweets,” said Bhupinder Bhatia, owner of a sweet shop.He said they used to prepare multiple sweets in good quantity earlier and almost all shelves would be empty in a day, but now they were preparing select items in limited quantity, fearing loss due to less demand.Meanwhile, some sweet shop owners said the shifting of labourers to native states had forced them to work with limited manpower. Dimple, a shopkeeper, said employees were not willing to come despite several requests.Moreover, people were afraid of eating outside food due to the Covid scare.
07-06-2020||Sonepat||Youth shot dead by four armed assailants||Faridabad15-year-old drowns in Faridabad lakeA 15-year-old boy hailing from Anangpur village drowned in a water body in the Surajkund area. The victim, identified as Harsh Kumar, had gone for swimming in the lake on Saturday noon. The police have handed over the body to the kin after retrieving it from the lake. The police have told the villagers to keep their children away from such water bodies. TNSJhajjarWoman shot dead in Jhajjar villageFour unidentified armed assailants barged into a house and shot dead a woman at Kanaunda village under Bahadurgarh subdivision here on Saturday. They also injured her 35-year-old son. The deceased has been identified as Om Kaur. Her son Manjit alias Titu (35) has been admitted to a private hospital in Bahadurgarh where his condition is stated to be out of danger. TNSPalwal40-year-old man beaten to death in PalwalThe police have registered a case in connection with the murder of a 40-year-old man, who was allegedly beaten to death on Friday night. No arrest has been made so far. The matter came to light on Saturday when a shopkeeper informed the police about the body of an unidentified person lying in front of a shop. Naib Singh, SHO, city police station, said the victim was yet to be identified. TNS
