07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bhupinder Hooda blames BJP-JJP govt for ‘problems’ faced by farmers in ‘mandis’||Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday blamed the BJP-JJP government for the “problems” faced by farmers in the ‘mandis’ in the state during the current procurement season.He said farmers have been coming to the mandis or grain markets with paddy and other crops for several weeks, but purchase is nothing compared to the arrival in the mandis.“Farmers are being harassed in the name of registration on portal and gate passes. The government is refusing to buy the crop and citing moisture as an excuse. The farmers are not getting the MSP in whatever is being bought by the government procurement agencies.“Left with no other option, farmers are selling their crops to private people at whatever prices they are getting. The private agencies are taking advantage of the helplessness of the farmers and looting them,” Hooda, who is Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly, said in a statement here.The former chief minister further said “these are the same private agencies which were being projected by the government as messiahs who would solve all the problems of the farmers after the implementation of three new farm laws”.“The government said these agencies will buy the crop at a higher rate than the MSP. But now it has become clear that private agencies are only engaged in looting the farmers because the government is not ready to buy farmers’ crop on MSP,” he claimed.Hooda said farmers were forced to sell their paddy at Rs 500 to Rs 1000 less than the minimum support price fixed per quintal while maize farmers are having to suffer a loss of Rs 1,200 per quintal and the condition is similar for millet and cotton farmers.The Congress leader said that he interacted with many farmers who told him that three new farm legislations of the Centre “have started to show effect”.“Things will get worse in the coming days. Therefore, farmers and the Congress party are demanding these anti-farmer laws be revoked,” he said.Hooda also defended the agitation of various farmer outfits in Sirsa against the farm laws and seeking resignation of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, whom they have accused of clinging to power and not caring about the image of his great grandfather late Devi Lal, former deputy prime minister, who was considered as messiah of the peasant community.“In this hour of difficulty, it is the duty of all political parties to stand with the farmers. The JJP should therefore immediately withdraw support from the government that has betrayed the farmers. Now the time has come when all the MLAs will have to choose between power and the farmer. Those who have betrayed the farmer, will not stand with anyone,” Hooda said.He said the Congress is engaged in fighting for farmers’ cause in the entire country, including Punjab and Haryana, and will force the government to revoke the “anti-farmer” legislations. PTI
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Gram sabhas should pass resolution against stubble burning, Haryana chief secretary tells DCs||Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan on Wednesday told the deputy commissioners that gram sabhas should pass resolutions against stubble burning, according to an official statement here.Besides this, Vardhan, who was presiding over a meeting with the DCs through video conferencing, directed them to ensure the availability of crop residue management machinery to small and marginal farmers on a priority basis.He said that every sarpanch should hold a meeting of the gram sabha and should pass a resolution not to burn stubble.Vardhan also directed them to carry out a comprehensive awareness campaign at the district-level, block, and village level, so as to make the people aware about ill effects of stubble burning on the environment.He said that activities like organising seminars and wall painting should be carried out.       The chief secretary said that all those panchayats, which earlier came in the ‘red zone’ on stubble burning but now perform well under the crop residue management will be rewarded at the state level.He said that the panchayat, which gets the first, second and third position, will be rewarded an amount of Rs 10 lakh, Rs 5 lakh and Rs 3 lakh, respectively.Notably, every year, Punjab and Haryana are blamed for rising air pollution and smog due to stubble burning by farmers.  The chief secretary directed the DCs to ensure adequate supply crop residue management machinery in districts, allocation of 70 per cent machinery to custom hiring centeres and farmers, especially small and marginal farmers.   In the meeting, Additional Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, V Umashankar informed that a system has been developed to closely monitor and control the incidence of crop residue burning.Under this, an SMS will be sent by state authorities twice a day to sarpanches, village secretaries, deputy directors, agriculture departments, tehsildars and deputy commissioners if stubble is found burning in the range of 100 to 115 m, based on the satellite image so that the officers concerned can visit the spot and take stock of the situation and implement the next action. PTI
07-10-2020||Ravi S Singh||AAP faces challenge on Baroda by-election front in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 7The leadership of fledgling AAP in Haryana faces a tough challenge to dissuade its workers from supporting nominees of other political parties in the upcoming by-election for Baroda assembly constituency.Although AAP leaders put up a brave front in public, in private they express apprehension of workers taking up sides with parties in the fray.It would be difficult to wean them back in AAP fold after they get politically and emotionally enmeshed with rival politically parties.“The AAP has decided not to support any political party. The workers have been directed to officially support a common nominee of all the panchyats of 54 villages in Baroda," Haryana in-charge and AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta said here on Wednesday.  AAP's decision against putting up a nominee has left its workers idle and hence vulnerable to the lure of electioneering by other political parties.The Baroda election, and campaign for it, promises to be of high-wattage as the ruling BJP-JJP and the principal Opposition Congress have high stakes.The INLD will press its "political armada" in the political combat to prove its credibility after its leader cocked a snook and formed the JJP.To INLD leadership's chagrin, the JJP came out trumps in the last Assembly elections in the state to the extent that it formed a coalition government with the BJP, and bagged the post of Deputy Chief Minister in Dushyant Chautala, to boot.INLD leader Abhay Chautala has held a series of strategic meetings with senior leaders of his party regarding Baroda election.There is a gnawing feeling in sections of the AAP that its workers can't remain idle spectators in the midst of "Nagada-Dhol" atmospherics of the election in the Baroda hinterland.As a premotive in order to keep the workers full with AAP, the leadership has given a call for "gherao" of residence of Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar against the agri-products marketing laws which were enacted by Parliament last month.
07-10-2020||---||Trader robbed, burnt to death inside car in Hisar||Hisar, October 7A trader was looted and burnt to death inside his car by two unidentified robbers on Data-Gurana road near Mahjat village in the district on Tuesday night.Ram Mehar, a resident of Data was returning from Hisar to his native village, when the incident occurred. As per his family, the victim called them on phone to inform about the loot and sought help. He had withdrawn Rs 11 lakh from a bank and was carrying the cash with him in the car at the time of incident, they added.Hansi SHO Kashmiri Lal said the victim called his family at 11.15 pm. The Data village sarpanch called the SHO on behalf of the victim’s family at 12.05 am. The victim’s family apprehended that two motorcyclists were chasing him and they could attack him. The SHO said the Bhatla police chowki personnel reached the spot in five minutes (at 12.10 am). By then the car was up in flames.The SHO said the police have registered a case under Sections 396, 201 of the IPC against unknown persons and started investigation. The victim owned an industrial unit in Barwala.
07-10-2020||Sushil Manav ||Wrestler Babita Phogat quits Haryana deputy director's post to take active part in politics||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7Wrestler Babita Phogat on Wednesday resigned from the post of Deputy Director in the Sports Department, Haryana.Babita told The Tribune that she had resigned an hour ago in order to take active part in politics and campaign for the BJP in the Baroda Assembly bypoll besides the Assembly elections in Bihar.Babita and kabaddi player Kavita Devi were appointed deputy directors in the sports department on July 30 this year.Winner of the 2014 Commonwealth Games, Babita had contested the 2019 Assembly poll from Dadri seat on a BJP ticket, but had lost.Babita and elder sister Geeta Phogat, a DSP in Haryana Police, are known for Aamir Khan's movie ‘Dangal’ made on them and their father Mahavir Phogat.
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Police detain nearly 100 farmers in Sirsa protesting against farm bills||Police in Sirsa on Wednesday detained nearly 100 farmers who were sitting on dharna to protest the contentious farm laws at Bhumman Shah Chowk since Tuesday night.Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav was also taken into custody by police in Sirsa.I have been detained by Haryana Police for joining peaceful dharna at Sirsa.Dharna site demolished. About 100 farmers and leaders arrested.Clearly, Haryana govt is rattled by farmers' questions, bent upon using brutal force to prevent dissent. https://t.co/vEWxUWW9UNThe detained farmers were taken to police lines in buses.Also read: Farmers try to gherao Dy CM’s Sirsa house, want him to quitHundreds of farmers had assembled in Sirsa on Tuesday for a sit-in outside the residences of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and Power Minister Ranjit Singh.The farmers later decided to sit on an indefinite dharna at Bhumman Shah Chowk adjacent to the residences of the two leaders.President Ram Nath Kovind has given his assent to the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and the Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which were passed by Parliament last month.
07-10-2020||Rohtak||Haryana's Agriculture Dept to take punitive action against stubble burners||Which government department will take punitive action against stubble burners?Finally, the uncertainty has been cleared as the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department resolved to take responsibility to check the menace.Additional Chief Secretary (Agriculture) has directed Deputy Directors to take punitive action i.e. lodging of FIRs, issuance of challans against paddy stubble burners besides executing other enforcement measures.Sources said the directives had been issued after the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) washed off its hand from taking action against the stubble burners citing a shortage of staff and other reasons.“In August, the Environment Department was entrusted the responsibility of taking punitive action against the erring farmers under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, this year. The department later wrote to the HSPCB stating that the burning of crop residue is a violation of the Air act hence issuing challan and lodging FIRs into the matter are the duty of the HSPCB but it denied having the authority to take action against erring farmers while expressing its inability,” said the sources.The HSPCB had pleaded that it has only one officer in every district. It does not have the power to lodge cases. Only a government department could do so. As for issuing challans, the NGT has already passed an order that only district-level committees, comprising officers of the Revenue and Agriculture Department can impose fine on farmers, the sources added.“The HSPCB’s denial made the Agriculture Department take the responsibility on its own to curb the incident of stubble burning as a considerable number of active fire locations are being recorded by the Haryana Space Application Center but the action is not taken against the violators following the uncertainty prevailed,” said an officer of Agriculture Department.He informed 44 active fire locations were recorded on Monday. Nine each were reported in Kurukshetra and Kaithal, eight in Karnal, five in Jind, four in Sonepat, three each in Ambala and Yamunanagar, two in Panchkula and one in Sirsa district.Rohtas Singh, Deputy Director, confirmed the agriculture department would now take action against stubble burners.
07-10-2020||---||Rahul vows to save farmers, calls it entire nation's fight||Patiala/Pehowa, October 6Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday kept up the attack on the Centre over new farm laws, saying the fight against these legislations was not of farmers or labourers alone, but it was “India’s fight”.Addressing a gathering in Patiala on the concluding day of “Kheti Bachao Yatra”, Rahul said if these new measures were implemented, farmers and labourers would become “slaves” of a few corporates. In the evening, he addressed farmers at Pehowa and Kurukshetra in Haryana.Institutions at riskThe PM is killing all institutions to ensure his image remains strong. Give me free press and other key institutions and this govt won't last long.—Rahul Gandhi, congress leaderThe Congress leader alleged that the Prime Minister was “killing” all institutions in the country to ensure his image across the world remained “strong”. “Modi is not interested in people of the country but is only concerned about protecting and promoting his image which would have got dented had he admitted to China’s incursion,” he said.Rahul said the Congress favoured grain markets as it had the interest of farmers in mind. The party manifesto promised a grain market at every 4 km. He said if farmers were hit then India’s food security would be finished. “And if that happens, the entire country will once again become a slave. This fight is not just of farmers and labourers, but this is India’s fight.”Punjab to call special session We will not only call a special session to oppose the new laws being implemented in Punjab, but also take legal recourse to ensure our farmers are saved.—Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterRahul was briefly stopped on the Punjab-Haryana border but was later allowed to enter after heated arguments between the party workers and the police. “They have stopped us on a bridge on the Haryana border. I’m not moving and am happy to wait here. 1 hour, 5 hours, 24 hours, 100 hours, 1,000 hours or 5,000 hours,” Rahul tweeted. Rahul also visited Kurukshetra grain market and interacted with farmers and traders.
07-10-2020||---||Dushyant Chautala tests Covid-positive||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was among the 1,206 fresh cases in Haryana, taking the Covid tally to 1,36,115 on Tuesday. With 18 more deaths, the toll reached 1,509.Dushyant announced on Tuesday that he had tested positive for Covid. He said he was asymptomatic and had been isolated at home.Gurugram reported a maximum of 266 cases, followed by Faridabad (148), Hisar (96), Rohtak and Kurukshetra (84 each) and Ambala (57).Hisar and Yamunanagar reported four deaths each, Sonepat, Panipat and Gurugram two each and Sirsa, Fatehabad, Kaithal and Jind one each.
07-10-2020||Sirsa||Chaudhary Devi Lal University's Law Dept to be Centre of Excellence||Virtual lecture on happinessRohtak: Eminent happiness coach and MDU IMSAR alumnus Mehak Sharma in a special lecture on "Power of thoughts and emotional wellness" organised by the Dean, Students' Welfare Office of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), said the power of positive thought could lay the foundation of a successful career and happy life and prepare the futuristic roadmap of career with proper planning and positive thinking. She spoke on the importance of emotional wellness. In her address, Sharma said instead of getting influenced by one's peer group, students must focus on their own strength and aptitude to take decision about their career goals. She advocated action-oriented lifestyle and pro-social behaviour.Prof assigned additional chargeSirsa: The Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa, Professor Rajbir Singh Solanki has assigned the additional charge of Deputy Controller of examinations to Professor Surender Singh, chairman of the commerce department. Professor Surender said he would perform his duties with utmost sincerity. Earlier, Dr Amit Sangwan, faculty member from the department of journalism and mass communication looked after this additional charge.
07-10-2020||The Civil Dispensary in Sector 8||Cleanliness goes for a toss near dispensary||Mobile food testing lab a must in PanchkulaAll the government departments of Panchkula should jointly launch an all-purpose multi-product mobile testing lab van on rotation basis for each sector of the city for on the spot testing/surveillance of items of daily use on nominal payment. This will be a deterrent for manufacturers not to compromise with the quality of products and be a welcome step for the good health of all.Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaNo social distancingNo social distancing is being maintained in auto-rickshaws across the city post the lockdown withdrawal. They have thrown caution to the wind allowing more passengers to be seated in the auto. No one can deny the fact that Covid cases will increase manifold. The Gurugram administration should take note of it and not allow passengers to be seated more than the capacity.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramPotholes need attentionPotholes dot the road in the HSVP, Sector 8, Ambala City, which is in front of the main park and close to Dasehra ground. It is an important road because it connects the sector to the rest of Ambala City. Residents living here are forced to use it and exhale maximum dust. The authorities never come to the sector either to listen to the grievances of people or supervise the functioning of various infrastructure capability. I hope department concerned will take cognisance and repair the road.Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
07-10-2020||Ambala||Two arrested for assault||The police arrested Sachin Kumar and Himanshu of Ambala for assault and criminal intimidation. Gaurav of Ambala had reported that the accused, along with their accomplices, assaulted him and threatened him of dire consequences. A local court ordered their release on bail. TNSOne more caught for theftThe police arrested Girish alias Binny of Nahan in Himachal Pradesh for theft. A woman had reported theft of gold ornaments and cash from her house in Naraingarh. A local court remanded the accused in one-day police custody. Two other accused had already been arrested. TNS2 nabbed with illicit liquorThe police arrested two persons in separate cases and claimed to have recovered 20 boxes of illicit liquor from their possession. Manu of Ambala was held with 214 bottles and Gaurav with 16 bottles. Gaurav was released on bail. TNSThree POs in police netThe police arrested three proclaimed offenders (POs) -- Amar Singh of Panipat, Siya Ram Irshad Anwar of Panchkula and Ajay of Saha. They had been evading arrest after being booked. TNS
07-10-2020||---||Farmers try to gherao Dy CM Dushyant’s Sirsa house, want him to quit||Hisar, October 6Nearly 5,000 farmers, led by the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), today organised a protest outside the residence of Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala in Sirsa.Sit on indefinite dharna in SirsaFarmers have sat on a dharna at Bhuman Shah Chowk in Sirsa town, about 200 metres away from the residence of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala. They said they would continue the protest for an indefinite period until the government accepted their demands. TNSA group of protesters reportedly broke two-layer security cordon to get close to the Deputy CM’s residence after which the police used water cannons and teargas shells to disperse them. There was a minor clash when the protesters hurled stones at the police but the situation was brought under control.The protesters had gathered at the Dasehra ground here in the morning and started marching towards the Deputy CM’s residence with flags and anti-government placards in the afternoon.The farmers had been demanding Dushyant’s resignation, stating that the three agriculture Acts by the NDA government were not in their favour and demanded a legal assurance about the minimum support price of their proThe protesters included Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav, Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Baljit Singh Daduwal, Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa, besides other prominent farmer leaders from Haryana and Punjab.Addressing farmers, Bajwa said people of Punjab and Haryana were real brothers and would struggle together to protect farmers’ interest. Another former leader Lakkha Sidana said the struggle would continue until their demands were fulfilled by the Centre.Yogendra Yadav said in 2011 then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi himself had demanded introduction of a law to ensure MSP of the produce to farmers and now that he was the PM, he should bring out a Bill to ensure guaranteed MSP to farmers. Sirsa SP Bhupender Singh said no one suffered any injury during the protest. “The situation remained under control and the police used one or two teargas shells and water cannon to disperse the protesters.” He said no protester was detained and no FIR was registered.
07-10-2020||
||Farmers hurt in lathicharge, claims panel||Rohtak, October 6 The Haryana unit of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) condemned the canecharge on the protesting farmers in Sirsa. AIKSCC leader Inderjit Singh claimed the farmers were peacefully taking out a protest march and heading towards the Chautala house to submit a memorandum when the police resorted to lathicharge and water cannons, leaving many injured. Singh said the AIKSCC would continue the agitation, as announced last week. They would observe October 14 as the MSP day and gherao Delhi on November 26 and 27.  “The resistance will continue until thethree legislations are annulled,” he added.
07-10-2020||Sushil Manav||Inspection unearthed serious violations in Ambala distillery||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6Even as smuggling of liquor with caps and labels of NV Distillery from Haryana to other states continues unabated, Haryana’s Excise and Taxation Department has found several serious violations in the distillery’s Ambala unit during an inspection on September 5 and 6.The inspection report prepared by the department said some violations and breach of terms and conditions of licence could lead to cancellation of licence to the distillery.DEPT WANTS DETC SHIFTEDThe inspection revealed that NV Distillery Private Limited failed to deposit in the treasury the salaries of excise officials posted in the distillery since 2018-19 and an amount of Rs 61.47 lakh was outstanding in violation of rules.The inspection was carried out by a team of 10 officials, including Deputy Excise and Taxation Controllers (DETCs) RK Jain, NK Grewal and RK Singla from Karnal, Ambala and headquarters, respectively. The inspection was carried out in the presence of Ambrish Tyagi, general manager, bottling, said Ashutosh Rajan, Collector, Excise.The inspection revealed that M/s NV Distillery Private Limited had shown an extended section as bottling hall in the site plan, but the location, gate, building and functioning of the hall were in violation of the Punjab Distilleries Rules, 1932.According to the rules, the distillery will be situated in a walled enclosure with only one opening and it should be so built as to prevent communication between the distillery enclosure and outside except through the opening provided. The report said Tyagi failed to produce any permission for this bottling plant, where the bottling of country liquor was being carried out.The report revealed that three pipelines had been found connecting the two distilleries of the company — NV Distillery Private Limited and NV International Private Limited. The report said any connectivity through pipes between two distilleries was not justified under the rules.Cameras installed on the main gate of both distilleries did not have proper angle and focus. There was no cleanliness in the bottling section. Pot stills were found non-functional, with the management failing to provide any proof of intimation to the department.Packing material for IMFL was found lying in the extended bottling hall, though country liquor was being bottled. A total of 66,376 bottles, 1,01,762 pints and 3,46,586 nips of IMFL were found in the country liquor godown, which was a very serious violation and in contravention of rules and procedures. It was found that the total grains purchased had not been entered in the account books and the entry of merely 10 per cent of purchases had been entered in the record. Shiv Kumar Sinha, executive vice-president (sales and marketing), did not respond to calls .
07-10-2020||Ambala||42 arrested with 32K bottles of booze||The smuggling of liquor touched a new high in Ambala last month, if the official figures are any indication. Under its drive against liquor smuggling, the police had arrested 42 smugglers with over 32,000 bottles of illicit liquor.Sharing the official data here on Tuesday, Ambala Superintendent of Police (SP) Rajesh Kalia said 32 cases of liquor smuggling were registered under the Excise Act in the district in September and huge cache of illicit liquor, which was being smuggled from other parts of the region, was seized. The seizure included 29,416 bottles of IMFL and 3,029 bottles of local made liquor. The total recovery of 32,445 bottles of illicit liquor was handed over to the Excise Department for further action. The biggest catch in September was the inter-state booze scam, which was busted with the arrest of 17 persons so far and recovery of 2,669 boxes of illicit liquor, containing various types of whiskey, scotch and rum under leading brand names. — TNS
07-10-2020||
||2 held for demanding Rs 2 crore from arhtiya||Panipat, October 6 The Panipat police have arrested two persons for allegedly demanding Rs 2 crore extortion from an arhtiya in the Babarpur grain market of Panipat. The police produced the accused in the court, which sent them to a day’s police remand. The accused have been identified as Akash of Kachroli village of Panipat and Vikas of Pabana village of Karnal district. Shree Chand, an arhtiya, had received three anonymous letters in which some miscreants demanded Rs 2 crore and threatened that if he failed to do so, his elder son and grandson would be killed. In his complaint to SP Manisha Chaudhary, he said he found the first anonymous letter on September 14 in his godown, second on September 23 hanging at the door of a room in his fields and the third on October 1 when he was on his way to the fields. In the third letter, the accused demanded Rs 1 crore after which the family approached the police. Following the complaint, the Sadar police registered a case against an unidentified person under sections 387 and 506 of the IPC. Satish Kumar, DSP (Headquarter), said the SP had ordered CIA-1 Inspector Rajpal to investigate the matter. The CIA-1 team on Sunday received a tip-off about the accused and nabbed them from near Babarpur flyover, he added. During preliminary investigation, it was revealed that Akash and Vikas had demanded money from Shree Chand to get rich quickly.
07-10-2020||---||Farmers stuck outside Karnal mandi for 4 hrs||Karnal, October 6The slow speed of the Meri Fasal, Mera Byora portal in generating gate passes to farmers to enter the grain market here resulted in a long traffic jam on the service lanes of the National Highway-44 on Tuesday morning.Farmers waited for around four hours for their turn to enter the grain market. Long queues of tractors were seen stranded on both sides of the service lanes.The farmers said that even after apprising Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar of the portal’s slow speed in generating gate passes, the matter was not resolved.The Chief Minister had visited the mandi on Monday to take stock of the procurement.Another farmer Sahab Singh, who was waiting for his turn since 7 am, questioned Khattar for giving farmers a false hope of resolving the problem.Rakesh Kumar, standing beside him, chimed in. “Gate passes should be done away with. Instead, messages sent to farmers for bringing their produce to the mandi should be considered as gate passes,” he said.Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal arhtiyas’ association, seconded his views.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the matter had been brought to the notice of the higher authorities and it would be resolved soon.
07-10-2020||
||Dean of Jind varsity suspended||Hisar, October 6 Chaudhary Ranbir Singh University (CRSU) in Jind, on Tuesday, suspended the dean of the physical education department, Prof Sandeep Berwal, who is sitting on a dharna alleging irregularities in recruitment. Vice Chancellor Prof RB Solanki issued the suspension order following a recommendation by the university’s executive council. The university has also banned his entry to the administrative and academic blocks and directed him to get prior permission for leaving the place of posting. On Sunday, high drama took place during the selection committee meeting for the recruitment of assistant professors and associate professor in the physical education department. Meanwhile, Berwal alleged that the recruitment process was meaningless as appointments were fixed. He said when he tried to show dissent, he was manhandled in the meeting. The VC had, however, said the dean had misbehaved with other members of the selection committee. The members had submitted a complaint, after which the executive council recommended his suspension. The council had also approved the constitution of a high-power committee to probe the matter.
07-10-2020||Faridabad||Illegal structures demolished in 2 Faridabad  villages||A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) on Tuesday demolished 41 constructions in three unauthorised residential colonies in the vicinity of Gonchhi and Sarurpur villages of Faridabad.  DTP Naresh Kumar, who led the demolition drive, said the constructions razed on Tuesday included four residential buildings, one dealer office, six industrial sheds and 30 damp-proof courses and boundary walls and a road network build illegally in the area. Legal action has been launched against the property dealers or persons, who had carved out the plots or had sold the property in contravention to rules and regulations, he added. Over 455 illegal structures have been demolished in48 drives carried out in various parts of the district since June this year. The DTP office has also put up notices in various parts of the district, asking residents not to buy plot or land without verification or NOC from the department concerned. — TNS
07-10-2020||Nitish Sharma||New farm laws to benefit corporate houses: Rahul Gandhi||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 6Launching a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said Modi was in power for the past six years but instead of doing anything for the poor, he had been destroying them.Accompanied by senior Congress leaders Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Kumari Selja, Deepender Hooda, Randeep Surjewala and HS Chattha, he addressed a gathering at the Pehowa grain market after his “Kheti Bachao Yatra” reached the state here on Tuesday evening.He said: “The way demonetisation and GST have benefited a few corporates such as Ambani and Adani, the new farm laws will also benefit these people only. Modi says that by making these laws, he is giving freedomto the farmers then why farmers in Haryana, Punjab, UP and Rajasthan are holding protests, why there was no debate and discussion on it in Parliament.”Rahul said his government would scrap the three farm laws within 10 days if voted to power and till then the Congress would continue to protest, raise farmers’ voice and collectively oppose these laws.“Modi has cleverly passed these laws against farmers and labourers during the Covid pandemic, believing that no one will hold protests and hit the roads fearing the virus. But he is wrong. The MSP, procurement and mandi system were introduced for the food security of this nation. Modi will break the MSP and mandi system, and then the Ambanis and Adanis will capture the entire system. They will not use labour but bring automation for farm sector operations, rendering lakhs of people, including farmers, traders and labourers, jobless,” he added.Rahul said: “The land will be grabbed and big malls and flats will be constructed there. Farmers in Haryana, Punjab and the entire country have understood that Modi is paving the way for Ambani and Adani because farmers and labourers can’t do marketing for Modi but corporates can.”Later, Rahul paid obeisance at Jyotisar and visited Thanesar grain market as well, before concluding his “Kheti Bachao Yatra”. At Thanesar grain market, Rahul said: “Chinese soldiers are inside our territory and the PM is misguiding the country. If no one has grabbed the land, how our soldiers got martyred? China knows that Modi has weaken the country, weakened India’s farmers, and increased joblessness. Modi is image conscious. The day the UPA comes to power, we will throw China out.”Hooda said: “The farmers are not getting MSP today. We have only one demand that the government should add the provision of guarantee of MSP. If any trader procures crop below the MSP, it should be a punishable offence.”Selja said: “Rahul has raised his voice against the wrong policies of the BJP and Modi. No other party and their leaders have guts to challenge Modi directly. We assure that we will not let the BJP implement farm laws in Haryana.”Surjewala targeted Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala and accused them of attacking the lives of farmers and labourers.
07-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC stays conversion of Faridabad public parks into residential area||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that every citizen has the fundamental right to fresh air, before staying Haryana’s action of converting public parks into a residential area in Faridabad. The Bench has ruled that the action is unconstitutional and contrary to law.The direction by the Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu came after petitioner Jan Kalyan Samiti contended that 7.5 acres had been earmarked for public parks in Faridabad, but jhuggis, residential houses and workshops, among other things, came up in open areas in an unauthorised manner.A committee also foundthat jhuggi-dwellers had encroached upon public land and were liable to be evicted. The High Court, during the hearing of another case, was told that Haryana approved a proposal regarding change of land use from park to residential on May 29.The Bench asserted that it was evident that parks were carved out in the master plan, but were encroached upon with the passage of time. The respondents had undertaken in court from time to time to remove illegal encroachers, but by taking a U-turn, decided to convert parks into residential areas.The Bench pointed out that residents had a fundamental right to free air and to enjoy public amenities and it was expected from the respondents to evict illegal encroachers from public land instead of nullifying the orders passed by the court from time to time.The Bench also referred to a Supreme Court judgment in the case of “Virender Gaur and others versus Haryana and others” to say it was held that the government could not sanction lease in favour of a private party since municipal land was earmarked for open space for public use to maintain ecology and hygienic environment.Before parting with the case, the Bench stayed the communication dated June 6, approval dated May 29 and other communications by the Faridabad Municipal Commissioner on change of land use.
07-10-2020||Sanjay Yadav||3 shooters hurt in encounter||Gurugram, October 6Three shooters of notorious gangster Sube Gujjar’s gang and two cops were critically injured after an encounter near Saapki Nangli village in Sohna late on Tuesday evening.They are being treated at Sohna hospital. The police have recovered an illegal weapon from the possession of the accused. An FIR has been registered at the Sohna city police station.The encounter took place around 7 pm when the accused were on their way to eliminate a local wrestler.After receiving a tip-off, sub inspector Raj Kumar, head of the crime unit, Sector 39, chased the accused, who fired at his team. The police personnel, who were wearing bullet-proof jackets, retaliated.In cross-firing, shooters Rajesh Fauji, Kamal alias Kamli and Ludhiana resident Aman were injured. Two head constables, namely Sunil and Abhilash, too, were injured.“The trio is wanted for many heinous crimes and the crime unit has done a great job. A reward of Rs 2 lakh has been announced for the team. The arrested miscreants were active in the area and were regularly extorting money from people in the name of Gujjar,” said CP KK Rao.
07-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chief Secretary heads screening panel of Baroda bypoll||The state has formed a screening panel under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan in view of enforcement of the model code of conduct during the Baroda bypoll. The panel also includes the administrative secretary of the department concerned and the Principal Secretary, General Administration, as its members. A spokesperson said the panel would examine each proposal before sending it to the ECI through the Chief Electoral Officer. — TNS
07-10-2020||ajjar||Vegetable seller shot dead||A vegetable seller was shot dead allegedly by his friend here on Monday night.  The deceased has been identified as Sandeep of Rewari Road here. The incident was captured in the CCTV cameras installed in the area. The police have arrested the accused, Suresh, after registering a murder case. The crime was perpetrated when Suresh, Sandeep and one other person were consuming liquor. The duo engaged in a verbal duel over some issue. Suresh allegedly took out his revolver and opened fired on Suresh, leaving him critically injured. The third man also suffered bullet injuries. They were rushed to the Civil Hospital, where Sandeep succumbed.  DSP Rahul Dev said Suresh had fired from his licenced revolver. “The cancellation of his licence has been recommended,” he added. — TNS
