07-11-2020||---||Court grants interim bail to NV group chairman as he claims to have suicidal tendency||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  Tribune News Service   Chandigarh, November 7 As NV Group Chairman Ashok Jain claimed he has a suicidal tendency, a local court in Panipat granted him interim bail in a liquor smuggling case.  The case was registered in 2019 as boxes of illegal liquor were found hidden along with cattle feed in a truck in Panipat. Jain was arrested in the case, registered for cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and Excise Act, last month.  Earlier, he had moved application for regular bail which was dismissed as withdrawn on October 30. After that he filed another application for interim bail on medical grounds.  During a hearing on November 6 before additional district and sessions judge Vimal Sapra, Dr Nikhil Raheja who had been treating Jain was also present.  He told the court that Jain “is aged about 72 years” and “he has a bipolar personality” and was suffering from anxiety disorder and panic attacks. He added that NV Group Chairman “has suicidal tendency and his psychotherapy and psychosocial intervention is being done”.  The court was also informed that “he had remained admitted in hospital on several occasions due to his ailment” and he was also being treated for “ectopic heart rhythms and sleep apnea”. Dr Raheja further told the court that “if he is kept in judicial custody, his condition may deteriorate and he may collapse at any time”. He further stated that as Jain was suffering from mental illness, the jail authorities would be unable to provide the requisite treatment to him in the jail. The judge observed, “The opinion of the doctor cannot be rebutted by the prosecution. The prosecution although filed reply to the application but the same is on merits and there is no whisper in it about the medical condition of the applicant. It has nowhere been verified by the prosecution that the applicant is not suffering from such illness as described by his doctor.”  The order said, “The doctor present in the Court has stated that at least three-week time shall be required for providing requisite treatment to the applicant. On his request, the application is allowed and the applicant is ordered to be released on interim bail.”  On the request of Jain’s counsel, the judge agreed for making effective the interim bail order from November 10 as accused was in custody in three other cases and applications for interim bail had been moved in those cases too. The interim bail would be till December 1.  The NV group has distilleries in Ambala (Haryana), Rajpura (Punjab), Aurangabad (Maharashtra), Goa and a bottling plant in Chandigarh.
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana announces compensation for kin of illicit liquor victims||Expressing grief over the death of nearly 40 people due to the consumption of adulterated liquor in Haryana's Sonepat and Panipat districts, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to the family of each illicit liquor victim.The money will be given from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund.Khattar said the police have made an arrest in this regard and further investigation is underway.He said directions have been given to bust this network.The Chief Minister added that strict action would be taken by the state government against those officers, employees, contractors or liquor mafia involved in the illegal sale of liquor. — IANS
07-11-2020||Noida (UP)||No respite from 'severe' air in Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gurgaon||The air quality remained “severe” in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurgaon in the National Capital Region (NCR) on Saturday, according to a government agency.Concentration of major air pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).As per the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Saturday was 439 in Gurgaon, 436 in Ghaziabad, 428 in Greater Noida, 426 in Noida and 414 in Faridabad, according to the CPCB's Sameer app.It was 433 in Ghaziabad, 421 in Greater Noida, 415 in Faridabad, 406 in Noida and 392 in Gurgaon on Friday.PM 2.5 and PM 10 were the prominent pollutants in these satellite cities of Delhi, where the average AQI remained at 427 on Saturday, as per the app.According to the CPCB, an AQI in the "severe" category affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad have four stations each, while Gurgaon has three and Greater Noida two, as per the app. PTI
07-11-2020|| ||Parole to Ram Rahim as per law, says Haryana minister||Chandigarh, November 7Haryana Minister for Power and Prisons Ranjit Singh on Satuday justified one-day parole to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh on October 24, saying it was given as per the law.“Yes, on October 24 he (Ram Rahim) was allowed to visit his mother who was admitted in a Gurugram hospital,” Singh told media persons when asked to clarify the reasons for parole to the Dera chief.“There is a provision under the law that in case of an emergency in the family of a convict the prisoner is allowed to visit his family under police protection. He was taken under full police protection after the government had taken into consideration all aspects,” he said.“You have asked about Babaji (Ram Rahim), but hundreds of prisoners are being given parole daily. There is a law regarding this. We cannot change it,” the minister added.He said that had Ram Rahim sought parole for a larger period, the government would have taken several factors into consideration, since court cases were still pending against him, but this was for just one day for which the jail superintendent had the powers to allow parole.Asked was it in his knowledge, Ranjit Singh replied in affirmative and added that he knew from the Day 1.When a reporter asked whether Ram Rahim would also be allowed to visit his Sirsa dera and residence on parole in future, Ranjit Singh said that the government would consider the request when it comes. The Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana on October 24 had granted a day's parole to controversial Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who is serving a 20-year jail sentence for raping two of his disciples and has been denied bail several times by the courts. Sources said that Ram Rahim was granted parole on his wife Harjit Kaur's plea that his mother Naseeb Kaur, 85, suffering from a heart disease was seriously ill. The Dera chief met his mother, who is hospitalised in Gurugram.
07-11-2020||---||Villagers want Rs 25L, government job||Panipat, November 6Enraged over the six deaths in Gumar village of Gannaur reportedly by consuming spurious liquor, the relatives of the deceased and the villagers blocked traffic by putting bodies of two deceased on the Gannaur-Gohana road on Friday evening.The police had handed over the bodies of Jaipal and Pradeep to the victims’ kin after post-mortem on Friday.The villagers and the district administration accused the police of being lethargic.The villagers raised slogans against the administration, the CM and the local MLA. The protesters demanded Rs 25 lakh compensation for the family of the deceased and a government job for a member of the family of the deceased.Rajiv Jain, former media adviser to the CM, also reached the spot and assured people of conveying their message to the Chief Minister.Gannaur SDM Surender Pal and DSP Jogender Rathi tried to pacify the protesters but in vain. The protesters demanded the Sonepat DC to come to the village and give in writing that compensation and a government job would be given to the victims’ family members. The protest was on till this report was filed.
07-11-2020||Karnal||Kanwarpreet Bhatia Karnal Bar body prez||Kanwarpreet Bhatia won the Karnal Bar Association presidential election on Friday. Harish Arya was elected vice-president, Sumit Mohan Sharma general secretary, Sunil Samana joint secretary and Tapan treasurer.— TNS
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Now, judicial officers in Haryana can engage drivers||Registrar General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday wrote to all district and session judges of Haryana for allowing judicial officers to engage drivers for their vehicles.  The letter issued on Friday said every judicial officer in the State of Haryana except those, who had been provided government vehicles with drivers, shall be allowed to engage the services of a person as a driver, at the statutory minimum wages, which shall be payable as per DC rates of relevant district for semi-skilled persons.  The issue was raised by the Association of Haryana Judicial Officers for providing drivers for judges. — TNS
07-11-2020||
||9-year-old boy run over by tractor-trailer in Ambala||Ambala, November 6 A nine-year-old boy was run over by a tractor-trailer in Chanderpuri Colony in Ambala on Friday morning. The deceased has been identified as Himanshu of Chanderpuri. He was a student of Class IV. Deceased’s father Rajesh Kumar, who works as a labourer, in his complaint to police stated that he had four children. “Around 9.15 am, Himanshu had gone to a shop on his cycle and didn’t return. A tractor-trailer had rammed into his cycle. After the accident the driver managed to flee, leaving the vehicle on the spot.”  A case has been registered under Sections 279 and 304 A of the IPC at Parao police station. SHO Devender Singh said, “The driver is yet to be arrested. The body of the nine-year-old boy has been handed over to the family after post-mortem examination.”
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Manohar Lal Khattar, Hooda meet Punjab Guv||An all-party delegation led by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday submitted a memorandum to Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore regarding handing over of 20 rooms in the Punjab and Haryana Vidhan Sabha Complex, which had been “illegally occupied” by Punjab, to Haryana. — TNS
07-11-2020||---||12 teachers positive, Faridabad government school temporarily shut||Faridabad, November 6The Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS) at Sarai Khwaja here, which is one of the biggest government schools in the state, has been closed for at least two days in the wake of 14 staff members, including 12 teachers, testing Covid positive.STUDENTS NOT TESTEDAll SOP norms are reportedly being maintained for the classroom teaching, no Covid test of students attending classes at present has been done so farRevealing that a dozen teachers and two members of the support staff (midday meal workers) tested positive in a special camp organised with the help of the civil hospital, school principal Neelam Kaushik said the staff found positive had been isolated or sent to hospital and the school had been closed down for sanitisation. She said a total of 138 teachers and staff members got tested for Covid on Thursday.Though a total of 3,600 students are enrolled in senior classes (secondary level) here, only 200 students have been attending classes since November 2, when the school was reopened after easing of the lockdown.The total student strength of the school is over 5,500 and it is one of the biggest government schools in the state. Majority of the other students have preferred online classes in view of the pandemic, it is claimed.Though the school has a total of 150 teaching staff at present, 90 are those who teach students of Classes 9 to 12.While all SOP norms are reportedly being maintained for the classroom teaching, no Covid test of students attending classes at present has been done so far.“The school has been closed down temporarily and a report has been submitted to the higher authorities in Chandigarh,” said Satender Kaur Verma, DEO, Faridabad.
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||21 succumb; 2,267 cases in Haryana||With 2,267 fresh cases, the Covid tally in Haryana went up to 1,78,413 on Friday. The death toll reached 1,880 with the addition of 21 more deaths.A maximum of four deaths were reported from Panipat, followed by Rewari (3), Gurugram, Faridabad, Yamunanagar and Jhajjar (2 each) and Sonepat, Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Kaithal (1 each). — TNS
07-11-2020||Bhiwani||Youth shot dead in Bhiwani village||A youth was shot dead by two persons in Bhiwani district on Friday. The victim has been identified as Amit Kumar (26) of Hetampura. SHO Vidhyanand said the motive behind the incident was not yet clear. — TNS
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cong MLA Kiran Choudhry disappointed over notice||Congress MLA from Tosham Kiran Choudhry on Friday expressed disappointment over the fact that her notice on the three farm laws was not admitted for discussion by the Speaker. “The two-day session was insufficient to discuss the problems of farmers, labourers, poor and marginalised sections and unemployed youth. It did not give the Opposition ample opportunity to move calling attention motions or ask questions,” she said.The Speaker disallowed the notice because of the period prescribed under the rules was lacking. — TNS
07-11-2020||The photograph shows the dilapidated condition of a road||Naraingarh road cries for attention||Minaksh Prasher, NaraingarhKisan passbooks need of the hourThe Haryana Kisan Passbook Act was enacted in the state in 1994, in which a provision was made that a kisan passbook will be issued by each patwari to every farmer in their revenue estate, showing the records of ownership of their land. As per the Act, neither any transfer made by the holder of the kisan passbook will be registered by the Sub-Registrar, nor shall any alterations in revenue records be made by revenue officer as a consequence of any transfer of land or interest therein except on the production of the kisan passbook. But in the past 26 years, no government has paid any attention to the implementation of this Act. Till now, kisan passbooks have not been issued to all state farmers. In order to sell the crop, it is mandatory for the farmers to have a kisan passbook to register on the “Meri Fasal, Mera Byora” portal or to keep a record of their land. CM Manohar Lal Khattar should take note of this and work vigorously to prepare the passbook and immediately distribute it among the farmers.Shakti Singh, KarnalRent out places to set up festive stallsApropos “Panchkula traders protest move to allot space for Diwali stalls”, the authorities must ensure that traders don’t encroach upon public space outside their shops for displaying goods. To decongest market places, open space in community centres and other public institutions can be rented out for ad hoc festival stalls. School grounds can be utilised in the evening. The administration must not blight this spirit that goes to boost economy.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
07-11-2020||Hisar||Speakathon Club starts at GJUST||CUH’S VC 14th among Indian scientistsMahendragarh: Prof RC Kuhad, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Haryana (CUH), has been ranked 14th among Indian scientists and 325th among world scientists in the field of biotechnology. The rank is based on the study conducted by the world’s renowned scientists of Stanford University that ranked second in the QS World Ranking 2020. Kuhad claimed that he had also been included in the list of two per cent top scientists of biotechnology in the world. A delegation of the CUH’s teachers called on him and congratulated him for the achievement.
07-11-2020||---||10% cost rebate for SC industrial plot allottee in Haryana||Chandigarh, November 6Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday announced that the government would provide a cost rebate of 10 per cent in case industrial plot of the HSIIDC was allotted to a Scheduled Caste (SC) candidate or he got a plot in an auction, provided he started operations within three years after allotment.Khattar made this announcement in the Vidhan Sabha. He made it clear that the government had not abolished the quota for the SCs in the allotment of industrial plots in the past six years.Khattar said farmers in the state were satisfied with the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana and despite the insurance scheme now being optional, they were coming forward to get their crops insured though some politicians were spreading rumours about the scheme. He was responding to a supplementary question by Congress MLA Kiran Choudhry.Earlier, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Minister JP Dalal said the scheme was a boon for farmers. He said so far, Rs 2,089 crore had been collected as premium, while Rs 2,989 crore had been given to farmers as claim amount.In response to another question, Urban Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij said the government planned to install CCTV cameras in all cities and listed out the towns in various districts which would be covered.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said the government had taken several steps to protect stray cows. He said instructions had been given to set up gaushalas and cattle pounds in villages.Other Bills passedBill for 50% quota for women in PRIs
07-11-2020||---||Congress MLAs suspended for creating ruckus||Chandigarh, November 6An official resolution by the government on the three farm Acts led to pandemonium in the Assembly on Friday, leading to suspension of Congress legislators for a ruckus and unruly behaviour.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta decided to suspend the Congress MLAs, including Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Hooda, when the MLAs repeatedly stormed into the Well of the House, demanding voting on the resolution without a discussion even as Gupta and treasury Benches insisted on a discussion first.CM Manohar Lal Khattar moved the resolution, thanking the Centre for enacting the three farm Acts for the welfare of farmers.As soon as Hooda finished his speech, terming the Acts as “pro-capitalist” and “anti-farmer”, the Congress members, including Kiran Chaudhry and Raghubir Singh Kadian, came to the Well, demanding voting before any further discussion.Slogans and counter-slogans by the Congress and BJP members created chaos in the House, with Kadian tearing the resolution, forcing the Speaker to adjourn the House.After resumption of proceedings, Khattar asked the Congress to move an amendment to the official resolution, to which the latter agreed reluctantly and let the discussion take place.The Congress submitted an amendment to the resolution, but insisted on voting too. The Speaker was non-committal on voting, saying he would take a call after the discussion.The truce proved to be short-lived, with Congress members again marching to the Well. After repeated warnings failed, Gupta suspended all Congress members for the day.
07-11-2020||---||Opposition tries to corner Home Minister Anil Vij over liquor scam||Chandigarh, November 6The Opposition tried to corner Home Minister Anil Vij on Friday over the overturning of his request to set up a special investigation team (SIT) and formation of a special enquiry team (SET) for probe into liquor smuggling. The members took another dig at him as his request to empower the SET with Section 32 CrPC for recording statements of witnesses had been overturned.INLD’s Abhay Chautala and Congress MLAs had given a calling attention notice on liquor smuggling.During the discussion, Vij said, “I had written for setting up a SIT, but a SET was formed. It worked so well and pointed out lapses. It named officials, including IAS and IPS officers. Notices have been issued to them.”Vij pointed out that the case had been sent to the Vigilance Bureau and Excise and Taxation Department was asked to take action against the officers involved. He said a committee under ADGP (HQ) Kala Ramchandran was looking into lapses on the part of the police.Abhay pointed out that the JJP chief had called for opening of liquor shops during lockdown. “When there was no vehicle on roads and state boundaries were closed, there was hardly any village where liquor was not available. Why has the Vigilance Bureau not registered any FIR? The liquor mafia can’t survive without the protection of the government. Most MLAs want a CBI probe.”“No firm action has been taken against the IAS and IPS officers involved. High-ups are involved,” Congress MLA Kiran Choudhry said.On deaths due to consumption of hooch, Vij said: “The probe is on and action has been taken against the accused.”Vij raises concern over ‘love jihad’Even as the Opposition tried to corner the government over rise in cases of dowry death, attempt to rape and harassment of women at public places and under the PNDT Act and Dowry Prohibition Act, Home Minister Anil Vij voiced concern over ‘love jihad’ during a discussion on Friday over the calling attention notice on Nitika Tomar murder case.Replying to the discussion, Vij said, “I have ordered probe from the angle of ‘love jihad’. There have been complaints of luring women and forcing religious conversion. I have asked for data on change of religion after marriage and whether such couples are living peacefully since formation of Haryana.”“We have to see whether it is organised crime. We have to bring in a law on ‘love jihad’. Anyone can marry anyone and anyone can fall in love with anyone, but not for conversion,” he added.
07-11-2020||---||Cong stir outside Haryana Vidhan Sabha||Chandigarh, November 6Congress MLAs led by Congress Legislature Party leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda took out a march against the three farm laws before the start of the Assembly session on Friday.The MLAs marched from the Punjab and Haryana High Court roundabout to the Assembly with placards. Shakuntala Khatak led the MLAs in raising slogans. Raghubir Singh Kadian, BB Batra, Kuldeep Vats and Pradeep Chaudhary also joined in.“Our struggle against these laws will continue. These are black laws. We will speak on these inside the House. If weare not allowed, we will protest outside,” Hooda told mediapersons.He stated that the three farm laws would ruin farmers. “The mandi system and MSP will be abolished gradually. This will affect the poor who get ration from government depots. The common man will face the consequences. Hoarders are buying onion and tomato at meagre prices and selling these at between Rs 80 and Rs 100 per kg,” he said.“Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has been toeing the Centre’s line like a parrot,” said Kadian. The MLAs were briefly stopped at the Assembly gate before they were allowed inside.
07-11-2020||---||Haryana industry worried, says 75% job quota Bill will hamper growth||Chandigarh, November 6Industry in the state is downcast over the new Bill reserving 75 per cent jobs for locals passed by the state Assembly on Thursday, as industrial organisations think the new law, when enacted, will prove counterproductive by hampering growth.The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, provides 75 per cent quota to local people in private jobs that offer a salary less than Rs 50,000 a month. This applies to private companies, societies, trusts and partnership firms, among others, located in the state.‘Won’t be able to execute orders in time’When we get big orders, we have to immediately employ additional skilled workers for a short period. But if we have to go through this cumbersome exercise we will not be able to execute orders in time. — Rakesh Chhabra, president, Rai Industry Association, Sonepat“Normally, during job fests organised by employment departments or the ITIs, we hardly get 25 per cent applicants. In a Rozgar mela held last year, we placed a demand of 111 helpers on behalf of our association, but we got only two applicants. We are worried that if we don’t get workers when we need, the industry will not be able to perform,” said Rakesh Chhabra, president of Rai Industry Association in Sonepat.Chhabra said: “When we get big orders, we have to immediately employ additional skilled workers for short period of 3-6 months. But if we have to go through this cumbersome exercise of first applying online for workers and then seeking exemption if local workers are not available, we will not be able to execute orders in time.”He said not only the industrialists would suffer, but the government would be at a loss, as the OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) who give orders to MSMEs in Haryana would require them to have an additional unit outside the state so that their orders were executed in time.Animesh Saxena, president of Gurugram Udyog Vihar Industrial Association, said the state government’s concern for jobs to its youth is understandable, but rather than adopting a shortcut of enforcing 75 per cent jobs to local youths through a law, it should see why they were not skilled enough to get these jobs on merit.“The government could have done better by studying what kind of skill is required to get jobs in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and other industrial townships and provide those skills to its youth,” Saxena added.He said under the present circumstances, the industry would have no other option but to apply for exemption, which was provided under the law if they failed to get suitable local people.“In fact, if the government fails to provide the necessary skills to its youth, the very purpose of passing this law will be defeated as the industry will seek exemption and employ youth from other states,” he added.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who holds the portfolios of Industry and Commerce as well as Labour and Employment, however, said the historic Bill would provide more employment opportunities to the youth. “For this, the state government is also providing skill training to the youth,” he added.Besides, discussions have been held with educationists to link academics with the requirement of the industries.“In discussions held with representatives of big companies during the Haryana Enterprise Promotion Policy meeting in Gurugram, the companies shared their suggestions with the government regarding linking industries with educational institutions in and around rural areas. In addition, international companies such as Oyo and Make My Trip have expressed interest in tying up with ITI,” he added.
07-11-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||CAG questions Haryana Housing Board’s account||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has questioned the account figures of the Haryana Housing Board for the financial year 2017-18. In its report, which was tabled in the Assembly on Thursday, it said rent, instalments, and price of plots and shops remained unrealised. Besides, allottee-wise ledgers maintained by the board were incomplete.The arbitration awards against the housing board amounting to Rs 5.20 crore were unsettled. Similarly, the arbitration awards in favour of the board amounting to Rs 1.21 crore were also unsettled.The sundry debt included Rs 2.90 crore due from parties for more than five years.The CAG report states that “financial figures for loans and advances, sundry debtors, sundry creditors, security deposits, amount payable to staff, registration, deposits, other deposits of allotees, earnest money and security deduction of contractors and other debits and credits appearing in the financial statements were unconfirmed”.No internal audit was conducted in 2017-18.The report also pointed out the board did not prepare any accounting manual and there was no system of rotation of duties of employees dealing with cash, stocks and other valuables.It was also found that the board did not obtain security deposits from employees handling valuables such as cash and stocks. The list of title deeds for landed properties and buildings was not prepared.The report states that the cost of land to be paid pending bifurcation of schemes was shown as Rs 163.45 crore. However, it did not include the interest payable on the amount since the last date of payment of instalment towards land cost.“The non-provisioning of interest had resulted in understatement of cost of land pending bifurcation as well as sundry creditors by Rs 53.06 crore,” states the report. Further, the board did not maintain property register and the land remained unutilised.
07-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Air quality worsens in Gurugram||Gurugram, November 6The level of pollution in the city is increasing and 18 places have shifted to toxic air category. The areas have been identified on the basis of monitoring being done by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) air lab. Following the deteriorating condition, an alert has been sounded in these areas and Covid survivors, children and senior citizens have been asked to stay indoors.AIR TOXIC AT 18 PLACESIn all 18 places, identified on the basis of monitoring being done by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) air lab, have shifted to toxic air categoryDue to toxic air quality, the locals have started getting sick, with increased number of patients with respiratory and eye ailments.The Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) was applied in the cyber city to curtail smog and deal with the pollution crisis. Apart from this, an action plan was also prepared by the local administration. After all these efforts, air of the city is getting worse with each passing day. The pollution control board used to monitor five locations before the GRAP was implemented but now air monitoring labs are doing the job.As per the report of air labs, the air quality index (AQI) of Gurugram was 392 on Friday while it was 337 in Manesar. On Thursday, AQI of Gurugram was 337 and that of Manesar was 388. It was 406 in Delhi and 415 in Faridabad on Friday.A meeting was held on Thursday for discussion on ways to reduce pollution. It was suggested in the meeting that pollution levels could be reduced by using lesser number of vehicles.The 18 places where pollution level was very bad have been identified as Sector 14, Sector 18, Sector 30, Sector 32, Sector 42, Sector 44, Sector 47, Sector 51, DLF Belvedere Towers, Vatika Chowk, Atlas Chowk, Shankar Chowk, Huda City Centre, Teri Retreat, Teri Gram, Manesar, Vikas Sadarn and Gwal Pahari.
07-11-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram opts for community firecrackers this Diwali||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, November 6While the national capital Delhi has banned firecrackers, Gurugram will be opting for community fire-cracking to balance environmental concerns with celebrations.8 spots identifiedThe areas earmarked for bursting crackers are Sector 29 HUDA ground, Beriwala Bagh near Mini-Secretariat, HUDA grounds, Sector 5, open area near city centre, Bakhtawar Chowk, Sector 47, Devi Lal Stadium, Sohna, Sector 1 HUDA Pataudi, Aggarwal Dharamshala ground Haely Mandi and old Ramlila ground, Farukh Nagar.As air continues to be toxic in Gurugram, the local administration has banned bursting of crackers in city before and after Diwali and opted for community fire-cracking for two hours on Diwali. Issuing an order in this regard, DC Amit Khatri has earmarked eight areas in the city with relatively better air quality and open spaces for bursting crackers. The residents will be allowed to burst green crackers and that too from 8 pm to 10 pm only. Section 144 has been invoked in this regard. “To ensure citizen safety, we have decided to go with the Supreme Court order that allows community cracker-bursting. No crackers will be burst before or after Diwali. On Diwali also it will be just for two hours and strictly newly introduced green crackers. We, however, urge people to shun crackers to keep the city breathing,” Khatri said.Amit Khatri, DCGive up crackers…No crackers will be burst before or after Diwali. On Diwali also it will be just for two hours and strictly newly introduced green crackers. We, however, urge people to give up crackers to keep the city breathingThe areas earmarked for bursting crackers are sector 29 HUDA ground, Beriwala bagh near Mini Secretariat, HUDA grounds sector 5, open area near city centre Bakhtawar Chowk sector 47, Devi Lal Stadium, Sohna, Sector 1 HUDA Pataudi, Aggarwal Dharamshala ground Haely Mandi and old Ramlila ground Farukh Nagar.It may be noted that over 20 residential societies, especially those lying in red areas, have already banned cracker bursting.It may be noted that air quality has worsened in the city over the last three days with an average being over 350 AQI and many areas recording as high as 420. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘’good’’, 51 and 100 ‘’satisfactory’’, 101 and 200 ‘’moderate’’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.
07-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Hooch tragedy: Toll climbs to 45 in Sonepat, Panipat||Tribune News ServicePanipat/Sonepat, November 6Nine deaths: AdmnThough 37 persons have reportedly died so far in Sonepat, the administration claims that only nine deaths have taken place as per the post-mortem conducted.Two more persons died in Sonepat and one in Panipat today, taking the hooch tragedy toll to 45 in the two districts.Though 37 persons have reportedly died so far in Sonepat, the administration claims that only nine deaths have taken place as per the post-mortem conducted.Those who died today have been identified as Raju of Indian Colony and Teerath of Gumar village of Sonepat, and Inder of Dhansoli village, who was admitted to a private hospital in Panipat.The police suspected that there might be a common chain of supply of spurious liquor in both districts.DC Shyam Lal Poonia along with SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa and civil surgeon Dr JS Punia today visited Gumar village of Gannaur, where six deaths have been reported, and the illegal liquor manufacturing unit, which was unearthed by the police in Naina Tatarpur village.The DC directed the Gannaur SDM and the civil surgeon to conduct door-to-door survey regarding the consumption of spurious liquor in the village.Poonia said a four-member special team headed by the Additional Deputy Commissioner and comprising the Sonepat SDM, DETC and the civil surgeon would probe the matter and the deaths of those whose post-mortem was not conducted. The team would submit its final report within two days, he added.He said six persons of the 11 admitted to the hospital have been discharged after their condition was found better.Meanwhile, in Panipat 19 cases in separate police stations have been registered in the past two days, while the Sonepat police have registered 14 cases in connection with the supply of illegal liquor in the district.City DSP and SIT in-charge Ravinder Kumar said: “We have broken the spurious liquor chain from the point of origin and also nabbed eight suppliers.”It was revealed during the preliminary investigation that Naresh was the mastermind of the illegal liquor manufacturing and supply chain in Sonepat city area as well as in the areas covered under Sadar, Civil Lines, Kharkhoda and city police stations. One Lilla headed the illegal liquor supply in the city, the DSP said, adding that he was yet to be arrested.Besides, Sahil, another supplier in the city, was detained today evening and teams were interrogating him, the DSP said.
07-11-2020|| 
||HC stays order of de-sealing property||Chandigarh, November 6 Just about a fortnight after the enforcement directorate was asked to de-seal a property on applications filed by MLA Abhay Singh Chautala for its interim restoration on the grounds of marriage in the family, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday stayed the operation of the impugned order. The direction by the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj came on an appeal filed by the Directorate of Enforcement, Chandigarh Zonal Office, against former Chief Minister Om Parkash Chautala. Taking up the appeal, the Bench also issued notice of motion for November 11.  The applications before the Appellate Tribunal, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, were filed by Abhay Singh Chautala in the capacity of appellant Om Prakash Chautala’s son and his personal capacity. The applications were filed seeking interim restoration of the property on the grounds that the grandsons of the appellant were to get married on November 27 and November 30.
07-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Illicit liquor was made at govt teacher’s house||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 6With the arrest of nine accused, including a government schoolteacher, the police today claimed to have stopped the manufacturing and supply of spurious liquor that claimed 45 lives in Sonepat and Panipat districts over the past few days.The liquor was allegedly being prepared in Naina Tatarpur village at a house owned by Vijay Kumar, a post-graduate teacher (PGT) posted at Juan village in the district, said the police.Vijay’s cousin Naresh, who is yet to be nabbed, was the alleged mastermind of the racket, said SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa. “Vijay had allowed Naresh to put up at his house and was aware of the hooch racket,” he said.
07-11-2020||Faridabad||Nikita case: Cops file chargesheet||The five-member SIT probing the Nikita murder case submitted a 700-page chargesheet in a local court today, the police action coming less than two weeks after the 21-year-old B.Com-III student was shot outside her college in Ballabgarh on October 26.The police have arrested the main accused, Tausif, and his aides Rehan and Arju.The CCTV footage of the crime scene, Nikita’s dying declaration and the statements of some 60 witnesses, had been included as key evidence, the police said. — TNS
