08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt transfers 68 police officers||Sixty-eight Haryana Police Service officers, most of them deputy superintendents of police, were issued transfer and posting orders on Monday with immediate effect, a statement said.Among those who were shuffled was former Indian cricketer Joginder Sharma, who is serving with Haryana police and was presently posted as the Hisar DSP, the release said.Sharma has been transferred from Hisar and posted as the Pehowa DSP in Kurukshetra district, it said.Incidentally, former Indian hockey team captain Sandeep Singh, who is the state sports minister, represents the Pehowa assembly constituency.Among the other police officers, Gurgaon Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Mukesh Jakhar has been transferred to Kalka in Panchkula district, the release said.  PTI
08-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||PGIMS to admit only chronic/critical patients, shift patients with mild symptoms to COVID centres||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 8In view of the sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 patients being referred to the PGIMS, Rohtak, it has been decided that the tertiary-care institute would admit only critical patients or those who were suffering from chronic diseases apart from COVID-19.“COVID-19 patients having mild or no symptoms will be shifted to COVID care centres being prepared at five locations in Rohtak. These centres will be managed by the state Health Department,” said Dr VK Katyal, Nodal Officer for COVID-19.Talking to The Tribune here on Monday, Dr Katyal maintained that the new patients with mild or no symptoms would be asked to stay quarantined at their homes. The patients who did not have the requisite facilities for home-isolation would be admitted to the COVID care centres.“The triage of all COVID-19 patients will be carried out at PGIMS only. But only those patients, who are in a critical condition or suffering from chronic diseases apart from COVID-19 and may require ICU/ventilator/oxygen facilities, will be admitted to the PGIMS,” he stated.The Nodal Officer pointed out that the buildings located in various parts of the district, which were earlier made quarantine centres, were now being prepared as COVID Care Centres by the district administration and the local Health authorities as per the instructions of the state government.Rohtak PGIMS caters to COVID-19 patients from Rohtak, Jhajjar and Jind districts, apart from the spill-over patients from Gurugram district.A spurt has been witnessed in the number of COVID-19 cases during the past week, compelling the authorities concerned to make arrangements to lodge COVID-19 patients.“The trauma centre has already been converted into a COVID hospital. The psychiatry and super-speciality blocks have also been earmarked to lodge COVID-19 patients as and when required. The psychiatry patients have also been shifted to the state Institute of Mental Health,” said the nodal officer.
08-06-2020||Satya Prakash||SC refuses to entertain PIL against use of Hindi as official language in subordinate courts of Haryana||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 8The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a petition challenging the Haryana Government's decision to enforce use of Hindi language in all subordinate courts and tribunals across the state."There is nothing wrong in Hindi as the official language of subordinate courts in some states...80% of people don't understand court proceedings in English," a Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said while asking the petitioners to approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court. During the British rule, for recording of evidence the language used in subordinate courts was vernacular language, the CJI said, adding that Hindi was being used even in Madhya Pradesh where he served as Chief Justice of the High Court.Petitioner Sameer Jain contended, "We practise in courts of Delhi NCR and making Hindi mandatory will make it difficult for us to argue cases." Jain said he was not against Hindi but making it mandatory would make things difficult for lawyers who argued their cases in English."Show us the clause that excludes English, the CJI said, clarifying that English can be used with the permission of the court.Initially, the top court was ready to issue notice to the state government on the petition. However, it changed its mind and asked the petitioners to go to the high court after Haryana Additional Advocate General Arun Bhardwaj pointed out that the law under challenge was a state law and it would be better if the Punjab and Haryana High Court dealt with it.According to the Haryana Official Language (Amendment) Act, 2020, "In all Civil Courts and Criminal Courts in Haryana subordinate to the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, all revenue Courts and Rent Tribunals or any other court or tribunal constituted by the State Government, work shall be done in Hindi language."Notified last month, the amendment says the State Government shall provide the requisite infrastructure and training of staff within six months for the commencement of the amended Act.Five lawyers have challenged the validity of the Haryana Official Language (Amendment) Act, 2020, terming it  "arbitrary" on the ground that it created an unreasonable classification between Hindi and non-Hindi speaking advocates. Petitioners, including advocate Sameer Jain, urged the court to strike down the amendment.They contended that the amendment was with the assumption that everyone practising law in Haryana not only knew Hindi but was also fluent in it. To say that imposition of Hindi was for people of the state and necessary to get justice was "wholly irrational," they added. They said the level of fluency and expertise needed to argue a matter in Hindi was much higher than just a simple understanding of the language."English is a widely spoken language in our country and precluding its use before various Subordinate Courts is manifestly arbitrary with no legal rationale and having far-reaching consequences for the people living and working in the State of Haryana," they said.Contending that the amendment precluded the use of English which was used widely to conduct legal proceedings, the petitioners said, "This has impinged upon the right to freely practise the legal profession and earn a livelihood as guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution."They said imposition of Hindi was not fit for the state as it was an industrial hub and home to multi-national companies, where people from every strata of society resided and majority of them were not fluent in Hindi.
08-06-2020||Highlights||Haryana power consumers up to 800 units to save 10 pc on monthly bill||Agro industry to pay Rs 4.75 per unitPre-paid meter consumers to get a rebate of 5 per centNo cash payment beyond Rs 5,000; cheque up to Rs 20,000Government subsidy bill pegged at Rs 6,650 crore in 2020-2021Disconsolate capital expenditure plan worth Rs 2180 criteria okayed by HERC Pradeep SharmaTribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 8Though the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) on Monday ruled out any increase in the power tariff, power bills of domestic consumers consuming up to 800 units per month is set to be lower by about 10 per cent.However, HERC in its order on annual revenue requirement (ARR) of the power discoms for the year 2020-2021 has provided relief to agro industry effecting nearly Rs 2 per unit reduction in power tariff.The order, issued by Deepinder Singh Dhesi, Chairman, and Pravindra Singh Chauhan and Naresh Sardana, Members, will be effective from June 1, 2020, for state’s over 67.98 lakh power consumers.“The subsidy of the state government and reduction in the applicable tariff from Rs 4.50 to 2.50 per unit by HERC for 0-150 units category will have telescopic impact on consumers consuming up to 800 units,” the order said.Sources said with 42 per unit reduction in tariff in this category (0-150 units), a 10 per cent overall reduction in the electricity is expected for domestic consumers.Now, for domestic consumers, the lowest tariff will be Rs 2 per unit for consumers consuming up to 50 units. The tariff for 51-150 units will be Rs 2.50 per unit while the power tariff for 151-250 units will be Rs 5.25. For 251-500 units it will be Rs 6 30 per unit. The highest tariff for domestic consumers will be Rs 7.10 per unit for consumers in the range of 501-800.The power consumers consuming power above 800 units will also be charged at the rate of Rs 7.10 per unit as per order.The power tariff for industrial sector ranged from Rs 6.35 to Rs 6.95 per unit depending on consumption and category.To give a boost to the agro industry, a special category has been created under which power consumption up to 20 KW be charged at the rate Rs 4.75 as against current tariff of Rs 7.05 per unit.The agriculture sector consumers will continue to pay 10 paise per unit for running their tubewells.The order asked discoms to install 10 lakh smart meters within six months and also provide pre-paid connections to consumers having smart meters.It also asked the discoms to make Panchkula or any other city having tourism potential as solar-powered city.However, the above tariff will not include municipal charges, fixed charges and FSA.Meanwhile, the ARR of the discoms is pegged at Rs 27,835 crore in 2020-2021 as against Rs 28,805 crore in 2019-2020.Power tariff (domestic)Units.                                       Tariff/unit0-50 units                            Rs 2.0051-150.                                 Rs 2.50151-250.                                Rs 5.25251-500.                                 Rs 6.30Over 500                                   Rs 7.10Industrial sector                   Rs 6.35 to Rs 7.05Agro IndustryUp to 20 KW                 Rs 4.75
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 2 deaths, 145 new cases; tally rises to 4,593||Haryana on Monday reported two deaths and 142 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s COVID toll to 30 and case tally to 4,590.Gurugram reported 89 cases, followed by Faridabad (38), Palwal (3), Sirsa (3), Jind (3), Hisar (2), Jhajjar (1), Ambala (1), Panipat (1) and Panchkula (1).The two deaths were reported from Gurugram, taking the district's COVID toll to six. With 1,479 people cured and discharged, the number of active cases in the state is 3,081 at present.According to a bulletin issued by Haryana's Health Department, 33 COVID patients in the state are in critical condition. Of these,19 are on oxygen support, while 14 others are on ventilators.Besides, Karnal reported the six new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 105. Among the new cases is a family of four in Sector 5 who tested positive on Monday.Meanwhile, three more were found COVID-19 positive in Palwal. The total count in the district is now 125 with 71 active patients.These cases are yet to be added to the official tally.On Sunday, Haryana reported the biggest spike of COVID cases in a single day today, with 496 cases. Three more deaths took the toll to 28. Gurugram reported 230 cases, followed by Faridabad (106), Sonepat (73) and Rohtak and Mahendragarh (25 each).
08-06-2020||Jhajjar||Jhajjar vendors dump vegetables on road to protest odd-even system of opening shops||Retail vendors at the local vegetable market here on Monday dumped vegetables on the Gurugram road to register their protest against the odd-even system for opening of the shops.The system was introduced by the district administration to check the spread of COVID-19.The agitation seriously affected the vehicular traffic as the protesters started staging a dharna on the road. Jhajjar SDM Shikha rushed to the spot and persuaded the protesters to lift the dharna after assuring them their demands would be considered and an amicable solution worked out.“Retail vegetable sellers are on the brink of starvation following the odd-even system and the restrictions on public visits to the vegetable market. Since vegetables perish within one or two days owing to hot weather conditions we cannot store them for long. We have to dump the vegetables every alternate day following the closure of our shops as per the odd-even system. So we are against the odd-even system and want all the shops to be opened in the vegetable market every day,” said Surender Kumar, president, Retail Vegetable Sellers’ Association, Jhajjar.Kumar said when all other shops were allowed to open every day then why the odd-even system was being implemented in a vegetable market since the past over two months. Vendors were not allowed to sell the vegetables in the market, he added.Naveen, another vegetable vendor, said those vendors having the pass issued by Jhajjar Marketing Committee were allowed to enter the vegetable market. The demand for the vegetables was very low due to restrictions on the public movement in the market. The protest was organised just to attract the attention of the district administration, he added.As per district administration orders, unloading of vegetables is allowed at all vegetable markets in the district between 3 am to 5 am while retail vendors can buy the vegetables from there between 5 am to 10 am. All shops at the vegetable market are allowed to open between 5 am to 10 am as per the odd-even system, while the public entry is banned.
08-06-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Haryana school board postpones declaration of Class X result||Chandigarh, June 8A day after confirming Class 10 examination results will be declared on Monday, Haryana Board of School Education has postponed it.The Haryana Board of School Education was to declare the results of 338,096 candidates on Monday.Out of 338,096 secondary students, 186,153 are boys and 151,943 are girls. The exam for science subject could not be conducted as the coronavirus lockdown was imposed.The result was to be declared on the basis of evaluation of four subjects by including the average marks of the fifth subject (science subject).As per a revised policy due to the Covid-19, the Board has decided to compile the result on the basis of four subjects as the examination of Science paper could not be organised. The candidates opting for science stream in Class XI, however, will have to take the examination later. The government is planning to reopen the schools in July.
08-06-2020||Nitish Sharma||No passes, daily railway commuters in a fix||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 7Thousands of commuters who travel daily by trains are in a fix as despite the resumption of services, they are unable to board trains as only those with confirmed or reservation against cancellation (RAC) tickets are allowed inside the railway station.No norms on monthly ticketsGuidelines regarding monthly season tickets and unreserved travel are yet to be issued. The Railways may extend validity of passes. This shouldn’t be an issue. —Senior railway officialA majority of these commuters prefer monthly season ticket (MST) as it is a cheaper option than purchasing a ticket daily.After the restrictions were lifted for business establishments and offices, the employees were told to resume work but the ongoing restrictions on rail travel have forced them to use personal vehicles, which is a costly affair.Amit Goyal, the Karnal-based owner of an Ambala flour mill, says: “I have been travelling daily by car since March. Train services were stopped due to the lockdown, but mills, being an essential service, continued to run.“A quarterly train pass costs Rs 1,635, but these are not available now and my travel cost has gone up manifold. Many with businesses in other districts are facing a similar situation,” he says.Sonu Singh, who commutes from Kurukshetra to work in a showroom here, says: “I got my quarterly pass renewed on March 16 but after a few days, services were suspended. My pass is due to expire on June 15. There should be some relaxation for pass-holders.”A senior railway official says: “Currently, only passengers with confirmed or RAC tickets are allowed to travel as it will be impossible to track those travelling on unreserved tickets.”
08-06-2020||Panipat||Spurious soft drink unit busted||The police have busted a factory on the Pasina Kalan road here reportedly manufacturing spurious soft drinks. They have booked eight businessmen in this connection. Two of them have been arrested.The police on Sunday produced the accused in court, which sent them to seven-day police remand.The police recovered wrappers and logos of a branded beverage company, chemicals, 200 bags of sugar, cooling towers, a filter machine, a label machine, a packing machine, raw material, Rs71,000 and a truck loaded with 474 boxes of soft drink.The police also recovered 3,780 boxes of spurious soft drinks and 1,840 duplicate soft drink bottles from a godown near the national highway.On a tip-off, a team led by DSP (Crime) Rajesh Phogat raided the factory on Friday night. They nabbed Atul Kumar Saksena and Gulshan, who failed to produce valid documents.The factory was manufacturing Mountain Dew without permission, said Satish Vats, DSP (Headquarters). — TNS
08-06-2020||---||Rape accused held in Palwal after 6 years||Palwal, June 7 The police have arrested an accused in the abduction and gangrape case after a gap of six years. The accused, identified as Naseem (25) from the district’s Aterna village, was arrested from Kot village on Saturday after a tip-off.  He had been on the run ever since he and two of his accomplices allegedly committed the crime in 2014. His accomplices have already been arrested. Naseem was declared a proclaimed offender on October 9, 2015.  On Sunday, a local court remanded him in judicial custody.
08-06-2020||---||2nd chargesheet in Manesar case||New Delhi, June 7The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Sunday said it filed a second prosecution complaint (chargesheet) against 13 individuals and entities in the Manesar land scam under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).The ED, in a statement, said the fresh chargesheet contained the details of attached assets of the accused worth Rs108.79 crore and the alleged “perpetration of money laundering”. It has been filed before a special PMLA court in Panchkula.The ED said it named Atul Bansal of ABW Infrastructure Limited, ABW Infra Limited (ABWIL), Bansal’s wife Sona Bansal, Mahamaya Exports Private Limited, Shashikant Chaurasia, Dilip Lalwani, Varinder Uppal, Vijay Uppal, Viney Uppal, Ravinder Taneja, TDI Infrastructure Limited, Wisdom Realtors Private Limited and AB Rephcons Infrastructure Private Limited.The ED initiated its investigation under the PMLA in September 2016 on the basis of an FIR registered by the Gurugram police. Later, the CBI took over the probe.In the FIR, it was alleged that the Haryana Government had issued notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, on August 27, 2004, and issued a notification under Section 6 of the Act on August 25 in 2005 for the acquisition of 912 acres for setting up an Industrial Model Township in Manesar, Naurangpur and Lakhnoula villages of Gurugram district.Farmers and landowners alleged they were cheated to the tune of about Rs1,500 crore. Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda is an accused in the land acquisition case.
08-06-2020||Parveen Arora||Wheat harvested manually, farm fires drop by 47%||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 7The increase in the manual harvesting of wheat, opening of additional custom hiring centres (CHCs) and awareness among farmers due to Covid have led to a 47 per cent fall in the number of stubble-burning cases in the state this wheat season.As per the information of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), 3,911 active fire locations have been detected in the state from April 15 to May 31 by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) in comparison to 7,383 cases last year in the same period.“Due to uncertainty during the Covid lockdown about the availability of harvesting machines from other states in the initial days of the harvesting, 20-30 per cent more farmers from the previous year shifted to manual harvesting. That resulted in less crop residue and fall in cases of stubble burning,” said Dr Jai Bhagwan, Senior Scientist, HSPCB (HQ), Panchkula.He believes the lockdown has slowed down the economy and farmers wanted to save resources.The officials of the Agriculture Department believe the opening of new CHCs and providing of machineries to individual farmers have played a crucial role in utilising stubble. “We have 2,688 CHCs in the state and of them, 1,672 have been established in 2019-20. Similarly, as many as 5,073 individual stubble management machines were given to farmers on subsidy this year,” said Jagmander Nain, Joint Director (Agriculture Engineering).
08-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||You’re not helpless: High Court to lower courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 7In a scathing indictment of the police, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that inaction and disobedience of judicial orders on their part is plaguing the system, virtually compelling the justice delivery mechanism to remain static.The High Court also made it clear to the subordinate judiciary in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh that the court was not helpless and it could not abdicate its function by “rendering and accepting itself to be subject to the mercy of recalcitrant witnesses or police officers”.‘Cases linger on for years’The court goes on giving dates after dates, lingering on the case and considering itself to be helpless, and later, feeling disgusted due to non-appearance of witnesses or non-execution of court process, closes evidence of prosecution or the accused on the grounds of the case being very old. —Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi, Punjab and Haryana High Court“At present, there are nagging problems of witnesses, particularly official and police witnesses not attending court and police officers not obeying court directions by not serving summons, executing warrants and producing documents, which plague the judicial system to such an extent that a huge number of cases remain static without any progress,” Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi asserted.Justice Tyagi pointed out that fixing a large number of cases for evidence due to uncertainty regarding attendance of witnesses was a common practice in trial courts. Justice Tyagi noted that it would be impossible for the court to record the evidence of all of them if witnesses turned up in all such cases and as a result, a substantial number, if not the majority, would go back unexamined.Justice Tyagi observed that fixing of such a large number of cases not only increased the workload of all concerned with issuance and execution of court process, but also caused unnecessary and avoidable harassment to witnesses who went back unexamined. Justice Tyagi maintained that it adversely affected the smooth functioning of courts and the failure of witnesses to turn up left the courts with a feeling of being relieved from work pressure.Justice Tyagi mentioned that Judges did not get time to scrutinise whether summons and warrants of arrest were issued timely by court officials and served or executed by police officers. Justice Tyagi stated that time constraints prevented him for going into the reasons why summons and warrants of arrest were not received back or received unserved or unexecuted and he could not look at corrective measures required.Justice Tyagi asserted that this had the undesirable effect of the court becoming complacent to non-attendance of witnesses and non-execution of court process and getting involved in a vicious circle of forced improper working. Justice Tyagi remarked that the court, at times, became a silent spectator to a trial where material witnesses did not appear for reasons best known to them.“The court goes on giving dates after dates, lingering on the case and considering itself to be helpless, and later, feeling disgusted due to non-appearance of witnesses or non-execution of court process, closes evidence of prosecution or the accused on the grounds of the case being very old,” Justice Tyagi added.
08-06-2020||Deepender Deswal||After assault in Hisar, blame game erupts on social media||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 7The BJP has directed Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia to conduct an inquiry into the reported assault on MC secretary Sultan Singh by BJP leader Sonali Phogat at the purchase centre in Balsamand village on Friday.Bhatia visited Hisar on Saturday and Sunday to meet party officials of the district. Bhatia also met Sonali, who had contested the election from Adampur.Sources said Sonali gave an audio clip of Sultan to Bhatia, which reportedly contained derogatory references to some BJP leaders. Bhatia said they had got some inputs indicating that the MC secretary was not innocent.The incident snowballed in a political issue, with leaders of the BJP and Congress taking potshots at each other. Sonali and Sultan appeared on social media platforms to defend their actions.In a video on Facebook, Sonali levelled allegations of corruption and harassing women against Sultan. She reiterated that she beat him up after he used indecent language.In his social media posts, Sultan maintained that Sonali and her aide started beating him up after accusing him of having worked against her during the Assembly poll. He denied any political affiliation, saying he had not voted after joining government service.District BJP chief Surender Punia said that the incident was avoidable. “It appears that the MC secretary is not innocent. The party leadership is probing as to why Sonali got agitated,” he said.Congress leader Randeep Surjewala said it seemed that the government had given a free hand to its party workers to assault and intimidate government employees.Abhay backs Sonali
08-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||BJP leaders flout social-distancing rules||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 7The BJP has launched a campaign to publicise the achievements of the saffron regime on the completion of one year of the second term of the Modi government at the Centre.As per the party’s state leadership, the ruling party aims to reach out to 20 lakh families across the state and apprise them of the Centre’s achievements during the past one year.‘Violation of MHA guidelines’The BJP leaders are openly violating the MHA guidelines as well as the rules framed by the state government, which prohibit holding of political programmes and mandate adherence to social distancing norms.— Deepender Singh Hooda, Congress MPState BJP organising secretary Suresh Bhatt kicked off the publicity drive-cum-mass contact programme in the Rohtak Assembly segment on Sunday.Bhatt, who was accompanied by the party’s district unit president Ajay Bansal, general secretary Satish Ahuja and RSS nagar sangh chalak Suresh Bansal, distributed pamphlets enumerating the achievements of the Modi government.The BJP and RSS leaders flouted social distancing norms during their door-to-door campaign and also interacted with residents without covering their face with masks.On being questioned about the matter, BJP’s Rohtak district president Ajay Bansal said he wore a mask on his neck during the campaign, although he did not cover his face with it.In a recent media interaction at the state BJP headquarters in Rohtak, the party’s state unit president Subhash Barala had asserted that the party leaders would maintain social distancing and distribute 10 lakh face covers and 10 lakh sanitiser bottles among the residents during the drive.The saffron party has drawn flak from the Opposition over the issue, with the Congress decrying the move to hold political events amidst critical situation prevailing due to the Covid pandemic.Coming down heavily on the ruling government for flouting social distancing norms during its campaign to publicise the Modi government’s achievements, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda said it seemed that the BJP was above the rules and was keeping its politics above the people.
08-06-2020||Nitish Sharma||Rituals resume, relief for Pehowa priests||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, June 7The Covid pandemic has affected the livelihood of tirtha purohits (priests) and of those who perform post-death rituals at Saraswati Tirtha at Pehowa.After keeping work suspended for two months, they have resumed religious activities for the people who come here to offer prayers to their ancestors, but very few people have been reaching at present to get the rituals performed.The priests claim that against an average of nearly 400 people, just 30-50 people are coming to Pehowa currently.Hitesh Sharma, who performs rituals, said, “Like many other people, it was a tough time for me as well. I live here in a rented accommodation and I couldn’t pay the rent for the past three months. Similarly, the school fee of my son is pending. As there was no work, I used up all my savings. At this point, very few people are coming here. We are hopeful that the situation will become normal soon and we will be able to earn like earlier.”Vikram Chakrapani, president, Brahmin Panchayat, Pehowa, said, “There are over 300 families of priests and other people here. The majority of them do not have any other source of income and depend on the ‘dakshina’ given by the ‘yajmans’. The administration also cancelled the three-day fair in March which was to be organised on the occasion of Chaitra Chaudas here. After the relaxation was given by the government, the work has resumed and things are getting better.”Ashish Chakrapani, president, Tirtha Purohit Sabha Haryana, said, “The lockdown has affected our livelihood. There are many people who had no savings. Thousands of people used to come on the occasion of ‘amavasya’, but a ban was imposed on performing religious activities on the recent ‘amavasya’. We are grateful that we have been allowed to resume work.”Akshay Nanda, spokesperson, Sri Dakshina Kali Peeth Samiti, said, “Lakhs of people reach Pehowa every year to perform post-death rituals of family members and also offer prayers to their ancestors. They also get their personal details entered in the ‘bahis’ or genealogy registers. A delegation met local MLA and minister Sandeep Singh, who raised the matter with the CM, following which the government allowed priests to resume work.”
08-06-2020||Yamunanagar||Municipal Corporation challans 17 shops in Yamunanagar, Jagadhri||A team of Municipal Corporation (MC) issued challans to 17 shopkeepers at twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri on Saturday for not wearing masks.The team headed by Zonal Taxation Officer Ajay Walia also imposed a fine of Rs9,000 on the violators.Walia said on the direction of MC Commissioner Dharamvir Singh, the team issued challans to various shopkeepers at the Railway Road, Modal Town, Rampura Colony, Meerabai Bazar and Jagadhri Workshop Road."The shopkeepers and their employees were found working without wearing masks," said Walia. He said during an awareness drive about practicing social distancing and wearing masks, action was being taken against the violators of guidelines issued by the government. — TNS
08-06-2020||---||22 more FIRs against immigration agents||Karnal, June 7The Karnal police have registered 22 more FIRs against more than 20 immigration agents allegedly for cheating 22 youths on the pretext of sending them to the US. These youths had been deported by the US in the second batch.Earlier, on the complaint of 25 youths who were deported from the US in the first batch last month, the police had registered 25 FIRs on the same charges. In all six accused have been arrested by the police so far.“After registering 25 FIRs against immigration agents, we have registered 22 more FIRs on Saturday,” said Superintendent of Police (SP) Surinder Singh Bhoria. He said five teams had already been constituted to enquire these cases.The SP said 23 youths were deported in the second batch, of which 22 filed complaints regarding the fraud. “We got complaints through the State Crime Branch, on which we have registered the cases,” he said. Bhoria said the accused agents were from various parts of the state.
08-06-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||No work, carpenters now selling veggies||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, June 7The relaxation in the lockdown has brought no relief to carpenters as people are not ready to get work done due to the fear of Covid.Having no option, a number of carpenters have abandoned wood work being done in most families for many generations. They have been forced to switch over to other works like selling vegetables and fruits on ‘rehris’.“I have been in the profession of carpentry for 30 years. I never thought that I would have to do other work like sell juice and fruits on a ‘rehri’ in my village and other neighbouring colonies,” said Dharambir of Tejli village, falling under the area of Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Municipal Corporation.Sunil Kumar Dhiman, who also belongs to Tejli village, said he was a carpenter and had got contracts of wood work like modular kitchens, wooden doors, windows, almirahs, double beds, single beds and furniture.“But now, no one is allowing us to enter their homes. People have cancelled all the orders that I had got before the lockdown was imposed,” said Sunil Kumar.According to information available, most carpenters here are local residents of Yamunanagar district. Just a few belong to other states like Bihar. Most migrant carpenters have returned to their states due to lack of work.The carpenters said most of them living in rural areas had started working as farm labourers in their villages.“We were hopeful that our line of work would resume soon. But when we did not see any ray of hope, we were forced to work as farm labourers. First, we shifted wheat straw from the farmers’ fields to their cattle yards and now, we are doing hoeing (weeding) work of the sugarcane crop,” said a carpenter.Narender Kumar Dhiman, alias Papu, of Balauli village said the state government had announced that Rs1,000 per week would be given to workers, including carpenters, registered with the Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board for three months, but this amount was given only for one month up to April 20.“All leftover workers should be registered with the board and the financial help of Rs1,000 per week should be given at least for six months,” said Narender Kumar.He said several carpenters had been forced to do other work, but they were not getting enough money from those works to run their families.He added that no data about the number of carpenters was available with them, but thousands of carpenters were there in Yamunanagar district and all of them are upset without income.
08-06-2020||---||3 more deaths take toll to 28||Chandigarh, June 7Haryana reported the biggest spike of Covid cases in a single day today, with 496 cases taking the tally to 4,448. Three more deaths took the toll to 28.Gurugram reported 230 cases, followed by Faridabad (106), Sonepat (73) and Rohtak and Mahendragarh (25 each).Kaithal district reported its first death purportedly due to Covid. A 71-year-old man from Rajound died at the BPS Government Medical College in Khanpur Kalan in Sonepat district. This death was yet to be included in the health bulletin.One purported Covid death was reported from Sonepat district. The deceased was a 64-year-old housewife. This death was not included in the health bulletin so far.Besides, 47 fresh cases detected including three members of a family positive in Sonepat district on Sunday taking tally to 424 positive patients in the district, the DC said.EndFaridabad recorded three more deaths and 106 fresh cases. While the tally of deaths went up to 13, the number of positive cases rose to 771. This was the highest number of deaths and new cases in a single day in the district so far.A spokesperson of the Health Department said a 52-year-old man, a 65-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman died in hospital during treatment.All three deceased were suffering from multiple co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension. They contracted the infection from persons who had already tested positive and were admitted to the hospital recently.In Rohtak, 25 fresh cases were reported today, taking the total number of cases in the district to 159. As per information provided by the health authorities, 126 cases were active, while 32 had been discharged after treatment, with one death.In Mahendragarh, 25 persons, including two prisoners lodged in the district jail, tested positive, taking the tally to 101. One of them belongs to Rajasthan, while three are from Mahendragarh. Two new cases were reported from Jhajjar.In Karnal, a middle-aged man of timber market, a youth of Salwan and a 13-year-old boy of Prem Nagar were among those who tested positive, taking the number of patients to 99. As many as 41 patients had been discharged, while two had died.In Rewari, eight persons, including a doctor couple and a businessman, tested positive, taking the count to 57. The couple contracted the infection from a woman patient, who came to their hospital for treatment.
