08-08-2020||Chandigarh||789 new cases take Haryana’s COVID-19 tally to 40,843||Haryana’s tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 40,843 on Saturday with 789 fresh instances of the viral infection reported in 24 hours, while seven new fatalities pushed death toll to 474, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Kaithal district for the first time on Saturday reported COVID-19 deaths. Two persons died of the viral infection in the district. Among the 22 districts of the state, Kaithal was the only one which had no COVID-19 death so far.Two deaths were also reported from Bhiwani, while one fatality each was registered in Faridabad, Palwal and Jind.Among the districts which reported fresh cases include Faridabad (149), Panipat (126), Gurugram (99), Ambala (88), Panipat (126), Panchkula (61), Hisar (36), Kurukshetra (33) and Kaithal (18), the bulletin stated.The number of active cases in the state currently stood 6,338 while 34,031 have been discharged after recovery. As of Saturday, the state’s recovery rate was 83.32 per cent while the rate of doubling of infections was 28 days. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/789-new-cases-take-haryanas-covid-19-tally-to-40-843-123940
08-08-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||CM Khattar meets Sushant Singh Rajput's family, hopes 'justice' is served||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday met Sushant Singh Rajput's father Kk Singh and sister Rani Singh in Faridabad.While comforting Sushant's father, the Chief Minister said that since the case has been transferred to CBI, they 'will get justice'.Sushant's brother-in-law, OP Singh, is the Police Commissioner of Faridabad.On Thursday, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) said it has re-registered the Bihar Police FIR in the Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case to initiate its probe.The case has been registered after receiving all the details from Bihar Police, an official said.A senior agency official said: “CBI has today registered a case related to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput on the request of Bihar Government and further notification from Government of India and taken over the investigation of the case, earlier registered at police station Rajiv Nagar, Patna vide FIR no.241/2020 dated 25-7-2020.”He went on to add that the case was registered against six accused, including Rajput’s controversial friend Rhea Chakraborty, Inderjit Chakraborty, Sandhya Chakraborty, Showik Chakraborty, Samuel Miranda and Shruti Modi.Late yesterday evening the Centre agreed to handover the case to the CBI and Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT), the nodal ministry for the investigative agency had issued a notification in this regard.The case has been handed over to the CBI after a reference in this regard from the Bihar Government was received by the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-khattar-meets-sushant-singh-rajputs-family-hopes-justice-is-served-123867
08-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Fake call centre busted in Gurugram; had duped 600 foreigners of Rs 1 crore||Gurugram, August 8Another fake call centre was busted in Gurugram on Saturday.The CM flying squad nabbed 24 men and women working as employees in the centre being run at JMD Megapolis mall.The centre began operations on July 13 and duped 600 American and Canadian citizens in the past 25 days of Rs 1 crore through pop-ups offering technical support, hardware upgrades and antivirus.The employees claimed they, too, had been duped and had no idea that it was a fake call centre.The employees lead the police to mastermind Vikram Verma, resident of Hari Nagar, Delhi, who was nabbed later.The team recovered four computers, CPU, hard disks, four laptops and record of i-Tunes and Google cards, which were sent by the US nationals.An FIR has been registered against the accused under Sections 420 (cheating) of the IPC and Sections 43, 66-D and 75 of the IT Act at Sadar police station.Following a tip-off, DSP Inderjeet Yadav conducted a raid at Green Rock Enterprises at the fifth floor of JMD Megapolis mall on Sohna road late on Friday night and found 30 employees busy on computers and laptops.A majority were busy making calls in English using their headphones and working on their computer systems. They did not possess any valid OSP licences of the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement or MoU related to their work.While the employees were let off, Vikram was arrested.“The accused first collected data of the callers such as names, mobile numbers, e-mails and addresses and then sent them voice mails through an eyebeam dialer. They trapped foreigners to clear pop-ups and provide antivirus in the name of technical help. They had remote access software for pop-ups and using the name of antivirus software, namely Mcafee, Bit Defender, Trenmicro and Kasper Sky. They asked the US nationals to purchase i-Tune gifts cards and in turn, got a hold of their phone number. With this trick, they duped more than Rs 1 crore from over 600 foreigners,” said Inderjeet Yadav.We are interrogating the main accused Vikram Verma, the DSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-had-duped-600-foreigners-of-rs-1-crore-123830
08-08-2020||---||38 people test positive for COVID-19 in Karnal||Karnal, August 838 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Karnal on Saturday.Four persons each from Ashok Nagar and Sector-14, two each from Sector-13 extension, Madhuban Police Complex, Mukhala village in Indri, Sector-6, Sector-8.One each case was reported from Sector-8 Part 2, Sadar Bazar, Wazir Chand Colony, a rice mill in Karnal, Dharam Vir Colony in Gharaunda, Gumto village in Indri block, Model Town, Azad Nagar Hansi Chowk, Gangar, Budhakhera, KCGMC complex, Bhadurchand Colony, Sector-13, Ram Nagar, Uttam Colony, Sector-7, Rajivpuram, a PG near Nirmal Dham and Banso Gate.With these cases, the number of positive cases in the district has reached 1,248 while 981 patients have been cured and discharged.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said the recovery rate in the district was 82 per cent.At present, there are 244 active cases in the district while 13 persons have lost their lives due to the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/38-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-karnal-123810
08-08-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Nursery admission criteria rattle parents in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 7As the admission process commences in Gurugram for the session, 2021-2022, parents seeking admission of wards to nursery have been rattled by the admission criteria. Several parents have taken to social media highlighting how schools are seeking and out to asses them on information like genetic test results, grandparents CV, mother’s age at the time of pregnancy, pregnancy complications and learning disabilities or special abilities in the family.The issue has left many parents miffed who have demanded a uniform admission criteria for all schools.“The admission season is here. Elite schools in Gurugram are now asking for genetic test results, CV of grandparents, mother’s age during pregnancy, complications if any and more. Its blatant classicism and casteism,” tweeted a parent.The parents are being asked not only to submit their educational qualifications, but also extra-curricular activities or any social work they are involved in. Some schools are even insisting on the parents providing recommendation letters from their friends and neighbours about the social behaviour of the child.“All that should matter to the school is if the child is of the right age, has basic skills and if we can pay the fees. Ironically, even after paying lakhs we are subjected to this nuisance. I am a software engineer and my wife works for WHO. My father is a farmer and my mother is not very educated. So despite having everything, my child might not get admission as his grandparents are not big shots,” said another parent.While all schools have their own criteria, eight schools, including day boarding and residential, have come under the scanner owing to this criteria and only Shiv Nadar has proactively issued a statement reacting to the social media post.“Shiv Nadar School has a robust admission process to allow equal opportunities to students of all backgrounds. Our admission process includes collecting information on professional backgrounds of parents and grandparents to help us leverage their experience in our teaching and learning process. For example, a judge or a lawyer can talk to our students about law, while a farmer can help our students learn about agriculture” reads an official statement issued by the school.“If they want children to benefit from the grandparents such questions are asked after the admission is done and not prior to it. The state needs to intervene and get uniform rules like Delhi,” reacted a parent who plans to apply for the admission on August 19.None of the other schools issued any statement while the principal of one of the schools on condition of anonymity said, “We take no aid from the state and as per law have every right to set up our admission criteria. Every school needs to put filters to maintain standards.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nursery-admission-criteria-rattle-parents-in-gurugram-123550
08-08-2020||Nitin Jain||Ambala starts generating electricity from plastic waste||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 7Ambala has started producing electricity from the plastic waste it had collected under the rice-for-plastic scheme launched here last year.Over 20 tonnes of single-use plastic gathered in the district, under the first phase of the first-of-its-type initiative, was being processed to make renewable energy at a plant in Mullana, a senior officer said here on Tuesday.As per the estimates, almost 1.5 tonnes of plastic along with 50-kg paddy straw together produce 1 unit of electricity.According to the plant officials, the electricity produced from the plastic waste costs Rs 7 per unit, which was costlier than the prevailing tariff in the state.Aimed at making Ambala country’s first plastic-free district, the scheme was launched in last November and was extended to the villages as well. The response to the plastic-free drive can be gauged from the fact that over 20,000 kg of waste single-use plastic had been collected and as much rice had been distributed to the beneficiaries for free in the first phase itself.“The renewable energy plant will pay for plastic and the proceeds will be used to further distribute free rice to the beneficiaries,” said Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma, who was the brain behind the initiative.He directed all SDMs and other district officials to ensure that the scheme was extended to each and every village and the residents were sensitised against the use of plastic besides motivating them to collect the waste and deposit it with the collection centres of the administration, where they would be given free rice. He said the credit for the massive success of the rice-for-plastic scheme goes to the local philanthropists who had donated free rice for distribution against the deposits, without causing any financial burden on the state exchequer. The mobile app, being launched, will ensure that no plastic waste remains lying unclaimed in any part of the district.The residents will be able to upload the photos and information regarding the unclaimed plastic and polythene on the mobile app, following which the administration will get it collected from the spot.First-of-its-type initiative||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-starts-generating-electricity-from-plastic-waste-123551
08-08-2020||Panipat||‘Ignored’, BJP Panipat councillor, father resign from party||Anjali Sharma, BJP councillor of ward number 3, and her father Harish Sharma on Thursday resigned from the primary membership of the party, alleging that the leadership “ignored” her ward when it came to carrying out development works. In a letter to Pramod Vij, district BJP president and Panipat (Urban) MLA, she alleged that in the past one-and-a-half years, not a single project was launched in her ward. Anjali was elected councillor in December 2018. She further alleged the police were harassing residents of her ward. “Parks are in a dilapidated condition, drains have not been cleaned and streetlights are out of order,” she claimed. Her father, who is a three-time BJP councillor, said: “I have devoted 35 years to the BJP. I was elected councillor thrice. Now my daughter is carrying forward my work. But the state of affairs in the party has saddened us, forcing us to quit.”  When contacted, Vij said he had not received Anjali’s resignation letter. “If she and her father are facing any problems, they must discuss them in the party forum. I will call them up and enquire about their grievances,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ignored-bjp-panipat-councillor-father-resign-from-party-123552
08-08-2020||Parveen Arora
||Rice exporters oppose plan on MP basmati rice in GI tagging||Tribune News Service Karnal, August 7 Following the Madhya Pradesh government’s attempts for a Geographical Indication (GI) tag to basmati rice for its 13 districts, the All India Rice Exporters Association (AIREA) said that the GI tag to MP’s basmati would give advantage to Pakistan, which produced basmati as per GI tagging in 16 districts. Exporters feared that it might lead to a fall in exports and India losing its global platform. “We have requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to intervene as the inclusion of new states will dilute the purpose of GI demarcation. The move will help other countries to expand the area of basmati under GI tagging. Pakistan will grab that opportunity to start sowing basmati all across the country. Thailand will be equally benefited,” said Vijay Setia, former president of AIREA. He said as per GI of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999, a GI tag could be issued for agricultural goods that originated in an area of a country based on its quality. “The GI tag to basmati has been given on the basis of traditionally grown areas falling under the Indo-Gangetic plains due to special aroma, quality and taste of the grain. Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, western Uttar Pradesh and select districts of Jammu and Kashmir have GI tagging for basmati,” Setia maintainedNathi Ram Gupta, president of AIREA, condemned the attempt and said it would have a serious negative impact on the Indian exports. “India is the world’s largest exporter of basmati, which it exports to over 150 countries. We have recently met the Chief Minister to raise the issue with the Union government,” he said. Anil Mittal, founder-president of AIREA, said inclusion of Madhya Pradesh in the traditional basmati GI area would be against national interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rice-exporters-oppose-plan-on-mp-basmati-rice-in-gi-tagging-123553
08-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Book JE, says Kurukshetra ZP chief||Kurukshetra Zila Parishad chairman Gurdyal Sunehri has recommended an FIR against a JE of the Panchayati Raj Department for construction of Ambedkar Bhawan building in Bhatt Majra village of Pehowa. He was holding a meeting here today. “On the proposal of a Zila Parishad member, a grant was issued. The JE failed to give asatisfactory reply for the lapse,” he said.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/book-je-says-kurukshetra-zp-chief-123554
08-08-2020||Faridabad||Adaptive traffic control system saves Rs 2.33 cr fuel in year on Faridabad bypass corridor||The Adaptive Traffic Control System (ATCS) implemented on the Faridabad bypass corridor in August 2019 has helped commuters save Rs 2.33 crore of fuel in the past one year. This is one of the four corridors adopted under the Smart City project. The Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL) has shared this information in its preliminary evaluation report.  The ATCS adapts to real-time traffic patterns to optimise the traffic flow by dynamically changing the green split timings. Its algorithm adjusts traffic signal timings continuously based on the traffic demand at the intersections and anticipated arrivals from adjacent intersections. “The traffic flow improves as vehicles pass through a succession of signals without having the need to stop. This reduces congestion at traffic signals, fuel consumption and vehicle emission, and saves time,” the report reads.  The authorities propose to implement the ATCS in the entire city. The report notes a substantial reduction in travel time and increase in travel speed after the ATCS was implemented. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adaptive-traffic-control-system-saves-rs-2-33-cr-fuel-in-year-on-faridabad-bypass-corridor-123555
08-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Five discom staffers, firm booked for cheating||Five staffers, including two executive engineers of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (construction wing), and a firm were booked in connection with an alleged cheating case of Rs 6.09 crore.The firm had done only partial work on 19 out of 33 feeders, but it took Rs 10.16 crore, an extra payment of Rs 6.09 crore, with the alleged connivance of the officers and officials of UHBVN. On the complaint of Sandeep Pahuja, SDO (construction wing) of UHBVN, Yamunanagar, a case was registered against KS Bhoria, SK Makkar, both executive engineers; Balwan Singh, SDO; Satish Kumar, junior engineer; and Nafe Singh, divisional accountant. All five belong to the construction wing of UHBVNL, then division Yamunanagar and (now) division Karnal. Besides, the firm was also booked. The case was registered under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 417 (cheating), 420 (deals with cheating and dishonestly), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (whoever fraudulently uses as genuine any forged document or electronic record), 476 (counterfeiting device or mark), 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and 8, 9 Prevention of Corruption Act, on August 5.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-discom-staffers-firm-booked-for-cheating-123556
08-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||No SOPs for CCTV cameras in Haryana distilleries: Enquiry team||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7Cong for probe by HC judgeState Congress chief Kumari Selja and AICC communication incharge Randeep Surjewala on Friday demanded an inquiry by an HC judge into the liquor scam. Selja described the SET report as a cover-up operation. She said the status of SIT was changed to SET and a half-baked report was given on July 30. tnsThe Special Enquiry Team (SET) probing the liquor scam has said Haryana’s Excise and Taxation Department did not issue any standard operating procedures (SOPs) for operating CCTVs and storing footage in distilleries and wholesale licence premises.It pointed out that Excise and Taxation Commissioner (ETC) Shekhar Vidyarthi did not ensure compliance of closure of vends during the lockdown. It has added that no instruction was issued for disposing of seized liquor.The ETC told the SET that all distilleries, liquor factories and wholesale licence premises of L-1 and L-13 had CCTVs, but no SOPs regarding operation, monitoring and storage of feed had been issued. The SET said SOPs would have checked the illegal liquor supply.Vidyarthi was questioned as to why he did not issue instructions in writing immediately after a decision was taken to close vends with effect from March 2.The SET noted that directions to close vends were issued by Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioners (DETCs) and “it was only through newspapers that he came to know that permits and passes were generated on the system during the period of closure”.Vidyarthi and the Excise Collector had no answer on the monitoring mechanism for storage of seized liquor, accounting for it and destroying it in the stipulated time. The SET said they could not cite any case of instruction to any DETC.The SET found that the department had failed to ensure that penalties were levied on time under the Excise Act. Of the 8,337 cases, penalty of Rs 8.58 crore was imposed on 8,171 cases, but only Rs 7.21 crore recovered till June 1, “leaving a huge balance of Rs 1.37 crore”.The SET found that the police in general were naming drivers of confiscated vehicles as accused, but in most cases, no serious effort seemed to have been made to address the origin of liquor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-sops-for-cctv-cameras-in-haryana-distilleries-enquiry-team-123557
08-08-2020||Gurugram||Man, woman murdered in Gurugram||Two murders took place in Gurugram on Friday. In the first incident reported from Sohna, a meeting between two families to fix the marriage of their children ended on a bloody note.  The father of the prospective groom stabbed the father of the prospective bride. Six persons have been booked. Bablu and his son Ajay went to the home of their relative Pappu who had proposed to get his son married to Bablu’s daughter.  Bablu didn’t agree to the match and that infuriated Pappu’s family and a brawl broke out between them.  The second incident was reported from Raisina ki Dhani village where a man allegedly killed his mother by hitting her on the head with a stick as she refused to give money for liquur. The accused has been identified as Prempal, a driver who lost his job in the lockdown. He had reportedly started drinking heavily. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-woman-murdered-in-gurugram-123558
08-08-2020||---||Haryana Deputy CM gives clean chit to excise officials||Chandigarh, August 7A day after Home Minister Anil Vij recommended action on the basis of the report by the Special Enquiry Team (SET), Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who holds the Excise and Taxation portfolio, gave a clean chit to his officers, saying he did not agree with certain findings.“I do not agree with certain findings. The SET has wrongly reported that closure of vends was not ordered during the lockdown. I was present through video-conferencing on the evening of March 26, when all District Excise and Taxation Commissioners were told to ensure closure of vends. By 11 am on March 27, I had compliance reports from all 22 districts, saying vends had been shut,” he said.Giving a clean chit to Excise and Taxation Commissioner Shekhar Vidyarthi, indicted by the SET, Dushyant said the officer did not do anything wrong. He said the imputation against him for failing to arrange the SET visit to NV Distillery in Rajpura was incorrect as the Punjab Excise Act did not have a provision for this.Abhay dismisses report by SETINLD leader Abhay Chautala on Friday dismissed the report on the liquor scam, saying the government was trying to mislead the people. In a statement, he alleged that the SET seemed to be protecting the mastermind. Handing over the investigation to the State Vigilance Bureau and indictment of an IAS and an IPS officer was a formality, he alleged. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-deputy-cm-gives-clean-chit-to-excise-officials-123559
08-08-2020||Sushil Manav||Probe teams in Kala Amb, Ambala over ‘toxic’ syrup||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7Teams of the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) and Haryana’s Drug Control Department conducted investigations at Ambala and Kala Amb in Himachal Pradesh today following a complaint that a two-year-old girl had suffered renal failure after consuming a cough syrup containing diethylene glycol (DEG), a toxic chemical.‘Documents, samples taken’We have carried out joint investigations at Orison Pharmaceuticals and Shiva Medical Hall in Ambala and collected sale and purchase record of the drug. Teams have conducted detailed inspection and taken samples for testing. — Narinder Ahooja, State Drug ControllerThe syrup Cofset-AT had been manufactured by the pharmaceutical unit Digital Vision, based in Kala Amb, and was being marketed by Orison Pharmaceuticals of Ambala.In February, at least 12 children had lost their lives at Ramnagar in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir after consuming Coldbest-PC syrup, manufactured by the same company.During testing, Coldbest-PC was found to be containing DEG, alleged to have caused the death of children by causing acute kidney injuries.“We have carried out joint investigations at Orison Pharmaceuticals and Shiva Medical Hall in Ambala and collected sale and purchase record of the drug. Teams have conducted detailed inspection and taken samples for testing,” said Narinder Ahooja, State Drug Controller, Haryana.He said the drug was found to have been sold to various dealers in Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, as per sale record.“Letters have been sent to the Drug Controllers of these states, requesting them to stop consumption of the drug, collect samples and get these analysed for DEG,” said Ahooja.He said investigations had been carried at another firm in Ambala that sold propylene glycol to the pharmaceutical company, allegedly laced with DEG. Similar investigations were carried at Digital Vision.“Manufacturing is closed in the unit since March, when we suspended the licence after death of children in Ramnagar,” said Navneet Marwah, State Drug Controller, Baddi.The DGCI swung into action after receiving a complaint from the paediatrics department of the PGI, Chandigarh, that a two-year-old from Baddi was admitted on July 22 with renal failure.“She had taken several drugs, which were analysed in the paediatrics biochemistry laboratory for the presence of DEG, qualitatively using gas chromatographic-mass spectrometry and confirmed by searching on the National Institute of Standards and Technology library,” read the PGI complaint.Ahooja said legal action would be initiated against the firms and the manufacturing unit after receipt of the report on the samples.The Kala Amb unit and Ambala firm were facing criminal proceedings with regard to the adulterated Coldbest-PC, which had led to the Udhampur deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/probe-teams-in-kala-amb-ambala-over-toxic-syrup-123560
08-08-2020||Gurugram||Two crushed to death in Gurugram||Two persons were mowed down to death by a garbage transporting dumper at IFFCO Chowk here on Friday. The victims, Vimal (20) and Har Devi (22) hailed from UP and worked in the city with a caretaker-providing agency. The duo was riding a bike that was hit by a truck. An FIR has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-crushed-to-death-in-gurugram-123561
08-08-2020||Deepender Deswal||Fearing ‘encounter’, gangster moves Sirsa court, plea dismissed||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 7Apprehending that he could be killed in an encounter during transit from Bharatpur jail to Sirsa on production warrant, gangster Lawrence Bishnoi moved an advance application at a local court in Dabwali town of Sirsa.He wanted the court to issue directions to the police to move him after cuffing his hands and legs and under high security whenever the police obtain his production warrant.The Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate in Dabwali however dismissed his application stating that permission to handcuff is to be sought by the police or the authority concerned and it is to be allowed by the magistrate only in special circumstances.“If the police or prosecution finds reasonable ground for likelihood of accused escaping from police custody, such an application may be moved by police/prosecution,” the magistrate stated in the order while dismissing the application by the accused.The court order also dismissed the application to seek high security during transit of the accused stating that it too was premature as the police had not moved such an application to seek production warrant of the accused so far.Bishnoi is among the 14 accused who were named in the double murder of liquor contractors. They were shot dead near Chautala village under Dabwali police station on July 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fearing-encounter-gangster-moves-sirsa-court-plea-dismissed-123562
08-08-2020||---||Haryana's tally crosses 40,000 mark||Chandigarh, August 7With 751 new Covid cases reported on Friday, the state’s tally has crossed the 40,000 mark; it now stands at 40,054. Besides, nine deaths took the toll to 467. Three deaths were reported from Rewari, two from Panipat and one each from Ambala, Karnal, Kurukshera and Fatehabad.A 45-year-old woman of Sharifgarh village in Kurukshetra district succumbed to the virus, while a 66-year-old man from Ambala City, who was suffering from cirrhosis, died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh.A 67-year-old man of Shyam Nagar, Yamunanagar, who reportedly tested positive for Covid on August 5 died at a private hospital on Friday, but his death is yet to be counted in the state health bulletin.Of 751 new cases, 159 were reported from Faridabad, 79 from Ambala, 63 from Fatehabad, 60 from Sonepat, 54 from Gurugram, 49 from Rewari, 43 from Rohtak, 41 from Palwal, 38 from, Panipat, 30 from Panchkula, 24 from Hisar, 23 from Mahendragarh, 20 from Karnal, 16 from Kurukshetra, 15 from Yamunanagar, 13 from Sirsa, eight each from Bhiwani and Nuh, five from Kaithal and three from Charkhi Dadri.The fresh cases in Faridabad were reported from Ballabgarh, NIT, Dabua Colony, Jawahar Colony, Sanjay Colony, SGM Nagar, Kheri Kalan, Adarsh Nagar, Chawla Colony, Subhash Colony, and Sectors 3, 16, 19, 23-A and 35.In Karnal, two persons from Sector-14, one each from Shakti Puram, Ashok Nagar, Saini Colony, New Prem Nagar, Sirsi, Agondh, Dachar, Nissing, and Sectors 8, 9 and 32 tested positive.Meanwhile, 804 persons were discharged in the past 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered patients to 33,444. The recovery rate is 83.5 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-tally-crosses-40-000-mark-123563
08-08-2020||Parveen Arora||Cases on rise, Karnal government hospitals face staff shortage||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 7As the number of Covid cases continue to rise, the district Health Department is grappling with the shortage of doctors and paramedical staff.The data gathered by The Tribune has shown that 70 posts of doctor out of 157 sanctioned ones have been lying vacant in government hospitals. These include 59 posts of medical officer and nine of dental surgeon.Besides, 64 posts of staff nurse out of 125 sanctioned ones, 21 posts of lab technician out of 33, 39 posts of Multi Purpose Health Worker (MPHW) out of 154, 55 posts of ward servant out of 82 and 27 posts of safai karamchari out of 31 are yet to be filled in government hospitals.The situation in other health facilities is no better. There is not a single doctor in 11 Primary Health Centres (PHCs), while 10 PHCs are managing with only one doctor.As a result of the vacancies, patients are at the receiving end. Shamsher Singh, a resident of Assandh block, said: “The only specialist doctor at the General Hospital in Assandh is a pediatrician. For other ailments requiring specialist treatment, we either go to Karnal or Jind. Both cities are 45 km from Assandh.”Sources in the department say the staff shortage is affecting Covid-related activities such as contact tracing and door-to-door survey. Besides, the plan to open more sample collection centres in CHCs may not be implemented.“The district authorities are planning to open more sample collection points in CHCs, but the shortage of doctors and lab technicians is a major hurdle in implementing the plan,” said a source in the department.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said, “The National Health Mission (NHM) has sanctioned 10 posts of lab technician. Besides, the state government has been requested to fill posts soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-on-rise-karnal-government-hospitals-face-staff-shortage-123564
08-08-2020||---||Court summons original record of Haryana in Covid cess case||Chandigarh, August 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday summoned the original record of Haryana state in a case challenging the imposition of Covid cess.The direction came after the High Court was told that the state in a connected matter had tried to show Covid cess as a part of the excise duty.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice by M/s Haryana Wines. The petitioner through advocate Chetan Mittal has challenged the imposition of cess by amending the excise policy.Mittal argued before the Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta that the cess could not have been imposed as the Punjab Excise Act, applicable to Haryana, did not bestow power or jurisdiction for its imposition.He also relied upon a judgment by a Constitution Bench, where a question under similar provisions arose in case of state of Madhya Pradesh.Appearing before the Bench, the state on the previous date of hearing had sought time to look into the petitioner’s grievance. As the case came up for resumed hearing, Mittal pointed out that the state in the connected matter filed an affidavit wherein it tried to cover Covid cess as a part of excise dutyDescribing the action as totally unjust and unfair, Mittal submitted the state had taken a contradictory stand. The affidavit filed by the Excise and Taxation Commissioner-cum-Secretary recorded: “However, inadvertently the reference of additional excise duty and additional assessed fee escaped mention in the amended excise policy”.He urged the High Court to take a serious note of the “somersault” as it was an afterthought to justify the decision. After hearing both the parties, the Bench called for the production of the original record in reference to the affidavit and the stand now taken by the state in the written statement filed in the other case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-summons-original-record-of-haryana-in-covid-cess-case-123565
08-08-2020||Faridabad||CM opens Haryana’s first plasma bank in Faridabad||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday inaugurated the first plasma bank of the state via video-conferencing. It is situated in ESIC Medical College and Hospital here.  The plasma bank came up last month and had been functional since, but its inauguration was pending.  “The inception of the plasma bank has ensured efficient treatment to Covid patients and better understanding of the virus. The plasma bank was made possible because of the determination of the hospital authorities. The hospital has treated hundreds of Covid patients so far,” the CM said. Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said, “ESIC hospital is equipped with 510 isolation beds, a 60-bed ICU, 24 ventilators and the state-of-the art diagnostic facilities.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-opens-haryanas-first-plasma-bank-in-faridabad-123566
08-08-2020||---||Pregnant women in Haryana to work from home||Chandigarh, August 7Keeping in view the ongoing Covid pandemic, the state government has exempted pregnant female employees of the Haryana Civil Secretariat from attending the office and has allowed them to work from home.An official spokesman said all Joint/Deputy Secretaries/Under Secretaries /Superintendents and Deputy Superintendents, Special Senior Secretaries /Senior Secretaries/Secretaries and Private Secretaries to Ministers and Administrative Secretaries have been directed to ensure that female employees who are pregnant and working under their control should be allowed to work from home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pregnant-women-in-haryana-to-work-from-home-123567
08-08-2020||---||3 arrested by Kaithal police, two murder cases solved||Karnal, August 7With the arrest of three persons, the Kaithal police claimed to have cracked two murders and two cases of demand of ransom in the district.The police have seized a .12 bore doga gun, five cartridges and a bike, said Superintendent of Police, Kaithal, Shashank Kumar Sawan.The SP said that after getting a tip-off, a team of the CIA erected a check point on Kasan-Jakholi link road and arrested three bike-borne youths.They have been identified as Shubham alias Sukha, Balwinder Singh alias Bitu and Parveen alias Binni.During interrogation, Parveen confessed that he and Shubham had shot dead Rajbir alias Bittu Rana, a resident of Kalayat, when he was returning home on a bike from his farm on July 20.They also admitted to having killed an electricity department employee on July 27 when he was going back home after duty, the SP said.It was also revealed that Parveen and Shubham had threatened to kill a shopkeeper of Kalayat over the phone on August 1 for not giving Rs 20 lakh extortion money. On August 2, both the accused had threatened to kill a Kalayat resident who is in building material trade.Both the accused — after committing a crime — used to take shelter with their aide Balwinder, a resident of Kalbanu village in Patiala district. The trio was roaming around in the Kalayat area with an intention to kill two persons, but were nabbed by the CIA team.Half a dozen criminal cases pertaining to attempt to murder, theft and loot are already registered against Parveen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-arrested-by-kaithal-police-two-murder-cases-solved-123568
08-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Infant found buried in Yamunanagar village||A one-and-half-year-old girl, Ismat, died under mysterious circumstances in Muzafat village of Yamunanagar district on Wednesday.  The police was informed by some villagers about the alleged murder of a girl by her father, after which the body of the child was dug out from a grave in Bihta village. The body was sent to Jagadhri Civil Hospital for post-mortem on Thursday.  Father of the deceased, Ansari of Sitamarhi district of Bihar along with his wife Gulsa Khatun and two children, was living in a room near a tubwell of a Muzafat village farmer. Both the husband and wife used to work as labourer there. According to information, Gulsa along with her son had gone to a neighbouring village on Wednesday and Ansari along with Ismat was alone in his room.  “During this period, the girl died under mysterious circumstances and later, the duo buried the child at a graveyard,” said a source. Sources said a villager informed the police about the incident.  Chander Pal, officiating SHO, Bilaspur police station, said they were waiting for the post-mortem report and further action would be taken as per the report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/infant-found-buried-in-yamunanagar-village-123569
08-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||HHRC takes note of infant deaths in Haryana during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has taken suo motu congnisance of a news story “Health services restricted, Haryana infant deaths rise 46% in lockdown” published in The Tribune on August 4. It has termed the deaths as a “serious violation of human rights”.‘Providing health service primary job’The state government's primary duty is to provide every citizen - be it an infant or an old person - with health service. In view of the Covid pandemic, the government should have taken immediate steps to treat infants and other patients. — Haryana Human Rights CommissionBased on the RTI information sought from the Birth and Death Registration wing of the state’s Health Department, the news story highlighted that deaths of infants in April, May and June rose by 46 per cent as compared with the corresponding period last year. Health experts have said it could be due to restricted access to health services during the Covid-induced lockdown.The HHRC, in its August 6 order, issued a notice to the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Health, “with a direction to submit a report as to what steps have been taken or are proposed to be taken by the government/Health Department for the adequate treatment of infants/children so that the death rate may not increase in future due to any pandemic disease such as Covid”.The HHRC observed that the department should have focused its resources on treating infants during the lockdown. It added that the department couldn’t wash off its hands by claiming that the extension staff such as Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) were busy in the Covid duty, that there was no transport facility and that OPDs in both government and private hospitals were closed.“The state government’s primary duty is to provide every citizen — be it an infant or an old person — with health service. In view of the Covid pandemic, the government should have taken immediate steps to treat infants and other patients,” the HHRC said.In April, May and June last year, 828 infants — 418 boys and 410 girls — had died, as per the information obtained from the Civil Registration System (CRS). In the corresponding period this year, 1,208 infants — 649 boys and 559 girls — passed away. It implies a rise of 45.9 per cent in the number of deaths.The maximum number of deaths (377) took place in Rohtak, followed by Nuh (97), Faridabad (79), Hisar (76) and Karnal (64), as per the CRS. In the corresponding period in 2019, Hisar was leading with 119 infant deaths followed by Nuh (110).The next date of hearing is on September 23.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hhrc-takes-note-of-infant-deaths-in-haryana-during-lockdown-123570
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||CAT upholds Haryana’s decision on IAS selections||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Chandigarh, has rejected a petition challenging a notification issued by the Haryana Government to hold a written examination by the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) for entry into the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) for non-state Civil Service (SCS) officers.  Surendra Singh Dahiya, Additional Director, Agriculture, had challenged the notification on the ground that the state government had no power to issue to introduce a written test for entry into the IAS by selection. On June 9, the government had allowed the HPSC to conduct the written test and shortlist non-SCS officers to fill five IAS posts. The test is scheduled for August 9. The state government claimed there was no illegality in the notification. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cat-upholds-haryanas-decision-on-ias-selections-123571
08-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Police crack Pehowa ATM theft case||The police have claimed to have cracked an ATM theft case and recovered around Rs 1.13 lakh from six members of an inter-state gang involved in ATM, buffalo and vehicles theft cases. The suspects were identified as Farman, Rukamdin, Jisan, Zabir and Iqram, residents of Saharanpur, and Gulsher of Yamunanagar.   A case was registered at the Pehowa police station on February 24 on the complaint of Anil Kumar, area manager of AGS Company, looking after SBI ATMs. He reported that some unidentified men took away an ATM containing over Rs 14 lakh from Pehowa in the wee hours on February 24. “During investigation, we came to know that the suspects involved in ATM theft cases were lodged in jails of Sahranapur, Jind and Kurukshetra. They were produced in court, which sent them to three-day police remand on August 4,” said SP Astha Modi. “During remand, they admitted hte crime. They admitted that they had a gang which was involved in cases of theft of ATMs, buffaloes, trucks and truck parts in districts of Haryana and Punjab,” the SP said. They were produced in court today, which sent them to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-crack-pehowa-atm-theft-case-123573
08-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Deposit Rs 1 lakh costs with PM-CARES Fund, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7Amid the growing burden on healthcare infrastructure following a spurt in Covid cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed that costs of Rs 1 lakh imposed on a petitioner be deposited with the PM-CARES Fund.‘NO LINK, CAN’T MAINTAIN PLEA’In the present case, admittedly both petitioners are residents of Mumbai and the company-respondent is registered with the Registrar of Companies, Mumbai, and has no connection with the Registrar of Companies, Punjab and Chandigarh. The counsel for the petitioners has been unable to show how the writ petition is maintainable in this court. — Justice Alka Sarin, Punjab and Haryana High CourtThe direction came in a case pertaining to Mumbai, but filed in the High Court here. Justice Alka Sarin asserted that the filing of the petition in this High Court was not “bona fide”.The petition by Mumbai-based Vijay Goverdhandas Kalantri and another petitioner against Union of India and other respondents was filed for setting aside impugned action under provisions of the Companies Act of disqualifying them to act as directors of a Mumbai-registered company from November 1, 2018.Appearing before the Bench, standing counsel for Union of India Bhuwan Vats pointed out that both petitioners were residents of Mumbai and the respondent-company regarding which the petitioners were disqualified to act as directors was also registered with the Registrar of Companies in Mumbai.He pointed out that the Registrar of Companies, Punjab and Chandigarh, had been impleaded as party only to surreptitiously create jurisdiction of this court though the Registrar of Companies had no connection with the present case and this court had no jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition.Counsel for the petitioners contended that the writ petition had been filed since the petitioners wished to invest in a company within the jurisdiction of this court.“In the present case, admittedly both petitioners are residents of Mumbai and the company-respondent is registered with the Registrar of Companies, Mumbai, and has no connection with the Registrar of Companies, Punjab and Chandigarh. The counsel for the petitioners has been unable to show how the writ petition is maintainable in this court,” Justice Sarin asserted.Before parting with the case, Justice Sarin noted that there was no ground for invoking the jurisdiction of the High Court under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution as the petitioners were neither residents of Punjab, Haryana or Chandigarh nor was the company registered with the Registrar of Companies, Punjab and Chandigarh.Justice Sarin added that the writ petition appeared to have been filed to gain benefit of an interim order passed by this court in other cases “though the initiation of the writ proceedings in this High Court was clearly unsustainable and an abuse of jurisdiction”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deposit-rs-1-lakh-costs-with-pm-cares-fund-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-123575
08-08-2020||AMBALA||Ambala police bust prostitution racket: 11 held||Man robbed of SUVA Toyota Fortuner SUV was snatched at knife-point, the driver, Amarinder Singh of Barnala in Punjab, had reported to the local police on Friday. According to the complainant, he had come to Dera Bassi and when he reached near Lalru in the evening, a person, whom he identified as Mohinder, took lift from him. “When we reached near Baldev Nagar, the person robbed the SUV at knife-point and fled ,” he alleged. The police have launched investigation, TNSBiker dies in hit-and-runA motorcyclist, Manpreet Singh (43) of Balana village near here, was killed after a car hit his bike near Balana village, said the police on Friday. According to information, the biker died on the spot while the accused car driver fled. The police have registered a case and launched further investigation, said the officials. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-police-bust-prostitution-racket-11-held-123576
08-08-2020||Rohtak||Making digital learning effective||‘Overall growth aim of edu policy’Kurukshetra: Atul Kothari, national secretary of Sanskriti Shiksha Uthaan Nyaas, said, “The New Education Policy recently approved by the Cabinet was the first policy of Independent India which focused on Indian language, Indian art, literature, language, culture, etc. In this policy, attention has been paid to the complete personality development of the student.” While speaking as a keynote speaker in a webinar on New Education Policy organised by Kurukshetra University, he said that once Swami Vivekananda was asked what should be the aim of education, and he said that the overall development and character development of the child was the goal of education. Earlier the school education structure was 5+5+2. This has been changed to 5+3+3+4. He said the burden of formal books had been reduced in pre-primary education. Students in Classes IX to XII will have the right to choose the subject. Physical education, vocational education etc. have all been put together in the education system, said Kothari. He further said that co-curricular, extra-curricular activities have been made part of the main curriculum. Education will be in mother tongue and regional language till Class VIII.KU extends admission dateKurukshetra:In view of the global pandemic, Kurukshetra University Vice-Chancellor Dr. Nita Khanna, has extended the last date for online application in all MA, MSc and MCom up to August 21. The deputy director of public relations department, Dr Deepak Rai, said this decision had been taken keeping in mind the interest of students. He said that earlier the last date was August 7, which has now been extended upto August 21. There has been no change in the date of online application for PG diploma, certificate course and MEd.Tributes paid to college founderKarnal: Indira Gandhi Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Kaithal, organised a programme on the 42nd death anniversary of late Om Prabha Jain, ex-Finance Minister, Haryana, and founder of the college. Vice-president of college governing body, Ram Bahadur Khurania, Arti Garg, officiating principal and staff members paid tribute by laying wreath on her statue on the college premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/making-digital-learning-effective-123581
08-08-2020||The civil administration is in complete denial and sleeping over area maintenance and cattle menace in Sectors 24 to 28||Sectors lack maintenance in Panchkula||Kewal Krishan Singla, PanchkulaPeople must follow traffic rulesI have been observing that people openly violate traffic rules. No one likes to wear helmet, and wait for other vehicles to pass. Several motorcycle-borne youths try to overtake from wrong-side and get injured. Sometimes, they also try to avoid traffic police officials who stop vehicles to check their papers and fall down from the moving vehicles in the process. I request the people to follow traffic rules as these are made to save human lives.Kapil Sharma, KaithalStray animals a nuisance in AmbalaWe the residents of Sector 9, Ambala City, have on many occasions brought to the notice of the general administration and MC regarding impending danger of stray animals. Bulls are a constant danger on the roads. I hope the authorities will take cognisance of the issue.Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sectors-lack-maintenance-in-panchkula-123582
08-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Special Enquiry Team visit to NV Distillery was blocked: Report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7The Special Enquiry Team (SET) probing the Haryana liquor scam wanted to visit the premises of NV Distillery, Rajpura, but could not do so, as per its report. Excise and Taxation Commissioner Shekhar Vidyarthi at first agreed to accompany the team to the distillery on July 3, but hours before departure refused to do so, saying he was busy. On a subsequent request, he cited legal provisions to deny permission.The name of the distillery figures in at least 14 cases of liquor smuggling registered across Haryana.“That NV distillery was involved in smuggling of liquor was stated by most of the officers with whom the SET interacted,” the report says. When the SET sought permission to visit the distillery on July 18, the Excise Commissioner’s reply dated July 28, received on the evening of July 29, maintained that any such visit was not covered under the Punjab Excise Policy, 1914 (also applicable to Haryana).“This was nothing but an attempt to block the visit of the SET to the distillery. Moreover, the SET had not sought permission to perform any of the functions covered under the Act. The visit was confined to understanding the processes involved in the operation of a distillery. The SET had neither the intention nor the powers to ‘inspect’ the distillery/make seizures. However, the SET has obtained corroborative evidence regarding the possible complicity of NV Distillery in cases/FIRs registered by the police,” the report says.The SET sought information from Punjab’s Principal Secretary, Excise and Taxation, on June 25, who replied on July 27, stating 22,936 cases of liquor of NV Distillery, Rajpura, remained unaccounted for. While looking into FIRs (from April 1, 2019, to May 10, 2020), the SET found clear indications that the seized liquor was sourced from NV Distillery units in Naraingarh and Rajpura.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-enquiry-team-visit-to-nv-distillery-was-blocked-report-123635
