08-01-2021||New Delhi||CBI files charge sheet against 4 Haryana cops in 2017 Gurugram school student murder case||It is almost after about three years of its probe that the CBI filed charge sheet in a special court in Panchkula against four personnel of the Haryana Police for their alleged role in framing a bus conductor in the killing of a 7-year-old boy in a private school in Gurugram in September 2017, said officials of the agency.Later it was found that the boy was murdered on September 8, 2017 allegedly by a senior student of the same schools.According to an official statement issued by the CBI today, the four police personnel have been charge sheeted under various sections of the IPC.A Class 2 student, whom the court named ‘Prince’ to protect his identity, was found near the toilet of the school with his throat slit on September 8 morning within an hour of his father leaving him at the school.The local police had arrested bus conductor Ashok Kumar of the school and shown recovery of a knife from him claiming it to be the murder weapon. The police had claimed solving the heinous crime quickly and put the blame on the conductor.In a twist to the case, the CBI, after taking up the case, debunked the claims of police and found the conductor to be innocent. The agency in its meticulous probe examined teachers, students, and scanned local markets which led them to a Class 11 student of the school, whom the court named ‘Master Bholu’ to hide his identity.The juvenile was apprehended in the case on November 7, 2017, CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said. “It was revealed during CBI investigation that the conductor earlier arrested by Gurugram Police was not involved in this murder case. Further investigation of the case was continued. During further investigation, the alleged role of said police officials came to light and a supplementary charge sheet was therefore led against them,” he said.According to the agency, the Class 11 student, believed to be weak in his studies, allegedly slit the victim’s throat to get the school to declare a holiday in order to defer a scheduled parent-teacher meeting (PTM) and an examination. The accused is facing murder trial as the CBI kept investigating the role of police personnel in framing Kumar.
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||3 deaths, 281 fresh coronavirus cases in Haryana||Three more people died from coronavirus in Haryana on Friday as 281 fresh cases pushed the state's infection count to 2,64,442, according to a Health Department bulletin.So far, 2,943 people have succumbed to the disease in the state, it said.On Friday, one death each was reported from Faridabad, Jhajjar and Jind districts.Gurgaon reported the maximum 63 infections followed by 48 in Faridabad, the bulletin said.(Click here for the latest developments on Covid-19 epidemic)Currently, the state has 2,501 active cases while 2,58,998 patients have so far been discharged after treatment, with the recovery rate hovering around 97.94 per cent. — PTI
08-01-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Crows found dead in Gurugram's bio-diversity park; triggers bird flu scare||The scare of Avian Influenza gripped Gurugram after 11 crows were found dead in Bio-diversity Park in the last two days. Authorities have started to investigate the cause of death.Samples have been taken, and sent to Jalandhar. According to the Wildlife Department, no case of bird flu has been reported in the district yet, but a caution has been sounded and the health department is on alert."We so far have no confirmed instance of flu and people should abstain from undue panic. It's people working in poultry farms who need to be cautious. We are taking all precautions", said a zonal wildlife officer RP Dangi.It was in the morning when people, who went to Biodiversity Park for morning walk, spotted the five crows dead under a tree on Thursday, and at 6 pm on Friday.They immediately informed the district administration. They rushed to the spot, and it may be noted, that one crow was also found dead in Sultanpur lake area a few days ago.The district administration and Wildlife Department flung into action. Panic has gripped the people. They have shunned poultry products, including eggs.This has led to a massive price drop, especially for chickens. The experts have clarified, that flu would not spread from cooked chicken. The people, however, have been advised to abstain from home slaughter or for buying from unverified slaughter-houses of poultries.
08-01-2021||New Delhi||Haryana CM Khattar meets Shah amid farmers’ agitation, expresses hope for early solution||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday met Union Home Minister Amit Shah here at North Block and discussed issues relating to the ongoing farmers’ protest against Centre’s three farm laws and also the law & order situation.Though the chief minister and also the official in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) remained tight-lipped as to what transpired during the meeting, sources said the two leaders took stock of the situation in the state, as most of the farmers’ dharnas have taking place in the state’s border areas adjoining the national capital.Emerging out of the meeting Khattar said, talks with agitating farmers have been on and he was hopeful for a solution. He further noted that since there has been a hope that is why the next round of the talk has been fixed for December 15.Replying to a question on farmers’ demand for repealing the three farm laws, the Chief Minister said that if that was the case, then the negotiation with farmers would have stopped long back.Talking about the proposed Kisan Panchayat in the state, Khattar said that such events are being organised in the state from time to time and they are frequently held for discussing issues relating to public welfare.The deadlock between the government and farmers unions continued on Friday, as the eighth round of talks also ended here without any result with both sides sticking to their respective positions.
08-01-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Farmers’ stir gets massive support from Haryana||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 8The ongoing agitation against the recently enacted farm laws, which is being spearheaded by Punjab farmers, got a shot in the arm with substantial support extended by the farmers from different parts of Haryana, who reached Delhi borders in long cavalcades of tractors on Thursday to exhibit their strength, unity and firm resolve to get the said laws repealed.“The farmers’ agitation is getting stronger by the day due to the government’s stubbornness and dictatorial attitude. If the government still doesn’t repeal the anti-farming laws, the country will witness a historic tractor-parade by farmers and farm-workers on Rajpath in New Delhi on January 26,” asserts Preet Singh, vice-president of the Haryana chapter of All-India Kisan Sabha.He concedes that the agitation had little participation from Haryana in the beginning, but now a sizeable number of farmers and residents from the state, including the Rohtak belt comprising Rohtak, Bhiwani, Sonepat and Jhajjar districts, have extended proactive support to the stir.Nonetheless, the agitation has remained apolitical so far, though leaders of the ruling party have been alleging that the Opposition parties were instigating the farmers to further their political interests.“Though some leaders of the Congress and other Opposition parties in Haryana have participated in protest demonstrations by farmers, it was a symbolic move. The farmers’ agitation has largely been apolitical,” observes Prof (Dr) Rajendra Sharma, well-known political analyst and Head of the Department of Political Science at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in Rohtak.Noted political observer Dr Ram Kanwar remarks that the farmers’ agitation is likely to intensify in the coming days and it may have major socio-political ramifications in Haryana and Punjab.“So far, the agitation, which is being spearheaded by farmers from Punjab, has been well-controlled and peaceful. But in case the stir spreads in Haryana, it may lead to a repeat of the Jat agitation for reservation witnessed in 2016,” he cautions.
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Avian flu: Over 1.60 lakh poultry birds to be culled in Haryana's Panchkula||Over 1.60 lakh birds of five poultry farms in Haryana's Panchkula district are set to be culled as some poultry samples there have tested positive for the avian flu, Agriculture minister J P Dalal said on Friday. “Five poultry samples of Siddharth Poultry Farm at Raipur Rani block in Panchkula were found positive for the H5N8 strain of avian flu. It is an influenza virus,” Dalal said while talking to reporters here.Similarly, the samples of some birds from Nature Poultry farm at Panchkula too tested positive, he said.The samples were sent to a laboratory in Bhopal and their reports have come now, the minister added.As per the government of India guidelines, the poultry of farms located within one km of any farm fund having infected birds have to be culled, Dalal said.Accordingly, as per estimates, around 1.66 lakh poultry birds of five poultry farms in Panchkala will have to be culled, the minister added.The employees of these poultry farms too would be examined by the health department, Dalal further said.They would also be given anti-viral medicines, he further said.Notably, over four lakh poultry birds had died at some farms in Haryana's Panchkula district over the past several days.Panchkula's Barwala-Raipur Rani area is one of the largest poultry belts in the country with 70-80 lakh birds in more than 100 farms.The mortality rate in poultry birds was unusually high in this winter season. PTI
08-01-2021||Panchkula||Central team confirms bird-flu outbreak in Haryana||A member of the central team visiting Barwala confirmed the presence of avian influenza in the region, identifying Kheri and Ghanauli as the two epicentres of the outbreak.So far, 4.37 lakh birds have died of bird flu in Barwala, which is considered Asia's second-largest poultry belt with the daily production capacity of 1 crore eggs.The team rushed to meet Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja at district headquarters in Sector 1 to plan the containment process. The culling of birds will be done within a 1-km radius of epicentres. The main challenge of authorities now is to ensure the virus is not transmitted to human beings.Over 10,000 poultry workers have been employed in around 140 poultry units in Barwala belt.
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions continue in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions continued to sweep Punjab and Haryana with Hisar turning out to be the coldest place on Friday.Hisar in Haryana recorded its low at 4.4 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its low at 12.6 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.In Haryana, Ambala and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 10.5 and 8 degrees Celsius, up to four degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures at Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 9.5, 9.4, 7.2 and 7.1 degrees Celsius respectively, up to five degrees above normal.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective minimum temperatures at 10, 9.4 and 8.6 degrees Celsius, up to seven degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur were 12.6, 11.1, 11.8, 8, 11 and 9.2 degrees Celsius respectively.Dense fog was also witnessed at many places including Hisar, Karnal, Bhiwani, Ludhiana, Patiala and Gurdaspur, causing inconvenience to commuters. PTI
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers hold tractor march, call it ‘trailer’||A day ahead of the eighth round of talks with the Centre, thousands of protesting farmers today took out a tractor march on the expressways on the periphery of the Capital to exhibit their strength. The farmers have been agitating against the farm laws at various borders of the Capital for over 40 days.The tractor march started from four points — Singhu to Tikri border; Tikri to Kundli in Sonepat; Ghazipur in UP to Palwal; and Rewasan in Mewat district to Palwal in Haryana. The farm unions called it a “rehearsal” for their proposed January 26 tractor parade.BKU leader Harinder Singh Lakhowal said today’s rally was to “show the government our numbers”. “We want to warn that our protests will intensify if our demands are not met” warned Lakhowal.With speakers playing Punjabi music, the farmers drove out in the morning to the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal and Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal Expressways. Initially, they kept one of the lanes free, but soon there was chaos, disrupting traffic. Some tractors carried the Tricolour and some flags of the BKU.The eighth round of talks between the protesting unions and the Centre is to be held tomorrow. — TNS
08-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||No case where award complies with rules, HC chides Lok Adalats||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7In a severe indictment of the Lok Adalats in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that she had not come across even a single case where an award was passed in compliance with the National Legal Services Authority (Lok Adalats) Regulations, 2009.“Before parting with this order, it is pertinent to note that during long experience as a member of judiciary, I have not come across even a single case where the Lok Adalat has passed an award in compliance with provisions of Regulation 17 and specimen annexed thereto,” Justice Rekha Mittal asserted.In order to avoid any legal complications, Justice Mittal also directed the Lok Adalats in the states of Punjab, Haryana and UT of Chandigarh to pass award in compliance with the provisions of Regulation 17 of the Regulations.Justice Mittal also directed the forwarding of the judgment’s copy to all the district and sessions judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh for necessary compliance. The assertion and directions came on two petitions filed by Robin Gupta against M/s Stratford Educational Management Pvt Ltd and other respondents. The parties were represented by senior advocates Sunil Chadha and Puneet Jindal, along with advocates Divanshu Jain, Gaurav Chopra, Tajinder Singh and Pankaj Katia.Regulation 17 deals with award. Among other things, it was argued before the Bench that Lok Adalat members should append their signatures only in settlement reached before them under sub-regulation (6) of Regulation 17 and avoid affixing signatures to settlement reached by the parties outside the Lok Adalat. It was further argued that Lok Adalat was obligated to pass an award, specimen of which was appended to the Regulations.Elaborating on the objectives of Lok Adalats, Justice Mittal added these had been set up for settlement of disputes at the pre-litigating and post-litigating stage. The parties were referred to the Lok Adalat to reconcile their differences and settle their disputes without undergoing rigmarole of trial.Lok Adalat could not decide the dispute between the parties on merits and it could only facilitate settlement of dispute with its intervention or/and pass an award on the basis of out-of-court settlement. As such, the object and purpose of setting up of Lok Adalats was to settle the dispute and not to regenerate the dispute already settled between the parties.
08-01-2021||Karnal||Vaccine mock drill at six Karnal centres||The Centre has decided to set up a central delivery store for the Covid vaccine in Karnal, from where it will be further sent to various regions of north India. “After the nod for two Covid vaccines, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has decided to set up a central delivery store in Karnal,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. He said a complete cold chain would be maintained after receiving the vaccine. He said the Centre had also proposed the vaccination to healthcare workers in the first phase in coming days. He was at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) to take stock of the preparedness of the department for the Covid vaccination programme under the dry run initiative. A mock drill of administering vaccine to health workers was conducted at six centres, including the KCGMC, Park Hospital, Ram Nagar Dispensary in urban areas along with Primary Health Centres in Kunjpura, Kutail and Shambli in rural areas. — TNS
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||6 deaths, 274 new cases||With 274 fresh cases, the Covid tally jumped to 2.64 lakh in the state today.Meanwhile, six fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours, with one death each from Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Jind.The maximum fresh cases came from Gurugam at 82, followed by 37 from Faridabad, 21 from Panchkula, 19 from Yamunanagar, 17 from Sonepat, 15 each from Ambala and Karnal and 13 from Panipat. — TNS
08-01-2021||rveen Arora
||Rs 75L toll loss a day in Karnal||Tribune News Service Karnal, January 7 The farmers’ protest at the Bastara toll plaza on the NH-44 and the one near Peont village on the NH-709A is resulting in a daily loss of Rs 75 lakh to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the toll companies. On the call by unions, farmers of the district have been staging dharna at the two toll plazas since December 25, not allowing the companies to charge toll. By Thursday, Day 13 of the protest, the NHAI and the toll companies have incurred a loss of around Rs 9.75 crore. Chandan Yadav, manager, Bastara toll plaza, said: “On an average, the daily toll collection is Rs 70 lakh. Besides, the everyday expenditure is between Rs 1.5 lakh and Rs 2 lakh. Because of the farmers’ protest, our income has been zero, but the expenditure remains the same.” Manoj Tomar, in-charge of the Peont toll plaza, said the company’s daily toll collection of Rs 2 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh had been hit because of the agitation. Meanwhile, Rampal Chahal, president of a farmers’ committee constituted for the Bastara toll plaza, said famers would continue their protest until the Centre’s new three laws were revoked.
08-01-2021||---||Will step up agitation, warn farmers||Jhajjar, January 7“It is just a trailer and the picture will be shown on January 26 if the Centre does not repeal the farm laws. Delhi will see a tractor parade this Republic Day.” This was stated by Harmanpreet Singh, a protester from Punjab, who was enthused by the presence of a large number of farmers in the tractor march today.Sitting beside him on the tractor, Panthjeet Singh quipped, “Like the armed forces, we are taking out the flag march as a rehearsal of the proposed Delhi march on January 26 to make the Centre realise what farmers can do to ensure that their demands met.” Jaspal Singh of Fazilka said the march had infused a new zeal among the protesters, which would work towards making the proposed Delhi march on January 26 a success.These reactions summed up the mood of protesting farmers during the tractor march taken out from Tikri to Singhu on the call of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha.There was great enthusiasm among the protesters, with many participating bare-chested to protest against the farm laws. “I am participating bare-chested to make the Prime Minister realise that neither the severe cold nor rain can stop us. We have taken the pledge of not going back alive if the farm laws are not repealed,” said Simranjeet Singh, another farmer.A considerable number of farmers from Jhajjar, Rohtak, Jind, Bhiwani, Hisar and Fatehabad took part in the march to express solidarity with Punjab farmers. “It is a do-or-die battle and we are prepared to make any sacrifice to force the Centre to accept our demands. If the stir fails, no individual or group will dare to fight against governments in future, but we will not let it happen,” said Manjit, a young protester from Jind.
08-01-2021||
||In solidarity, kids take out cycle rally||Karnal, January 7 Extending support to farmers’ agitation, a group of children took out a cycle rally in Assandh and handed over a memorandum to Assandh SDM. All children, aging around 12, started their rally from Gurdwara Dera Sahib to SDM office. Children, including Ishmeet Kaur, Mohanpreet and others, said they belong to farmers’ families. “We are pained to see the non-cooperative attitude of the Union Government towards the demands of the farmers. We request the government to consider their demands,” they said.
08-01-2021||Sonepat||Farmers' show of unity on KMP expressway||Thousands of farmers from Haryana and Punjab atop tractors reached the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway on Thursday during a march to protest against the three farm laws.“It is a trailer of the tractor parade to be held on January 26,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of the BKU (Lakhowal).Farmers carrying flags of various groups along with the national flag boarded thousands of tractors. They started the rally from the Singhu border and returned after meeting protesters from the Tikri border. The farmers were enthusiatic despite the cold wave. They played Punjabi and Haryanavi songs on patriotism and farmers’ unity. The farmers raised slogans against the Union Government.Though many farmer leaders walked on the road for several kilometres, there was no sign of tiredness on their faces. A farmer leader said they had decided of lead the tractors to ensure a peaceful march.“It was not a political show of strength. The sea of tractors proved the unity of farmers against the adamant attitude of the Centre,” said Jagtaar Singh of Muktsar.Jagmeet Singh of Moga said it was a matter of survival for farmers and they were fully prepared to face any situation, but would not step back till the government repealed the farm laws. — TNS
08-01-2021||Parveen Arora||‘Smart’ meters help power corpn recover defaulters’ dues||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 7Smart meters are proving to be beneficial for the power corporation, which is in distress due to non-payment of dues by consumers, in collecting bills.The UHBVN City Division office has launched a drive to disconnect power supply of defaulters from the control rooms established in the sub-divisional offices concerned after the installation of smart meters in the city.In December, the UHBVN disconnected around 920 connections, including 10 of the government offices, for not clearing dues. After this, as many as 550 of those whose connections were disconnected have deposited dues of around Rs 1.33 crore to the UHBVN.The Model Town sub-division has disconnected 490 connections, of which 325 consumers have paid bills of around Rs 67 lakh. In sub-urban sub-division, around 430 connections were disconnected, of which around 225 consumers got their supply resumed after depositing the bills of around Rs 66 lakh.“We have started a drive to disconnect power supply of those who have not deposited bills. The drive has been initiated to make people habitual of depositing their electricity bills on time. The similar drive will continue in January also,” said Dharam Suhag, XEN, City Division.He said the smart meter project was started in 2019 and in the first phase 1 lakh normal meters were to be replaced with the smart ones. So far, around 73,000 normal meters have been replaced with smart meters and the remaining will be replaced by March 31, 2021.“The smart meters are helping the UHBVN in improving metering, billing and collection (MBC) efficiencies and also in collecting revenue,” the XEN said, adding that in smart meters there was no need of visiting the site physically to disconnect the supply, which usually resulted in an altercation between consumers and employees.“The smart meter is a software-based mechanism and UHBVN officials can monitor the consumption of each household by sitting in the office. If any consumer fails to deposit the bill even once, his/her power connection will be disconnected from the sub-division office concerned,” the XEN said.Suhag said the UHBVN had also introduced an app for smart meter consumers, with the help of which consumers can monitor the consumption of electricity as well as bills on mobile phones.Supply disconnected, Rs1.33 crore collected
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava gets extension||The Haryana Government has issued orders for extension of tenure of Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava beyond February 20 till further orders.An order issued by Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora said Yadava’s term had been extended by the Governor beyond February 20 till further orders. — TNS
08-01-2021||---||Court notice on plea for restoring education diploma course in DIETs||Chandigarh, January 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court has put Haryana on notice on a plea seeking restoration of diploma in education (DEd) course in district institutes of education and training (DIETs). The institutes are located in various districts across the state.The notice by the Division Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta came on a petition by Preetpal and other residents of Madina in Rohtak district. The petitioners had submitted that students were now being forced to pay hefty amounts to private colleges following suspension of the course earlier available on affordable fee in DIETs.The petitioners stated that DIETS, a Centre-state partnership initiative, was being run all over the country, with the exception being made out by closing these in Haryana. The Bench was told that DIETs had been established in districts to provide academic support to elementary education at the grassroots.It was pointed out that there were 21 DIETs in the state, with buildings in rural areas provided by panchayats free in lieu of five seats reserved for their students. it was contended that many students from rural areas could not afford the fees charged by private institutes.
08-01-2021||Sushil Manav||Bird flu scare pushes rate of eggs, broilers down||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7The bird flu scare has hit the business of poultry farmers hard in the state as the wholesale prices of eggs and broilers have witnessed a dip of 25 and 50 per cent respectively in the past week.The wholesale prices of eggs, which was Rs 600 per hundred till the end of December, has dropped to Rs 450 today while broilers were fetching price of Rs 60 per kg against Rs 120 earlier.“It is not the disease which is causing us losses. The panic created by media reports is doing the damage,” said Surinder Bhutani, general secretary of Haryana Poultry Farmers Association.Bhutani, who is also chairman of the north zone chapter of National Eggs Coordination Committee (NECC), claimed that though there is very little decrease in the number of people consuming poultry products, the bird flu scare has provided the traders an opportunity to pressurise poultry farmers to bring down rates.“The traders simply decrease their orders or show reluctance in lifting our products citing flu scare. The poultry farmers cannot stock the products for long looking at their shelf life and have no other alternative than to slash the rates. But we know that the end customer is not getting any benefit of the cuts in rates,” he added.Meanwhile, poultry farmers in the state admit that though bird flu comes every year with migratory birds and the scare remains till the end of January or the first week of February, it was for the first time — in the past 15 years — that such a large number of birds had died in the state. But there is no official confirmation of the bird flu in the state as of now.Over four lakh birds have died in Panchkula district of Haryana alone so far in the past week.
08-01-2021||Mahendragarh||Freight corridor a game changer: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday dedicated the 306-km New Rewari-New Madar section of the western dedicated freight corridor to the nation through video-conferencing by flagging off the world’s first double-stack long-haul 1.5-km container train hauled by electric traction from New Ateli station to Kishangarh in Rajasthan.With this, freight trains will be able to run at a maximum speed of 100 kmph while the current maximum speed is 75 kmph. The Rewari-Madar section covers 79 km in Mahendragarh and Rewari districts and 227 km in Jaipur, Ajmer, Sikar, Nagaur and Alwar districts of Rajasthan.As per reports, the section consists of nine newly built dedicated freight corridor stations — New Rewari and New Ateli in Haryana and New Phulera, New Dabla, New Bhagega, New Shri Madhopur, New Pachar Malikpur, New Sakun and New Kishangarh in Rajasthan.The opening of the stretch will benefit various industries in Rewari, Manesar, Narnaul, Phulera and Kishangarh areas and enable better usage of the CONCOR container depot at Kathuwas. This section will ensure seamless connectivity with the ports of Kandla, Pipavav, Mundhra and Dahej in Gujarat.Addressing the people, the Prime Minister said the dedicated freight corridor was being looked at as a game changer for India. He said the opening of this stretch would fuel industries in Rewari, Mahendragarh, Ajmer and Sikar.“The corridor covers 135 stations, which will be developed as multi-modal logistic hubs. It will help village and small-scale industries, besides contributing to the uplift of the economy,” he added. — TNS
08-01-2021||Hisar||Mentally disabled raped in temple||A Dalit woman with a mental disability was allegedly raped in a temple of Jind district on Wednesday, the police have said. The accused, identified as Sunil, was arrested on Thursday. He and the 35-year-old victim belong to the same village. On the complaint of the victim’s father, Sunil was booked under Section 376 of the IPC and the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. — TNS
08-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon
||Post NGT directive, Panipat refinery to hold plantation drive, lay new pipelines||Tribune News Service Panipat, January 7 Following the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the joint committee has come up with a plan for the restoration of environment and public health in villages adjoining to the IOCL Panipat Refinery. The committee has decided to conduct the medical check-ups of residents of six villages, dig up new borewells to provide potable water, lay new pipelines for draining effluents and hold a plantation drive. Notably, Satpal Singh, sarpanch, Singhpura-Sithna gram panchayat, had filed a complaint with the NGT in 2018, alleging that the IOCL Panipat Refinery caused air and water pollution around Bohli, Dadlana and Sithana villages of the district. He alleged that air pollution caused by the refinery had led to outbreak of diseases, affecting a large number of people in the adjoining villages.  A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel had ordered an inquiry into the matter by a joint committee, comprising Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) and the District Magistrate, Panipat. The NGT directed the committee to make a restoration plan for environment and public health on July 25 last year. Based on the committee’s reports, the NGT ordered the refinery to deposit interim environment compensation of Rs 17.31 crore and calculate the total damages, which came to Rs 659.49 crore. Of this, the refinery had deposited Rs 17.31 crore with the CPCB in 2019.  The NGT also directed the refinery to pay Rs 25 crore to the CPCB so that Rs 17.31 crore given earlier along with the amount deposited now can be spent on the restoration of environment and public health. Following the NGT directions, the refinery has deposited Rs 25 crore with the CPCB and the committee prepared a restoration plan.  Meanwhile, the Civil Surgeon has submitted a proposal under which they have to purchase a special mobile van to conduct the tests of residents and hire doctors and paramedics for the purpose. The Irrigation Department has also submitted a proposal of around Rs 17 crore for laying pipes for effluent discharge and install online monitoring system, while the Forest Department has sent a proposal of Rs 4 lakh for a plantation drive and the Public Health Department has proposed to dig up borewells for potable water in five villages till June 30.  Moreover, the Health Department will conduct check-up of the residents in six villages till June 30 and the Forest Department would plant saplings and submit reports on their growth till December 31, he said.
08-01-2021||Hisar||Mobile phone tower set afire in Jind village||Farmers being cheated in name of talks: SeljaRewari: State Congress chief Kumari Selja alleged the BJP government at the Centre was cheating the farmers in the name of talks. It does not intend to resolve the issue and it is working to trick the farmers. On Thursday, Selja, accompanied by local MLA Chiranjeev Rao, joined the dharna at the Masani barrage of Rewari and Shahjahanpur-Khera border in Rajasthan. “The foundation of the BJP government is based on lies. It has made full arrangements to enslave the farmers through these laws. In this ongoing fight, the BJP government and their few capitalist friends are on one side while the whole country is on the other side.”
08-01-2021||Karnal||Orientation programme||Birth anniversary celebratedYamunanagar: The 137th birth anniversary of Seth Mukund Lal was celebrated with dedication at MLN College. Paying floral tributes at his statue, Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college, expressed his emotional reverence and said Seth Mukund Lal not only paved the way for the new generation decades ago but also instilled a sense of education and nationalism among the youth.Tributes paid to principalKarnal: Staff members and students of Dyal Singh College on Thursday offered remembered and paid tributes to principal Chander Shekhar Bhardwaj, who died of Covid in a Faridabad hospital on Wednesday. Officiating principal Sanjay Sharma, Prof Manisha Sharma, Prof Randhir Singh, Prof Rajpal, Prof Kushal Pal, Prof Renu Tanwar, other staff members and students paid tributes to the principal. The officiating principal counted the achievement of Bhardwaj and said he was a dynamic personality, who had immensely contributed to the field of education. “It was a great loss to the society and education fraternity.”290 take PhD entrance tests at KUKurukshetra: The entrance examination for admission to PhD courses was conducted on Thursday at Kurukshetra University (KU) in 32 subjects. KU Vice Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva inspected the examination centres. Controller of Examination Hukam Singh said of total 348 applicants, 290 took the test. He said three centres were created for the smooth conduct of the entrance exam. The PhD entrance test of allied subjects will be held on January 9.
08-01-2021||Everyday thousands of people come to the district court and Mini Secretariat located at Sector 12||Parking problem at Mini Secretariat||Shakti Singh, KarnalMC must work in unison to solve city’s problemsWith reference to news report ‘Panchkula Mayor, Councillors take oath’ published in ‘The Tribune’ on January 6, one earnestly wishes that their newly elected team now works in unison so as to serve the larger interests of the residents of Panchkula. More importantly, owing to total absence of the Municipal Council here, during last around two years, the responsibilities on the authorities are more now. It is also suggested that they should visit the respective wards/areas on weekly basis so as to get the first-hand information about the segments which may be crying for their immediate attention.Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaGT road in bad shape The GT Road of Shahabad Markanda is in bad shape and causing a lot of inconvenience to commuters. The poor condition of the road also leads to long traffic jams. The enclosed photograph of Ladwa Road underpass clearly shows the pathetic state of the road, where a tractor-trolley loaded with sugarcane toppled over because of potholes that are not visible while driving due to accumulated rainwater. Such incidents are common here for being around 2-km away from the Sugar Mill. The road has been crying for attention for a long time. Either best quality underground sewage system should be laid here or the overpass of the GT Road should be lifted so that the level of the underpass can be raised there. The authorities must look into the issue and do the needful immediately before it results into more mishaps.Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaHeaps of garbage in Kaithal town irk residents  Despite expenditure of lakhs every month on keeping the Kaithal town clean, heaps of garbage can be noticed at various places. The residents are unable to understand that despite deployment of hundreds of sanitary staff on regular basis and engagement of private contractor to improve the sanitation condition, the situation is still not at satisfactory level. Surprisingly, heaps of garbage can be seen at just 20-m from the local municipal council building and about 50-m from council near CIA-1 office. Such views have become common in the city and are major irritant for residents and all those who remain in the vicinity. The authorities must take a stock of the situation in the city and get the needful done immediately to improve the situation.Satish Seth, KaithalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
