08-09-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Nuh teen held captive and gang-raped by three||In a shocking incident, a Nuh teenager was allegedly gang-raped by three men after being held captive for 28 hours.The 17-year-old was allegedly lured and drugged by her neighbor who raped her with his friends.The victim claims she approached police on September 4 but it took three days to register an FIR. Police said that they are conducting raids to nab the accused who are still absconding.According to the victim, she went to the fields to relieve herself in the morning around 6 when her neighbor identified as Ismail held her captive forcibly and raped her in the field.The victim claims that after some time he called one of his friends Sahil who came with cold drinks and some eggs there.First they offered her cold drink and soon after she got semi unconscious and then Sahil also raped her.“My ordeal did not stop here when I tried to raise an alarm they threatened to kill me and called and it was so shocking for her when Sahil called his  friend Irshad who also raped me. They held me captive for 28 hours in the field and finally fled, “said the victim.The father of the victim alleged that they approached police on September 5 but police ignored them. It was only today police registered an FIR.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the trio under various sections of the IPC including gang rape at Pinangwa police station.“We sent the victim for medical examination and are conducting raids to nab the accused who are absconding. We are on the job and the accused will be arrested as early as possible,” said Sub Inspector Chander Bhan, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nuh-teen-held-captive-and-gang-raped-by-three-138270
08-09-2020||---||SC reserves order on plea for CBI probe into law varsity student’s death||New Delhi, September 9The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved its order on a petition seeking a CBI probe into the mysterious death of Vikrant Nagaich, a National Law University (NLU), Jodhpur, student three years ago.A third-year law student of NLU, Jodhpur, Vikrant—who hailed from Gurugram in Haryana—was found dead under mysterious circumstances in August 2017.He had gone out with friends to a place near the campus. His friends came back but he told them that he would return later. Next morning, his dead body was found.A Bench led by Justice RF Nariman—which had on June 8 issued notice to the Rajasthan government on a petition filed by Neetu Kumar Nagaich --  mother of the deceased—reserved the verdict after hearing the petitioner and the state of Rajasthan.The Bench pulled up the state police for attempting to close the case.Following a 2019 order of the Rajasthan High Court, the case is being probed by a Special Investigation team (SIT) of the state police.The top court had earlier asked the state police to file a status report on the investigation done by them so far.The petitioner—mother of the deceased student—had contended before the top court that she had an “inescapable reasonable apprehension” that the lackadaisical and negligent investigation case was a result of “probable collusion” to shield some high, mighty and influential person/s. Even the FIR in the case was registered only after 10 months and there was hardly any progress made in the probe and there had been no efforts on the part of the police to arrest the culprits, she alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-reserves-order-on-plea-for-cbi-probe-into-law-varsity-students-death-138247
08-09-2020||In Morpatti Mohalla||Filthy road in Narwana’s Morpatti Mohalla||Ramesh Gupta,NarwanaPower supply cut despite paying billsI am a resident of House No. 822, Sector 37, Faridabad, since 1986 and a patient of diabetes and other ailments. Despite paying all my electricity bills since decade regularly on time was handed over a bill of Rs 1,70,000 in February 2020 by the department which threatened to cut my power supply if the bill was not paid. On enquiry it was found that there was some system change in the DHVBN and this was the remaining bill since 1967. The house was built in 1986 and I have written to the higher authorities at the DHVBN and a grievance committee was constituted under which an interim order was passed that till the committee decided, no action would be taken by the DHVBN. Currently, the power connection of my house has been cut and only assurance has been given and no action taken. I need relief immediately. I wonder if there is any justice available to common man in Haryana.nKP Saxena, FaridabadSnatchers on the prowl in PanchkulaSnatchers seem to be on the prowl in the city and have created a scare among residents. In a span of 24hours they struck twice. In July, 23 cases were reported and in august nine cases. Women have always been the prime target. I feel that mostly drug addicts take to snatching or the high prices of gold attract thieves. The government must provide security to its citizens.Vidhya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/filthy-road-in-narwanas-morpatti-mohalla-138123
08-09-2020||Gurugram||Grandma throws girl child into tank||A woman of Tauru village allegedly threw her month-old granddaughter into a septic tank. For three days she fooled all, claiming the child was “missing” even as the family approached the police.The police started investigations after a report was filed on Saturday. They found the family’s behaviour odd, arousing suspicion that the crime might have been committed by an “insider”. Sustained interrogation of the family members helped crack the case with the grandmother, Luxmi (54), confessing to the crime.Luxmi was arrested and produced before a local court today. “She was angry with her daughter-in law for having given birth to a third girl child,” said Sub-Inspector Bir Singh, the investigating officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/grandma-throws-girl-child-into-tank-138078
08-09-2020||Rohtak||Importance of soft skills||MDU teacher honouredRohtak: Sumedha Dhani, faculty member of Department of Journalism & Mass Communication of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) was felicitated with International Ideal Teacher Award 2020 in MVLA Trust Global Achievers Online Award Ceremony. Dhani was conferred this award in recognition of her meritorious services, her outstanding role in building sustainable global society, and dedication towards responsible citizenship role. Sumedha has been working on social issues like women empowerment, gender parity and human rights.School teachers felicitatedRewari: Sainik School observed the Teachers' Day by felicitating teachers for their outstanding efforts in guiding the cadets to excel in Class X and XII exams. English teachers- Mushahid Husain and DK Mahlan, social science teachers- Arvind Bhardwaj and Bhawani Singh and Hindi teachers- Parveen Mishra and Durga Singh were felicitated by Principal Soumyabrata Dhar and Vice-Principal Kamal RawatAssn seeks online portalMahendragarh: The Teachers’ Association of Central University of Haryana (CUH) has demanded the university authorities to develop an online ‘Faculty Residence/Housing Portal’ on the CUH’s official website in order to bring transparency in the house allotment process. Secretary of the association Rakesh Meena said there was an acute shortage of houses for teaching and non-teaching faculty.Teachers’ Day celebratedKarnal: A webinar meeting was organised by Rotary Club Mid Town on the occasion of the Teachers’ Day. Kurukshetra University retired professor Dr MM Goel was the guest speaker at the webinar. Dr Goel said, “A teacher is more than a source of knowledge as he helps a student to be more mature and develop a character of his own.” He said, “Spiritual enthusiasm is the need of the day as spiritual bankruptcy and commercialisation are the two major causes of the deteriorating standards in education.” The programme was organised under the supervision of Dr Shalini and conducted by Sucheta Batra.Prarambh organises online eventJhajjar: Final year students at Prarambh, a state institute of advanced studies in teacher education, celebrated the Teachers’ Day by organising an online event wherein teachers shared their experience and motivated the students to become idle teachers. The teachers and students gave various presentations at the event. Director Dr Rishi Goel underlined the new education policy on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/importance-of-soft-skills-138122
08-09-2020||Nitish Sharma||Six-laning of Pipli to Kurukshetra University road slow, commuters angry||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, September 7The slow pace of the ongoing six-laning project of the road from Pipli to Kurukshetra University here continues to be an ordeal for commuters.Started in December 2018, the project was scheduled to be completed by December last year but as only 4 per cent work was completed the tender was terminated and a fresh tender was allotted by the PWD (B&R). The work resumed in April but local residents are still facing problems every day.Work resumed after fresh tender in AprilOf the Rs 57.53 crore approved for the project, Rs 44.23 crore will be spent on the civil work, while the remaining funds will be spent on drains, paver blocks and electrification work.Sanjay, a commuter, said: “Bumpy rides have now become part of our daily journey. The Pipli-Kurukshetra University road is the lifeline of the city but the road is terrible. It poses threat to commuters, especially two-wheeler riders. At some places, including the Mohan Nagar flyover, the road remains covered with a dust cloud.”Congress leader Ashok Arora said: “The road has become an ordeal for commuters. Many accidents have taken place on this stretch due to its poor condition. The district administration must get the road completed at the earliest else people of Thanesar will be forced to launch an agitation.”Ashok Mittal, the road contractor, claimed: “Rains and ongoing work of laying the Piped Natural Gas (PNG) pipeline on the same stretch has affected the work. The weather has turned favourable now. We have all the material and machinery ready on sites and the work will be in full swing now. We have been making efforts to ensure that commuters don’t face inconvenience for which we have been getting water sprinkled on the patches where soil and stone were laid.”Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha said: “I have directed officials of the PWD (B&R) Department to expedite the work and also ensure the quality of the material used. The project was scheduled to be completed within 15 months from the day the work resumed. The officials and the contractor have been asked to get the work completed within a stipulated time frame.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-laning-of-pipli-to-kurukshetra-university-road-slow-commuters-angry-137914
08-09-2020||Parveen Arora---||Cases rise, priests avoid ‘shradh’ rituals at home||Tribune News Service Karnal, September 7 The threat of Covid infection is keeping away the priests from visiting people’s homes for rituals during the ‘shradh’, also known as ‘pitru paksha’. All the rituals are either being performed telephonically or on the premises of temples by the priests and the food which is supposed to be consumed by the priests is being fed to cows.  The priests said the infection had spread to various parts of the city, due to which they avoid visiting homes of people for their own and their family members’ safety.  “I have been getting calls from people who observe ‘shradh’ for salvation of the souls of their ancestors, but as Covid cases are rising at alarming rate so I avoid going to their homes. They come to temple, where we offer prayers and perform other rituals,” said Pandit Pawan Sharma from the city. Pandit Ravi Sharma has the similar issue and said he used to receive five to seven calls daily, inviting him for ‘shradh’ rituals, but due to Covid scare he had been keeping himself away from visiting the people. Another priest in the city said not only priests, but also people were hesitant to invite them at their homes. “I went to a priest for ‘shradh’ rituals, but he denied to come to my home,” said Rohit, a resident of Sector 7 here. He said he had to go to a temple for prayers, while the food meant for the priest was fed to cows. Another resident, Rajat Kumar, faced a similar situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-rise-priests-avoid-shradh-rituals-at-home-137915
08-09-2020||---||Whitefly-hit cotton fields inspected||Rohtak, September 7 A national-level delegation of the Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) on Monday visited Gudhan village here to inspect the cotton fields affected by the whitefly attack. Led by national treasurer Krishna Prasad, the delegation also interacted with the distressed farmers and endorsed their demand of adequate compensation for the loss.  “The whitefly infestation has ruined cotton fields at a time when farmers had already made a huge investment as inputs in the form of seeds, fertilisers, pesticides and labour component, etc and the crop was expected to mature soon. Unfortunately, the hopes of farmers are dashed to the ground,” said Inderjit Singh, ABKS vice-president. He also accused the state government of not even acknowledging the damage to the main kharif crop.  Sumit, ABKS acting state general secretary, said besides Rohtak, the delegation also visited various villages of Bhiwani and Hisar districts. “During inspection, we found massive damage to the cotton crop in these districts. Affected farmers need urgent monetary help from the government to come to terms with the losses,” he added. Phool Singh Sheokand, ABKS state president, said special girdawari must be announced and farmers should be fully compensated for the losses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/whitefly-hit-cotton-fields-inspected-137916
08-09-2020||chandigarh||Haryana 23 more succumb, 2,224 cases in a day||The spike in Covid cases continued unabated in Haryana, with the state reporting 2,224 cases today, taking its tally to 78,773. With 23 deaths, the death toll reached 829.Faridabad reported a maximum of 270 cases, followed by Karnal (206), Ambala (188), Jind (176), Gurugram (147) and Sonepat (128).Kurushetra reported a maximum of three deaths, followed by Gurugram, Ambala, Karnal, Panchkula, Kaithal and Yamunanagar (2 each). One death each was reported from Faridabad, Rohtak, Hisar, Panipat, Bhiwani, Mahendragarh, Jind and Sirsa.In Ambala, two more Covid deaths and 188 fresh cases were reported, taking the death toll to 43 and count of positive patients to 4,773. An 87-year-old woman from Baldev Nagar and a 71-year-old man from Ambala Cantonment died of the virus.With one more death having been reported in the past 24 hours, the death toll in Faridabad rose to 179. The number of Covid cases rose to 14,168, with 270 new cases reported today. A 77-year-old man from the NIT succumbed to the virus.Segregate Covid facilities, PGIMS Director toldRohtak:DC Capt Manoj Kumar directed the PGIMS Director to ensure the segregation of Covid-related services and facilities to check the virus spread. The order read: “Segregation of Covid services and facilities is a must to prevent other patients and their attendants from contracting the infection.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-23-more-succumb-2-224-cases-in-a-day-137921
08-09-2020||---||Screening of volunteers on for phase II of vaccine trials at Rohtak PGI||Rohtak, September 7Following the success of the first phase of clinical trials of India’s indigenous Covid vaccine Covaxin, experts at the PGIMS today began the process of screening volunteers for the second phase of trials.“In the first phase, two doses of Covaxin were given to 375 healthy volunteers across the country in the age group of 18 to 55 years, 81 of whom were administered the vaccine at the PGIMS,” said Dr Ramesh Verma, co-investigator.“In the second phase, we will give two doses to new volunteers in the age group of 12 to 65 years. Nearly 250 volunteers have registered with us for the trials,” he said.He said while only healthy volunteers were involved in the first phase, volunteers having controlled diabetes, hypertension or asthma would also be involved in the second phase.The health investigator pointed out that permission for the second phase of trials was granted after a four-fold increase in Covid antibodies in blood samples of volunteers given Covaxin in the first phase.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/screening-of-volunteers-on-for-phase-ii-of-vaccine-trials-at-rohtak-pgi-137922
08-09-2020||Sushil Manav||Haryana major Covid surge post August 31||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 7With the number of fresh Covid cases multiplying two and a half times in a month, Haryana has witnessed a major surge in the infection in the first week of September.AVERAGE DAILY TESTING UPWe were testing 5,000 people a day in June. The number rose to 11,000 in July. Daily testing went up to 17,500 in August. Now in September, the average daily testing is 22,500.-  Rajeev Arora, ACS , Health and Family welfareThe state saw 13,267 fresh cases of Covid in the week from August 31 to September 6 against 5,116 a month earlier, from August 3 to 9.The state had 36,519 cases on August 2, but over 42,000 were added to the state’s virus caseload in a little over a month as the total number of cases was 78,773 on Monday.Ever since the first case of virus infection appeared in the state in March this year, the weekly cumulative cases had shown a rise every month, but this time, the surge was relatively sharper.Haryana recorded 12 cases from March 16 to 22, 9 from March 23 to 29, 55 from March 30 to April 5 and 105 from April 5 to 12.The number of weekly cases was 55 in the week from April 13 to 19, 60 from April 20 to 26, 146 from April 27 to May 3 and 261 from May 4 to 10.The state saw 207 fresh cases in the week from May 11 to 17, 274 in the week from May 18 to 24 and 907 in the week from May 25 to 31.With unlocking starting in June, 2,357 cases were witnessed in the week from June 1 to 7. The cases rose to 2,760 in the week from June 8 to 14, 3,427 in the week from June 15 to 21 and 3,194 in the week from June 22 to 28.July witnessed a steady rise of cases, with 3,176 in the week from June 29 to July 5, 4,235 from July 6 to 12, 4,924 from July 13 to 19, 5,168 from July 20 to 26 and 5,187 in the week from July 27 to August 2.The state saw 5,116 fresh cases from August 3 to 9, 5,518 from August 10 to 16, 7,233 from August 17 to 23 and 8,896 from August 24 to 30.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said the rise in fresh cases was largely because of increased testing as the state’s emphasis was on detecting infection early to save more lives and bring down fatality rate.“We were testing 5,000 people a day in June. The number rose to 11,000 in July. Daily testing went up to 17,500 in August. Now in September, the average daily testing is 22,500.” Arora said the state tested 26,080 persons on Sunday. He said by detecting infections early, the state had kept its fatality rate low, which at 1.1 per cent was among the lowest in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-major-covid-surge-post-august-31-137923
08-09-2020||Sumedha Sharma||6 unused, Gurugram plans another foot overbridge||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, September 7While six of its foot overbridges still failingto find many takers even after two years of construction, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is all set to come up with another one near the MDI Chowk in Sector 17.Enraged with the plan, the sector residents have approached local MLAs Sudhir Singla and Rakesh Daultabad, alleging that the foot overbridge would be built on the area acquired after completely demolishing their green belt. They claim that while the Sector 17-14 dividing road hardly has any pedestrians, the new overbridge could make more sense at Atul Kataria Chowk, one of the most important junctions, a few metres away.“To widen the road, they have already cut over a hundred trees planted around 50 years ago. The widening was done to aid Maruti, which is moving out. It helped nobody but destroyed our greenbelt that can never be regained. The new plan will have the FOB built after clearing green belt and it will be descending down right next to the boundary wall and park. We have already lost over 1,000 trees on the entire stretch and can’t afford to lose anymore. As the HSVP sector residents, it is our right to have the greenbelt,” said Santosh Yadav, a local.The residents, especially women, have raised security concerns, claiming that the foot overbridge would be a den of squatters, beggars, snatchers and druggies like in other cases and put them at risk. They have threatened a massive protest against the move.While the greenbelt and the quality of life of residents is being risked, the GMDA has, according to sources, taken no pedestrian count survey to justify the project.Additional CEO Vinay Pratap Singh said he would get the project details and look into the feedback or complaints, if any. The foot overbridges have been cited as one of the biggest urban planning mistakes in the city.The state government had announced development work with installation of foot overbridges for pedestrians in 2016. In June 2018, the six overbridges were opened to those on foot. Two years later, they are barely utilised and are used by two-wheeler riders or squatters or worse as urinals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-unused-gurugram-plans-another-foot-overbridge-137924
08-09-2020||---||Exams near, college demands transfer of infected jail inmates||Gurugram, September 7The isolation of nearly 40 inmates of the Bhondsi jail in the main building of the government college in Sector 9 has left the authorities harried.All set to host exams in the next week, the college authorities have sought immediate transfer of the inmates to another isolation facility, claiming that this has hampered preparations for holding exams with Covid SOPs. Students, too, have threatened a boycott if the current situation persists.The staff members have also demanded an immediate respite, claiming that they are at a constant risk.“The inmates are Covid positive and we report for work at the same place where they have been isolated. With academic schedules and forthcoming exams, we have to come here daily and many of us are are old. This has put us in grave danger. We have asked the Principal to either get them shifted and get the premises sanitised or allow us to work from home,” said a senior professor of the college.“We have already written a letter to the administration. We have a lot of work to do to ensure we provide safe premises for conduct of exams and with the inmates lodging here, it is impossible. The teachers are scared and students are writing to me, saying they will not come as the infection rate is high. The administration is looking into the matter and promises quick resolution,” said Principal Satmanyu Yadav.While DC Amit Kahtri is working on a solution, sources say the Health Department is already at loggerheads with the jail authorities who despite being bound have not made any isolation or quarantine arrangement.“The patients should have been isolated on jail premises only but they have shunned their responsibility and landed us all in this situation. It’s not just a risk to the health of others, but 40 inmates who may not leave any opportunity to escape should be in high-security premises inside the jail. The college is at risk and we are trying to reason with the jail authorities but so far it has been of no use,” said a senior official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/exams-near-college-demands-transfer-of-infected-jail-inmates-137925
08-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||Gurugram Metro back on track, receives lukewarm response||Gurugram, September 7 The Metro services resumed to a lukewarm response here on Monday after a 169-day hiatus in the wake of the Covid pandemic. The first train from HUDA City Centre chugged off at 7 am with fewer passengers. There was a slight increase in the numbers in the next three trains, but the response remained tepid throughout. “We are on our way. It’s been 169 days since we’ve seen you! Travel responsibly and commute if it’s only necessary. #MetroBackOnTrack,” the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted and posted a video clip of the first train leaving the HUDA City Centre station.  All five stations here were reopened as none lies close to any containment zone. Only four trains ran in the entire day.  In keeping with the new normal, the Delhi Metro has taken a slew of safety measures. Passengers, some wearing masks and some face shields and full-body suits, were permitted to enter the concourse only after temperature check with thermo sensors and sanitisation of hands and luggage. Posters have been pasted inside the coaches and at stations to raise awareness about safety measures. Announcements about safety guidelines were made regularly. Inside the coaches, passengers sat to alternate seats and maintained social distancing while standing.  Some passengers took the ride to welcome the new normal. Abhishek Sharma, who boarded the train from HUDA City Centre, said: “Covid cases are rising, but we will have to find new ways to get back to normal. My friends and I boarded the Metro, clicked pictures and posted them on social media. We were excited, but wary at the same time.”  Auto-rickshaw drivers, who provided the last mile connectivity, expected things to get back to normal with the resumption of the Metro services.  “Auto drivers lost their livelihood during the lockdown. Now, there is some semblance of hope. In keeping with the guidelines, autos have been sanitised. Safety comes first,” said Shammi Khan, an auto driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-metro-back-on-track-receives-lukewarm-response-137926
08-09-2020||---||Protest over ‘denial’ of parole to jailed lawyer||Faridabad, September 7 More than 100 protesters, including lawyers and social and political activists, staged a demonstration at the district headquarters here today and burnt an effigy of the Haryana CM against “denial” of parole to OP Sharma, former president of the District Bar Association, to attend the funeral of his wife who had died on September 2. Sharma is undergoing jail sentence after being convicted in an attempt to murder case since February this year. Led by bar association general secretary Narender Parashar, the protesters staged a dharna outside the main gate of the Mini Secretariat for about an hour before submitting a memorandum addressed to the Haryana Governor through the SDM. Seeking action against the authorities responsible for not granting parole to Sharma, the protesters claimed that it was not only infringement of human rights but also the violation of the provisions of the law, which allows a convict to attend the funeral of a kin. Parashar claimed that Sharma, who was a senior lawyer and had been the former chairman of the Enrollment Committee of the Punjab and Haryana Bar Council and also served as president of the District Bar Association, was deliberately denied the parole on September 2, when his wife Veerbala Sharma had passed away. Sharma had been convicted in a case registered in 2006 and is among four persons sentenced to six years in jail by the District Sessions Court in February this year. Baljeet Kaushik and Sumit Gaur, both spokespersons for the HPCC, were among those present at the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protest-over-denial-of-parole-to-jailed-lawyer-137927
08-09-2020||kesh Tandon---||BJP MLAs, councillors attack MC officials over corruption||Tribune News Service Panipat, September 7 BJP councillors protested in front of municipal corporation (MC) officials during the general house today over alleged corruption in the MC, scam in JBM tender allotment, poor sanitation and illegal buildings. Besides councillors, BJP MLAs Pramod Vij (Panipat Urban) and Mahipal Dhanda (Panipat Rural) pulled up MC officials over their alleged involvement in corrupt practices and callous attitude and demanded registration of a criminal case against them. Mayor Avneet Kaur chaired the meeting. The general house was held after seven months. Vij presented some documents in the house. He said a payment of Rs 8.63 crore had been made to contractors between June 4 and 8. “I have collected evidence which is sufficient to prove the level of corruption in the MC,” he said. “A tender for approximately Rs 50 lakh for work in ward 25 was allotted to a company on November 18, 2019, and the work completed in 21 days,” he asserted.  The issue of CLU of a plot measuring 2,000 square yards was mentioned in the agenda. When the MLAs and councillors questioned the Municipal Commissioner and officials, they could not reply as to who put it on the agenda. BJP councillors Ashok Kataria,  Dushyant Bhatt, Ravinder Bhatia, Lokesh Nagroo, Ashwani Dhingra and Anjali Sharma attacked MC officials. “I have written to the Additional Chief Secretary of Urban Local Bodies and PWD (B&R) to initiate action against former MC Superintending Engineer for his alleged involvement in corruption,” said Sushil Kumar, Municipal Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-mlas-councillors-attack-mc-officials-over-corruption-137928
08-09-2020||---||Dy CM reviews plans for kharif procurement||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dy-cm-reviews-plans-for-kharif-procurement-137929
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Single-window for allotting fuel stations||The state government has unveiled a policy, which will simplfy the process of setting up of petrol stations and outlets for piped natural gas (PNG) and compressed natural gas (CNG). “As part of the policy, a single-window platform will be set up. This will help in allotting government land through a transparent system of e-auction and granting change of land use (CLU) certificates for retail outlets which will come up on private land,” said AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Department of Town and Country Planning. The department will develop a website to fast-track the process of granting permissions. It would act as the coordinating agency in allotting land, granting CLU, no-objection certificates and occupation certificates, approving building plans, and paying dues online, a senior officer said. The CLU permission will be valid for two years. As per the policy, the maximum area for constructing a petrol station on a national highway has been fixed at 3,000 sq m. For petrol stations along scheduled roads, the minimum area requirement is 1,000 sq m and the maximum is 2,500 sq m. For gas stations with auto repair workshops, ATM kiosks and eating joints, the minimum area requirement is 3,000 sq m and the maximum is one acre (4,047 sq m). The area for CNG and PNG outlets has been pegged at 50 m x 30 m. The policy makes it clear that retail outlets would not be constructed in natural conservation zones. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/single-window-for-allotting-fuel-stations-137930
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Fault lines in governance, alleges Kiran Choudhry||Senior Congress leader Kiran Choudhry has hit out at the BJP government for the state’s poor showing in the ease of doing business rankings released on Saturday. The state slipped from last year’s third position to 16th.“The state dropped 11 positions in the latest rankings, exposing the fault lines in governance,” she said in a statement here.She suspected the genuineness of the third rank achieved last year, saying that “grim ground realities” did not sit well with the high ranking.Referring to the recent CMIE survey on unemployment, the Tosham legislator said the state achieved the dubious distinction of leading on the unemployment front. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fault-lines-in-governance-alleges-kiran-choudhry-137931
08-09-2020||---||Kaithal cops to probe high-profile cases||Karnal, September 7 The Kaithal police will inquire the high-profile gangrape case and two cases of blackmail and extortion as Karnal Range IGP Bharti Arora transferred these cases to the Kaithal police on Monday. In the gangrape case registered on the complaint of the teacher at a private school, an owner of the school and a Tehsildar are the accused. In one case of blackmail and extortion, a school teacher is the accused while in the other, a school teacher and her husband are the accused. Arora directed the Kaithal SP to submit his inquiry reports on the three cases within a month. “On the request of the Karnal police, I have sent the inquiry to the Kaithal police. I have asked the Kaithal SP to submit his reports on the three cases in a month,” said Arora. “I have yet to receive a letter from the office of IGP in this regard. We will ensure justice to the victims,” said Shashank Kumar Sawan, Kaithal SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-cops-to-probe-high-profile-cases-137932
