08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown: Online classes for Haryana govt school students till normalcy returns||To ensure academic work does not get disrupted due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the Haryana Government has decided that students from classes I to XII studying in government schools will be taught through various e-learning platforms till the situation comes back to normal.“Till the time schools reopen, students will be taught through various e-learning platforms,” Education Minister Kanwar Pal said on Wednesday.He said that the new academic session generally starts from April 1 every year, but it could not be done this year due to the nationwide lockdown.He said the education department has also created a website www.haryanaedusat.com to help the students in e-learning, according to an official release here.Audio/video material uploaded on the Haryana EDUSAT network has also been made available on the portal, the minister added.A general timetable of studies has been prepared which will be available on the website.Apart from this, teachers will teach the students every day from 9.30 am to 12.30 pm through various e-learning platforms that will help the students continue with their studies even when they are at home. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-online-classes-for-haryana-govt-school-students-till-normalcy-returns-68435
08-04-2020||New Delhi||SC upholds high court verdict, quashes appointment of over 1,900 PTI in Haryana||The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashing appointment of 1,983 Physical Training Instructors in schools in Haryana in 2010 and asked the state staff selection commission to conduct the recruitment process afresh.It has directed the process be concluded within five months from the date of lifting of the lockdown.A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Navin Sinha, in the judgement pronounced through video conferencing, upheld the verdicts passed by the single and division benches of the high court quashing the appointment process conducted during the Congress government led by B S Hooda.“The (Haryana Staff Selection) Commission shall conclude the entire selection process initiated by the advertisement No.6 of 2006 as per criterion notified on December 28, 2006 i.e. holding objective type written test of 200 marks and viva voce of 25 marks. All the applicants who had submitted applications in response to the above advertisement including those who were selected shall be permitted to participate in the fresh selection as directed,” the bench said.It rejected the plea of the selected candidates that they have been working since 2010 and may be allowed to continue on their posts and said that they were allowed in pursuance of interim orders.“In the present case, result of the selection dated April 10, 2010 was published on April 11, 2010 and the writ petitions were filed in May, 2010 itself, i.e., immediately.  Selection was set aside by learned Single Judge on 11.09.2012. The continuance of the appellants is only by way of interim order,” it said.Appointment process was conducted during the Congress regime led by Bhupinder Singh Hooda“This Court has also passed an order on November 29, 2013 for maintaining status quo, which order has been continued till this date. When the continuance of a person on a post is by virtue of an interim order, the continuance is always subject to outcome of the litigation. The displacement of appellants from their posts is inevitable consequence of upholding of the judgment of the High Court,” it said.The candidates who have been selected and have worked on the post of the instructor shall not be asked to refund any of the salary and other 84 benefits received by them as against their working on the posts and no refund shall also be asked from those candidates who after their selection worked and retired from service, the judgment said.It asked the state panel to complete entire selection process within a period of five months from the date it starts working after the present lockdown is over.The single judge bench of the high court, on September 11, 2012, had set aside the selection of 1,983 instructors made by the commission on April 10, 2010 in pursuance of the advertisement issued in 2006 on account of changes made in the selection process.  The decision was upheld by the division bench of the HC.Dealing with the appeals of the selected candidates and the state panel, the bench said when the selection was set aside, the fresh selection process should have been  held as per the advertisement of 2006 and process of recruitment  has to be brought to its logical end.It said that the High Court should have directed to complete the process from that stage of holding the written test for the instructor.“All the candidates who had applied for the post of Physical Training Instructor including those selected, ought to have been permitted to take the written test. We need to clarify that in the facts of the present case there was no requirement of fresh advertisement and inviting fresh applications.“In the event fresh applications are called, large number of applicants who participated in the selection would have become over age. All the applicants who had applied in response to advertisement No.6 of 2006 had right to participate in selection as per criterion notified on 28.12.2006. The direction of learned Single Judge needs modification and clarification to the above effect,” the apex court said.The Haryana Staff Selection Commission had invited applications for 1,983 posts of the instructors in 2006 and had appointed them in 2010.In pursuance of advertisement, 20,836 applications were received by the Commission which had decided to hold the written examination on January 21, 2007.The notification further provided that candidates equal to three times of the vacancies will be called for interview based on their performance in the written test.However, later a public notice was issued by the Commission that due to several complaints of malpractices and cheating the written examination would be cancelled.Another notice was issued by the Commission re-notifying the written examination for the instructors.However, before the fresh written examination could take place on July 20, 2008, third notice was issued by the Commission cancelling the written test.Then the selection panel decided to shortlist the candidates for interview based on the written test which it had decided to cancel.  It then employed 1,983 PTI leading to pleas in the HC. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-upholds-high-court-verdict-quashes-appointment-of-over-1-900-pti-in-haryana-68431
08-04-2020||---||20 fresh cases reported Haryana, coronavirus count reaches 162||Chandigarh, April 8With 20 fresh cases, the number of Covid positive cases reached 162 in Haryana on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the number was 142. There was a jump of 14.1 %. Fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (12), Sonepat (3), Kaithal (1), Faridabad (1), Ambala (1), Fatehabad (1) and Nuh (1).So far, Nuh (32) leads with maximum cases followed by Gurugram (32), Palwal (29) and Faridabad (28). Even CM Manohar Lal Khattar described these four districts as hotspots of the state today.The state has witnessed three deaths and 18 people have recovered.Home Minister Anil Vij had set a deadline for Tablighi Jamaat members to report to authorities which ended today at 5 pm. There is no data on actual number of workers. The state has so far registered FIRs against foreigners who are part of Jamaat and had come on tourist visa.In Gurugram, out of 12 who tested positive today 11 were Tablighi Jamaat workers, hailing from Himachal Pradesh, who were evacuated from a Sohna mosque. Gurugram administration has implemented its containment plan and has initiated door to door screening of densely populated clusters and the vulnerable ones.At Kaithal, a 9-year-old student of Madni Madarsa in a local mosque tested positive. A Tablighi Jamaat worker had tested positive in the area on April 4 and after that people living in the mosque were quarantined and tested. According to ADGP Navdeep Virk, till Wednesday, a total of 1,562 Tablighi Jamaat workers were tracked which included 107 foreigners, 1,036 from other states and 419 from Haryana. More than 100 Jamaat workers have tested positive so far. Meanwhile, the state has recorded 6,376 violations of lockdown for which 1,892 FIRs have been registered and 2,613 people have been arrested. Also, 7,044 vehicles have been seized and a fine of Rs 9.26 crore has been imposed upon them under the MV Act.Besides, 68 FIRs have been registered against 86 persons and 41 arrests have been made for spreading fake news or rumours on WhatsApp and social media. Also, 492 cases under Excise Act have been registered and 550 persons have been arrested.Meanwhile, CM held an all-party meeting today where former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda pledged his support for all initiatives taken in the interest of the state. State TrackerTotal persons under surveillance- 21,762Currently under surveillance-13,882Hospitalised-545Persons completing surveillance-7,880Samples taken for testing-2,650Negative samples-1,885Results awaited-612Positive Cases-162Deaths-3||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-fresh-cases-reported-haryana-coronavirus-count-reaches-162-68428
08-04-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Police security for ANMs after being harassed in Haryana's Nuh||Gurugram, April 8 Around 20 Auxillary Nurse Midwife’s  (ANMs) were allegedly harassed and manhandled by village men while on Covid field duty in Nuh.The women staff alleged that it was during their visit to Bisru village that the men of the village passed lewd comments and misbehaved with them.When the accompanying male staff intervened, they were allegedly pushed and manhandled.The ANMs lodged a complaint with the police and refused to work, following which security has been provided to them, said Nuh CMO Dr Virender Yadav||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-security-for-anms-after-being-harassed-in-haryanas-nuh-68390
08-04-2020||KarnalAfter reporting four more Covid cases on Monday||Ration supply by NGOs halted||Faridabad3 held for provocative postsThree persons have been arrested for putting up provocative posts on social media in Palwal and Faridabad. Two youths were arrested in the Mundkati area of Palwal for putting a video on social media, in which one of the accused is seen using abusive language against a particular caste or community. In Faridabad, Anil Kumar of Sidola village was arrested for putting a provocative post on his Facebook page, targeting a particular community. “The accused has been remanded to 14-day judicial custody by the court,” a cop said. TNSHISAR Villagers attack cops, 2 hurtA police team on patrolling was attacked by a group of Dadu villagers in Kalanwali block of Hisar district on Monday. The cops, ASI Dharampal and EASI Amrit Pal, went to the village to enforce lockdown. Two cops injured in the attack were admitted to a government hospital. The accused — brothers Gorkha, Mahesh, Kala and Hansa and others — were booked under various sections of IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act. TNSAMBALA Lighting diyas, 3 suffer burnsA couple and their minor son suffered burn injuries when they were standing in their balcony to light diyas on Sunday night on the call given by the PM. The victims are Aman Sharma (30), Gudia Kumari (25) and Daksh (two-and-a-half-year old) of Gagan Vihar colony of Tundla Mandi in Panjokhra. The victims were standing in their balcony and a neighbour poured some thinner in the diyas, following which massive flames erupted and they got burns. A case has been registered at Panjokhra police station under IPC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ration-supply-by-ngos-halted-67117
08-04-2020||Panipat||Sonepat victim tests negative||The body of Krishan (36) of Sonepat was handed over to his kin on Tuesday after after he tested negative for Covid.Principal Medical Officer Dr Adarsh Sharma said his autopsy was conducted on Tuesday after Covid report.As per information, he was suffering from fever and cough for the last few days and died after he fell down on the green belt of Sector 23 on Sunday morning. He had gone to bring medicine when he collapsed.The police took him to the civil hospital where doctors declared him dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-victim-tests-negative-67104
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Make containment plan, officials told||Stepping up its preparations to tackle Covid, Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora on Tuesday directed the officers to make an aggressive containment plan in their respective districts to stop community transmission. She directed to make the plan on the lines of the Union Health Ministry. She said the plan would ensure early detection of cases and break the chain of transmission in the state.The Chief Secretary gave these directions while presiding over the meeting of the Crisis Coordination Committee with the officers appointed for Covid, through videoconferencing here on Tuesday. She said linking micro-planning with health aspects was the need of the hour. She directed that while executing the micro-level planning, door-to-door survey of every household should be conducted to ascertain the exact data of people quarantined, isolated, recovered, medically tested, and if the delivery and supply chain of essential commodities is maintained or not. She said every DC should analyse the problem and resolve it at the grassroot level as in this hour of crisis only aggressive strategy will help to tackle this pandemic.She directed the officers of the police department to appoint a supervisory officer in every district for the quarantined areas to keep a watch on the people during the isolation period.She directed the district administration to ensure that the Chief Medical Officers, medical colleges and civil hospitals should have a second and third line action plan ready in case of any emergency. She said the supply of medical oxygen, availability of ventilators, PPE kits, N-95 mask and sanitisers should be ensured in each district. She added that hospitals should be visited to review the medical arrangements there.Arora directed to compile the data of every district properly. She said an additional officer should be deployed with civil surgeons for compilation of correct data. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/make-containment-plan-officials-told-67103
08-04-2020||---||Wheat procurement at 2K centres this year||Chandigarh, April 7To avoid overcrowding in mandis in view of Covid, the Haryana Government has decided to open 2,000 smaller mandis and purchase centres for procurement of wheat. While the government will try and limit mustard procurement to five days beginning April 15 at 140 collection centres.Process begins from April 20Wheat procurement in the state will start on April 20Farmers have been asked by the state to keep harvested crop at home before procurementThe state has asked the Centre for giving incentive to farmers who bring their produce late for purchase centresFrom April 20 to May 5, no incentive is proposedRs50 per quintal is recommended for those who bring produce between May 6 to May 31Rs125 for those who bring their harvested crop from June 1 to June 30; the Centre is yet to replyAddressing a digital press conference here on Tuesday, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the process would be staggered, but every grain would be procured, adding that the arhtiyas had assured support to the government in facilitating procurement.“Every farmer will be given a specific time and purchase centre to bring his produce from where it will be procured. This option will be available to the farmers registered on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal. I have directed the department to keep the registration of new farmers open till April 19 since procurement gets underway on April 20,” the CM said, adding that the produce of the unregistered famers would be taken after all registered famers were exhausted.Maintaining that the state government had written to the Centre to give a “holding incentive” to the farmer for holding on to the produce, Khattar said the procured grain would be picked up in 24 hours and moved to the godown so that the farmers’ payment could be released. He said the arthiyas would make payments to the farmers.The CM said while the government would try to procure mustard before wheat procurement begins, the remaining produce, if any, could be brought in after wheat procurement was complete.He said farmers would be required to wear masks and these would be made available in the villages and mandis. Khattar explained that sites for mandis were being identified and would be finalised in a day or two. “Many organisations have come forward to offer their space for procurement, which may stretch up to two months and we urge others to do so whenever possible,” he said, adding that dera Sacha Sauda offered its sheds for the same.Rs18,000 cr cash credit limit approvedCash credit limit of Rs18,000 crore for the state has been approvedThe Haryana State Warehousing Corporation and HAFED go for commercial cash credit limitRs8,000 crore approved For HAFEDRs4,000 crore for warehousing corporationRs6,000 crore approved for the department by the Reserve Bank of IndiaThe cash credit limit will be used for timely payment to farmers for procurement approved55 lakh food packets, 7-day ration distributedThe CM said eight villages in Panipat came forward to help the families of daily wage earners and a relief camp was set up in Mahendragarh. The government distributed 55 lakh food packets and 3.5 lakh packets containing seven-day ration, Khattar said.On the Covid relief fund, Khattar said Rs 40 crore was deposited in the account. “Employees have come forward and business houses have contributed. The farmers, as always, should come forward and donate 1 kg per quintal with a maximum of 5kg per quintal. The amount will be accepted at the mandis from the willing farmers,” he said.The CM also said it was decided that the discretionary quota of the ministers and others to the tune of Rs 2 crore and more was pledged to the consolidated fund. “Though the MLAs have already contributed one month’s salary, we will hold consultations with them and decide if more contributions can be made,” Khattar said.Begin wheat purchase immediately: AbhayThe INLD on Tuesday demanded immediate start of procurement of wheat and mustard in the state.Ellenabad MLA and senior INLD leader Abhay Chautala said farmers in certain districts, including Nuh, Rewari and Narnaul, were already finding it difficult to store mustard while the wheat crop was ready for harvesting.He said procurement should be initiated by dividing 4-5 villages in a cluster for the convenience of farmers and procurement agencies. Similarly, there should be no cap on the quantity of wheat and mustard to be procured, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wheat-procurement-at-2k-centres-this-year-67102
08-04-2020||---||Agriculture Dept sanitises equipment, checks labourers at borders||Ambala, April 7The Agriculture Department has deployed staff at 22 checkpoints at the borders of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Panchkula in Ambala to ensure sanitisation of combine harvesters and other farm implements as well as medical checkup of manpower.Machines and manpower will be allowed to move in only after Health Department clearance. Deputy Director Agriculture Girish Nagpal said, “As movement of combine harvesters and other implements have been exempted in the lockdown, these will start arriving from other states and districts soon. Similarly, machines from Ambala will also goto other districts and states for harvesting. To ensure machines and operators and other staff are properly sanitised, 44 employees of the Agriculture Department have been deployed at 22 checkpoints.”The employees have been provided with all the equipment and material for sanitisation. “Whenever a machine will arrive, the department staff will sanitise the machine and inform the health official of the area for checkup of manpower. A permission letter will be issued to them and the sarpanch of the village concerned will be informed by the department. If the machine and manpower cross the border and come back again, they have to go through the entire process again. There will be no relaxation,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/agriculture-dept-sanitises-equipment-checks-labourers-at-borders-67101
08-04-2020||Gurugram||Nuh, Palwal admn flags dereliction of duty by sarpanches||The evacuation of over 700 Tablighi Jamaat attendees from Nuh and Palwal has highlighted negligence on the part of panchayats.Evacuation of 700 Jamaat attendeesThe evacuation of over 700 Jamaat attendees from Nuh and Palwal highlighted negligence of panchayatsSo far, 36 have tested positive in Nuh and 25 in Palwal while reports on around 300 are awaitedThey include many foreign nationals staying in mosques across Hathin and Punhana blocksSo far, 36 have tested positive in Nuh and 25 in Palwal while reports on around 300 are awaited. They include many foreign nationals staying in mosques across Hathin and Punhana blocks.The panchayats assisted in their lodging and food, but failed to inform the local administration about these foreign nationals.The lapse on the part of panchayats and local officials like nambardars left the health authorities fearing mass community transmission in villages with high density of population.“The foreign nationals were staying here and flouting visa norms. The concentration was the highest in Hunchpuri, Mahluka, Durenchi, Mathepur and Chhainsa villages,” said Palwal DC Naresh Narwal.“Had we known in time, we could have gone ahead with quarantine earlier and the fight would not have been tough. We have suspended the five sarpanches and are taking action against nambardars and chowkidars,” he said.The Nuh administration identified 37 high-risk villages and declared these as containment zones, said an official. “A majority of the 240 Jamaat attendees who came here in March had already stayed in Palwal for 10 days. They shifted here after there was a hue and cry over Covid,” said the official.“Many women sarpanches are rubber stamps of their husbands. They did not update the details in panchayat registers. We are quarantining 600 people. All this would not have been needed had we known in time,” added the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nuh-palwal-admn-flags-dereliction-of-duty-by-sarpanches-67100
08-04-2020||Yamunanagar||245 Yamunanagar jaggery units to restart ops||At a time when wheat and mustard growers are worried about their almost-ready crop due to bad weather conditions and shortage of harvesters, there is good news for sugarcane farmers of Yamunanagar district. The local administration has allowed 245 jaggery units to resume operations suspended following the lockdown on March 30.“We have allowed running of jaggery units in the interest of sugarcane producers. Owners can make their units functional from today, but we have asked them to ensure social distancing,” said Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar.Yamunanagar district is considered the sugarcane hub of Haryana with an area of 85,000 acres under the crop.Local farmers supply sugarcane to Saraswati Sugar Mills, Yamunanagar, under a cane bonding agreement and the mill has fixed a target of crushing 160 lakh quintal cane in the current crushing season. Once farmers have supplied the agreed upon quantity of cane to the mill, they supply the surplus to jaggery units.“Harvesting sugarcane and wheat together is difficult. Before starting harvesting of wheat, farmers want to finish sugarcane crop. Therefore, the jaggery units play an important role in the consumption of sugarcane at this stage,” said Brijesh Kumar, a farmer of Devdhar village.“We are hopeful sugarcane production will remain between 300 to 350 quintals per acre this year due to favourable climate conditions in the district,” said Suraj Bhan, Additional Cane Development Officer, Yamunanagar.According to information, jaggery units crush about 20,000 quintals sugarcane every day and this number is expected to go up to about 50 lakh quintals in the current crushing season.“This decision of the administration is in favour of sugarcane farmers and will help them harvest their sugarcane crop on time,” said Mohinder Pal, president of Cane Crusher Association, Yamunanagar district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/245-yamunanagar-jaggery-units-to-restart-ops-67099
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt may soon employ stranded migrants||The migrant population stranded in Haryana due to the lockdown could soon be gainfully employed as the government has started gathering the data of such labourers housed in the relief camps across the state.For steady incomeThe stranded labourers may be hired for crop procurement, likely to begin next weekSome can be adjusted in labour-intensive Panipat factories tooIt will ensure a steady income and keep them engaged as wellSources said the Haryana Government had sought information about the migrants, including their native place and phone numbers. At present, there are a total of 11,713 migrant labourers housed in 337 relief camps set up by the government across the state.In a rush to return to their native places, the mass exodus of migrants posed a health risk in view of the Covid pandemic. To avoid gathering of crowds at bus stands after the inter-state routes were suspended and the state borders sealed, they were moved to the relief camps closest to them.Though the labourers are being involved in various activities like yoga to keep them occupied, sources said the government would give them an option to work. Migrants willing to work will be given opportunities while those wanting to go to other districts for work or because they were already employed there will be transported to the respective places.Plans to reduce campsThe state also plans to reduce the number of camps, most of which are underutilised. A capacity of 46,344 people was created to ensure a comfortable stay for the migrants while maintaining social distancing. However, with just over 11,000 migrants using the facilities, the number of camps could be reduced and these could be made more manageable. Further, with a large number of queries about camps inmates coming in, the government wants to have data about those housed there and where they are screened on a regular basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-may-soon-employ-stranded-migrants-67098
08-04-2020||---||Check-up for cops at Jhajjar nakas||Jhajjar, April 7The health authorities are conducting medical check-up of police personnel deployed at nakas across the district to ensure proper execution of the lockdown.Ten teams, comprising doctors and support staff, have been constituted. The teams check temperature using thermal gun and answer questions on Covid.“More than 750 police personnel have so far undergone medical check-up and all have been found healthy,” said a police spokesman.Jhajjar SP Ashok Kumar said police personnel were engaged in public dealings and met people at nakas everyday. He said he had recently written to the Civil Surgeon for medical examination of personnel.“Doctors go to nakas and police stations for medical check-up. They ask medical history and advise accordingly. We have got a machine to sanitise every police station and department vehicle,” he said.Dr RS Punia, Civil Surgeon, said the 10 teams had been allotted specific areas to conduct medical check-up on a daily basis.Sadar SHO Rajesh Kumar said every visitor to the police station was being scanned with thermal gun and told to clean hands using sanitiser.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/check-up-for-cops-at-jhajjar-nakas-67097
08-04-2020||---||6,761 screened in 3 Karnal villages, all clear||Karnal, April 7With addition of four new Covid positive cases in the district on Monday, the Health Department has kept Rasin, Birchpur and Shekhpur Suhana villages of the district in the containment zone, as the cases belong to these areas. Seven villages and two colonies adjoining the villages have been kept in the buffer zone.The department has scanned all residents of the three villages in containment zone and no resident has shown any symptoms of Covid, but the residents will stay under home quarantine for 14 days.The process to scan the health of residents living in the buffer zone villages and the colonies is underway.As many as 6,761 residents, including 2,177 from Rasin village, 1,979 from Birchpur village and 2,605 from Shekhpura Suhana village were scanned by the health department after the cases were reported.The district has so far witnessed five positive cases. The first patient, who belonged to Rasin village died on Sunday, while four active cases are in the isolation ward of the KCGMC. Among them, one is the son of the first Covid patient of Rasin village. As per the health authorities, the first case was the carrier of the virus for a doctor and a staff nurse, who came to his contact when he was admitted at KCGMC for multiple ailments. The fourth person is a youth from Birchpur village, who has travel history from abroad.So far, the department has collected samples of 140 persons, of which the reports of 108 have come as negative, five tested positive.“We have scanned the health of all residents of the three villages and found no symptoms. The health workers, along with Asha and Anganwari workers, will examine them daily,” said DC Nishant Kumar Yadav.Meanwhile, SP Surinder Singh Bhoria took out a flag march in the villages. He appealed to the people to abide by the rules of home quarantine. Besides, he impounded 20 vehicles during the march.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-761-screened-in-3-karnal-villages-all-clear-67096
08-04-2020||---||Panipat village contained||Panipat, April 7The district administration on Tuesday contained Sanoli Khurd village after two persons of Osmanabad in Maharashtra tested Covid positive. They stayed here in the village after attending the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin and left the village on March 24.Dr SL Verma, Civil Surgeon, said a letter was received at the Deputy Commissioner office about two Jamaat members who tested positive in Maharashtra.As many as 10 persons came to Sanoli Khurd village after attending the congregation in Nizamuddin in February.Following the reports, 10 teams of 40 members on Tuesday screened the 5,056 residents of Sanoli Khurd village. Four fire brigades sanitised the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-village-contained-67095
08-04-2020||---||Dead SI’s son tests positive for Covid, isolated||Sonepat, April 7The 19-year-old son of a Sonepat sub-inspector who died of Covid in a private Delhi hospital has also tested positive for the virus. Besides, a 40-year-old Tablighi Jamaati also tested positive in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr BK Rajaura said the youth had been admitted in the isolation ward at Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan. The preliminary test reports of eight other family members returned negative, but they have been quarantined, he said. The confirmatory reports were awaited.SI Khila Ram of Sonepat was admitted to Maharaja Aggarsen Hospital, Punjabi Bagh, New Delhi on March 13 following a brain haemorrhage and he died during treatment on April 4. The hospital handed over the SI’s body to his family and they performed his last rites here during which relatives and friends were present.As per reports, Khila Ram tested Covid positive on April 2, just two days before his death. However, no precautionary measures as per government guidelines for Covid patients were adopted by the hospital and the deceased’s family. The hospital did not even inform the district administration of the SI being Covid positive while handing over his body.The district administration has quarantined 28 persons, including the SI’s family members, and lodged a criminal case against the hospital for violating government guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dead-sis-son-tests-positive-for-covid-isolated-67094
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana slams Delhi Govt over death of Sonepat cop||The Haryana Government on Tuesday lodged a protest with the Delhi Government, alleging that they failed to inform them about a state police SI who died at a hospital in the national capital after contracting COVID-19. Charging some of the deceased’s family members and the hospital with concealing information, cases have been registered against them.Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said the sub-inspector from Sonepat was admitted to a private hospital in Delhi last month after he suffered a brain stroke. Later, he contracted coronavirus and passed away on Saturday. Neither the Delhi Government, nor hospital authorities or the deceased’s family gave any information that he tested positive for the infection, the minister said.“On Tuesday, we lodged a protest with the Delhi Government and our state chief secretary talked to her counterpart in this regard,” Vij said. The minister said they handed over the body to the family, which also concealed the information. “Many people participated in the deceased’s last rites in Sonepat and several of his colleagues from the police station where he worked also attended the funeral. He was also given a gun salute. Later, we learnt that he had tested COVID positive,” Vij said.“I enquired from my officials about this, but they said they had no information. This is a big lapse on part of the Delhi Government that they failed to inform us,” Vij said. He said 30-40 persons, including police officials and some members of the deceased’s family were quarantined after the revelation. “A case has also been registered against some of the deceased’s family members under Sections 269 and 270 of the IPC for concealing the information. We have registered a case against the Delhi hospital,” he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-slams-delhi-govt-over-death-of-sonepat-cop-67093
08-04-2020||---||46 new cases, Haryana sees highest single-day jump||Chandigarh, April 7The number of Covid cases in Haryana touched 142 on Tuesday, with 46 fresh cases being reported. There is a jump of 47.9% in the last 24 hours.The fresh cases were reported from Nuh (23), Faridabad (13), Palwal (3), Gurugram (2), Sonepat (2), Ambala (2) and Jind (1). Nuh leads among districts, with 37 cases, followed by 29 in Palwal and 27 in Faridabad.Health Minister Anil Vij maintained that the spike in Covid cases was due to many Tablighi Jamaat members testing positive for the disease. “Tablighi Jamaat members constitute a sizeable chunk of the total active cases in the state. A majority of those who entered the state before the lockdown have been traced to Nuh district,” he said.At Nuh, all 23 cases reported today were related to Tablighi Jamaat or their contacts. “As many as 37 villages have been identified which will be declared containment zones. We are in the process of executing the containment plan,” said Nuh DC Pankaj.In Faridabad, 11 of the 13 new cases were Tablighi related, while at Palwal three cases came to light and two at Ambala. In Sonepat also, one case related to Tablighi was recorded. In total, there are 97 Tablighi-related cases forming 68.3% of the total positive cases.According to ADGP Law and Order Navdeep Singh Virk, a total of 1,557 Tablighi Jamaat workers had been tracked so far. Out of them, samples of 839 were taken. There is no data on actual number of workers. The state has so far registered FIRs against 106 foreigners who are part of Jamaat and had come on tourist visa.Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora has directed officers to make an aggressive containment plan in their respective districts to stop community transmission. Chairing a crisis coordination committee meeting, she said that while executing the micro-level planning, door-to-door survey of every household should be conducted to ascertain how many people were quarantined, isolated, recovered, medically tested and if delivery and supply chain of essential commodities was being maintained.She directed the police department to appoint a supervisory officer in each district for the areas which have been quarantined so that a close watch can be kept on the people during the isolation period and even after it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/46-new-cases-haryana-sees-highest-single-day-jump-67092
08-04-2020||---||53-yr-old woman 4th Panipat survivor||Panipat, April 7A 53-year-old woman on Tuesday became Panipat’s fourth Covid patient to walk out of hospital after successful treatment.DC all praise for doctorsDeputy Commissioner Hema Sharma visited the General Hospital and congratulated the doctors on their successThree patients of Panipat — a 21-year-old who returned from England, a 30-year-old woman working at the youth’s rice sheller and a 21-year-old nurse of a Gurugram hospital — have been treated and dischargedThe woman’s two consecutive samples collected on Sunday and Tuesday tested negative, said Civil Surgeon Dr SL Verma. “The Health Department quarantined her family at their home and her husband and son have already tested negative,” he said.The woman reached her Model Town home and was welcomed amid clapping and cheering by neighbours from their homes, balconies and terraces. She and her husband had gone to Dubai to meet their elder son on March 10 and returned on the night of March 20-21.On March 25, she developed Covid-like symptoms and visited the hospital and was admitted to the General Hospital’s isolation ward. Tests confirmed that she was infected by Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/53-yr-old-woman-4th-panipat-survivor-67091
08-04-2020||Karnal||In Karnal, now app to keep tab on home-quarantined||Persons placed under home quarantine in Karnal will now be tracked through a digital surveillance system. For this, a mobile application, “Covid 19Karnal Live Tracker”, has been developed by the district authorities.How it worksThose quarantined have to install the app on their cellphones and registerOfficials at Mini-Sectt will track their GPS locationThey have to upload their pic 6 times with a gap of 2 hrs from 10 am to 10 pm & body temperatureGPS location will ensure that the pic was uploaded from their home or notThe Android app has been developed with the help of a Karnal-based private company to ensure that the quarantine protocols are being followed properly.The District Horticulture Officer and Red Cross secretary have been assigned the duties to get the persons under home quarantine registered on the app.At present, 61 persons are placed under home quarantine in Karnal district. The process to register them started on Tuesday and 10 persons downloaded the app on their mobile phones on the first day.“We have been receiving several complaints that persons under home quarantine are not following the protocols, so we have adopted a digital monitoring system with the help of a mobile appIf found violating the norms, they will be shifted to the quarantine ward at Sainik School in Kunjpura,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.He said such persons would also get the facility of a counsellor through the app.“Also, the facility of pointing the quarantined patients on Google Map is also in progress. If the home-quarantined person skips two consecutive periods of reporting, it reflects on dashboard and then they will be shifted to a quarantine ward,” the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-now-app-to-keep-tab-on-home-quarantined-67090
08-04-2020||---||BJP-JJP govt policies ‘anti-farmer’, says Selja||Chandigarh, April 7Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Rajya Sabha MP Kumari Selja said the decisions of the BJP-JJP government were causing a lot of trouble to the farmers of the state.She said the new decisions of the state government, including the procurement of crops through registration, farmers to make storage arrangements at their own level and the procurement process of crops to continue till June, were totally anti-farmer.In a statement issued on Monday, Selja said the government would call the registered farmers one by one to sell their crops and this process would continue till June. Therefore, farmers would have to store their crops at home.She said due to the Covid pandemic and lockdown, the farmers didn’t have harvesting machines neither the labourers were available. She asked where the unregistered farmers would go.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-jjp-govt-policies-anti-farmer-says-selja-67089
08-04-2020||---||Farmers await relief for damaged crop||Rohtak, April 7A number of farmers in Rohtak district whose standing wheat crop has been damaged due to rain and hailstorm have not received compensation.The farmers said officials turned down their claims on flimsy grounds though the crop was insured under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana.“I had sown wheat on 20 acres, but it got damaged due to rain and water-logging. I approached officials, but they denied, saying the rain was not excessive and I had not informed them timely,” said Surender of Sundana village.Farmers whose crop was not covered under the insurance scheme complained that special ‘girdawari’ had been conducted, but they were not provided any compensation till date. The district unit of the All-India Kisan Sabha demanded that compensation be given at the earliest.District Revenue Officer Poonam Babbar said special ‘girdawari’ had been conducted and compensation would be given to aggrieved farmers. “Data on land not covered under the insurance scheme had been sought and an assessment report would be sent to the government soon”, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-await-relief-for-damaged-crop-67088
08-04-2020||---||Palwal family ‘attacked’ for ignoring PM’s lights-out call||Palwal, April 7The police have booked 35 persons for assaulting a Dalit family at Pingore village of the district for allegedly ignoring the PM’s appeal to switch off lights and light lampson Sunday night.However, no arrest has been made so far. As per the police complaint lodged by one Dhanpal, a group of residents attacked the complainant’s family with bricks and stones around 9.20 pm on Sunday, resulting in heavy damage to the property, including a car parked on the premises. The incident also resulted in injuries to one ofthe family members.It is alleged that the accused, residents of the same village, attacked the family after they found that they did not comply with the PM’s lights-out appeal.The police have booked a case under Sections 323, 506 and 120B of the IPC and SC/ST Act against 35 persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-family-attacked-for-ignoring-pms-lights-out-call-67087
08-04-2020||Kaithal||Minor  girl abducted, boy sodomised||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped from the Sirta Road locality here on Sunday night. The police have registered a case under Section 365 of the IPC against unknown culprits on a complaint lodged by the father of the girl.In another case, a 17-year-old boy was allegedly sodomised by two persons in Ramgarh Pandwa village. The police have booked a person named Chinki and his unknown relative. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-girl-abducted-boy-sodomised-67086
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Window dressing by I-T officers catches HC eye||Taking note of delay in tax refunds in more than a few cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that delaying tactics are being used, among other things, for window dressing of revenue collection. It causes harassment to the assessee and interest on delayed amount burdens the exchequer.A Division Bench of the High Court, in one such case, also issued notice to Rohtak Principal Commissioner of Income Tax Krinwant Sahay and Gurugram Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax Dipin Goel.The Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Avneesh Jhingan stated that it deemed appropriate to further consider whether costs was required to be imposed on the officers in their personal capacity and consequently, notice was issued to the two authorities to show cause ‘why this should not be done’.The directions came on a petition filed by Huawei Telecommunications (India) Company Private Limited against the Union of India and other respondents. The petitioner was seeking quashing of order dated November 8, 2019, passed under the provisions of the I-Tax Act, withholding refund for 2017-18 and 2018-19. Directions were sought to refund the amount due to the petitioner.The Bench directed the respondents to issue refund for 2017-18 and 2018-19, along with statutory interest. and set a four-week deadline.“It cannot be lost sight of the fact that trade and commerce is the life blood of the system. If the excess amount deposited as tax is not refunded to the entrepreneur or assessee, it has an effect on liquidity and business. There cannot be second opinion that revenue collection and securing interest of revenue is of great importance. At the same time, revenue is to be collected like an apiarist extracts honey from beehive without destroying it,” the Bench stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/window-dressing-by-i-t-officers-catches-hc-eye-67085
