08-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Sale of farm soil: Haryana Lokayukta calls for probe against IG, 2 jail superintendents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 8Haryana Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal (retd) has called for enquiry against IG (Prisons) Jagjit Singh, Superintendent, Rohtak Jail, Sunil Sangwan and Superintendent, Jhajjar Jail, Dayanand for sale of farm land soil at Rs 3 lakh, which was actually worth Rs 3 crore.In his order, Justice Agarwal explained how deliberately action was delayed against erring officials.A Karnal resident, Bharat Bhushan, had filed a complaint against the three jail officials in 2018.District Jail, Rohtak, was having 19.5 acre of farm land but it was uneven, so in December 2014, then Superintendent wrote to DGP (Prisons) for its levelling. An estimate of about Rs 1 crore was submitted in 2015, after a “superficial” survey “without any measurement” and “obtaining topography”.In 2016, then DGP (Prisons) formed a committee comprising Jagjit Singh, Sangwan and Dayanand for viable solution for levelling of land. They recommended for lifting extra soil through an open auction. Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Jails approved the proposal in April 2017 but mentioned that proper assessment of material must be made. DGP (Prisons) in May asked the same committee to carry out the auction.“The aforesaid Committee in utter violation of the aforesaid approval, held auction. They did not bother to ascertain pre-auction topography of the jail farm land; to conduct technical survey of the land in consultation of the Mining Department for assessment of the material required to be lifted,” said Lokayukta.He added, “Obviously, quantity of material (soil) was also not mentioned in the Auction Notice published in the newspaper, so as to make the auction procedure transparent.”The auction was held in July, 2017 and the contract was allotted at the bid price of Rs 3 lakh.After allegations, an enquiry was assigned to then Inspector General of Prisons-cum-Chief Vigilance Officer M. Ravi Kiran who held Jagjit Singh, Sangwan and Dayanand guilty. He mentioned that the surplus soil of jail farm land would have fetched Rs 3.01 crore and huge loss had occurred to public exchequer.But the then DGP (Prisons) sought some clarifications from Ravi Kiran on July 22, 2018, on assessment of soil to be lifted and following of auction procedure as per the advertisement. Lokayukta pointed out that such clarifications were unnecessary.Ravi Kiran was transferred on August 2, 2018 and in his place Y. Puran Kumar joined and he was asked to submit clarifications. Lokayukta commented that clarifications should have been taken from Ravi Kiran. Kumar didn’t submit any clarifications.Thereafter, Kuldip Singh Sihag was appointed for the same who took a report from an Assistant Soil Conservation Officer and Assistant Mining Engineer, but Lokayukta dismissed it and commented that it appeared to “have been prepared in order to save the skin of erring officials”.Lokayukta ordered to enquire into conduct of Jagjit Singh, Sunil Sangwan and Dayanand, by forming SIT comprising ACS Home, ACS Mining and a technical expert, and thereafter to take stern departmental action under Rule 7 of Haryana Civil Services Rules. He also ordered to recover the loss from erring officials and to consider the report of Ravi Kiran.
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana allows educational institutions in agriculture zones||The Haryana Government has allowed educational institutions to be set up in agriculture zones in the state after getting approval for change of land use (CLU)---a major departure from the state’s existing policy.The state’s current policy grants CLU for educational activity only in cases of “public interest”. K. Makrand Pandurang, Special Secretary, Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP), said in a recent order that using land in an agricultural zone for setting up educational institutions was now permissible.“An amendment in the zoning regulations of the development plans would be carried out and parameters mentioned in the current policy would made part of zoning regulations,” the order said.Under the new policy, a proposed educational institution should be conceptualized as supporting the hinterland for rural areas and urbanisable area surrounding it. The site should be approachable from minimum 33-feet wide revenue rasta/public road, in case of primary school, middle school, high school and senior secondary school.In case of university/engineering/ architecture college, medical college, B.Ed college, ITI, polytechnic, hotel management colleges, skill development  centres, special and skill training institutes for providing self employment, the site should be approachable from minimum 40-feet wide revenue rasta/public road.In case of a proposed skill development centre and a specialised technical training institute an application should be accompanied by a scheme/plan of their surrounding region in term of providing the opportunities for the relevant skilling to the local youth.The proposed skill development centre and specialised technical training institute must also submit a plan for the opportunities of the development concerned region under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) if the institution has a technical or skill centre.The order said the amendment in the zoning regulations of the development plans could take time and until there is a final notification of the amendments, the cases for allowing educational institutes in an agriculture zone should be submitted to the state government for approval.
08-07-2020||---||Intense rain over northern parts of India between July 9 and 12||New Delhi, July 8The IMD has predicted “intense rain” over northern parts of India, including Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, between July 9 and 12.The monsoon trough is very likely to shift northwards towards the foothills of Himalayas from July 9 onwards, the weather office said.In addition, moist southwesterly/southerly winds from Bay of Bengal are converging over Northeast and adjoining East and southwesterly/southerly winds from Arabian sea over the Northwest.Under the influence of these synoptic conditions, fairly widespread to widespread with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Western Himalayan Region, northern parts of Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim and northeastern states between July 9 and 12.Isolated extremely heavy falls (≥ 20 cm) are also very likely over Uttarakhand on July 11 and 12, the IMD said.Thundershowers and rains have also been reported from many parts of the country, including the Northwest India, in the past 24 hours.Strong winds (speed reaching 50-60 kmph) are very likely over Southwest, Westcentral and Northeast Arabian Sea and along and off Gujarat coast during the next 48 hours, the IMD said, advising fishermen not to venture into sea over these areas during next 48 hours.
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three more coronavirus deaths in Haryana, highest single-day spike of 691 new cases||Haryana reported three more deaths due to COVID-19 on Wednesday as it recorded the highest single-day spike of 691 cases, taking the state’s infection tally to 18,690, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.While two deaths were reported from the worst-hit Faridabad, one person died in Ambala district, it said.With this, the coronavirus-related deaths in Haryana rose to 282.The previous highest single-day spike in cases was reported in the state on July 2 with 568 infections.Among the districts which reported fresh cases include Faridabad with 156 cases, Gurgaon with 133 cases while 81, 66, 57 and 38 cases came from Rewari, Sonipat, Rohtak and Hisar districts, respectively.The hardest-hit Gurgaon and Faridabad districts falling in the National Capital Region together account for 11,242 of the total infections in the state and 199 of the 282 fatalities.The number of active cases in the state currently is 4,302 while 14,106 have been discharged after recovery.The state’s recovery rate on Wednesday was 75.47 per cent. PTI
08-07-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Tree blocks road, Panchkula MC unmoved||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comTree blocks road, MC unmovedTwo days ago, a tree fell on the road in front of GH-68/69 in Sector 20, Panchkula, blocking the entire stretch. Commuters are facing problems as they have to take a U-turn to take another road. The Municipal Corporation authorities have to do the needful to clear the busy road. Col KJ Singh (Retd), PanchkulaSewage overflow irks Sirsa residentsSewage is overflowing in Agrasen Colony in Sirsa and residents are forced to live with it. After many complaints, the Municipal Committee started the sewerage cleaning work but didn’t bother to pick up the garbage later. Now, it is emitting foul smell, spreading diseases and seeping into the sewerage with rainwater. However, no one is here to hear our concern. Devender Kumar, Sirsa
08-07-2020||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University starts online facilities||CUH courses gets AICTE approvalMaherdragarh: All four programmes being run under the School of Engineering and Technology at the Central University of Haryana (CUH) here have got the approval of the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi. Acting Vice-Chancellor RC Kuhad said this approval would help the students in higher education and employment. Those programmes that got the approval were BTech in computer science and engineering, electrical engineering, civil engineering and printing and packaging technology, he added.Varsity to host online HR conclaveFaridabad: Haryana Technical Education Minister Anil Vij will be the chief guest at the inaugural session of the two-day online global HR conclave on ‘Future of learning and employment’ organised by JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, on July 11 and 12. Revealing this a spokesperson of the university said while Mahendra Kumar Gupta, Executive Director, Railway Board, would be the keynote speaker in the inaugural session , it would be presided over by Prof Dinesh Kumar, Vice -Chancellor of the university. He said the conclave was being organised by the training and placement cell of the university in association with the startup and innovation cell.
08-07-2020||Ambala||Pedestrian dies in mishap||A 56-year-old pedestrian, Trilok Chand of Shahzadpur near here, was killed in a road mishap on Tuesday. According to information, a speeding vehicle hit Chand near Shahzadpur, killing him on the spot. The police have booked the vehicle driver for causing death by rash and negligent driving.. TNSDrug smuggler arrestedThe district police have arrested Subhash of Panipat on the charge of smuggling drugs on Tuesday. As per the police, the arrest was made on the confession of Vijay Pal Singh and Kulbir Singh, who were nabbed on July 4, with 51,000 intoxicant tablets. “They revealed that Subhash was also involved in the case,” the police said. TNS78 bottles of liquor seizedThe district police have arrested and later released on bail two persons on the charge of smuggling liquor. It claimed to have recovered 78 bottles of illicit liquor from their possession on Tuesday. TNSImmigration fraud unearthedThe district police arrested and later released on bail Surinder Singh, alias Chhinda, of Ambala City in a case of immigration fraud, officials said on Tuesday. As per the police, Pushpinder Singh of Naggal near here had reported on May 28 that the accused had cheated him on the pretext of sending him abroad. TNSMembers of all market committees removedChandigarh: The Haryana Government on Tuesday issued a notification for the removal of all members of the market committees across the state, including chairmen and vice-chairmen. Through another notification, it has given the charge of all market committees to the Subdivisional Magistrates concerned. TNSSurjewala opposes DA, DR freezeChandigarh: Randeep Singh Surjewala, AICC chief spokesperson, on Tuesday demanded withdrawal of the government order freezing dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief till July 2021. He described the BJP-JJP government as anti-employee union. “Employees and pensioners will feel an impact of Rs3,600 crore in the already allocated 2020-21 Budget,” he said. He reminded the government that it had passed a Budget for Rs1.42 lakh crore on February 28. TNS
08-07-2020||Rewari||4-year-old dies in accident||A four-year-old boy was killed and his father and grandmother injured when a truck overturned on the tractor they were travelling in on the Delhi-Jaipur highway today.The deceased was identified as Vansh of Balavas Jat village. The injured were admitted to the trauma centre in Rewari. The truck driver lost control over the vehicle on an overbridge, leading to the accident. — TNS
08-07-2020||Panipat||Two more held in cops’ murder case||The police have arrested two more accused for their alleged involvement in the murder of two policemen in the Butana area of Sonepat district.The accused have been identified as Vikas of Ghuskani village in Bhiwani district and Neeraj of Pathri village in Jind district.They were on the run after the murder incident of two policemen. On Tuesday, they were produced in a court, which sent them to a five-day police remand.A team of the CIA-2 unit of the police nabbed Vikas and Neeraj from a field near Jagsi village on Monday. — TNS
08-07-2020||---||Rice stock found short in two mills||Karnal, July 7A raid on two rice mills here has brought out that 4,500 quintals of custom milled rice (CMR), which was supposed to be supplied back to the government, is missing. This raises suspicion that the mill owners might have sold the grains in the open market.The Monday’s raid was conducted after alert officials siezed two trucks laden with bags of rice marked “Food Corporation of India, Uttar Pradesh”. When the drivers were quizzed, they spilled the beans.Officials say the seized rice was meant for the poor under the Public Distribution System (PDS) and was brought from Uttar Pradesh.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav has ordered that FIRs should be registered against the two rice mills. “I have asked the ADC inspect the stock of all mills which have failed to deliver the CMR on time,” he said.
08-07-2020||Gurugram||Book 14 departments for allowing construction in Gurugram: Court to cops||A local court has directed the police to register an FIR against 14 departments for allowing construction in an open area in Sector 94 here.The court issued the order while hearing a public interest litigation by RTI activist Raman Sharma, which stated that private builders occupied open space at 102 spots and built commercial establishments. The Town and Country Planning Department, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, Revenue Department, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Public Health Department and others were charged with inaction when the encroachment was first reported. — OC
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Now, Gadaria in Scheduled Caste category||The state government issued a notification on Tuesday for including Gadaria among the Scheduled Caste (SC) category.It has also been declared that while issuing certificates to the community, the caste will be mentioned as Sansi (Gadaria). Sansi was incorporated in the SC category in 1950. Gadaria was added as a synonym of Sansi in the list of denotified tribes on July 5, 2019. A number of representations from the people of Gadaria came, demanding to include them as a sub-caste of Sansi and called for issuance of the SC certificates. Heading an advisory committee on denotified tribes, former media adviser of the CM Rajiv Jain looked into their grievances. The panel had recommended for including them in the SC category. — TNS
08-07-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Staff relieved as Haryana allows all GPF withdrawals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7In a relief to the state government employees, the BJP-JJP government has allowed all general provident fund (GPF) withdrawals.Currently, “restricted” withdrawals from the GPF on account of marriage advance, higher education and purchase of plot/house are allowed, a decision which had sparked off resentment among the state government staff.Now, the employees will be able to withdraw their GPF for any purpose as was the practice till late March 2020, when the ongoing Covid pandemic put the state government’s finances under stress.A senior Finance Department officer said the decision was the outcome of easing of the financial situation of the state government and had been taken for the convenience of the state government staff.Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), while welcoming the decision, said it was the result of the pressure mounted by the employees unions on the government.During March-April, the state government had virtually put on hold the GPF withdrawals and retirees’ dues, including the GPF payment, gratuity, pension commutation and leave encashment due to the economic crisis in the wake of coronavirus.However, the government restored the “restricted” GPF withdrawals, retirees’ dues and reimbursement of medical bills in May.
08-07-2020||---||Haryana Ayush Department cancels licence of seven disinfectant brands||Chandigarh, July 7 The state Ayush Department has withdrawn the approval granted to seven formulations of surface disinfectants. The disinfectant formulations for which the approval has been cancelled are Gopure Surface Disinfectant Spray, Hygienic 33 Multipurpose Disinfectant Spray, Runbugz Surface Sanitizer Spray, Bodyguard Multipurpose Disinfectant Spray, Stanvac Instant Disinfectant Spray, Stanrelief Multipurpose Spray and Stanfresh Super Disinfectant Floor Cleaner.  The action by the Ayush Department has come in the wake of a raid on disinfectant manufacturing unit at Gurugram by a team of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) last month. The raid on June 23 had trigged a controversy with the FDA officials, saying that the Ayush Department was not authorised to issue approvals for the manufacture of surface disinfectants. Dr Satish Khatkar, Licencing Authority for the Ayush Department, said: “The approval was issued by oversight, since the words human body and surface were written at two different places on the application. The manufacturers can, however, apply afresh by mentioning that these are for the use for human beings.”
08-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak’s pugilists Amit, Manju bring laurels||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 7The inspiring stories of ordinary village children Amit Panghal and Manju Rani, who are the new shining stars on the international sports horizon, underline the old adage that where there is will, there is a way.While Amit Panghal of Mayna village in Rohtak district has been ranked World No. 1 in the 52-kg weight category by the International Boxing Association (AIBA), Manju Rani of Rihtal village in the same district has got the World No.2 rank in the 48-kg category. Sanjit of Ritoli village has got World No.12 rank in the 91-kg category.Amit, son of Vijender Singh, a small-time farmer, has already ensured his berth in the upcoming Olympics, slated to be held in Tokyo, Japan. He is an Asian Games gold-medalist and recently created history by becoming the first-ever Indian boxer to have won a silver medal at the AIBA World Boxing Championship.Manju Rani, who brought laurels to the country by winning the silver medal in the World Women’s Boxing Championship in Russia last year, belongs to Rithal village.Her father Bhim Sen Sharma died of cancer in 2010, when Manju was 11 years old. Her mother Ishwanti opened a cosmetics shop at her home to support her family.“I had no gloves, no shoes and no ring. I used to practice with a punching bag hung from a tree near a pond in my village. I am indebted to my father’s friend, basic coach and mentor Sahab Singh Narwal, who adopted me after my father’s demise,” said Manju, who now eyes an Olympic gold.
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||75% private job quota since 2011: Hooda||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said there was nothing new in the government’s announcement of providing 75 per cent jobs in the private sector to Haryanvi youth since the provision already existed. The decision was introduced by the Congress government when he was at the helm, Hooda said.“The government has created a new slogan of providing 75 per cent reservation. The truth is that such a provision has been in force since 2011. It now says this announcement will only apply to new industries. We want to ask why it has not been put in force in the last six years?” he said.He alleged that governance had been reduced to zero, with no development and only scams. “There is a multi-crore rice scam, which follows scams in paddy procurement, liquor stock, mining, recruitment, paper leaks, scholarships, electricity meters and drug purchases,” he said. — TNS
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Selja flags high unemployment||State Congress president Kumari Selja today expressed concern over the unemployment rate in the state being the highest in the country, according to latest data of the Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy.She said the government was claiming 75 per cent reservation for local youth in new jobs in the private sector, but there were no jobs in the private sector. Selja said industries were suffering and unemployment was on the rise.“The situation has worsened and those working for years are being laid off. Why will the benefit of 75 per cent reservation not be given in jobs with a salary of Rs 50,000 and above in the private sector?” she said.“There is a provision that except for technical jobs, 75 per cent employment will be provided to domicile residents. It has not been implemented properly,” she said. Due to wrong policies, big and small industries were shutting down, she added. — TNS
08-07-2020||---||The Punjab and High Court stays promotions in Haryana Higher Education Department||Chandigarh, July 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed further promotions in the Haryana Higher Education Department till reframing of the seniority list. “Direction is issued that further promotion not be made till reframing of the seniority list, in case the factual position is as projected by the counsel for the petitioners,” Justice Augustine George Masih asserted.Taking up the petition filed against Haryana and other respondents by Virendra Singh Malhan and other petitioners, Justice Masih also made it clear that promotion, if any, made without reframing seniority list in accordance with the Supreme Court direction would be subject to the outcome of the present writ petition.As the case came up for hearing through video-conferencing, the counsel for the petitioners asserted that there was a direction by the Supreme Court with regard to reframing of the seniority list within three months, with the dismissal of the review application as well as the curative petition. “The official respondents are bound to comply with the said order,” it was added.
08-07-2020||Sushil Manav||80% asymptomatic cases under home isolation in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7Over 80 per cent of Covid patients with mild symptoms or asymptomatic conditions in Haryana are under home isolation, indicating that given a choice, people prefer quarantine at home to admission in government health facilities.As per figures of the Health and Family Welfare Department, Haryana, of the 17,504 Covid cases as on Monday evening, only 3,893 were active cases and out of these, 1,879 were either asymptomatic or had very mild symptoms.Of these 1,879 patients, 1,576 were under home isolation while 303 others were under quarantine in institutional facilities in various districts of the state.Ashok Kumar Meena, Chief Executive Officer of Ayushman Bharat, Haryana, said the Health Department followed ICMR guidelines while allowing home isolation of patients.According to ICMR guidelines, asymptomatic patients like the ones who were pre-symptomatic and had very mild symptoms could opt for home isolation if they had the requisite self-isolation facility at their residence so as to avoid contact with other family members.However, immuno-compromised patients (HIV, transplant, cancer therapy) were not eligible for home isolation. Elderly patients aged above 60 years and those with comorbid conditions, such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung, liver or kidney disease and cerebro-vascular disease, would only be allowed home isolation after proper evaluation.“The government has set up institutional facilities called district Covid care centres in districts for the asymptomatic and those with mild symptoms. For patients with mild symptoms, the government has set up dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs), mostly in civil hospitals, though some patients opt for private hospitals by bearing the cost. For serious patients, the government has set up dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs) in various government and private medical colleges,” explained Meena.As many as 1,480 active patients in the state had moderate symptoms and they had been admitted to DCHCs in various districts, with some of them in private hospitals. A total of 534 patients were in a serious condition and had been admitted to 12 government and private medical colleges which had been converted into DCHs.The ESIC Medical College and Hospital, Faridabad, had the maximum of 243 patients, followed by 113 in BPS Government Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, and 99 in Pandit Bhagwat Dayal PGIMS, Rohtak. As on Monday, 41 patients were in sub-critical condition and on oxygen support, while 19 others were critical and on ventilator.Of those on ventilator, nine were in ESIC Medical College and Hospital, Faridabad, four in Medanta Hospital, Gurugram, and three each in Medeor Hospital and Fortis Hospital, Gurugram.Among sub-critical patients, 15 were in ESIC Medical College and Hospital, Faridabad, 12 in Pandit Bhagwat Dayal PGIMS, Rohtak, seven in BPS Government Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, two each in SHKM Government Medical College, Nalhar, Al-Fateh Medical College, Faridabad, and MM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Mullana, and one in Maharaj Agarsen Medical College, Agroha.3,893 cases active
08-07-2020||---||23 unauthorised dairies sealed in Karnal||Karnal, July 7In a major crackdown on unauthorised dairies in the city, the Karnal municipal corporation (KMC) has sealed 23 units for not expressing willingness to shift outside the city limits.The authorities have seized 15 livestock while some of the owners managed to flee with their livestock before the arrival of the MC team.Under the shifting of dairies project, the KMC had conducted a draw for 79 plots out of total 188 in February. The KMC had served notices to the remaining dairy owners, who had not shown interest in shifting their dairies.Gagandeep Singh, Joint Commissioner, KMC, said: “We served an ultimatum to these dairy owners, but when they did not show any interest, we had no option but to seal their units”.He maintained that now the dairy owners would have to seek permission to shift their dairies to Pingli road.
08-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Over one-third infected in Haryana doing private jobs, business||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7More than one-third of Covid patients in Haryana are engaged in private jobs or doing business, finds an analysis by the Health Department on occupation-wise distribution of patients. The second most-affected category is of housewives, while the major cause of concern is that every 18th Covid patient is a health professional.The analysis is up to July 5 when there were 17,005 cases in the state. Out of these, 6,380 have been doing private jobs or businesses. They comprise 37.5 per cent of the total cases.Housewives, the second most-affected category, comprise 15.1 per cent of the total cases as 2,564 are infected. “Women are usually care givers so they are bound to be infected. They are frontline workers at home. A similar scenario was observed in previous pandemics too,” said Prof Aswini Kumar Nanda, Health Economist, Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh.Though schools and colleges are closed but 1,574 students have been infected, comprising 9.3 per cent of the total cases.Government employees, including Army and police personnel, comprise 5.6 per cent of the total cases as 954 of them have been infected. The government departments have been operating since long but with a reduced strength. However, police personnel have been deployed on Covid duties since day 1.Labourers and farmers comprise 2.7 per cent (464 cases) of the total number, while drivers contributed 0.7 per cent (116) and vendors just 0.8 per cent (139) to the total burden of Covid.Doctors affected tooFour doctors and five para-medics of a private hospital in Karnal tested positive on June 30. Eight staff members of a private hospital in Kaithal tested positive on June 29. Not just the state nodal officer for Covid, the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of Faridabad, the second most-affected district, has also tested positive in the past.A total of 950 health professionals, which comprises 5.6 per cent of the total cases, including doctors and paramedics, have been infected in the state.Dr Prabhakar Sharma, president of Haryana Indian Medical Association, said: “It is unfortunate. It (the number) is pretty high. As OPDs are working in most of the government and private hospitals, the health staff comes in contact with asymptomatic or very mild or mild Covid cases.”Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General, Health Services, Haryana, said: “The doctors and paramedics are usually at higher risk. The OPDs are functioning and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) have been issued to all. Protective equipment is being used but sometimes, lapses take place in case of asymptomatic or mild patients”.
08-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Covid hits judiciary, two judges positive in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7Covid appears to have hit the judiciary hard in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Two Additional District and Sessions Judges (ADSJs), posted in Gurugram and Nuh, have tested positive for Covid. At least 500 judicial officers and their families and staff have been quarantined so far.No less than six branches in the Punjab and Haryana High Court were ordered to be shut temporarily after a Superintendent’s husband tested positive. Another official was admitted to a hospital in Chandigarh after he complained of fever.The judicial officers and their families and staff had to be quarantined after the accused produced in court following arrest tested positive, indicating the impracticality of permitting physical functioning at the level of the High Court and lower courts.The High Court and district judiciary went into restricted functioning mode in March-end following the outbreak. The High Court cancelled summer vacation for itself and subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The High Court is functioning at almost half its strength through video-conferencing.The High Court and subordinate courts are primarily conducting virtual hearings. At times, circumstances warrant production of the accused in court or interaction between judicial officers and lawyers, increasing their exposure to risk.Registrar Vigilance-cum-PRO Vikram Aggarwal said High Court functioning was being increased following representations. “As a result, more staff are required, which seems the reason for the outbreak affecting various offices of the High Court. All preventive measures are being taken,” he said.Another officer said the court administration was in regular touch with medical and other experts, who were of the opinion that the opening of physical courts should not be allowed at the present stage following the upward spiral in the number of Covid cases after lockdown relaxations.
08-07-2020||---||3 succumb, cases near 18K in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 7With 495 fresh cases, Covid tally in the state reached 17,999 today. With three deaths, the number of fatalities rose to 279.Kurukshetra, Bhiwani and Gurugram reported one death each. A 65-year-old woman from Pipli succumbed to the virus. This was the first Covid death in Kurukshetra. She had multiple health complications and died at the PGI in Chandigarh.Fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (125), Faridabad (122), Bhiwani (45), Sonepat (29), Jhajjar (28), Mahendragarh (25), Panipat and Kurukshetra (21 each), Palwal (15), Jind (14), Rohtak (12), Hisar and Rewari (10 each), Yamunanagar (9), Sirsa and Ambala (3 each), Nuh (2) and Panchkula (1).Fresh cases in Faridabad were reported from Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, Dabua Colony, Sanjay Colony, Jawahar Colony, Adarsh Colony, Kheri Kalan village, Sector 7, Sector 8, Sector 16, Sector 21-A, Adarsh Nagar and SGM Nagar. An airhostess was among the three positive cases in Ambala.Private lab under lens for wrong results
08-07-2020||---||Student stabbed to death in Mahendragarh||Mahendragarh, July 7A BSc student at Government College here was stabbed to death by unidentified assailants on Monday night.His body was found lying in a pool of blood near Dholposh Ashram on Tuesday.‘Cyber cell on the job’Two police teams have been formed to probe the case. The cyber cell is finding out the details of persons who called Vikas in the past 24 hours. The killers will be identified and arrested soon. — Kushal Kumar, DSPThe kin of the deceased, identified as Vikas Saini (21) of Saini Pura locality here, refused to receive the body after the post-mortem examination. They staged a dharna on the Civil Hospital premises for more than three hours and demanded immediate arrest of the killers.Later, the police persuaded them to lift the dharna by assuring them of identifying and arresting the killers within three days. A case of murder has been registered against unidentified persons in this respect.Vikas went out of the house on a motorbike on Monday evening. He forgot to carry his cellphone with him.When he did not return, the family members launched a hunt late in the night but couldn’t trace him.On Tuesday morning, some farmers spotted a body lying near Dholposh Ashram and informed the police. The body had stab marks, while the ears were chopped off. The body was later identified by Vikas’s family.
08-07-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad to have blood plasma bank||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 7The district administration has announced a blood plasma bank here for Covid patients. The bank will come up in ESIC Medical College and Hospital, which is the official Covid hospital.Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said ESIC hospital would operate the blood plasma bank, while the District Red Cross Society would function as the nodal agency. The Red Cross Society will have the responsibility of contacting with plasma donors and provide donors when needed.“All private hospitals have been asked to share information of patients cured by them and approach them for donating plasma. The success rate of the plasma therapy treatment is remarkable,” Yadav said.Faridabad district has recorded 4,770 Covid cases and 95 deaths.Dr Nimisha Sharma, associate professor, microbiology department of the ESIC Medical College, claimed the recovery rate of the plasma therapy treatment was 100 per cent.“Eight patients, who were treated with the plasma therapy, have recovered. At present, two patients are undergoing plasma therapy treatment. About 300 donors have been contacted so far. Of the 30 donors screened, nine have been selected,” she said.She added there were several requirements for donating plasma. Donors must have recovered from Covid two weeks prior to donating plasma. They must be symptomatic patients before treatment and aged between 18 and 65 years. Lastly, they must weigh 50 kg at the time of donating plasma.
08-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak BEd colleges disregard order on students’ promotion||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 7Many private BEd colleges here are allegedly forcing students to submit practical files in person despite the state government’s directives for promoting them to the next class without calling them to the college in view of Covid.Some of the colleges are also demanding fees from the students in the name of practical exams.‘Action against guilty’Colleges can neither force students to come to the institute physically nor charge any fee from them. A criterion has been devised to award marks to the students in the annual exams. Appropriate action will be taken if any complaint is received against such colleges. — Yudhvir Singh, Dean, College Development Council, MDU, Rohtak“My college has asked me to submit practical files with a fee of Rs 1,100. When I objected to the demand while referring to the state government’s order then the college clerk threatened me of awarding lesser marks in the internal assessment,” said a student on anonymity.Another student of a BEd college being run by a prominent society in Rohtak said her college was calling them in groups of 25 for the submission of practical files. “I didn’t prepare the files following the government orders against the exams. Later, I had to buy the files from the market at the eleventh hour for submission,” she added.Sources said some of the colleges itself were selling practical files at higher rates to the students in order to make money.The issue was also raised at a state-level online meeting of the Haryana Self-Financed Private College Association, a group of private BEd colleges, held on Sunday.At the meeting, Satish Khola, association president, said he had received complaints against BEd colleges about conducting practical exams against the guidelines of the state government. “The association doesn’t support any such college, which is forcing students to appear in practical exams and to pay fees for it. No college legally can charge fees for practical exams, hence we request the managements to adhere to the government guidelines,” Khola added.
08-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Dairy startups in Haryana struggling, sales dip by 30%, says NDRI||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 7Dairy startups in the state are struggling hard to keep afloat in times of Covid-induced lockdown. Drop in sales has forced dairy owners to make a hard choice: whether to keep going, which won’t be easy, or shut shop. A couple of them are planning to sell their property.The grim picture has come to light in a survey conducted by National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), which approached 20 startup owners and enquired about the challenges faced during the lockdown.“The lockdown hit the production and processing of milk products. About 80 per cent of the startups reported a drop in sales by 25 to 30 per cent. On the contrary, the organised dairy industry recovered quickly,” said Dr AK Singh, principal scientist and incharge of the agri-business incubation centre at NDRI.Sanjeev Kumar, a Karnal-based dairy owner who launched his start-up recently, said he bought milk from farmers at pre-lockdown rates but there were no buyers in the initial days of the lockdown as sweets shops, hotels, restaurants, dhabas and tea stalls were closed. “I was forced to sell milk to the organised dairy sector at throwaway prices,” he said.Dr Singh said that during the lockdown, the supply chain of milk was disrupted due to the restriction in the movement of transport vehicles and the sale was nosedived as people were hesitant to consume chilled and fermented milk products.Ashwani Kumar, a dairy owner from Kurukshetra, said: “The increase in input cost by 30 per cent, shortage of labour and drop in sales resulted in losses to them. Before lockdown, I used to earn around Rs 80 lakh per month, but now my earning has reduced to around Rs 50 lakh.”A Gurugram-based startup owner said the state government must waive the GST and reduce the tax rate on ghee and milk fat.
08-07-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad units fail to apply for NOC, face penalty||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 7Around 30 per cent of the 800 industrial units here are facing late fee because of their failure to submit ‘consent fee’ for obtaining pollution no-objection certificate (NOC) within the stipulated time period for 2020-21.The industrial associations here have demanded waiving the consent charges for the pandemic period.“I have received show-cause notice from the regional office of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), directing me to get online consent with 50 per cent late fee as the grace period of 90 days got over on June 30,” said an entrepreneur here.He said it was shocking as his unit was still struggling to get on its feet and he had no money left to foot such a bill. Notices have been issued to many units here, he said.Describing it as unjustified, Ramneek Prabhakar, general secretary of Manufacturers Association Faridabad said as a large number of units have been served notices, the association has written to the HSPCB chairman to withdraw the notice and waive the penalty (late charge of 50 per cent) for at least six months. He claimed that the units had been shut for over two months and there had been no flow of money in this period.The penalty could mean an additional charge ranging from Rs 4,000 to Rs 50,000, he said. Condemning the move, Col S Kapoor of the Faridabad Industries Association, said they would take up the issue with the authorities concerned.Dinesh Kumar, Regional Officer, HSPCB, here said that notice has been given only to red category units which failed to apply for consent within the 90-day period before the expiry of the last date (June 30). He said while 50 per cent penalty was applicable till July 31, it would be 100 per cent after that if no rebate is given by the state government. The deadline for applying for consent for red, orange and green categories was90 days prior to September 30, March 31 and December 31 respectively.
