08-05-2020||Rewari||Rewari records first COVID-19 cases, three test positive||Rewari reported its first coronavirus cases on Friday, when three people tested positive in the district, officials said.Two women and a 10-year-old girl in Sector 4 tested positive.One of the two women recently travelled to Delhi for medical care, officials said.“The woman’s mother has cancer. She and her brother took their mother to Delhi some days ago for treatment,” officials said, adding that the other patient is a neighbour.Until this development, Rewari had no cases and was among Haryana’s green zone areas.
08-05-2020||---||Train carrying 1,204 migrant workers leaves for Bihar from Rohtak||Rohtak, May 8 A special train carrying 1,204 migrant workers left for Katihar in Bihar from Rohtak on Friday.Talking to reporters before the train’s departure, Rohtak Deputy Commissioner RS Verma said medical screening of the passengers was conducted before allowing them to board the train.“Drinking water, food packets, masks and sanitizers have also been provided to each passenger,” Verma said, adding that the fare for the journey is being paid by the state government.Some migrants who had reached Rohtak railway station without registration were sent to a local shelter home, Verma informed.
08-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||PGIMS to resume OPD services to treat non-COVID patients||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 8In order to resume healthcare services for the non-COVID patients suffering from chronic ailments, the PGIMS authorities here have decided to reopen 11 OPDs in different clinical specialties and super-specialties from May 11.“OPDs for pain clinic, paediatric surgery, endocrinology, gastroenterology clinic, neurology, neurosurgery, cardiology, cardio-thoracic and vascular surgery, nephrology, surgical oncology and urology will be started at the PGIMS from Monday,” disclosed Vice-Chancellor, University of Health Sciences, Prof OP Kalra.Talking to The Tribune, the Vice-Chancellor said a decision to this effect had been taken as the treatment of non-COVID patients cannot be neglected.OPDs for medicine, paediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, flu clinic (ENT), TB and respiratory departments were already going on, the VC pointed.Spike in COVID casesAsked about the preparedness to deal with the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in Haryana, Professor Kalra said several hospitals across the state had been dedicated for the admission and treatment of COVID patients, but more quarantine centres were required to accommodate the suspected COVID patients and those having no or mild symptoms.“The number of COVID cases is likely to peak by the end of June. Hence, we need to have more quarantine and isolation facilities. Hotels, inns, rest-houses and stadiums can be prepared for the purpose. The tertiary-care hospitals should be kept only for the critical patients and those having severe symptoms,” Professor Kalra observed.In response to another query, Professor Kalra said the imposition of lockdown had played an instrumental role in checking the spread of the disease, but lockdown cannot continue forever owing to economic considerations.“People should understand that the relaxation in lockdown does not infer that the risk of contracting coronavirus infection is over. They should exercise self-restraint, take care of personal hygiene and protection, and not venture out of their homes unless necessary,” he said.
08-05-2020||Yamunanagar (Haryana)||13-year-old TikTok star commits suicide in Haryana's Yamunanagar||A 13-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide by hanging from a ceiling fan in her house, police said on Friday.The girl, a Class 7 student and said to be a budding TikTok star, took the extreme step on Thursday when her parents had gone to a medical store to buy medicines, police said.No one else was present in the house when the girl took the step and no suicide note was found.Upon returning home, her parents found the door of their house closed from the inside and saw their daughter hanging from the ceiling through the window.The parents, then, broke the window and entered inside. They later informed the police.Based on the preliminary investigation, DSP of the area Pradeep Rana said police did not find any suicide note from the spot.Police have registered a case under relevant provisions of the law and have started a probe.The girl's family told them that the victim had about 1,315 followers on TikTok.She had posted 418 videos so far, which the girl's family claimed were liked by many people.Police said after watching her latest videos, no one could tell that the girl was in any kind of mental distress or depression, or under some pressure which forced her to take such an extreme step.However, investigations from all angles will be looked into, the DSP said. PTI
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 20 new cases, one fatality||Haryana reported 20 positive cases and one death, officials said---taking the state’s death count to eight.The development takes the state’s infection tally to 647 if 14 foreign nationals are counted and 633 without that count.Gurugram (9), Faridabad (3), Jind (3), Sonepat (2), Rohtak (1), Panipat (1) and Jhajjar (1) all reported new casesPanipat registered its second fatality when a 28-year-old migrant labourer died in district general hospital in the early hours of Thursday. His test results came back positive, Panipat Civil Surgeon Dr SL Verma said. Originally from Bihar, the man had been living in Samalkha’s Jhattipur village for the last seven years.He was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday with tuberculosis.Of Gurugram’s nine cases, two were health workers and two social workers.Faridabad reported three cases---a 21-year-old pregnant woman from Dabua Colony, a 22-year-old woman working as receptionist at a private diagnostic lab in Sector 16 and a 37-year-old man vegetable trader at Mujesar Mandi.In Jind, three members of a family, including an elderly man tested positive days after their relative was diagnosed with the infection.Two more people tested positive in Sonepat, taking tally to 86 infections.A 63-year-old fruit merchant and a 53-year-old vegetable vendor at Gannaur's mandi tested positive. District health department authorities said they had identified their contacts and quarantined them. The district reported two more infections later in the evening.A vegetable seller in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh and a 59-year-old woman from Rohtak also tested positive.Meanwhile, Rewari, which has so far reported no coronavirus cases, said three people had tested positive in the district. But this has yet to be added to the final tally. Haryana's daily doubling rate has now slipped to eight days, from 21 days on May 2.
08-05-2020||---||Excise Dept yet to file FIR on seized liquor’s theft: Vij||Chandigarh, May 7Expressing anguish, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said the theft of liquor had taken place at the godowns of both the Police and Excise Departments, but the Excise Department was yet to get the FIR registered.“Till the Excise Department doesn’t register an FIR, we can’t act,” he said and added that the police had already got cases registered regarding the theft of the seized liquor from their godown.Around 5,500 boxes of seized liquor worth Rs25 lakh were found missing from the godown. So far, SHO, Kharkhoda police station, has been suspended and a case against six policemen and four others, including liquor smuggler Bhupinder Singh of Sisana village, for liquor theft has been registered.Vij said that the Kharkhoda liquor theft case was the tip of the iceberg and high-profile people could be involved.Reacting to Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala’s statement that he had spoken to Vij on this issue, the Home Minister denied having any such discussion. Chautala holds the Excise and Taxation portfolio.Vij had ordered a SIT on May 6 for probing the Kharkhoda liquor theft case and other similar cases. The SIT will comprise a senior IAS officer, an ADGP-rank police officer and a senior officer of the Excise and Taxation Department.“Liquor of certain brands was found in the godowns which are not manufactured in Haryana. The modus operandi appears that the godowns used to be a transit place for smuggling and the liquor smuggled from other states used to be brought there for further sale in Haryana and other states,” he said.The godown is in the name of Bhupinder Singh’s wife. “Bhupinder Singh himself has been facing seven to eight cases. It was wrong to operate a godown in his name in the first place. I don’t deny the involvement of the police,” added Vij.“A big mafia is working in the state. About 2 lakh bottles have been caught so far. The stock of liquor of liquor contractors whose contract has ended should be verified,” he said.
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panel extends parole of 4,000 prisoners by six more weeks||Staring at the return of about 4,000 inmates back into Haryana prisons after completing their parole or interim bail, a high-powered committee under Justice Rajiv Sharma of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has enhanced the relief granted to them by six more weeks.Covid test, 14-day quarantine mustA high-powered committee under Justice Rajiv Sharma of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has also ordered for mandatory Covid testing and 14-day quarantine for the prisoners before allowing their re-entry.The committee has also made Covid test mandatory for the prison staff returning to jails after availing leave on emergent grounds.The committee has also ordered for mandatory Covid testing and 14-day quarantine for the prisoners before allowing their re-entry. On March 24, the committee had framed the rules for the release of inmates on parole and interim bail to decongest jails. Now as they are set to return, their parole or interim bail has been extended."...readmitting around 4,000 prisoners released on parole or interim bail back into the jails at this stage is a huge risk. It is likely to increase the risk of Covid infection to the existing inmates and will defeat the whole objective of releasing them on parole/interim bail," said the high-powered committee, which also comprised Home Secretary Vijai Vardhan and DGP (Prisons) K Selvaraj.The committee has extended the parole period of the convicts for another six weeks from the date of their first surrender. Initially too, the parole was granted for six weeks. Similarly, the duration of interim bail for undertrials has also been extended by six weeks from the date of their surrender. Earlier, they were allowed 45-day interim bail extendable to 60 days.The committee has also made Covid test mandatory for the prison staff returning to jails after availing leave on emergent grounds. “Such staff should be allowed entry only on the receipt of a negative Covid test report and fitness report from the medical officer of the jail,” said the minutes of meeting of the committee. —TNS
08-05-2020||Hisar||Scientist appointed member of Global Plants Council||A Hisar-based agriculture scientist Dr KC Bansal has been designated as a member of the Global Plants Council. The Council has 10 members in all and is a coalition of 30 organisations representing plants, crop, agriculture and environmental scientists and experts from across the globe.Dr Bansal has been a director at National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, New Delhi, and has published over 150 research papers. His research findings are used in crop-improvement programmes by several laboratories and institutions within and outside the country. —TNS
08-05-2020||Panchkula||Rs 50 lakh, govt job for martyr’s family||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday visited the house of Major Anuj Sood, who was martyred in the Handwara encounter, in Amravati Enclave of the Pinjore block. He announced Rs 50-lakh assistance to the family and a government job.Speaking to mediapersons, Khattar lauded Major Sood’s extraordinary courage. He said Major Sood would live on in the hearts of people of the state and his supreme sacrifice for his motherland would not go in vain.“The Army took revenge for the killing of Major Sood as they killed a top Hizbul Mujahideen commander. It is only due to martyrs like Major Sood that there is unity and diversity in the country,” he said.Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, former legislator Latika Sharma, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, DCP Mohit Handa and BJP district president Deepak Sharma also visited the house of the martyr and paid their homage.While on his Panchkula visit, the Chief Minister also went to the house of former Haryana DGP and BJP leader HS Swan, who passed away on Thursday in Sector 6 and expressed his condolences tothe family.
08-05-2020||Hisar||Migrant gangraped in Hisar, two booked||
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||38 cases in a day push tally to 613 in Haryana||With 38 cases in the last 24 hours, the state’s tally reached 613 today. The fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (13), Jhajjar (8), Faridabad (7), Sonepat and Jind (3 each), Mahendragarh (2) and Panipat and Fatehabad (1 each).Three more Covid deaths were reported on Thursday — two from Gurugram and one from Panipat. However, the Health Department is yet to include these deaths in its official bulletin.In Gurugram, the 13 cases include two paramedics and one nurse of the Civil Hospital. There are five cases from Jyoti Park, who are primary contacts of the Delhi cop who tested positive a few days ago. Two primary contacts of an ambulance driver in Delhi, who are residents of Rajiv Nagar, also tested positive.In Faridabad, the cases include a 51-year-old factory manager residing in Greenfields Colony, an industrial worker hailing from Sanjay Colony, a 45-year-old woman and her 22-year-old son from Jawahar Colony, two security guards aged 29 years and 33 years, employed with banks and residing in Old Faridabad, and a vegetable vendor hailing from Thakurwada locality in old Faridabad.Among the eight cases in Jhajjar are a six-year-old girl of Bahadurgarh, a 55-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man. All three were kept under home quarantine.In Sonepat, among the three who tested positive are a 51-year-old Assistant Sub-Inspector in Sonepat district. Two staff nurses — a 26-year-old woman and a 22-year-old youth — in a private hospital in the city tested positive for Covid. They were in contact with a woman who had tested positive earlier.In Jind, one person was found positive in Sangatpura and two persons tested positive in Chhatar village.Two constables of the Government Railway Police posted in Delhi were found positive in Narnaul. They arrived at their relative’s house at Housing Board Colony on Wednesday night. The youths apprised the district health authorities of being Covid positive.A 40-year-old man of Pawati village in Samalkha, Panipat, tested positive for Covid. His cousin had sustained injuries due to electric shock and was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital.He had stayed in the hospital. He came from Delhi on April 30. He reported at the General Hospital on May 1 and his reports came positive on Wednesday night.In Fatehabad, a 38-year-old man who returned from Nanded in Maharashtra reported positive.So far, 46,495 samples had been sent for testing and 41,861 came negative while results in 4,009 cases were awaited. The tests per million population reached 1,834. The doubling rate dipped to nine days. — TNS
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three more die in Haryana||With two deaths in Gurugram and one in Panipat, the death toll in the state reached 10 on Thursday. It is the highest number of casualties in a day.In Gurugram, one victim was a 37-year-old man residing in Harijan Colony and the other a 42-year-old man hailing from Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh. Both were brought dead to the Civil Hospital in Gurugram. Their samples were taken thereafter.Panipat registered its second fatality. A 28-year-old migrant labourer who died at the General Hospital in the wee hours was found positive in the evening.Dr SL Verma, Civil Surgeon, Panipat, said the deceased hailed from Bihar, but had been staying in Jhattipur village of Samalkha for the past eight years. He was cremated in accordance with WHO guidelines. — TNS
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t accept IAS officer’s resignation, Haryana urges Centre||The Haryana Government today requested the Centre not to accept the resignation of 2014-batch IAS officer Rani Nagar, who resigned from service on May 4 citing “personal safety on government duty”.In its recommendation to the Centre, the Haryana Chief Secretary urged the Centre not to accept the officer’s resignation. The Chief Secretary, however, recommended that the officer should be sent to Uttar Pradesh, her parent state, on inter-state deputation.Sources said the Chief Secretary sent the recommendation to the Centre after the nod from Chief Minister Manohar LaL Khattar.The issue had snowballed into a major embarrassment for the state government, with the Opposition targeting it on the issue of women’s safety.Meanwhile, Faridabad MP Krishan Pal Gurjar was quick to thank Khattar for ‘rejecting’ Nagar’s resignation and recommending her inter-state deputation to Uttar Pradesh.Nagar, former Additional Director, Social Justice and Empowerment, and Additional Director, Archives, sent her resignation to the Chief Secretary on May 4, with a request to forward it to the competent authority in the Centre for acceptance. — TNS
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid infection spreads faster than national average in Haryana||From 309 cases on April 28 to 627 today, Covid positive cases in Haryana have more than doubled in nine days.With the all-India doubling rate of Covid cases being 11 now, this is the first time since the outbreak that Haryana has surpassed the national average in the speed of spread.Haryana had 309 positive cases of Covid, including 14 Italian nationals, on April 28. With 210 patients cured and three deaths, there were only 96 active cases in the state on that day.The number of positive cases have touched 627 today and with a number of cases coming in the past week, the number of active cases stands at 357 today – increasing almost four times in eight days.Almost all these cases are attributed to people coming from the national capital to Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar, Sonepat, Panipat and Gurugram.While over 50 cases are attributed to Azadpur vegetable market of Delhi, many other cases have contacted infection through health workers and police officials of the Delhi Government living in Haryana.Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij admitted that the outbreak of the disease in the national capital has led to the recent wave of positive Covid cases in Haryana.He said that the state government has taken effective measures now by sealing Haryana’s borders with Delhi and this would continue till there is improvement.“We were already apprehensive of Delhi Government’s employees visiting their villages in Haryana. This infection has manifested now because it is difficult to detect during the incubation period,” Vij added.He said that just a little over a week back, Haryana’s doubling rate had increased to 21 days, much better than the national average and the recovery rate, too, had increased to 72 per cent.
08-05-2020||Sonepat||PPE discomfort: 4-hour shifts for BPS college doctors in Sonepat||Taking into account the problems faced by doctors in wearing PPE kits for eight hours at a stretch during their duty in isolation wards, doctors at BPS Government Women Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, will do their duties in two shifts of four hours each in the morning and evening.The decision was taken at a meeting attended by Supervisory Charge Officer KM Pandurang, Sonepat Deputy Commissioner Anshaj Singh, college Director Dr Renu Garg and other senior functionaries.To a question over inconvenience in wearing PPE, Pandurang said representative of companies engaged in preparing the kits would be asked to make necessary changes as per the demand of the doctors.Associate Professor of Microbiology Dr Sarita Yadav said samples from eight districts of the state were being tested in the college laboratory and with the increase in the number samples, it was taking more time for giving the test reports. “We have received around 350 samples in last four days,” she said. The DC said another sample testing machine could be provided to the college and till then samples could be sent to other laboratories in the state. — OC
08-05-2020||Ambala||On sanitisation duty, they spread awareness too in Ambala||From door-to-door garbage collection to sanitising streets, roads and public places, clearing garbage bins, collecting and disposing medical waste as well as that generated by Covid-positive or suspected patients, sanitation workers are playing a vital role in the coordinated action plan to contain the pandemic.Wearing masks — and some of them gloves — these employees of civic bodies or outsourced through private contractor are keeping the Ambala twin towns clean. In nearby Naraingarh, cleanliness workers were doing their job with dedication. Besides sanitation duties, these workers also spread public awareness about social distancing and wearing of masks at public places.“We are doing our job without fear and it is our duty to rise to the occasion during this crisis,” said MC Employees’ Union local president Manga Singh. As many as 86 safai karamcharis, including women, keep Naraingarh clean.“As soon as we spot someone without a mask, we appeal to them to wear one and maintain social distancing when they are out to shop,” said Sanjeev Kumar, a door-to-door garbage collection supervisor. Chameli Devi and Baldevi, door-to-door garbage collectors, said local residents were also extending their full support and cooperation in maintaining cleanliness.“When social, religious and political organisations shower flower petals on us to recognise our services, it feels good and makes us proud,” said Kuldeep Singh, who was engaged in cleaning open drains and nullahs. His wife Jagdeep Kaur is a local councillor.MC Secretary Gulshan Kumar and sanitary inspector Rohit Kapoor said they were ensuring the safety of safai karamcharis on duty and providing them with masks and all other requisites as per the protocol.Lauding the services of sanitation workers, SDM Aditi said their role was also that of Covid warriors. “They risk their lives to keep the city clean. We are ensuring their regular health check-up and conducting Covid tests of symptomatic workers to keep them safe.”
08-05-2020||Sushil Manav||Now, home isolation for mild cases in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 7With the increasing number of Covid-positive cases putting pressure on the healthcare infrastructure, Haryana has decided to isolate patients with mild symptoms of the pre-symptomatic stage in their homes rather than admit them to hospital.Haryana, at present, has 337 active cases with over 200 of them admitted to the PGIMS, Rohtak, and BPS Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan (Sonepat).Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, confirmed the move and said it was in accordance with the Centre’s guidelines on April 27.“I have written to the deputy commissioners and SPs of various districts of the state listing guidelines for home isolation of very mild and pre-symptomatic Covid cases. The districts will now isolate such patients in their homes,” said Arora.The Centre’s guidelines say the patient must have a 24X7 caregiver and requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and quarantining of family contacts, there should be a communication link between the caregiver and the hospital during isolation, hydroxychloroquine must be administered to all close contacts as prescribed by the physician and Arogya Setu app must be downloaded.“Once the patient finds difficulty in breathing, feels persistent pain or pressure on chest, mental confusion or ability to arouse, develops bluish discolouration of lips or face or is advised by the physician so, he or she must seek medical attention immediately. The home isolation will end if the symptoms are clinically resolved and the surveillance medical officer certifies him to be free from infection after laboratory testing,” he added.Dhruv Chaudhary, Nodal Officer for Covid in Haryana, said that with increase in the number of patients, it would become difficult for the government to keep patients with mild symptoms and those at pre-symptomatic stage in hospitals as there is already pressure on the health infrastructure.The PGIMS, Rohtak, currently has over 100 patients while almost an equal number of patients are admitted to BPS Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan.
08-05-2020||Rohtak||PGIMS Rohtak set to use plasma therapy on critical patients||Pt BD Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here will start using plasma therapy to treat severely infected Covid patients. Authorities at the state nodal centre for Covid in the institute say the therapy is helpful in boosting the immune system to fight severe infections.Based on passive immunityWorldwide studies are currently underway on various therapies against Covid, plasma being one of them. The therapy is based on the concept of passive immunity, where antibodies of some disease developed in a person are used for treating others. Antibody-rich blood from cured patients is transfused into an active Covid patient to help his or her immune system fight the infection.The Ethics Committee of the PGIMS has approved the use of plasma therapy on Covid patients in critical condition and the process has been initiated to get a nod from the Director Controller General of India (DCGI).“Patients who recover from an infectious disease often produce antibodies that can protect against later infections of the same virus. Plasma therapy involves transfusing the antibodies into an active Covid patient to help his or her immune system fight off the infection,” said Dr Dhruv Choudhary, Nodal Officer for Covid.How the therapy worksPlasma in the blood contains antibodies, which helps to fight foreign pathogens. Once they have dealt with a certain kind of foreign element, some blood cells act as a memory cell and store information. When they come in contact with the same kind of pathogens again they identify and defect it quickly by producing the same antibodies.Explaining the process, Dr Choudhary, also head of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine at the institute, said antibodies are as per principal taken from the blood after four weeks of a person’s recovery from the infection. Before this, an antibody test of the person is required to ascertain the volume of antibodies. If the volume is sufficient, antibodies are taken and transfused into patients suffering from infection, he added.“Plasma therapy will be administered only to critical patients who need ventilator support. The PGIMS Ethics Committee has already approved use of the therapy. We will contact persons who have recovered from Covid to motive them to donate plasma for the treatment of Covid patients. However, no requirement has yet been felt to use plasma therapy as all patients here are stable,” he said.Dr Choudhary said plasma is one of the components of blood and it is separated from other components like red and white cells through a cell separator machine. The PGIMS has a high-tech blood bank for the process, he said.When asked why PGIMS was going for this therapy when it is being said it was not useful, he said it was not a treatment, but provides antibodies to patients.PGIMS spokesman Varun Arora said 81 Covid patients were undergoing treatment.
08-05-2020||Karnal||Covid-negative man succumbs||The 35-year-old man, who sustained serious injuries after he allegedly jumped from the fourth floor of the KCGMC, succumbed to injuries on Thursday.Rubal of the Sadar Bazar area was a Covid suspect and his report came negative.Dr Jagdish Dureja, director, KCGMC, said he died on Thursday. He was a liquor addict and was admitted to the hospital with a liver problem. “We had collected his sample for Covid test, which came as negative. We have already shared his report with him on Wednesday afternoon, but in the late evening he jumped from the fourth floor,” he added.Sanjeev Gaur, SHO, Civil Lines, said they had handed over the body to the family after the autopsy. — TNS
08-05-2020||Ambala||Shramik train from Ambala takes 1,188 migrants home||As many as 1,188 migrant labourers, most of whom were stranded since the national lockdown was clamped on March 25, boarded a special Shramik Express train, which chugged off from here this evening, to return to their homes in Bihar.The passengers, belonging to seven districts in Bihar, were provided with food packets, water bottles and sanitisers for use during the 25.5-hour-long journey to Katihar where the train would reach tomorrow at 5.30 pm. The children on board were given biscuits.Second train leaves HisarHisar: Another Shramik train left Hisar railway station for Muzaffarpur in Bihar carrying 1,200 workers from 13 districts on Thursday. A district official said workers, including six women, hailing from Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Gopalgang, West Champaran, Madhubani and Shivhar would reach Muzaffarpur where they would be quarantined for 14 days before heading to their native places. TNSDC Ashok Kumar Sharma and SP Abhishek Jorwal headed the team of district civil and police administration that gave a send-off to the migrants from the railway station in Ambala Cantonment.Each and every passenger was medically examined before being allowed to board the train. As many as 54 passengers were seated in each of the total 24 coaches — while maintaining social distance — in the train.While 117 migrants, who boarded the train, were from Ambala district, others from different districts of the state reached here through special buses arranged by the state government. Of them, 23 were from Panipat, 509 from Bhiwani, 512 from Jind, 25 from Fatehabad, seven from Hisar and eight from Kaithal.“The migrants were provided free travel and other facilities during the journey,” said the DC.Station Superintendent BS Gill said the train would reach Katihar in Bihar via Saharanpur in UP tomorrow. From Katihar, the passengers would be taken to their home districts on special buses.“It was like a dream coming true for us,” said Rajni, who was among the passengers who boarded the special train. Similarly, other migrants Aarti, Suman, Sanju, Sonu, Sajan, Krishan Kumar, Suraj Kumar, Lakhan and Prabhjot said they were thankful to the government for arranging a safe and free return journey.
08-05-2020||Rohtak||Wages stuck, factory workers forced to leave Rohtak||Despite the government advisory, many employers did not pay wages to scores of factory workers in the district during the lockdown period. Now, with their meagre savings nearly over, the workers want to return to their villages.Sample this: Bimal Kumar (30), who worked in a factory that manufactures door handles at the IDC here and lives on rent with his wife and a child nearby, was not paid after March 21. With his savings spent, he has no option but to return to his native place Hardoi in UP and has got his name registered.Rohtak district has more than 2,000 small, medium and large-scale industries employing 50,000 workers.“I have run out of money and now there is no guarantee of employment till industrial activity becomes normal. I’m forced to go home,” said Vijay Shankar of Bihar, who worked in a tap manufacturing unit.Saroj, also a labourer, had to get Rs2,500 from his village in Bihar to sustain himself when his employer refused to pay for the lockdown period.Sanjeev Singh, joint secretary, Purvanchal Ekta Sewa Samiti, which is helping labourers register for travel, said they had registered over 3,000 in three days and none of them had been paid for April.SK Khator, chief, Rohtak IDC Industries Association, said factory owners were helpless and unable to pay the labourers for the lockdown period as payments were stuck in the market. He said 25% labourers had already returned to their villages and 35% more were likely to follow.“Though a considerable number of factories have got the nod to resume operations, units from where they get work orders are still shut. There is no work for labourers till then. Industrial activities will take at least a month to limp back to normalcy.”
08-05-2020||Panipat||‘Refused’ admission twice, Delhi cop dies||A 31-year-old resident of Sonepat’s Hullaheri village, who was a Delhi Police Constable, died due to Covid in the national capital on Tuesday evening.He was tested for Covid following complaints of breathlessness, slight fever and cough on Tuesday afternoon and died in the evening. His report came positive on Wednesday afternoon and he was cremated in Delhi on Thursday in accordance with the WHO guidelines.Negligence allegedHullaheri sarpanch Sarita Rana and her husband Pravesh Rana alleged that Amit had died due to negligence of the Delhi Police and Health Department. His colleagues took him from one hospital to another, but none admitted him, said Pravesh. It was shocking that hospitals had no room for him though he fought the pandemic at the frontline, he added.Deceased Amit Kumar was posted in Bharat Nagar police station of north-west Delhi.An audio of the deceased’s two colleagues went viral, in which Amit’s friend Navin gave details about his ailment and alleged that two hospitals had refused to admit him.Navin said Amit reported on duty on Monday and came to the accommodation where he stayed. He had fever, but was fine after he took medicine, but his condition started deteriorating in the wee hours on Tuesday, he added.They took him to Haiderpur Covid centre, but the staff there said they could only test him and suggested that he be taken to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital. They waited in queue for over two and a half hours, after which the staff there said they could conduct tests, but not admit him.After that, they took him to Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital, where the doctors gave him some medicines and he felt better. They then went to a Covid centre in Ashok Vihar for tests. When the staff told them that they could admit him, but he would have to manage everything on his own, they brought him back to their accommodation.In the evening, his condition deteriorated and he could not talk properly. The SHO told Navin to take Amit to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. He drove fast, but Amit died before they reached hospital. Doctors declared him brought dead, the deceased’s friend said in the audio.Lt-Guv offers condolencesLt-Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday tweeted: “Deeply saddened by the news of the death of Delhi Police Constable Amit. His sacrifice in the fight against Covid will always be remembered. He was a great warrior who brought glory to the frontline police personnel fighting the pandemic. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family.” — TNS
08-05-2020||Rohtak||34 Bengaluru RMS students get nod to return||As many as 34 boys belonging to various districts of the state finally got permission to return to their home from Bengaluru where they study in Rashtriya Military School.Two buses, one each from Hisar and Sirsa, left on Wednesday to bring them back. Seven students are from Hisar, six each from Rohtak and Jhajjar while others are from Sirsa, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Jind, Gurugram, Mahendragarh and Rewari.2 BUSES LEAVETwo buses leave to fetch them, expected to be home on SundayRashtriya Military Schools are from Class 6 to 12. There are five such schools at Dholpur, Ajmer, Bengaluru, Chail and Belgaum“Our children are stuck in the Bengaluru school for over a month due to the lockdown. We were trying to obtain permission to bring them back. An application was moved online to get movement pass from the Hisar authorities, but was rejected. Then we approached Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda who helped us get the nod,” said Vinod Kharman, a parent.The buses will leave for Haryana on Friday morning and reach on Sunday.“It’s my duty to help my people in this time of crisis. I called up officers of Hisar and Sirsa when the students’ parents approached me,” said Deepender Hooda. — TNS
