08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 2,380 fresh COVID-19 cases, 15 more deaths||Haryana reported 2,380 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 1,82,804 while 15 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 1,912, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Of the fresh cases, the state’s hardest-hit Gurugram district reported the maximum at 964. This is the district’s sharpest single-day spike, the bulletin said.Of the fatalities, four were reported from Hisar, three from Bhiwani, two each from Gurugram and Mahendergarh, and one each from Faridabad, Karnal, Yamunanagar and Jind districts, it said.Besides Gurugram, districts that reported a big spike in cases are Faridabad (390), Hisar (172) and Rohtak (103), the bulletin stated.Of the 1,82,804 cases recorded so far in Haryana, Gurugram tops the tally with 34,756.The state has 16,448 active COVID-19 cases and a recovery rate of 89.96 per cent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-2-380-fresh-covid-19-cases-15-more-deaths-167968
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt forms SIT to probe hooch deaths||The Haryana government on Sunday formed a special investigation team to probe the recent incidents of deaths due to consumption of suspected spurious liquor in the state.The Special Investigation Team (SIT) led by Additional Director General of Police (Narcotics) Shrikant Jadhav will submit its report within 15 days, Home Minister Anil Vij said in an official statement here.At least 31 people died in Sonepat and Panipat in the past few days after allegedly consuming suspected spurious liquor.Vij said the SIT will inquire into the reasons and sources of such spurious liquor.The SIT will also look into all the complaints received in this regard and take measures to check the illegal sale of liquor in the state, he said.Further, it is empowered to co-opt any such officer and seek assistance from them, the minister added.Inspector General (Ambala Range) Y Puran Kumar, Superintendent of Police (Kurukshetra) Rajesh Duggal, SP Karnal Ganga Ram Punia and SP Mewat Narender Bijania are the other members of the SIT, the statement said.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had on Saturday announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of those who died after consuming adulterated liquor. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-forms-sit-to-probe-hooch-deaths-167948
08-11-2020||Tribune Web Desk||People allowed to sell, burst crackers for 2 hours on Diwali: Haryana CM||Chandigarh, November 8Two days after announcing a “complete ban” on the sale of firecrackers, the Haryana government on Sunday allowed bursting them for two hours on Diwali.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday announced that people in the state would be allowed to sell and burst crackers for two hours on Diwali.The state government on Friday had said it has decided to put a “complete ban” on the sale of crackers in the state to check the coronavirus spread due to pollution caused by the bursting of crackers.“In Haryana, people will be allowed to sell and burst crackers for two hours on Diwali. These decisions have been taken in compliance with the guidelines issued by the National Green Tribunal in the wake of increasing air pollution,” the Chief Minister wrote in a tweet in Hindi.हरियाणा में लोगों को दीपावली पर दो घंटे पटाखे बेचने व बजाने की छूट दी जाएगी। ये निर्णय बढ़ते वायु प्रदूषण के मद्देनजर नेशनल ग्रीन ट्रिब्यूनल (NGT) द्वारा जारी दिशा निर्देशों का अनुपालन करते हुए लिया गया है।  It had been observed that there had been a spike in coronavirus infections due to air pollution, he said.“It has been seen that due to pollution, there has been an increase in corona-infected patients in the past. This decision has been taken in view of reducing pollution and preventing the spread of corona infection,” he said in another tweet.देखने में आया है कि प्रदूषण के कारण पिछले दिनों कोरोना के संक्रमित मरीजों में भी बढ़ोतरी हुई है। प्रदूषण कम करने और कोरोना के संक्रमण के फैलाव को रोकने के मद्देनजर ये निर्णय लिया गया है।||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/people-allowed-to-sell-burst-crackers-for-2-hours-on-diwali-haryana-cm-167936
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Congress slams Haryana govt over revision of fee structure for medical education||The opposition Congress on Sunday accused the BJP-led Haryana government of raising the fees for medical education in state-run colleges.It said such a move will shatter the dreams of children of poor parents.AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala termed the state government’s decision of revising the fee structure for MBBS course for 2020-21 as ‘tughlaki farmaan’ (diktat).“It will shatter the dreams of many aspiring children of poor parents,” he said.Addressing the media through video conferencing, Surjewala alleged the state had “raised” the fees for medical education in government colleges.He claimed the state government had increased the MBBS course fees to Rs 10 lakh per annum which worked out to be Rs 40 lakh for the full course.With the revision of the fee structure, every MBBS student will now have to shell out Rs 3.71 lakh fees in four years. Apart from this, the students will also have to pay Rs 36,28,270 for the loan amount, the Congress leader claimed.“Can any son or daughter of poor parents bear this cost for becoming a doctor?” he said.Earlier, the fees was around Rs 53,000 per annum besides the hostel fees of Rs 15,000-20,000, Surjewala said, adding that the total fees for becoming a MBBS doctor in Haryana was about Rs 3 lakh.According to a notification by the state government, a policy regarding incentivising doctors’ profession has been brought in so that they opt for Haryana government medical service in public health institutions or government medical colleges.Under this policy, a candidate selected for MBBS degree course shall have to execute an annual bond of Rs 10 lakh which shall be paid at the start of each calendar year.With giving an option of facilitating the education loan for the bond amount to the candidate, the state government shall repay the instalment of the loan in case the candidate gets employment with the public health institution after completing the MBBS course, it said.The candidate can also pay the bond amount and fees himself, it added.Surjewala also claimed that the fees for MBBS courses in private medical colleges in the state ranged between Rs 15 to 18 lakh.He said with the government’s “anti-youth” move, aspiring students will be forced to take admission in private medical colleges.He added that the private colleges would also follow the footsteps of the state government.“If the government did not withdraw this decision, we will challenge it in the court,” the Congress leader added.--- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-slams-haryana-govt-over-revision-of-fee-structure-for-medical-education-167935
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana approves 1,000 posts of Ayush assistant: CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said 1,000 posts of Ayush assistant have been approved to encourage yoga education in schools.Also, 560 gymnasiums have been set up and 600 will soon be added.The Chief Minister was virtually addressing a yoga training camp of teachers of the Education Department in Panipat towns.It was by the Haryana School Shiksha Pariyojna Parishad and the Haryana Yog Parishad.The training programme will be conducted in 6,000 schools in three phases wherein yoga will be included in morning meetings.A total of 2,200 teachers will be imparted yoga training in the first phase. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-approves-1-000-posts-of-ayush-assistant-cm-167925
08-11-2020||New Delhi||Haryana govt sends proposal to Centre for setting up new de-addiction centres||The Haryana government has sent a proposal to the Union government for setting up of new de-addiction centres and modernising the existing ones in all the districts, especially the border districts with Punjab.This is in line with Haryana State Council for Child Welfare (HSCCW) putting the spotlight on drug abuse in the state.The proposal, submitted to the Union Social Justice Ministry, includes creation of de-addiction centres at block levels in Sirsa, Fatehabad, Kaithal and Ambala which border with Punjab.Governor and Chief Minister of Haryana are, respectively, ex-officio president and vice-president of the HSCCW.“Curbing the menace of substance abuse among youth of Haryana is in the interest of the future as much as it is for the country,” Honorary General Secretary of HSCCW Krishan Kumar Dhull said here on Sunday, and added that the campaign against the malady will be intensified.Four new de-addiction centres, including one each in Gurugram, Hisar and Sirsa, were made functional in December last year.The HSCCW also looks after the centres in the states.Dhull said about 15 per cent of those treated at the centres are children and adolescents.The HSCCW had undertaken a 16-day ‘bicycle yatra’ from Gurugram-Chandigarh to raise awareness against drug abuse last year.Dhull said the HSCCW will organise the annual “Bal Mahotsav” this year on a record big scale. The schedule of it will be announced shortly.About 10 lakh children of the state will take part in it. So far, two lakh prospective participants have made online registration for the event.He listed streamlining management of the Children Homes, including creation of new ones each at Gurugram, Faridabad and Rohtak among HSCCW’s achievements since he took over about three years ago.About 250 orphans and under-privileged children from these homes, including a good number of girls, have been adopted during his term.As much as 30 per cent of them have been adopted by citizens of foreign origins.The adoption procedure is regimented and structured with mechanism of layers of verification.Dhull lauded Chief Minister ML Khattar for increasing state’s budgetary allocation for HSCCW from Rs 8 crore, before his tenure about three years ago, to Rs 25 crore.Besides, the HSCCW has raised Rs 22 crore through charity donations. With help of Hero Honda Group’s CSR contributions, virtual class rooms, tutorials for regular classes from standard 6-12th, and for competitive exams for under-privileged children free of cost have been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-sends-proposal-to-centre-for-setting-up-new-de-addiction-centres-167871
08-11-2020||Sonepat||Hooch deaths: Toll climbs to 48; Haryana to give Rs 2 lakh relief to kin||Three more persons lost their lives at Gumar village in the district, taking the toll in the spurious liquor tragedy in Sonepat and Panipat districts to 48. Another 30 are still under treatment in various hospitals.20 nabbed so farChief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the victims’ kin. He said strict action would be taken against all those involved in the racket.The police, meanwhile, nabbed seven more accused in the case. One of the accused — Ajit alias Jita of Sitwali village — was a partner in an illegal liquor manufacturing unit unearthed by the SIT on Thursday.The remaining six accused were suppliers. They were identified as Satpal of Baiynapur village, a liquor contractor who owns a vend on the Sonepat-Gohana road, Vicky of Saidpur village, Sonu of Jind, Sahil of Parnala village (Jhajjar), Pawan alias Golu of Panchi village (Sonepat), and Rajbeer of Gumar village (Gannaur).SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said: “We have so far arrested 20 accused and broken the spurious liquor supply chain.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooch-deaths-toll-climbs-to-48-haryana-to-give-rs-2-lakh-relief-to-kin-167684
08-11-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||NV Group chief takes ‘suicidal tendency’ plea, granted bail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7A court in Panipat granted NV Group Chairman Ashok Jain interim bail in a liquor smuggling case after he submitted that he had a suicidal tendency.The case was registered in 2019 after boxes of illegal liquor were found hidden among bags of cattle feed in a truck in Panipat. Jain was booked last month for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy, and for violating the Excise Act.Earlier, he had moved an application for a regular bail, which was dismissed as withdrawn on October 30. Subsequently, he had filed another application for interim bail on medical grounds.During a hearing on Friday before Additional District and Sessions Judge Vimal Sapra, Dr Nikhil Raheja, who has been treating Jain, submitted that Jain “is aged about 72 years” and “he has a bipolar personality” and was suffering from anxiety disorder and panic attacks.He also submitted that the NV Group Chairman “has suicidal tendency and his psychotherapy and psychosocial intervention is being done”.The court was also informed that “Jain remained admitted in hospital on several occasions due to his ailment” and he was being treated for “ectopic heart rhythms and sleep apnea”.Dr Raheja further told the court that “if he is kept in judicial custody, his condition may deteriorate and he may collapse any time”. He further stated that as he was suffering from mental illness, the jail authorities would be unable to provide the requisite treatment in jail.The judge observed, “The opinion of the doctor cannot be rebutted by the prosecution. The prosecution although filed a reply to the application but the same is on merit and there is no whisper in it about the medical condition of the applicant. It has nowhere been verified by the prosecution that the applicant is not suffering from such illness as described by his doctor.”The order said, “The doctor present in the court has stated that at least three-week time shall be required for providing requisite treatment to the applicant. On his request, the application is allowed and the applicant is ordered to be released on interim bail.”On the request of Jain’s counsel, the judge agreed for making effective the interim bail order from November 10 as accused was in custody in three other cases and applications for interim bail had been moved in those cases too. The interim bail would be till December 1.The NV Group has distilleries in Ambala (Haryana), Rajpura (Punjab), Aurangabad (Maharashtra), and Goa, and a bottling plant in Chandigarh.DOCTOR’S SUBMISSIONS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nv-group-chief-takes-suicidal-tendency-plea-granted-bail-167690
08-11-2020||Ambala||Youth stabbed in Ambala||A 17-year-old boy was stabbed to death, while his uncle suffered injuries after they were allegedly attacked over a petty dispute near a grocery store in Panjokhra on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Akash, a resident of Janetpur. His uncle Ajay (32), who works as a labourer, is under treatment in a Chandigarh hospital. The accused, identified as Angrej Singh (24), a resident of the district’s Tundli village, has been arrested. He will be produced in court on Sunday. He was booked under Sections 302, 307 and 324 of IPC. He already faces an assault case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-stabbed-in-ambala-167691
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||2,011 Covid cases, 17 deaths in a day||With 2,011 fresh Covid cases and 17 deaths, the state tally on Saturday jumped to 1.80 lakh.Hisar alone reported six deaths on Saturday, followed by three in Bhiwani, two each in Fatehabad, Faridabad, Panipat, and one each in Gurugram and Sirsa. So far, 1,897 people have died with 1,670 having co-morbidities.The maximum fresh cases were recorded in Gurugram (523), followed by Faridabad (421), Hisar (262), Rohtak (105) and Rewari (108).Total 1,638 patients have recovered in the past 24 hours. So far, 1.62 lakh people have got discharged with a recovery rate of 90.24 per cent and only 15,713 cases are active in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-011-covid-cases-17-deaths-in-a-day-167692
08-11-2020||Hisar||No oxygen support, Covid-positive patient dies||A case of causing death due to negligence has been registered against three persons after a Covid-positive patient died due to the lack of oxygen support in an ambulance.The deceased, identified as Pushpender, was being taken to a hospital in Gurugram from Hisar.Complainant Jagdish Kumar, cousin of the deceased, said his brother tested positive for Covid on October 13. “His condition deteriorated on October 16 when he was admitted to Jindal Hospital. When his condition failed to improve, he was referred to a Gurugram hospital.”Jagdish said they hired an ambulance for taking Pushpender to Gurugram. However, the ambulance driver returned to Hisar from Hansi, saying that there was no oxygen cylinder in the vehicle and he had to pick it up from the town. In the meantime, Pushpender started having trouble breathing and was rushed to Jindal Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-oxygen-support-covid-positive-patient-dies-167693
08-11-2020||
||294 ‘fake’ gate passes issued in Karnal grain market: SDM||Karnal, November 7 The city police have registered a case against the Karnal market committee secretary, eight gate operators and unknown arhtiyas in the alleged case of the issuance of ‘fake’ gate passes at the Karnal mandi. However, no arrest has been made so far. The case was registered on the report of Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha, who conducted a probe marked by Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav. The DC had received an anonymous complaint that fake gate passes were being issued at various grain markets in the district to adjust the non-registered paddy being brought from other states and was being procured as PR varieties, which is procured by the government. Yadav had formed four teams led by the SDMs concerned to complete the probe and submit the report in three days. Initial probe found that as many as 294 online gate passes were issued for 28,000 quintals of paddy without the actual arrival of the PR variety at the mandi gates. “I checked the recordings of the CCTV cameras installed at the mandi entrances and the gate pass record of e-kharid portal. It was found that 294 gate passes were issued without the arrival of PR paddy as well as in farmers’ absence. I have submitted my report to the DC,” the SDM said. A case had been registered against the accused under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC.  Karnal Arhtiyas’ Association chief Rajnish Chaudhary, however, claimed no illegal process was adopted and the gate passes were issued on the request of the arhtiyas as the e-kharid portal was not working properly. Meanwhile, no official of the market committee was available for comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/294-fake-gate-passes-issued-in-karnal-grain-market-sdm-167694
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Parole to Ram Rahim as per law: Jails Minister||Minister for Power and Prisons, Ranjit Singh, today justified one-day parole to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh on October 24 saying it was given as per law.“Yes, on October 24, he (Ram Rahim) was allowed to visit his mother who was admitted in a Gurugram hospital. There is a provision under the law that in case of an emergency in the family of a convict, the prisoner is allowed to visit his family under police protection. He was taken under full police protection after the government had taken into consideration all aspects,” Singh told the media.“You have asked about Babaji (Ram Rahim), but hundreds of prisoners are being given parole daily. There is a law regarding this. We cannot change it,” the minister added.He said had he sought parole for a larger period, the government would have taken several factors into consideration since cases were still pending against him, but the parole was for just one day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parole-to-ram-rahim-as-per-law-jails-minister-167695
08-11-2020||---||Government tried to muzzle Opposition in House: Hooda||Chandigarh, November 7A day after Congress MLAs were suspended by Vidhan Sabha Speaker for “creating ruckus” during a discussion on an official resolution on the three farm Bills passed by the Centre, former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda today alleged the BJP-JJP government was trying to muzzle the voice of the Opposition.Hooda, who is Leader of Opposition, told the media here on Saturday that despite his repeated citing of the rules, the Speaker paid scant regard to the Assembly procedure.Citing Rule 183 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Haryana Legislative Assembly, Hooda alleged the Speaker refused to put to vote the motion although he (Hooda) had moved an amendment to the original resolution.Rule 183 reads: “When an amendment to any resolution is moved, or when two or more such amendments are moved, the Speaker shall, before taking sense of the Assembly thereon, state or read to the Assembly the terms of the original motion or any amendments proposed.”Clause 2 of the same rule provides that “it shall be discretion of the Speaker to put first to vote either the original motion or any other amendment which may have been brought forward”.Hooda alleged the Speaker was adamant to go for discussion on the original resolution ignoring the Opposition’s demand to put it to the vote first.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-tried-to-muzzle-opposition-in-house-hooda-167696
08-11-2020||Faridabad||2 from Faridabad die after consuming illicit liquor||Two men have died after reportedly consuming spurious liquor on November 3, while two others are under treatment. The police have received a complaint in this connection, but they are yet to register an FIR.The deceased have been identified as Roop Lal (29) and Krishan (32), both natives of the district’s Machhghar village.The Faridabad incident followed close on the heels of 45 deaths in Sonepat and Panipat districts due to spurious liquor over the past few days.Roop Lal, who was admitted to a private hospital in Noida died on November 4, while Krishan died here on Friday.Tigaon ACP Prithvi Singh said, “An inquest report is being prepared after having received a complaint from Krishan’s family. An FIR will be registered after investigating the matter. The police have not received a complaint related to the second death caused by spurious liquor.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-from-faridabad-die-after-consuming-illicit-liquor-167697
08-11-2020||Our Correspondent||2 fake call centres busted in Gurugram||Gurugram, November 7The CM flying squad in collaboration with the Gurugram police busted two fake call centres in a raid conducted on Friday night. Over 65 employees of the centres at Sector 35 here were detained and four persons who were partners in the fake call centres were nabbed while two masterminds are on run.These call centres have been in operation for two months and duped over 500 foreigners of more than Rs 1 crore through pop ups offering technical support, hardware upgrades and antivirus etc after posing as Microsoft employees.Four laptops, four CPUs and Rs 6, 48,000 was recovered from these call centers by the police team.On the complaint of the CM squad inspector Krishan Kumar, an FIR has been registered at Badshahpur police station.Gurugram CM squad DSP Inderjeet Yadav said on a tip-off, a raid was conducted at two fake call centres in Sector 35. Unolo Technology Private Limited, with around 40 employees, did not possess a valid OSP licence issued by the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work.The police detained all employees and arrested two partners of the call centre, who were identified as Manish and Sunil Tripathi, while the head of the call centre Roshan Thomas managed to escape. Later, another raid was conducted at Indosoft Technology Private Limited in which 25 employees were detained while the head of the centre Rahul Kumar too managed to escape but his two partners, identified as Jigar and Hansraj, were arrested. The arrested accused revealed that they had duped many foreigners.“The accused first used to collect data such as name, mobile number and email and then used to send them a voice mail. Targeting foreigners by sending pop ups, they used to provide antivirus on the pretext of technical help from Microsoft. They used to take mobile numbers of US nationals and redeem them on the pretext of purchasing gift cards. They had duped over 500 foreigners of Rs 1 crore using this method. We are conducting raids to arrest the key accused,” said Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-fake-call-centres-busted-in-gurugram-167698
08-11-2020||Ambala||1,675 bags of urea seized, three booked||The Agriculture Department and Ambala police have seized 1,675 bags (45-kg per bag) of urea which were being illegally transported to Punjab from Ambala City on Friday night. The urea was meant for the farmers of Ambala but was being allegedly smuggled by a dealer to Punjab-based firms.Deputy Director Agriculture Girish Nagpal said, “A raid was conducted at the Ambala City new grain market, where four trucks loaded with urea were parked and the stock was being loaded in some vehicles. We found that the stock was to be sent to Punjab.”Ambala City police station SHO Ram Kumar said, “A case has been registered against three persons under Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act and Sections 420 and 120 b of the IPC. Further investigation has been started.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-675-bags-of-urea-seized-three-booked-167700
08-11-2020|| 
||HARERA sets up mediation forum||Chandigarh, November 7  The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HARERA), Gurugram, has established a full-fledged mediation forum for amicable conciliation of disputes between the promoters and the allottees. A spokesperson for the HRERA on Saturday said the authority had brought to the forefront a multitude of cases of homebuyers’ dissatisfaction in dealing with real estate developers and service providers.  He further said delays in delivery of projects, increase in cost during construction, skewed builder-buyer agreement and the absence of an effective enforcement mechanism had increased homebuyers’ agony over the years and subsequently resulted in more complaints brought before the regulator. “This has not only increased the pressure on the HARERA, but also on our civil courts, which are already dealing with high pendency of cases,” the spokesperson said. He added the authority had constituted a panel of mediators equipped with requisite skills to mediate in a dispute related to real estate projects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/harera-sets-up-mediation-forum-167701
08-11-2020||Palwal||Govt doctors to collect food samples in Palwal||Authorising government doctors to collect food samples, the district administration has announced to set up six teams to conduct raids for checking adulteration.No Food Safety Officer (FSO) has been posted on a regular basis for the past seven years, though additional charge has been given to the official posted in the neighbouring district of Faridabad.Deputy Commissioner Naresh Narwal said six Medical Officer of the Health Department had been authorised to collect food samples and report to the district administration, so that the sale of spurious ghee, oil and milk products such as khoya and paneer could be checked to avoid adulteration in sweets this festive season. However, claiming that the teams would remain functional for an indefinite period, he said the Civil Surgeon had been asked to coordinate the task and submit a combined action-taken report each month.Meanwhile, officials, including city magistrate, tehsildar, naib tehsildar and BDPO, have been appointed as duty magistrates and police personnel of the respective stations have been attached to assist the teams in conducting raids and collecting samples. The teams will be functional in all six blocks of the district. A notification issued by the Health Department in 2012 has been invoked for the purpose, it is revealed.Sources said though the FSO and designated officer of the Food and Safety Department posted in Faridabad had been given the additional charge of Palwal, the sampling had been poor. However, ND Sharma, designated officer, Faridabad, claimed that the sampling was done regularly and more than 20 samples had been collected in the past few months in both the districts to check adulteration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-doctors-to-collect-food-samples-in-palwal-167702
08-11-2020||---||Villagers protest, want higher rate for AIIMS land||Rewari, November 7Residents of various villages under the aegis of the AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti on Saturday staged dharna at Nehru Park here for three hours and took out a protest march. They are demanding Rs 50 lakh per acre in lieu of providing land to the AIIMS project and for laying the foundation stone of the project at the earliest.The protesters served a one-month ultimatum on the state government to fulfil their demands and also threatened to announce a decisive “battle” by holding a panchayat on December 6 over the issue. They also submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister through the district administration regarding their demands.“A committee of central government which inspected the proposed site in Majra and Bhalkhi villages on October 1 has found it suitable for the project. Residents of both the villages are ready to sell their land at the rate of Rs 50 lakh per acre but the state government is offering Rs 30 lakh per acre. That is totally unjustified. Today’s dharna was staged to register our protest against the government’s offer,” said Sheotaz Singh, chief of the sangharsh samiti.He said the next meeting of the samiti would be convened on December 6 in which the final strategy would be chalked out to launch a decisive battle for getting their demands met. “We have waited for a long time but the government doesn’t seem serious about our demands,” he added.Rajender Singh Nimoth, spokesperson of the samiti, said instead of buying land at the rate of Rs 50 lakh per acre, the district administration was exerting pressure on the villagers to accept the government rates by searching for alternative site for the project near Masani barrage. But the samiti was firm on the demand and would get it met at any cost, he added.The nation’s 22nd AIIMS project was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Kurukshetra in February 2019 before the Lok Sabha elections. Initially, the project was to be executed at Manethi village but the non-availability of adequate land forced the authorities to shift it to Majra and Bhalkhi village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villagers-protest-want-higher-rate-for-aiims-land-167703
08-11-2020||Jhajjar||Man shot in Jhajjar village||A 30-year-old man, identified as Sombir, was shot dead by two unidentified assailants at his house in Jassaur Kheri village here in the wee hours of Saturday. The killers fled the spot after the crime. Vazir Singh, Investigation Officer, said efforts were on to identify the killers. TNSAmbalaOne held for assaultThe police have arrested Bharti of Ambala Cantonment in a case of assault and criminal intimidation on Saturday. According to the police, Meeta Ram of Ambala Cantonment had reported that the accused along with his accomplices had assaulted him on August 14. A local court remanded him to two-day police custody. TNSProclaimed offender heldThe police have arrested and later released on bail a proclaimed offender Sandeep Kumar of Panipat who was wanted in a criminal case registered against him at Baldev Nagar police station. TNS2 held for liquor smugglingThe police have arrested two persons in separate cases of liquor smuggling and claimed to have recovered 21 bottles of illicit liquor from their possession. Both the arrested accused were later released on bail, said the officials. TNSPedestrian killed in mishapA pedestrian, Abhi Ram of Barara near here, was killed in a hit-and-run mishap on Saturday. The police said the accident took place near a bus stand in Barara and a case had been registered against the driver. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-shot-in-jhajjar-village-167709
08-11-2020||Bathinda||Two Haryana men held in Punjab with fake notes||The Bathinda police have arrested two persons for printing fake currency notes at Dabwali in Haryana and selling these in Punjab. The police have seized fake currency notes with a face value of Rs 9.50 lakh from accused Sonu Kumar and Pankaj Sharma of Dabwali.The police have also seized a printer and ink from the accused. CIA 1 official Amritpal Singh said: “We got a tip-off that Sonu and Pankaj, who print and sell fake currency notes in other states, were on their way to Bathinda. Acting on the tip-off, the police laid a naka near Doomwali and arrested both accused.The police seized a printer and ink used to print fake currency notes. The premilinary investigation has revealed that the accused used to sell fake currency notes with a face value of Rs 1 lakh in lieu of Rs 30,000. A case under Sections 489A, 489B and 489C of the IPC has been registered against both accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-haryana-men-held-in-punjab-with-fake-notes-167568
