08-10-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Elderly in rural Haryana have a positive attitude towards mental illness: PGIMER study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8A study by Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has found that elderly in the northern rural Haryana, in general, have a positive attitude towards mental illness and have a lower level of stigma associated with it.The study was carried out at Civil Hospital in Naraingarh (Ambala) by the treating team of Psychiatry, which had received complaints of people not taking treatment for mental health-related ailments, and some being mistreated at home or visiting quacks for help.  MethodologyOne hundred and four adults, aged 60 years or above, from a rural background visiting a general outpatient’s clinic at the Civil Hospital as attendants of patients were evaluated on Community Attitudes toward the Mentally Ill (CAMI) scale, developed to measure the extent of stigma for mental disorders among the older adults.The scale consisted of 40 attitudinal statements which were put to participants. They were further divided into four subgroups: Authoritarianism –view mentally ill person as someone who is inferior and requires supervision and coercion.Benevolence – corresponds to a humanistic and sympathetic view towards sick mentally persons.Social Restrictiveness – reflects the belief that mentally ill patients are a threat to society and should be avoided.Community Mental Health Ideology – acceptance of mental health services and the integration of mentally ill patients into the community.Results  Over 45 per cent agreed that most women who were once patients in a mental hospital could be trusted as baby sitters, but 26 per cent disagreed and 3.8 per cent strongly disagreed.Over 56 per cent agreed that anyone could be mentally ill while 57.7 per cent disagreed that the best way to handle them is to keep them behind locked doors.As many as 36.5 per cent agreed that mentally ill were a burden on society, but more 45.2 per cent disagreed too.Also, 59.6 per cent responded that they agreed that mentally ill are subject of ridicule for long, and 45.2 per cent agreed that mental hospitals were outdated means of treating the mentally ill. As many as 69.2 per cent of respondents agreed that more tax money should be spent on care and treatment of mentally ill while 39.4 per cent say mental hospitals are like prisons.On not wanting to live the next door to a mentally ill, 36.5 per cent agreed but 40.4 per cent disagreed. Close to 27 per cent agreed that a mentally ill person should be excluded from taking public office, but 54.8 per cent disagreed.  When asked whether a woman would be foolish to marry a man who has had mental illness even though he seems fully recovered, 47.1 per cent agreed while 29.8 per cent disagreed.Close to 55 per cent agreed that residents should accept the location of mental health facilities in their neighbourhood.“The highest score was obtained for ‘Benevolence’ subscale, which reflected a positive attitude of elderly towards mentally ill. The reason could be due to contact with a patient of mental illness or experience from the community,” said Dr Aseem Mehra, Assistant Professor, Department of Psychiatry, PGIMER.Dr Mehra is the corresponding author for the research paper published in the Indian Journal of Social Psychiatry.Other contributors to the article were former Senior Resident Dr Himashu Singla, Prof Sandeep Grover and former Head of Department Ajit Avasthi. “There is much work still to be done in this field to make people aware about mental illness. A person with mental illness can live a normal life with adequate treatment and can contribute equally to the community like a normal person,” said Dr Mehra.
08-10-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||28-year-old woman attempts self-immolation in Gurugram CP office; highlights security lapse||High drama was witnessed at Gurugram police commissioner office on Thursday when an alleged rape victim tried to immolate self-accusing police of harassment. Cops intervened on time, and stopped her. They further inquired into the matter. An FIR was registered at the civil lines police station, and she was later, arrested by the police. She had drenched herself in petrol when the cops arrived and stopped her. Police said that the woman is a repeat offender of suicide attempts. She and her, husband are going through a divorce at Allahabad court since 2017. The incident took place at 2 pm when the 28-year-old woman reached the CP office. She was carrying a bottle of petrol and a matchbox with a plastic bag. After meeting the ACP, she poured the petrol on her, and tried to immolate herself on the stairs.   Cops noticed the woman, and quickly snatched the matchbox away from her. An eyewitness, Shanti Devi, told that before she visited the CP office, she had gone to meet the SHO of the women police station, but was 'scolded' by the SHO. Later, she visited the CP office, but she wasn't satisfied, and tried to immolate herself. An FIR has been registered against the woman under section 190 (threat of injury), 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code at the civil lines police station where she was arrested. “She had attempted to commit suicide in February, and also in August in Delhi’s Kotla Mubarikpur area. A case of divorce is pending against her husband in Allahabad court. She had married Yogesh in a temple in August and later filed a rape case against him also. Yogesh has also filed a case of trapping against her. We are investigating into the matter”, said Usha Kundu, ACP, Gurugram.The incident, however, highlights security lapses at the CP office as a woman managed to smuggle petrol inside.
08-10-2020||Jhajjar||Seven months on, 76 gallantry award winners in Jhajjar yet to get annuity||More than 76 gallantry award winners, retired armed forces personnel and their widows in the district have been waiting for their annuity for the past seven months.Generally, the annuity is released to the beneficiaries in March every year but it was not released in due course this year reportedly due to the COVID situation.The annuity for gallantry award ranges between Rs 48,000 to Rs 2 lakh per beneficiary given to the recipients of Param Vir Chakra, Mahavir Chakra, Shaurya Chakra, Vir Chakra, Kirti Chakra and Army medal. Sources said a total annuity of more than Rs 45 lakh is to be awarded to 76 beneficiaries, said the sources.“I had submitted a life certificate and other necessary documents to the Zila Sainik Board in due time for getting annuity but it has not yet been released. Initially, we did not raise the voice given the COVID pandemic but the state government is still not taking the issue seriously even after six months,” said Capt (Retd) Jai Singh Rathi, a Veer Chakra recipient.Rathi maintained the annuity was just not a monetary issue but it was respect towards the gallantry award winner and their dependent but the government was disrespecting them by not releasing their annuity hence it should release the annuity without further delay.An officer on anonymity informed the file of the annuity was lying stuck with the Finance Department leading to delay in the release.Naresh Sharma, Welfare Officer, Zila Sainik Board, said all bills of annuity were sent to the state office on April 3. Since ever, they had persistently been sending reminders to the office for the release of an annuity as the beneficiaries were contacting them telephonically daily to inquire about it, he added.“I also personally visited the state office this week and the officers there assured me of releasing the annuity soon,” said Sharma who admitted that the COVID crisis was the reason behind the delay.
08-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Khattar govt criticised for lathicharge on farmers||Tarn Taran, October 7Farmers and other sections of society on Wednesday criticised the Haryana Government for lathicharge and using water cannons on protesting farmers.Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharash Committee, Zamhoori Kisan Sabha, district bar association and residents of nearby villages, on the fifth day of the dharna at toll plaza in Usman village, burnt the effigy of the Haryana Government. Fateh Singh Piddi and other leaders, while addressing on the occasion, said the farmers in Haryana were holding a peaceful protest against the controversial farm laws when the police lathi charged on them with no fault of theirs.Farmers from the Harike area too organised a dharna on NH-54 and blocked the traffic for hours.Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrash Committee, Punjab, said the organisation had rejected the invitation received from the secretary for October 8 meeting in Delhi. He said the secretary was not the competent authority as the farms Acts were passed by Parliament. He said the Prime Minister or the Union Home Minister were the only authorities with whom the discussion could yield results.
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana author’s book clinches Dhahan Prize for Punjabi literature||Kesra Ram of Haryana’s Sirsa has won the 2020 Dhahan Prize for Punjabi literature for his anthology of short stories, ‘Zanani Paud’ (Female flower).The award carrying a cash prize of $25,000 is annually given to the best fiction book published in either Gurmukhi or Shahmukhi scripts, along with two additional finalist prizes of $10,000 CDN.The finalist prize, along with a cash prize of $10,000, was given to ‘Panni Di Kandh’ (Wall of Water), short stories by Zubair Ahmad from Lahore. The book is in Shahmukhi. The other finalist, who wona reward of $10,000 was ‘Aadam Grehan’ (Humanity’s Eclipse), a novel by Harkirat Kaur Chahal from Canada.“These books touch upon the themes of memory, loss, pain, trauma from abuse and violence and the long journey of hope and healing. We are thrilled to be making history by awarding Dhahan Prize to a female author, Harkirat, for the first time,” says Barj S Dhahan. “Her novel is a gripping account of human longingfor intimacy, belonging and acceptance by those whoare marginalised and oppressed due to their ambiguous gender identification.”The Dhahan Prize is the largest literary award in South Asia’s indigenous languages celebrating the rich history of the Punjabi literature. — TNS
08-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Molecular lab to be functional in Yamunanagar soon||To augment Covid testing facilities, a new molecular laboratory is being set up at the Mukand Lal District Civil Hospital, Yamunanagar. The lab is likely to become functional next week.DC Mukul Kumar, along with Civil Surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya, visited the laboratory on Tuesday and inspected the ongoing work there. Dahiya said the lab would be equipped with RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction), and Covid tests would be undertaken there.“Initially, we will be capable of testing 100-200 samples per day. Later, 800-1,000 Covid samples will be examined here every day,” said Dr Dahiya.He said they had to send the samples for testing to Karnal and other places, but once the molecular laboratory became functional, they would be able to test Covid samples in Yamunanagar.
08-10-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Chargesheets against 14 for smuggling drugs||Gurugram police have filed chargesheets against a cartel for smuggling medicines out of country. The gang was busted in July when it was caught smuggling Covid drugs to Iraq, through Vande Bharat flights.The police filed a 250-page chargesheet against 10 accused and a 100-page chargesheet against four Iraqis. The racket was busted on July 28 in a joint operation by the CM flying squad and the Drugs Control Department.The five accused including four Iraqi men and an Uzbek woman were caught for black marketing and trying to smuggle a huge consignment of psychotropic, narcotic and cancer as well as Covid treatment drugs to Iraq through students. The police had then seized over Rs 74 lakh, a Fortuner car and some banned drugs.An SIT was formed to investigate the matter. It was found that the racket had a connection in Jaipur and two drug suppliers, Hariom Tikiwal and Amit Aggarwal, were nabbed soon after. Two medical store operators, Naveen Sharma and Deepak, were arrested from Delhi, who confessed that they had provided 7,100 restricted injections and 12,000 tablets to Iraqi smugglers. The rate of injection started from Rs 4,200 and costed Rs 18,000 to Rs 20,000 for the Iraqi racket members, who priced it at Rs 1 lakh, the accused revealed.As of now, 14 accused have been arrested, of which 10 have been granted bail, while four Iraqi men are in judicial custody.A senior investigator of SIT said the chargesheets had been filed, but the officials of the companies, whose drugs were recovered, would also be questioned soon.The four Iraqi men were identified as Aws Raad Nealmah Al-Hendi, Akram Faiz, Mohnnad, Othmana. The accused were arrested after a police raid.Police spokesperson Subhash Bokan said the SIT had conducted a speedy investigation and filed the chargesheets.
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Excise revenue up despite Covid||The Excise and Taxation Department in Haryana has collected revenue amounting to Rs 2,408.71 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21 against Rs 2,179.9 crore recovered in the corresponding quarter of last year despite the Covid pandemic.Ashutosh Rajan, Collector (Excise), Haryana, said that in the 47 days of the second quarter of this year, the department earned revenue of Rs 796.25 crore against Rs 653.16 crore during the corresponding period last year.Rajan said that the department has entrusted inquiries to the teams to probe matters regarding sampling, authenticity of holograms of liquor seized by the police in Sonepat, Rewari and Ambala separately. The Collector (Excise) said that to improve the functioning of the department and to keep a check on the smuggling of liquor from distilleries, the department has issued directions to the DETCs across the state to keep a strict vigil on godowns, buildings, factories, rice shellers etc which are lying vacant in their districts as such premises might be used for illegal storage of liquor.“Other steps like installation of CCTV cameras, track and trace systems and flow meters have been introduced to bring transparency,” said Rajan. — TNS
08-10-2020||Rohtak||Non-sportspersons barred  from Rohtak stadium tracks||The entry of non-players has been banned at the athletics tracks of Rajeev Gandhi Stadium here leading to resentment among those youths preparing for the Army recruitment and other residents exercising there in routine. The action has been taken by the police following complaints of coaches and players that non-players disturb them while they practise.“An open recruitment for the Army is scheduled to be held in November, so over 500 aspirants had been coming daily to the stadium for the past over one month. They used to run on the tracks leading to inconvenience to players practising under the guidance of coaches. The youths also used to engage in verbal duel when the players and coaches asked them to leave the tracks,” said an athlete.He maintained that this ‘irresponsible’ attitude of the youths forced the players and the coaches to approach the police so that they could practise without any disturbance.Rakesh Kumar, an Army aspirant, asked how could they be banned from using the athletics tracks as the stadium was for everyone and they were preparing for the Army recruitment. Police personnel had been deputed outside the athletics tracks to restrict them.“There are two athletics tracks in the stadium. One can be used by the players while the second one should be opened for the general public so that they can also exercise to maintain their fitness,” suggested Krishan, a routine visitor to the stadium. Shamsher, SHO, Urban Estate Police Station, said except both athletics tracks, the stadium was open for everyone to walk and exercise. “The entry of all persons except sportsmen has been banned following the complaints that they create disturbance on the tracks. Now, only sportspersons with identity cards are being allowed to go inside,” he added.Sukhvir Singh, District Sports Officer, said the stadium was maintained by the HSVP, hence the Sports Department had nothing to do with the decision on banning. “A list of coaches who train the players in the stadium has been provided to the police,” he added.
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana may open schools for Classes  VI to VIII||Haryana is contemplating opening schools for classes 6 to 8 from October 15 to offer guidance to students facing difficulties.While addressing a press conference, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said that the School Education Department was considering opening of schools for classes 6 to 8 though a final call has to be taken.“After opening schools for senior classes, we are working on allowing students of the said classes to visit schools to clear their doubts on specific topics. After this, we will extend this option in a phased manner to students of junior classes as well,” he said.
08-10-2020||Faridabad||Couple held for torturing 5-yr-old son in Faridabad||A couple has been arrested for torturing their five-year-old son with a lit “beedi” and remanded in judicial custody.The main accused has been identified as Sonu, 26, a resident of Subhash Colony, Ballabgarh, and the stepfather of the victim. The boy, who was taken to Civil Hospital for treatment by a team of Child Helpline, Faridabad, told the police that his stepfather had not only been beating him up often, but had also been scarring him with a lit “beedi” when he asked for food. The boy, who was earlier living with his maternal grandparents, had shifted to Subhash Colony after his mother married Sonu. — TNS
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Babita quits as Dy Director of Sports Department||Wrestler Babita Phogat today resigned from the post of Deputy Director in the Sports Department, Haryana, citing “unavoidable reasons”.Phogat sent her resignation to the principal secretary of the Haryana Sports and Youth Affairs Department. “Her resignation letter has been received today,” confirmed sources in the Sports Department.In her letter, Phogat mentioned that she had recently joined the department but due to some “unavoidable reasons” was unable to continue the government service. However, Babita told The Tribune that she had resigned in order to actively participate in politics and campaign for the BJP in the Baroda Assembly bypoll besides the Assembly elections in Bihar. Babita and kabaddi player Kavita Devi were appointed deputy directors in the Sports Department on July 30 this year.Winner of the 2014 Commonwealth Games, Babita had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Assembly polls from Dadri seat on a BJP ticket. Babita and her elder sister Geeta Phogat, a DSP in the Haryana Police, had become a household name after Aamir Khan’s movie “Dangal” made on them and their father Mahavir Phogat. “Dangal’’ was based on the lives of Phogat sisters, all of them wrestlers, and their father who coached them against all odds.
08-10-2020||Ambala||2 held for murder bid in Ambala||The district police have arrested two persons – Rajesh Kumar and Gaurav of Ambala – in a case of assault and attempt to murder, the officials said here on Wednesday.According to the police, Hansraj of Ambala had reported that the accused, along with their accomplices, had assaulted his brother Ankush with sharp weapons and knives in a bid to mill him and threatened him with dire consequences.The arrested accused were produced before a local court, which remanded them to one-day police custody, the officials added.
08-10-2020||Gurugram||Free from litigation, 850 HSVP plots open for possession now||As many as 850 Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) plots have been successfully vacated from court stay and would now be available for allotment, possession or occupancy.Both the HSVP and its allottees are in a win-win situation as on the one hand the long wait of the allottees is over. Now they will be able to gain possession of their contentious plots, get building plans passed and obtain occupation certificates, while the HSVP on the other hand will not require to look for alternative sites or plots for such allottees who hitherto were demanding the same.Many plot owners could not get possession as the HSVP land ran in legal trouble — after landowners or farmers challenged the land acquisition demanding either higher land compensation or quashing of the acquisition. On the other hand, the successful allottees who could not get possession of their plot also moved various courts demanding alternative plots as per the HSVP policy.Under pressure from the courts, the HSVP began hunting for alternative plots in other sectors/areas (beyond sectors 52/57) with the aim to adjust such allottees. But the alternative plot allotment of HSVP too at times ran into legal hurdles for reasons varying from choice of plots and preferences of the allottees to the alternative plot being litigatious as well. The new Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, laid a provision that if the government failed to compensate landowners/farmers within five years of acquisition, the land would be restored to farmers/owners. This worsened the HSVP woes.“No doubt this new Act with new provision dragged HSVP into various courts, which required clarification and that came in March in the Indore Development Authority vs Manohar Lal through a judgment dated March 6. This is a big relief both for the authority and its allottees,” said HSVP Administrator Jitender Yadav. The new land acquisition Act created a big trouble for various government agencies with landowners using new provision of 24 (2) to get their land either released or under stay, which impacted authorities’ urban planning for residential, institutional, commercial and community purposes in a major way.The matter finally landed in the Supreme Court, which gave a landmark judgment that, owing to lockdown, has been implemented now.“Post this landmark judgment, we have been consistently working to get stay vacated on such land parcels/pockets which HSVP had acquired so that the original planning of the land can be effectuated which interalia involves granting possession of residential plots allotted by HSVP. So far, 850 HSVP plots have been made litigation free,” said Vivek Kalia, estate officer-II, HSVP, adding that they were contacting all such affected plot owners through personal correspondences and public notices.
08-10-2020||Palwal||Cop arrested for taking Rs10,000 bribe in Palwal||A team of the vigilance department today caught a head constable taking Rs 10,000 bribe from a villager for favouring the kin of an accused in the legal process.A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered. Sources said the accused, identified as Maan Singh (exemptee head constable) posted at the police post in Alwalpur village, had allegedly sought gratification of Rs 10,000 in lieu of producing the complainant’s son, Lokesh Kumar in the court directly and without putting him in police custody in connection with an FIR registered under sections 323 and 506 of the IPC and sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act recently.The complainant, identified as Jogender, had also been assured of help in getting bail by the accused cop, it is claimed. The accused was caught red-handed during a raid conducted by the state vigilance bureau in the presence of Duty Magistrate Rohtash, tehsildar, Palwal. — TNS
08-10-2020||Staff members of the Forest Department in Narwana often leave the responsibility of cutting and lifting of trees to junior-level employees who behave quite irresponsibly and leave big and heavy cut trunks close to the main road. Such grave mistakes by the staff can lead to accidents. The senior officials should see to it that such trees are taken off the road at the earliest.  — Ramesh Gupta||Cut trees lying on edge of main road in Narwana||Payment verification system defectiveThe online building approval system started by the Haryana Urban Local Bodies Department has become problematic as the payment verification system has remained out of order for the past couple of weeks. Despite reminders by those concerned, there is no improvement in the situation. The state architects associations have repeatedly brought it to the notice of the officials of the department. The department should act swiftly. — Satish Seth, KaithalShop owners violating lawThe government has brought a rule through enactment of law vide, which it has been made mandatory for all sweet shop owners to put a label on each variety of sweet showing date as 'best before' This is a landmark decision and virtually protects the interest of the consumers. But the law is not being implemented forcefully resulting in serious violations. The authorities do not make any surprise check on eateries. I hope authorities will take cognisance of the issue before the festive season. — Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityUnauthorised shops in residential areasMany unauthorised shops are being constructed in many areas of Kurukshetra, creating so much inconvenience to people residing in such places. These shops have not acquired any licence. Customers of these shops also park their vehicles in front of the houses. The government must take appropriate action. — Goldi Kumar, KurukshetraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
08-10-2020||Rohtak||30 seats in data analytics programme||Varsity issues admission advisoryFaridabad: Keeping in view the commencement of the admission process for various engineering programmes, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has issued an advisory for all aspiring students seeking admission to the colleges/institutes affiliated to the university. The university has advised the students and their parents to check the affiliation status, including courses and intake and necessary approvals of the college before taking admission in any of such college. Students and parents may go through the university website at https://jcboseust.ac.in/affiliation where link for the list of affiliated colleges with their current affiliation status has been provided. Further, the university has made it clear that the admission to all undergraduate engineering programmes in the university are done through centralised counselling conducted by the Haryana State Technical Education Council Society under the Haryana Technical Education Department (HSTES) based on the ranks secured in JEE Main 2020. The first online counselling by HSTES will begin from October 9. For further updates, the students are advised to visit www.hstes.org.in regularly.Online training programmeKarnal: A five-day online training programme on Agriculture Journalism for extension professionals was organised by the Extension Education Institute, Nilokheri, running under the ages of Central Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare. On the first day Dr Amit Sangwan, media educator from Ch Devi Lal University, Sirsa, said India had an agro-based economy and there were many employment opportunities in the field of agriculture journalism. Course Coordinator Dr SR Verma welcomed the speaker and said the objective of the programme was to sensitise the participants about the role of agriculture journalism.Dr Poonia nominated in panelKurukshetra: Dr Maha Singh Poonia, director, department of youth and cultural affairs, and head of Hindi department, IIHS, Kurukshetra University, has been nominated as a member of the programme committee of the North Zone Cultural Centre, Patiala, by the Haryana Government for two years. Dr Nita Khanna, VC, KU, congratulated Dr Poonia on this achievement. Dr Poonia has also played a key role in the development of 'Dharohar,' the heritage Haryana museum, which is one of its kind in the country, at the university. Dr Poonia has written more than 10 books on Haryanvi culture. Apart from this, more than 50 research papers on his cultural subjects have been published in international and national research journals.
08-10-2020||Ambala||1 held with stolen scooter||One arrested with heroinThe district police have arrested Arun, alias Shankar of Ambala Cantonment, in a case of smuggling drugs and claimed to have recovered 8.1 g heroin from his possession, the officials said here on Wednesday. The arrested accused was remanded in one-day police custody. TNS2 die in separate mishapsTwo persons were killed in separate road mishaps reported to the district police during the past 24 hours, the officials said here on Wednesday. Rai Singh, an e-rickshaw driver of Shahzadpur, was killed when a car hit him in Baldev Nagar near here. In a separate accident, an unidentified pedestrian, in his early 20s, was killed when a vehicle ran over him on GT Road in Ambala. The police have registered separate cases. TNSTwo persons go missingTwo persons had reportedly gone missing in separate incidents, the officials said here on Wednesday. The police said a 20-year-old woman from Mahesh Nagar and a 19-year-old married woman from Parao had left their homes on October 5 and 6, respectively. The police have lodged separate reports and launched a manhunt to trace them, the officials added. TNS
08-10-2020||Hisar||Dispersed forcibly by cops, farmers block Sirsa NH||Farmers blocked the National Highway-9 near the Sirsa’s Sahuwala village after the police forcibly dispersed them from Bhumman Shah Chowk, where they were sitting on a dharna, on Wednesday morning.The police detained 93 activities, including Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav. They were, however, released later in the evening.On Tuesday, farmers had tried to lay siege to Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala’s residence in Sirsa in protest against the three controversial farm laws. Some farmers were booked in connection with the Tuesday’s incident.This provoked farmers to sit on a dharna in front of the Sadar police station near Sahuwala village.Yadav said the dharna would continue till their the time the Centre amended the laws. “We will not budge under the police crackdown… Farmers were protesting peacefully on Wednesday. Some anti-social elements indulged in stone-throwing to defame farmers.”“Dushyant Chautala has not spoken even a single word against the farm laws. We are protesting against the laws brought by the Centre to discontinue the MSP regime. His Jannayak Janta Party, which claims to be a party of farmers, is sitting on the BJP lap,” protester Abhay Yadav had told the media.Dushyant should either withdraw his party’s support to the BJP government in the state or clear his stand on the issue, he had added.Hundreds of farmers and arhtiyas (middlemen) have been protesting daily against the three laws across Haryana.Superintendent of Police Bhupender Singh said farmers were not arrested, but detained. “The police are trying to anti-social elements with the help of video footage of the incident,” he added.
08-10-2020||Palwal||250 farmers issued warning notice for burning stubble in Palwal||The local administration has issued warning notice to 250 farmers in the district in order to curb stubble burning during the harvest of the paddy crop.Last year, over 200 complaints were received and the authorities had issued challans, imposing a penalty of about Rs 3 lakh besides registering FIRs against 47 persons for burning stubble.In the notices served by the SDM, Hodal subdivision, the farmers have been warned of legal action if paddy stubble is burnt in the fields this season in violation of the ban.Revealing that only those farmers, who have a history of burning stubble in the past few years, have been served notices under Section 107 and 150 of the CrPC, a senior official said that this has been done to stop them in indulging in this practice this time.According to Agriculture Department sources, at least three new cases of stubble burning have already surfaced in the district in the past week.Admitting that warning notices have been served to farmers, Kuldeep Singh, an official of the Agriculture Department here, said challan with a penalty Rs 2,500 per hectare would also be issued against the offenders detected recently.“Farmers served notices will have to submit a declaration that they will not burn stubble this year to escape legal action,” he said.Around 120 challans against stubble burning had been issued in October and November last year in which a penalty of Rs 2.95 lakh was imposed on the defaulters.Six farmers had been booked under Section 188 in April for burning wheat stubble in their fields here. Besides the suspension of two sarpanches, 47 FIRs had been registered last year. Section 144 of the IPC had also been imposed by the district magistrate.
08-10-2020||Kurukshetra||In Kurukshetra, 8 challans issued for farm fires||Adopting a zero tolerance policy against stubble burning, the district administration has warned farmers of registering FIRs against them if they are found burning paddy residue.In Kurukshetra, 31 villages have been kept in the red zone while 108 villages have been kept in the orange zone.DC Sharandeep Kaur said, “Officials of the Agriculture Department, Patwari and gram sachivs have been asked to keep a watch on paddy straw burning and take action. Reports of fire incidents have been received from Haryana Space Applications Centre.” — TNS
08-10-2020||Karnal||Karnal farmers yet to be paid for procurement||It’s been 10 days since the paddy procurement started, but farmers have still not received their payment for their produce. This puts in question the state government’s claim of releasing the payment within 72 hours of procurement.Arhtiyas said the government’s claim had lost relevance in the face of delay.Gate pass issue unresolvedRajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal arhtiyas’ association, requested Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav to allow farmers to enter the grain markets between 5 am and 8 pm instead of the existing duration of 8 am to 6 pm. “The server is taking time to generate gate pass. As a result, a long traffic jam on the service lanes of the NH-44 was witnessed on Tuesday and Wednesday,” he said.Procurement agencies are to pay Rs 275 crore to farmers and arhtiyas of the district.The reason for delay, arhtiyas said, was the “lackadaisical” attitude of the procurement agencies. “The buyers have failed to upload I forms on the e-Kharid portal, resulting in the delay in releasing the payment,” said Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal arhtiyas’ association.The I forms, generated by arhtiyas, gives a detailed account of the produce bought and payment due. The forms have to be verified and uploaded on the portal before the payment is released.Sunil Kumar, a farmer, said he had sold his produce on September 29, but had not received a rupee in return.Another farmer Ajay Kumar said, “I have made endless rounds of my arhtiya’s shop. Even he is helpless, as he not received the payment from procurement agencies.”This time, the state government had advanced the paddy procurement to September 26 instead of October 1. In Karnal district, procurement started on September 27.The authorities, meanwhile, blamed technical glitches in the portal for the delay in uploading I forms.District Food and Supplies Controller (DFSC) Nishant Kumar Rathi said, “In some I forms, there is a mismatch of data. So the process of verifying the information is underway. Once that is complete, farmers whose produce was procured on September 27, 28 and 29 will be paid first. After that, the rest will be paid.”Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “I have instructed the procurement agencies to verify I forms and make the payment as soon as possible.”
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Govt to blame for farm crisis, says Hooda||Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday blamed the BJP-JJP government for the problems being faced by farmers in the mandis.“The procurement agencies are refusing to buy the produce on the pretext of high moisture content. Whatever little is being bought is not fetching the MSP. Left with no other option, farmers are selling off the produce to private agencies at a price below the MSP,” he said in a statement here.The former Chief Minister hit out at the Centre and the state government for projecting private agencies as a “messiah” of farmers after the implementation of the three news farm laws. — TNS
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||BJP MLA Goel protests tardy lifting of crop||Aseem Goel, BJP MLA from Ambala city, today staged a symbolic sit-in outside the Vidhan Sabha against “mismanagement” in the mandis and “tardy lifting” of produce even as CM Manohar Lal Khattar said procurement was taking place as per government policies.Maintaining that his protest was not against the Khattar government but against an Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Goel alleged he was forced to stage a dharna to highlight the grievances of the farmers, arhtiyas and labourers.With a banner against the officer, ACS (Food and Civil Supplies), PK Das, Goel said the farmers were facing problems in getting registration numbers on the “Meri Fasal, Mera Byora” portal.Dismissing the allegations, the ACS said procurement was progressing smoothly and was in keeping with the government’s decisions. He refused to comment further as he said he was a government official.Later in the day, Khattar also came out in support of the officer and said the procurement was taking place as per the norms. He said he would speak to Goel to find out the problems being faced by farmers.
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Entire acquired land, not just a tract, can be denotified: High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that discretionary power vested in the state to de-notify land acquired under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act can be exercised for the “entire acquired land” and not just a tract of land. An individual landowner does not have the right to seek de-notification of his tract of land.The Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta was interpreting the provisions of Section 101-A of the Act inserted vide Haryana Act number 21 of 2018.It held that Section 101-A was an “enabling provision” empowering and giving discretion to the state government to de-notify land acquired for public purpose under Land Acquisition Act, 1894. It was applicable if the public purpose for which the land was acquired became unviable or non-essential.“When at once it is clear that the power is discretionary and does not confer any corresponding legal right upon the individual right owner, the same is, thus, outside the purview of the jurisdiction of this court. The grant of such a liberty would mean commending the government to consider the case under Section 101-A of the Act, which is though only an enabling provision that too de-notifying the entire acquired land and not just a parcel of land...,” the Bench added.
08-10-2020||Hisar||Trader looted, burnt to death inside vehicle in Hisar||A trader was looted and burnt to death inside his car by two unidentified robbers on Datta-Gurana road near Mahjat village in the district yesterday night.The incident occurred when the victim, identified as Ram Mehar, a resident of Datta, was returning from Hisar to his native village. The family of the victim said they received a phone call from him and he informed them about the loot and sought help.The complainant said the victim had withdrawn Rs 11 lakh from a bank and was carrying the money with him in the car at the time of incident.Hansi Kashmiri Lal, SHO, said the victim called his family at 11.15 pm. The sarpanch of Data village called the SHO on behalf of the victim’s family at 12.05 am. The victim’s family apprehended that two motorcyclists were chasing him, who could have attacked him. The SHO said the Bhatla police chowki personnel reached the spot. By then, the victim’s car had been burnt. A case has been registered.Surjewala slams BJP govtCongress National General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala slammed the BJP-led government in Haryana over the incident.Surjewala said ‘maha jungle raj’ prevailed in Haryana, where criminals were having a free run. “Where is the government? The criminals have no fear of the law, as the attackers not only looted the businessman, but also locked him in the car and set it on fire,” he said. He said the NCRB data for 2019 verified the spurt in heinous crimes during the BJP rule.
08-10-2020||Karnal||Kaithal Civil Surgeon suspended||Kaithal Civil Surgeon Dr Jai Bhagwan was suspended by the Governor, Haryana, on Wednesday. During suspension, his headquarters will be the office of the DG, Health Services, Haryana.The Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, Rajeev Arora, has issued a letter in this regard. However, the reason for his suspension was not mentioned in the letter, but as per sources, Kaithal MLA Lila Ram had filed a complaint against him to Health Minister Anil Vij last month, alleging corruption in the Health Department.“I was getting complaints against Dr Jai Bhagwan that his behaviour with the people and public representatives was not good. The recruitment of outsource workers was made in the Health Department and when I asked him to provide the list of the selected candidates, the Civil Surgeon did not do so. The Civil Surgeon even instructed his subordinate officials not to attend Pundri MLA’s and my calls, so I filed a complaint to the Health Minister on September 29,” said MLA Lila Ram.He said this action was taken against him on his complaint. On the other hand, the Civil Surgeon could not be contacted for comment. — TNS
08-10-2020||Kurukshetra||Soldier cremated at Kurukshetra village||Soldier Jagmeet Singh (23), a resident of Bartoli village of Ladwa in Kurukshetra, who died under mysterious circumstances at an Army camp in Ganderbal district of Central Kashmir, was cremated at his native village here today.Jagmeet was posted with 24 RR Delta company. He had joined the Army five years ago. Pall of gloom descended on Bartoli village as the news of death spread in the village on Tuesday. Amid slogans of ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’, mortal remains of Jagmeet were consigned to flames on Wednesday. The National flag was handed over to the family by the Army officials.Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini, Ladwa MLA Mewa Singh, and district officials were present during his last rites.Jagmeet’s elder brother Harvinder Singh is also in the Army and posted in Punjab, while father Makhan Singh is a marginal farmer.Bartoli village sarpanch Pawan Kumar said “Jagmeet is survived by his parents and a brother. His elder brother is also in the Army, and the financial condition of the family is also not good.”The SSP, Ganderbal, Khalil Poswal, said, “Soldier Jagmeet Singh allegedly committed suicide with his service weapon, but we have also started proceedings of suspicious death. The weapon is being sent to a forensic science laboratory. We are checking the circumstances under which he had committed suicide, and also checking if it was a case of fratricide. We are looking into all aspects and further action will be taken asper the FSL report and medical report.”
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Flipkart’s largest centre to come up in Manesar||The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) Limited has allotted 140 acres to Flipkart group for setting up their largest fulfilment centre in Asia, having a covered area of 3 million square feet in Patli Hazipur, Manesar.The allotment was approved by the executive empowered committee at its meeting held here today under the Chairmanship of Principal Chief Secretary to Chief Minister-cum-Chairman, HSIIDC, Rajesh Khullar.Khullar said in view of the increasing demand of warehousing from e-commerce companies, HSIIDC has set up a warehousing hub over 285 acres in Patli Hazipur, Manesar. He said the land had been allotted at bare shell cost of Rs 3.09 crore per acre and all infrastructure facilities would be laid by the Flipkart Group. This project will give impetus to further investments in the region.A representative of Flipkart Group said they would be setting up a logistics park in the land parcel over the next 3 to 5 years which had a potential of a total built-up area of 5 million square feet and would be developed in 2-3 phases. The first phase of the project would be operational by 2022. The sustainable development of the park is expected to cost more than Rs 3,500 crore in capital investment and would create more than 12,000 jobs.Rajneesh Kumar, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, Flipkart Group, said Flipkart’s focused investments in its supply chain had been pivotal to path-breaking, customer experience offerings that had helped build trust in e-commerce.
08-10-2020||Palwal||Wanted criminal held from Palwal||Wanted criminal Ajit (28) carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head was arrested from the district’s Kithwari village on Tuesday, the police have said.A native of Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh, he was wanted in 18 cases related to murder, attempt to murder and loot registered in the last two years. A country-made revolver and three cartridges were recovered from Ajit. Two of his accomplices are absconding. Ajit was produced in court on Wednesday and remanded in judicial custody. — TNS
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||1,283 new cases, 19 more fatalities in Haryana||There seems to be some respite from the Covid onslaught in the past week. The state reported 1,283 cases today taking the total to 1,37,398. The death tally reached 1,528 with 19 more deaths.“From what we have observed elsewhere, it should stabilise around 1,000 cases or less for about one month.As more and more sectors open up, there will be temporary spurts. If we display Covid-appropriate behaviour of wearing masks, maintaining physical distance, observing hand hygiene and generally exercise restraint in social gatherings during the festival season, the declining trend will stabilise. Otherwise, we will have to be prepared for a second surge,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary (Health).Gurugram reported a maximum of 293 cases followed by Faridabad (178), Rohtak (80), Jind (73) and Hisar (65).Panchkula reported a maximum of five deaths followed by Hisar (3), Faridabad, Bhiwani and Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar (2 each) and Gurugram, Palwal and Nuh (1 each).
08-10-2020||
    
        
    
||A race against time to douse stubble fires||Stubble burning is back in the news. And, as always, bureaucrats and politicians are scrambling to find a solution to the huge amount of pollutants released and moving towards highly populated areas in Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi.This time, however, the scrambling is a little more energetic. Experts warn that pollutants, including sulphur, particulate matter and carbon dioxide, will worsen the already serious Covid-19 situation. That conclusion should have been logically arrived at by even non-experts in the government, since it doesn’t need an Einstein to make the connection between bad air and a virus that hits the lungs. Given that ‘solutions’ offered have clearly failed, it is necessary to clean the slate and look for solutions that combine a little arm-twisting, political points and practicality.Warning of stubble burning began around September 12, rising steadily as the weeks passed. NASA imagery provided enough early warning, even indicating exact locations. Even assuming a comatose bureaucracy, there was an additional wake-up call from the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Control and Prevention) Authority or EPCA on September 22, advising ‘early action’.Also read: Curbing stubble burning: Farmers need incentives to discontinue the practiceGiven that the time for early action had run out months ago, this was a clear case of passing the buck. EPCA chief Bhure Lal, however, can’t be blamed entirely. Created in 1998, EPCA’s mandate covers only the National Capital Region (NCR), which includes 24 districts in Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh as well as the 11 districts of Delhi.And, as a perceptive analysis brings out, not only does it lack members from any state other than Delhi, but also that its members included the head of an automobile association, publicly opposed to restrictions on diesel cars. That’s a stark conflict of interest and an example of government indifference to the environment. So, the end effect is that setting up bodies like the EPCA, which has enormous powers, is not the solution.There is, of course, the Environment Ministry — which has brought out a draft Environment Impact Assessment report that attempts to sideline the environment altogether — of which the less said the better.This evidence of an almost criminal delay becomes more evident when it is considered that the solutions being talked of, like the Happy Seeder — which cuts and lifts straw, sows the seed and drops paddy straw on top — was the result of a task force set up in 2006. More than a decade later, there are still not enough seeders to go around, and are still too expensive for the small farmers, especially compared to the use of a couple of matches that ‘solves’ the issue in a few hours.Several alternative solutions proposed by universities in Punjab and Rajasthan include turning straw into biochar, feed, and animal bedding. There are successful start-ups which use straw pellets in power production.In theory, the farmer is literally burning money. But the reality is that few of these solutions can beat the time factor. Buying up crops takes time, and with just a three-month window to the next sowing season, farmers can’t take the risk. Incidentally, stubble burning was banned in 2015 by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). But, clearly, that doesn’t count.It’s as well to remember that this short window is the result of the Punjab Preservation of Subsoil Water Act 2009, which pushed the sowing of seedlings back by a month to time it with the monsoons, rather than using the rapidly depleting groundwater for the water-intensive crop. The intention was good, but the end result is this barrage of pollutants.Depleting water tables and the resultant debt drive farmer to suicides, underlining the undeniable fact that a state predicted to turn into a desert in 25 years has to turn away from paddy. That’s actually the primary solution.The difficulty is that the state is highly inconsistent in its approach, while the powerful arhtiyas (commission agents) have stalled any farm reform at all. Their opposition lies at the heart of the agitation against the farm laws. Sidelining this powerful group should, therefore, be priority number one.To beat the time factor, ‘high-value’ farmers — who have merrily taken advantage of subsidies meant for marginal farmers — should be made responsible for implementing solutions in specific villages, with the whole area coming under heavy fines, if not in a kind of corporate social responsibility (CSR) programme with teeth. But solutions have to be decided locally, while bureaucrats only turn their energies to ensuring forcible implementation.Governments could also take a leaf out of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s proposal for a free and entirely organic spray to turn stubble into manure, which is abundantly good for the soil.Finally, urgent measures are required as pollutants reach the NCR, endangering the Covid-affected people and others in the impacted states. Armed with the powerful clauses of the National Disaster Management Act, the Centre can use the Indian Air Force to put out fires — as it has done in forest fires in Uttarakhand and elsewhere, using the media to the full, to send a powerful message of a determined leader. That also has potential political benefits.Meanwhile, naysayers will point to the Chinese threat, and ‘waste’ of resources. But that particular war is still far away, and right now, it’s the several million downwind that count.
08-10-2020||
    
        
    
||Why farmers are not keen on agri reforms||The farmers’ agitation in Punjab, Haryana and western UP against the agricultural reforms, initiated to help none other than the farmer himself, continues unabated. Why is this so? Doesn’t the farmer know what is good for him? Is he being led up the garden path by the politicians and political parties, which are there only to fish in troubled waters?Of the two main parties leading the agitation, the Shiromani Akali Dal has been feeling increasingly marginalised in Punjab and, according to some commentators, the farm reform issue has come as a godsend. Ditto with the Congress which is seeking to use the issue to become nationally relevant again.But it may be wrong to think that the farmer does not have a mind of his own. He is likely without any knowledge of formal economics, but he is intuitively seeing what is good for him and voting with his tractor if not feet.The reforms have been described by agricultural economist Ashok Gulati as a 1991 moment for agriculture, drawing a parallel with the reforms led by Narasimha Rao-Manmohan Singh combine which ended the licence-permit raj for manufacturing. But agriculture remained untouched.Essentially, the latest reforms will allow the farmer to sell his produce to whoever he likes wherever in the country, by not having to take his harvest to the APMC yard. He will be able to engage in contract farming which will fetch him a better price. Removal of stock restrictions will enable private sector investment in warehouses and cold storages which will create a more efficient supply chain. This will reduce wastage and eliminate some middlemen, bringing greater price stability and, possibly, price reduction for the consumer. Plus, contract farming will pave the way for farm investment and improvement in productivity and quality.Why is the farmer looking a gift horse in the mouth? Yogendra Yadav, an academic-turned-government adviser-turned-grassroots activist-turned-politician, has come up with some answers. His point is that economists like Gulati have their ears to the economic theory and data, whereas you need to keep your ears to the ground and understand what is driving the farmer.Yadav’s first point is that ending the so-called monopoly of APMCs is a non-issue as only a quarter of all agricultural produce is sold through APMC mandis. In Maharashtra, there is extensive contract farming between sugarcane growers and cooperative sugar mills. Besides, the reform of APMCs has been a continuous process in many states for several years now. Yadav asserts that he is yet to meet a farmer who complains about not being able to trade outside the mandis. What farmers want is better run mandis.His second point is to question the assumption that the reforms will save farmers from exploitation by arhtiyas (commission agents). This is because big businesses will not deal directly with farmers but rely on middlemen as aggregators. So, it is unlikely that delayering of the supply chain will take place. In fact, there may come a time when both the arhtiya and the new middleman-aggregator will operate.He also questions the assumption that under the new system, the farmer will be able to operate in an efficient market and thus get better value. To benefit from the new system, farmers will have to command market power. Currently, farmers, mostly small, are price-takers. Proper market regulating mechanisms will take time to develop. Farmers will be able to command market power when they organise under farmer producer organisations. But again, these will take time to come up.Yadav says it will be naive to take the government at its word that it will maintain and raise its investment in agricultural infrastructure. He sees the new laws signalling the withdrawal, over time, of the government from agriculture in terms of investment, regulation and extension work. The new private players will invest in warehouses and cold storages and also carry out extension work by helping farmers adopt new technology.One manifestation of the farmers’ lack of faith in government promises is to raise doubts over how long the system of minimum support price (MSP) will continue. For them, the giveaway is the government assuring verbally that the MSP will continue, but refusing to write that into the law. In the last few days, the MSP of crops has been announced, but how long will it last is another matter.The MSP-supported government procurement of wheat and rice have, over decades, become the cornerstone of agricultural operations in the north-west. The farmer in this area not only helped make the country self-sufficient in food, but also today, there is a huge excess in the buffer stock. Now there is a need to diversify, move away from cereals and into coarse grains, cash crops and pulses — crops which are not water-guzzlers — and also to encourage dryland farming. The MSP has to lose its primary focus on cereals.The MSP-supported procurement of cereals gave the north-west farmers a sense of security. As a result, productivity has stagnated.Decades after the Green Revolution, the farmer has to confront the marketplace of private buyers and live in a world where the MSP and procurement are not primarily focused on cereals, but other crops. So, the agitating farmers know intuitively that assured procurement at the MSP of what they produce is set to end. Hence, they are insisting on maintaining the status quo.
08-10-2020||---||Haryana offers reward to tackle stubble-burning||Chandigarh, October 7The Haryana Government has come out with a scheme to reward panchayats falling in the “red zone” for taking steps to prevent stubble burning in their respective villages.Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said the efforts would be evaluated and the top three panchayats would be given Rs 10 lakh, Rs 5 lakh and Rs 3 lakh, respectively.Addressing a virtual meet with deputy commissioners, Vardhan said the officers must ensure proper management of crop residue in compliance with the Supreme Court order.He said sarpanches should hold a meeting of the respective gram sabhas and pass a resolution against stubble burning. He also directed the DCs to ensure the availability of crop residue management machines to small and marginal farmers.
