08-12-2020||Hisar||Chautala villagers give two days ultimatum to Dushyant, Ranjit to support farmers or face boycott||The residents of Chautala village in Sirsa district have asked Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala, who are natives of the village, to resign from their posts within two days and served the ultimatum to announce their social boycott if they failed to do so within the given time.The villagers gathered in the village today to discuss the issue of farmers and stated that the Centre has introduced the new laws to strip the farmers of their agriculture land.They maintained that they will continue the agitation until the government repeals the newly introduced laws regarding agriculture sector.A farmer leader, Dayaram Ulania, said they have urged the deputy chief minister and the power minister to announce their support to the farmers protest and to come with the farmers after resigning from their posts in two days.“The villagers will resort to social boycott of the two leaders and will not let them enter the village after two days in case they ignore the sentiments of the farmers,” he said.The local leaders, including Ravi Chautala, Prem Singh Sihag, Gurbaj Singh Barar, Subhash Chauhan, etc were present in the meeting.In another development, the panchayat of Kharia village in Rania block of Sirsa district, including sarpanch and panches, resigned in support of the farmers. They submitted their resignation to the block development officer of Rania block.
08-12-2020||Aditi Tandon||Need agri reforms but current farm laws don’t reflect reform, must be scrapped: Hooda||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, Dec 8Former Haryana Chief Minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday said there was a need for agricultural reforms but “there is no reflection of reforms in the new laws” and they needed to be scrapped.He said the farm laws were passed without any consultations with the farmers, and therefore the Centre must call a Parliament session, repeal these laws and start the reform process afresh.“We are not against reforms but the current laws must be repealed and fresh reform process initiated after consultations with stakeholders,” said the former Haryana CM.On the issue of 2019 Congress manifesto promising to abolish the APMC Act, a matter flagged by Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday, Hooda said the BJP was “misrepresenting facts”.“We promised to take the mandis near the farmers and in Haryana we did that. In my own village we have set up purchase centres at every 10 km for a population of 10,000,” he said.The senior Congress leader questioned the government on why it didn’t agree to the opposition demand for bringing a fourth law notifying anyone who buys below MSP would be punished.Hooda also said the Haryana Government had lost the trust of the people and the Assembly due to mishandling of the farmers agitation and should face a ‘vote of no confidence’.Insisting that the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday was successful, Hooda urged the Haryana Governor to call an emergency session of the state Assembly and allow a floor test.“Seven of the 10 MLAs of BJP ally JJP have dissociated from the government on the farmers issue and three Independents have also done so. The government is in minority and we will move a no confidence vote the day a session is called,” he said.The Congress veteran cited examples from his time as CM in Haryana and said the contract farming agreement was strict and such that the farmer interests were protected unlike in current laws.“Our August 9, 2007 notification in Haryana says the contract farming agreement between sponsor and producer shall be registered with district marketing enforcement offices in the presence of both parties and the agreed rate and contract rate shall not be less than MSP of preceding year. It says where there is no MSP, amount of security will be 15 per cent of prevailing market rate for that crop.”Hooda said there was no such safety in the Central farm laws.He also mentioned that the report of the working group on agriculture, which he chaired during the UPA times, to say one of the panel recommendations was that banks can’t charge more than 4 per cent interest rate to farmers who return short term crop loans in time.In Haryana, he said, this interest was scrapped altogether.
08-12-2020||---||Bharat Bandh: Shops, commercial establishments closed in Punjab, Haryana||Chandigarh, December 8Shops and commercial establishments remained shut at many places in Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday morning in view of a 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmer unions to protest the Centre's three farm laws.Petroleum dealers in Punjab closed filling stations to back the call for the nationwide strike. There are over 3,400 fuel pumps in Punjab.In neighbouring BJP-JJP ruled Haryana, opposition parties Congress and Indian National Lok Dal have extended their support to the 'Bharat Bandh'.Also read: Nation witnesses initial mixed response to 'Bharat Bandh' callFarmers started assembling on highways and other key roads in both states from the morning."We will hold a protest peacefully," a farmer said in Mohali as the airport road near the JLPL was blocked.In Ludhiana, a group of protesters squatted on a road to express solidarity with the protesting farmers. Some protesters were seen performing kirtan near the Jagraon bridge.Members of Muslim community also carried out a march in support of farmers in Ludhiana.Also read: Congress MPs from Punjab continue sit-in at Delhi's Jantar MantarIn Patiala, milk and vegetable supply was hit as agitating farmers stopped vendors from entering the city.Members of Punjabi University teaching faculty and students closed campus gates and held protest in solidarity with protesting farmers.Lawyers staged a dharna in support of the farmers in Ropar.Farmer leaders have said they would block key roads and occupy toll plazas during their 'chakka jam' protest from 11 am to 3 pm.Police personnel have been deployed in adequate strength in both the states to maintain law and order, officials said.The Haryana Police had issued a travel advisory stating that people might face traffic blockades on various roads and highways of the state.Also read: Several US lawmakers voice support for agitating farmersIn Punjab, farmer leaders appealed to shopkeepers and traders to keep their shutters down."We are appealing to people to support farmers' cause, and we are sure of getting support from all sections of society," a leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee said in Amritsar.Several unions representing government employees, arthiyas (commission agents) and transporters have extended their support to the farmers' protest.Besides, all major political parties in Punjab — the ruling Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal have also extended their support.Over 50,000 government employees in Punjab have taken mass casual leave in support of farmers, said Punjab Civil Secretariat Staff Association president Sukhchain Khaira.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, an apex gurdwara body, has also announced to keep its offices and institutions shut to express solidarity with the farmers.Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has appealed to all sections of society to observe complete shutdown to support the farmers."Everyone should hold a peaceful protest," he said in a video message.In Bhiwani, farmers sat in the middle of the road in Jui village and blocked the vehicular movement. Protesters in Dhanana village staged a sit-in and blocked the main road.Farmers in Karnal took out a march and requested shopkeepers to close their establishments till 3 pm in support of their demands.They also blocked roads at two places in Jundla and Thari village.In Hisar, the protesting farmers blocked the Hisar-Chandigarh highway in Sarsod village in support of the Bharat Bandh call.Farmers along with social activists and members of opposition parties AAP and Congress staged a protest against the farm laws in Gurugram.Meanwhile, the Haryana Police traffic advisory issued on Monday had said "the main national highways, Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48), may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 pm to 3 pm".Bathinda and Mansa districts in Punjab also witnessed a complete shutdown.Farmers staged protests at various points in the Bathinda district and blocked the Bathinda-Amritsar national highway at Kanhiya Chowk, and near toll plaza in Jeeda village.The Bathinda-Chandigarh highway was blocked at Lehra Bega toll plaza.Farmers also blocked railway tracks on the Bathinda-Ambala and Bathinda-Jind railway lines.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other areas have stayed put at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.Meanwhile, tension prevailed during the farmers’ protest at Kahniya Chowk in Bathinda when young protesters damaged the windscreen of a car belonging to an Army personal. The Army man was on his way to Bikaner but protesting farmers did not allow the vehicle to move ahead, which led to heated arguments between the two groups. However, some senior members among the protesters, sensing the situation might escalate, later allowed the car to go ahead. Shops and commercial establishments also remained closed in Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Faridkot, Barnala, and Muktsar districts.Public transport remained off the road, train services were suspended and no movement of private vehicles was witnesses on the national and state highways, which were blocked at about 100 locations in these districts.In Moga, the farm unions staged protests at 13 locations while the Congress and Akali workers also protested against the farm laws at two locations.The continuous protest outside the Silo owned by Adani group of industries at Dagru village also continued on the 62nd day, on Tuesday.At many places, local police set-up barricades to stop the movement of vehicles on the roads which were blocked by the farmers.Police officials claimed that it was done to prevent any clash between the protesters and the commuters. However, the ambulances were allowed to move on the roads.The Punjab Police had earlier issued a travel advisory stating that people might face traffic blockades on various roads and highways of the state.Meanwhile, there were reports that the industries were not shut down by the managements. The multinational giant Nestle India Limited also continued to operate its production units despite the fact that its labour union had supported the farmers’ agitation.Congress MLA Raja Warring along with his supporters staged a protest outside BKP leader and former minister Surjit Kumar Jyani’s house in Fazilka amid reports of protests outside the residences of BJP leaders in other cities and towns of the state.Hundreds of farmers including women also protested at Mehraj, the ancestral village of Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh in Bathinda district. (With PTI inputs)
08-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Buildings to become learning aids at 40 more govt schools||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 7Forty more government school buildings in the Assandh block will serve as learning models as ‘Building as learning aid (BaLA)’ concept will be implemented in these schools. The same concept has already been implanted in nine government schools of the city under the Smart City project.Under the BaLA concept, the school buildings will be painted with various learning aids to educate students about different concept like solar and lunar eclipse, seed to tree, joint and single family concept, festivals, mats symbols, and Hindi ‘matrayein’, fruits and vegetable names, digital India concept, slogans of nationality, traffic signals, calendar, maps, knowledge of WH family, counting, days of week, alphabets, water creatures, seasons, awareness on Covid-19, children daily routine, nature and others. Infrastructure works such as repairing of dilapidated classrooms, kitchen and toilets, installation of firefighting equipment and external learning activity elements, creating a dedicated space for creative games, making the campus barrier-free and construction of garden are being done, said Sahil Gupta, SDM, Assandh.“BaLa is a holistic plan and the school infrastructure is used to educate students in the new concept. It incorporates the ideas of activity-based learning. Of these, 40 schools have been earmarked. The work has started in four schools, including Rangrutikhera, Jaisinghpura, Sekhpura and Salwan. Around 70 per cent work has been done, he said, adding that educational paintings are being drawn on spaces like classrooms, corridor, staircases, floor, walls, windows, doors, ceiling and furniture.“It will help in qualitative improvement in education through child-friendly learning aid,” he added.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said they had sought time from Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for the inauguration of schools developed under this concept in Karnal city. “We are going to develop this concept in 40 more schools and soon these buildings will be used as learning aid for the students. It will also help in facelifting the schools,” said the DC.
08-12-2020||
||Temporary recognition of pvt schools extended for a yr||Chandigarh, December 7  Keeping in mind the future of children studying in various unrecognised private schools across the state, the Haryana Government today gave such institutions temporary affiliation for 2020-21 from the Board of School Education, Haryana.  The recognition has been extended for one year on the basis that the management of the said schools can meet the standards set by the Haryana Government. Sharing more details, an official spokesperson said a delegation of private schools had recently met Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar and requested the recognition of their schools with the board  be extended for 2020-21. There are 639 such schools in Haryana that are still awaiting permanent recognition, while 699 schools are still running despite cancellation of their recognition. These schools were granted temporary recognition for one year that is for 2019-20, with the condition that temporary recognition will not be granted from the following year, said the spokesman. The spokesman said every year, some people had challenged the matter of giving temporary recognition to such schools in the High Court citing that the Haryana School Education Act 2003 was being violated due to such recognitions. The spokesman said after the directions given by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, a committee was formed under the leadership of the Director, Secondary Education Department, to address the subject.  The committee was represented by the Director, Elementary Education, the State Project Director and the representative of the Advocate General as members. The said committee has given its report.  The Haryana Government will take a decision on this report soon.
08-12-2020||
||Karnal advocates seek Covid relief||Karnal, December 7 Advocates of Karnal District Bar Association today demanded an economic relief as they were affected by the Covid-induced restrictions. They demanded proper functioning of the court as all government departments are working as usual. Advocate Harish Arya, vice-president, District Bar Association, said the advocates were the worst-affected community due to Covid-induced restrictions, leaving a large number of them unemployed. Only bail and urgent matters were being considered, while the remaining cases were not being entertained, due to which a large section of the community had no option, but to remain at home. He said the government should consider their point of view otherwise, they would have to protest in support of the economy package.  He along with other advocates threatened to hold protest in Karnal if their demands were not fulfilled.
08-12-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat 
||Faridabad’s air quality turns hazardous, poorest in state||Tribune News Service Faridabad, December 7   The air quality index (AQI) in the city has dropped to a hazardous level again. On Monday morning, the PM-2.5 level (particulate matter of 2.5 micrograms per cubic cm) was recorded at 405, about 6.5 times the acceptable level of 60 (good), according to “Sameer”, a mobile phone application of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Eight other cities recorded an AQI of very poor level in the morning. The PM-2.5 level measured by the laboratory of the Haryana Pollution Control Board (HPCB) office in Sector 16-A here is uploaded on the app after every hour daily. As per the app, the air quality of Faridabad has turned either severe or hazardous after a gap of three weeks in spite zero stubble burning incidents in the past few days. The AQI had hit the severe patch in mid-November.  Samita Kanodia, regional officer, Pollution Control Department, said low speed of wind and decrease in temperature were to blame for the hazardous air quality in Faridabad. “Any violation of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) will be dealt with strictly,” she said. Construction activities, dust and air pollution caused by traffic and industrial activities are cited as contributing factors for the smoggy conditions. Birender Kardam, Chief Engineer, Municipal Corporation, said: “Water will be sprinkled on roads and trees to curb dust pollution in several areas of the city. Teams have been deployed to issue challans to those violating the GRAP.” Rohtak, Gurugram, Hisar, Jind, Fatehabad, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Manesar of Haryana recorded an AQI of very poor category on Monday (between 300 and 400). However, it was Ghaziabad of UP, which recorded 433, the worst in the NCR.
08-12-2020||
||CRPF, govt ink pact to expand green cover||Chandigarh, December 7 The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Forest Department, Haryana, on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to expand the green cover in the state. The MoU, which lays down a roadmap for the next seven years in eight districts of Haryana, was signed by Rakesh Kumar, Inspector General, Northern Sector, CRPF, and Vineet Garg, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests.  AP Maheshwari, Director General, CRPF, and Amrinder Kaur, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests-cum-Managing Director, Haryana Forest Development Corporation, attended the event online. Under the agreement, the CRPF as well as the Forest Department will plant and help sustain a large number of saplings at various environmentally sensitive places as part of the Centre’s Green India Mission.  Teams from the CRPF’s different Group Centres in the region are already carrying out tree plantation drives at various places in their vicinity, where several types of species have been planted in association with the Forest Department.
08-12-2020||
||Perfume bottles burst, four suffer burns||Ambala, December 7  Four youths suffered burn injuries after some expired perfume bottles exploded a plot near Jasmit Nagar under the jurisdiction of Baldev Nagar police station here late Sunday evening.  The injured were identified as Ravi Kumar (35), Shunty (25), Rohit Kumar (21) and Bobby (18), all residents of Ambala City.  Rocky, kin of one of the injured, said: “All of them collect scrap. They were emptying the perfume bottles when all of a sudden a fire broke out.”  Locals said there was a godown from where the perfume bottles were supplied and the expired ones were dumped in a plot near Royal Palace. The victims were emptying the bottles in the evening and it is being suspected that one of them might have lit a matchstick that caused the accident. They were rushed to Ambala City Civil Hospital. While Ravi was undergoing treatment in Ambala, the other three were referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, for further treatment.  Baldev Nagar SHO Hamir Singh said: “We got information that a fire broke out at a plot where some expired perfume bottles were being dumped by four youths. It is yet to be confirmed whether they were deployed by someone to empty the perfume bottles or were they collecting them on their own. Different claims were being made by the people on Sunday night but there is no statement from the victims so far. The matter is being probed. We will check who dumped the bottles here and further action will be taken as per the statement of the victims.”
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||23 fatalities; 1,392 cases||With 1,392 fresh cases and 23 deaths, the Covid tally in the state reached 2,45,288 on Monday. With 23 deaths, the toll reached 2,611. Five deaths were reported from Hisar, three each from Faridabad and Rewari, two each from Gurugram, Rohtak, Panchkula and Jhajjar and one each from Sonepat, Ambala, Jind and Nuh. — TNS
08-12-2020||Ambala||138 criminals held in Ambala in a month||The district police have arrested 138 criminals in 104 cases registered during November and recovered a huge cache of drugs, liquor, robbed and snatched articles, including vehicles, illicit weapons and cash. Maximum arrested criminals were involved in the cases of smuggling drugs and liquor, snatching, robbery, theft and gambling, Superintendent of Police (SP) Rajesh Kalia said here on Monday. Sharing the details of the special drive launched against the criminals, the SP said eight persons were held for smuggling drugs in seven separate cases and 50 gram of heroin, 100 gram of opium, 3,376 intoxicant capsules and 2.5 kg of ganja were recovered from them. In 25 separate cases of robbery, snatching and theft, 38 criminals were held and 11 stolen motorcycles, two Honda Activa scooters, three mobile phones, twoACs, three head of cattle, cash and other stolen articles were seized. — TNS
08-12-2020||---||Convene House session for floor test, Hooda tells Governor||Jind, December 7As the state government has come under pressure after eight MLAs — six of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) and two Independents — supported the protesting farmers, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has written to the Governor Satyadev Narayan Arya for calling an emergency session of the Assembly.“The BJP-JJP government has lost the confidence of the MLAs as well as that of the people. There is political instability. In these exceptional circumstances, I have written to the Governor to convene a special session of the Assembly while discharging his constitutional responsibilities,” he told the media here on Monday.The former Chief Minister alleged that a few MLAs associated with the ruling regime were adopting double standards. “The Congress will bring in a no-confidence motion which will expose the intentions of legislators. They have to choose between the government and the farmers. Independent and JJP MLAs are talking about backing farmers, but continue supporting the government”.Hooda supported the December 8 Bharat bandh call and requested all Opposition parties to come forward in solidarity with the farmers. He appealed to the public to protest peacefully. Hooda said the entire country and all organisations stand with the farmers.The Congress leader reiterated that the farmers’ demands were valid and the Centre should address the concerns without any further delay.“The Minimum Support Price (MSP) of crops is the right of every farmer. The Centre must ensure that it is not tinkered with,” he added.
08-12-2020||adeep Sharma
||Politicians not backing stir face ‘social boycott’||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 7 Even as farmers intensify their agitation, politicians not supporting the agitation, especially from the ruling BJP-JJP alliance, are facing ‘social boycott’ across Haryana. As a mark of solidarity with farmers, villages are turning the heat on politicians not opposing the ‘black’ laws  by putting up banners outside villages, banning their entry. Fatehabad district is leading in ‘social boycott’ with at least 23 villages putting up banners supporting the farmers’ movement. “The village has unanimously decided to ban the entry of politicians supporting the farm laws and at least 23 villages in the district have put up similar banners,” said Sukhwinder, sarpanch of Talwara village in Fatehabad. She said the villages joining the ‘social boycott’ included Chandpura Mundlian, Sadanwas, Jakhal Gaon, Aherwan, Bhani Khera and Sidani, adding that more villages were joining each passing day. Claiming that the farmers’ agitation had become a people’s movement, Gurnam Singh Charuni, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), said ‘social boycott’ of politicians not supporting the agitation was a spontaneous reaction of residents, a majority of whom were farmers. “Political parties should see the writing on the wall and pressurise the government to take back the anti-farmer laws,” he asserted.
08-12-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Vegetable, milk supply to be hit||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 7The united forum of farmers’ associations on Monday said there would be no supply of milk and vegetables during the Bharat bandh on Tuesday, which would remain peaceful.The farmers’ protest continued at the Singhu border on the NH-44 for the 11th day. Hundreds of farmers from Sonepat, Panipat, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and other districts joined the protest on Monday.Farmers’ groups from nearby villages had been bringing vegetables, milk, fruit, dry ration, juices, lassi, potable water and other eatables for the protesting farmers every day.Representatives of the Punjab farmers’ associations — Darshan Pal Singh, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Jagjeet Singh — said they had been getting the support of all sections of society.Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson, said all parties and all sections of society had extended their support to the farmers’ demands.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the Singhu border to review arrangements for the protesting farmers. He said they had been supporting the farmers as their demands were genuine.Protesters turn away Gurdas MaanPunjabi singer Gurdas Maan had to face public anger after reaching the dharna site. Maan wanted to address the farmers, but they opposed it. The protesting farmers raised slogans against him and he had to leave. People of Punjab were angry ever since he supported the 'one nation, one language' idea at a programme in Canada in September last year.Lawyers come out in supportAdvocates from Delhi, Punjab and Haryana reached the Singhu border to extend support to the protesters. A delegation under the banner of the Lawyers for Democracy, a group of eight lawyer organisations, supported the farmers’ demands.
08-12-2020||---||15 leaders ‘rounded up’ in Faridabad||Faridabad, December 7The protest march by about 250 farmers hailing from Palwal came to an abrupt end after the police reportedly rounded up more than 10 of their leaders near the Badarpur border here on Monday.They were walking to the Delhi border, where other farmers are protesting against the farm laws.“In all, 15 leaders were rounded up near the border and were taken to unknown places,” said one of the farmers on the condition of anonymity.The march had started from Palwal on December 4.Sources say the leaders were released later on the condition that they would not protest.“Farmers who were trying to cross the border in private vehicles were intercepted and taken to police stations. We tried to convince them to end the march so that law and order was not disrupted,” police sources said.Police officials, however, denied having arrested farmers. They said the farmers dispersed after the police intervention.Ratan Singh Sorot, one of the farmer leaders, could not be contacted in spite of repeated attempts.
08-12-2020||Karnal||Karnal villagers urged to back Bharat bandh||To garner public support for Bharat bandh on Tuesday, farmers have been approaching the district residents, urging them to join the stir against the three agricultural Acts.  Farmers have also requested the traders to support them and keep their establishments closed on Tuesday. “Our members have been approaching the villages, requesting the residents to come forward and support Bharat bandh,” said Rattan Mann, president, Bharatiya Kisan Union. He said the three laws were against farmers and the Bharat bandh would be successful if the public would support it. He said their team members had approached all major villages in the district. Narendra Singh, another farmer leader, said the bandh would prove to be the last nail in the coffin of the government. — TNS
08-12-2020||Our Correspondent||G’gram police nab 4 highway robbers after encounter near R’sthan border||Gurugram, December 7The Gurugram police have nabbed four dreaded criminals involved in robberies and snatchings on gunpoint near the Rajasthan border following a brief encounter on Monday.The accused have been identified as Govind, alias Bhammal (19), of Jokhawas village; Maman (18) of Ujoli village; Mohit (22) of Dhamawas village in Alwar district of Rajasthan; and Rohit, alias Daddu (20), of Gujriwas village of Rewari.A stolen Etios car, four illegal pistols and cartridges have been recovered from their possession.After multiple highway robberies in the past few days, Gurugram Police Commissioner KK Rao specially assigned the case to the Sector 31 crime unit. On Monday afternoon, Sub-Inspector Sanjeev Kumar, head of the crime unit, got a tip-off about the presence of these criminals in Rewari.The crime unit team reached Rewari, where the cops spotted an Etios car, which was robbed on gunpoint from Sector 7, IMT, Manesar area. After seeing the police team, four persons in the car started fleeing towards Rajasthan. When they reached near Budhi Bawal village at the Haryana-Rajasthan border, the accused started firing on the police team.In the cross-firing, all accused suffered bullet injuries in their head, chest and leg. Finally, the police nabbed all of them.The police said three out of four accused were critical. Two are being treated in Rewari while the others have been referred to the PGIMS, Rohtak.“This is big catch for us as they were active not only in the city but also on the highway. All four are injured and we will question them as soon as they are discharged from the hospital. Our crime unit team is doing a great job to nab such notorious criminals,” Rao said.WANTED CRIMINALSOver 15 cases of robbery, dacoity and murder attempt have been registered against the four accused in Haryana and Rajasthan. Four other robbery cases are registered in Gurugram.
08-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||2002 stir: Kandela villagers remember ‘saviour’ bull||Tribune News ServiceKandela (Jind), December 7As the farmers’ protest atthe Haryana-Delhi borders entered the 12th day, residents of Jind’s Kandela village, which has been the center of a similar stir in 2002 against the then INLD government, remembers the contribution of a bull on his 13th death anniversary on Monday.The villagers gave the credit of the success to the bull that had stood like a wall between the police and protesting villagers for nearly one and a half months. The bull died on December 7, 2003. Later, a statue of the bull was set up at the entrance of the village and it is worshipped as a deity.The villagers, who are lending support to the ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi, said it’s tough to bargain with the government, which had all power behind it.Ram Singh, an elderly villager who returned from the Tikri border after 10 days, said he had participated in the Kandela stir in 2002 as well. “We stayed put at the protest site for nearly one and a half months against the government led by the then CM Om Prakash Chautala. Even now, it’s not an easy task to deal with the Centre. Thus the farmers’ organisations are geared up for a prolonged struggle with the government,” he added.Terming the khagar (bull) as the hero of the 2002 agitation, Ram recalled that it did not allow the mounted police to enter the village throughout the protest. “I remember that the villagers were sitting on a dharna in front of a government school while the heavily armed cops were deployed across the minor canal, about 200 m away from the village entrance. The police were so afraid of the bull that they couldn’t cross the minor canal even when they shot bullets towards us from a distance,” he added.Pradeep, another villager, said the bull died a few months after the stir and villager Tek Ram donated his land for setting up a statue in his memory.
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||BJP worried about capitalist friends: Selja||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja today visited Singhu border in Sonepat and extended her party’s support to the farmers’ protest.Interacting with them, she told them that the party was extending full support to ‘Bharat Bandh’ onTuesday. “The BJP government at the Centre is only concerned about their capitalist friends and not farmers,” she said.Congress MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi was also present.“These farm laws need to be abolished.” She said the farmers were not consulted before passing these farm laws. “The voice of opposition was also not heard. When the farmers started protesting, even then the government did not budge. Finally, they were forced to leave their homes and march towards Delhi.”Under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, the party had been at the forefront of protests against these farm laws, she said. “The Congress governments in various states passed new laws to nullify the impact of these farm laws. These black laws will be repealed when the Congress will come to power,” she said. — TNS
08-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||TN farmers reciprocate, join Punjabi brethren at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 7One good turn merits another. That probably explains why Tamil Nadu farmers have come all the way to the Singhu border to support their brethren from Punjab and Haryana protesting against the three controversial farm laws for more than 10 days.Tamil Nadu farmers say they cannot forget the generosity shown by Punjabis and gurdwara managements when in 2017 and 2018 they had protested at Jantar Mantar in Delhi.“When scores of farmers from Tamil Nadu protested in Delhi, only gurdwaras had provided us with langar, shelter and medical help. So it becomes our duty to support our Punjabi brothers and sisters. The Centre must not forget that Punjab is the state that feeds the entire country,” said R Sellaperumal, state propaganda secretary, National South Indian River Inter-linking Farmers’ Association.The association had shot to national prominence in 2017 when it had led Tamil Nadu farmers, who had protested in a unique manner such as rolling naked on roads, holding dead snakes in their mouths, eating mice and holding human skulls which they had claimed were of farmers who had committed suicide in distress.They had sought a drought relief package, a loan waiver and formation of the Cauvery Management Board.“Tamil Nadu farmers would have died had gurdwaras not helped us back then. Now,it is our turn to supportthem for a just cause,” said Jothimurugan, association’s Chennai president.For the protest at the Singhu border, a message in Tamil by a Punjabi farmer broadcast on a television channel acted as a catalyst. Rajwinder Singh, who has been protesting at Singhu from day one, had issued an appeal. “As I can speak Tamil, I urge TN farmers to join us. The message went viral. Subsequently, several farmers’ groups contacted us. Four to five groups have already reached here, including one representing actor Kamal Hassan,” Singh said.Sellaperumal said, “Association president P Ayyakannu was to join the farmers at the Singhu border, but the TN Government held him back. About 50 people could come here by train. About 100 more are on their way. The state government has been stopping our farmers from reaching Delhi.” On the farm laws, he said the legislations would turn farmers into beggars. “Until these laws are cancelled, we will not budge.”A delegation from the Naam Tamilar Party addressed farmers at the Singhuborder. One of the speakers said in Punjabi, “Tussi aisehi datte raho (Keep holding the fort like this).”
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||13 companies of central forces in Haryana||Traffic disruption expected-Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48).
08-12-2020||Kurukshetra||Online campus placement drive||Webinar on Techno-Funda AnalysisFaridabad: The MBA department of the DAV Institute of Management (DAVIM), NH 3, NIT, here, organised a webinar on the topic, ‘Techno Funda Analysis,’ here recently. Revealing this Dr Sanjeev Sharma, principal director, DAVIM, said it was part of the initiatives taken by the institute to connect with its learners in innovative ways and touch their lives by discussing issues of real importance to them. Claiming that Covid time has impacted the world economies and mankind in a remarkable manner, he said it had also resulted in severe financial suffering of almost all sections of society, including the stock market. Hence it is crucial to understand the importance of right investment, at the right time and at the right place.Women ‘s role a must in agri sector: VCHisar: The Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Charan Singh, Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, Professor Samar Singh, said, “If we want to bring second green revolution in the country, the role of women and their participation in the agriculture sector has to be ensured. For this, it is necessary to provide incentives and financial facilities to women farmers.” He was speaking as the chief guest on the occasion of 'Mahila Kisan Divas', observed at the university's Home Science College. The programme was presided over by Dr Bimala Dhanda, the head of the college. Professor Singh said today women constituted half of the total population of the country, yet they were still deprived of basic facilities, especially in rural areas. Not only should women be appreciated for their contribution to the field of agriculture, they should also be further involved in farming for their empowerment. About 200 women who performed well in the field of agriculture also shared their farming experiences on the occasionStudent gets 24th rank in JRF examsHisar: Nihar Singh, a resident of Defence Colony, Hisar, has qualified the JRF by securing 24th rank in India and brought laurels to the city. He has got 99.9625 percentile score in Commerce. Singh was a student of Jindal Modern School, Hisar. He did his BCom (Honours) and MCom from the University of Delhi. His father Dr Bhupender Singh is a retired associate professor from Government College, Hisar.
08-12-2020||These days||Farmers, consumers biggest losers||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaKids who neglect parents should not inherit propertyThe Haryana government's decision to build an old-age home in every district is fine, but it is also necessary to consider why there is a need to build an old-age home. There are many children who have sufficient income but do not want to look after their parents in their old age and send them to old-age homes. A certain amount should be deducted from such children's income and given to the old-age homes, where the parents live. Earlier in our society, it was also a tradition that the parents' property was given to those who served them. Therefore, children who do not serve their parents should not get their paternal property.Shakti Singh, KarnalPollution by sugar mill must stopThe Shahabad Sugar Mill under the Kurukshetra district jurisdiction has become a 'major source of pollution' causing adverse effects to the overall environment and health of the people of Shahabad and adjoining areas. The sugar mill management must take all possible technological and other measures to curb and eliminate pollution being caused by it; otherwise, people living in the area will develop health problems. Pollution control board and the district administration should intervene immediately for speedy remedial measures.Ravi Bhushan, KurukshetraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
08-12-2020||Faridabad||No farm fires, yet F’bad air quality ‘hazardous’||The air quality index (AQI) in Faridabad dropped to ‘hazardous’on Monday with the PM-2.5 levels (particulate matter of 2.5 micrograms/ cubic cm) recorded at 405, about 6.5 times the acceptable level of 60.The air quality has turned “severe or hazardous” after three weeks in spite of zero incidents of stubble burning in the past few days. Samita Kanodia, Pollution Control Department, said a low wind speed and drop in temperature were to blame for the ‘hazardous’ air quality. — TNS
