09-09-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Unemployment ‘drives’ newly-wed couple to suicide in ‘Textile City’||Tribune News ServicePanipat, September 9Unemployment caused by COVID pandemic reportedly forced a newly-married couple to commit suicide in ‘Textile City’ here on Wednesday.The couple ended their lives by hanging in their room in Raj Nagar here.The deceased have been identified as Aawed (28) and his wife Nazma (19).Jawed, elder brother of Aawed, in his statement to police said that Aawed got married with Nazma of Vikas Nagar on August 10 and they were very happy as the marriage was of their choice.  Earlier, Aawed was working as a welder in a private company but lost job in lockdown due to COVID pandemic, he added. He was hoping that he would get work in the Unlock period, in another factory, but he didn’t and due to which he was mentally upset, Jawed said.His friend Nafis came to meet Aawed at home on Wednesday morning and asked him to go out in search of a job. After meeting Nafis, Aawed went to his room.At around 9.30 am Jawed’s wife Chandni witnessed the duo hanging in their room with a dupatta from a fan and informed the police control room.Jawed said his father Anwar Khan is working in a spinning mill while he himself was working as a cashier in a shop. The family members never pressured him to work but he was upset due to unemployment, he added.Anwar, father of the deceased, said Aawed was looking for work for the past many days.  Sunil Kumar, SHO, Model Town, said the family members of Aawed and Nazma, in their statement to police didn’t suspect anyone behind the incident.The family members also said the couple was upset for the past few days due to unemployment, he added.The bodies have been handed over to the kin after the post-mortem after initiating the inquest proceedings under section 174 of the CrPC, the SHO said.
09-09-2020||New Delhi||38 teachers get CBSE Awards; 2 each from Punjab, Chandigarh, 3 from Haryana||Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Wednesday presented CBSE Awards to 38 teachers and principals for their contribution to school education. According to CBSE officials, the awards were presented for the year 2019-20 in the honour of teachers and principals for their valuable contribution towards improving school education, innovation, and dedication. The list of awardees includes two educationalists from Punjab, two from Chandigarh, and three from Haryana. Teachers: 1. Alka Sharma from Bhartiya Vidya Bhawan Sohan Lal Public School, Amritsar. 2. Yogesh Gambhir from Desraj Vadhera DAV Public School, Phillaur. 3. Ram Kumar Sharma from Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 37-B, Chandigarh. 4. Anuja Sharma from DAV Model School, Sector 15-A, Chandigarh.5. Punneta Malhotra from K R Mangalam World School, Gurugram. 6. Rashmi Malik from Salwan Public School, Sector 15 (II), Gurugram. 7. Arti Chopta from Amity International School, Sector 46, Gurugram. According to CBSE officials, since 2018, CBSE follows an online selection process. The applicants are evaluated based on general and specific criterion under each category and several parameters related to school education and their contribution.The awardees include primary and middle-level teachers, language teachers, science, social science, physical education, mathematics, economics, IT, fine arts teachers, school counsellors, vice principals and principals. They were presented a merit certificate, a shawl, and a cash prize of Rs 50,000. Speaking on the occasion, Pokhriyal said, that Teachers lay the basic foundation of education. He said, that teaching is a most respected profession and the purpose of these awards is to celebrate the unique contribution of some of the finest teachers in the country and to honour those teachers, who through their commitment have not only improved the quality of school education but also enriched the lives of their students.The Minister highlighted, that in the New Education Policy 2020, teachers have been placed right at the centre of the education system. It has been mentioned in the policy, that all the schools must have an adequate number of teachers and such environment shall be provided so that work culture in the schools is enhanced.
09-09-2020||---||Tributes paid to Haryana gunner killed in J&K's Kupwara||Srinagar, September 8The Army today paid tributes to Gunner Bhupender, who was killed in a ceasefire violation along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kupwara district on Saturday. Two soldiers were also injured in the Pakistani firing.In a ceremony at the Badami Bagh Cantonment, Lt Gen BS Raju, Chinar Corps Commander, and all ranks paid homage to the braveheart on behalf of the nation, an Army statement said.“Gunner Bhupender was directing own retaliatory fire from a forward post on the LoC in the Nougam sector of Kupwara, in response to the unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistan. Bhupender laid down his life in the line of duty as a result of a direct hit by the enemy fire and succumbed to his injuries,” the statement said.A resident of Bass Ranila of Charkidadri Bhiwani in Haryana, Bhupender (23) had joined the Army in December 2015. He is survived by his wife and a son.
09-09-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||59 illegal colonies detected in Yamunanagar||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, September 8The Town and Country Planning Department has detected a record 59 unauthorised colonies in the district over the past year and a half.Acting tough, the department has lodged 32 FIRs against violators, including colonisers and property dealers, for breaching the provisions of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975.The illegal colonies were detected between December 6, 2018 and June 10, 2020. Comparatively, only 75 unauthorised colonies were detected in Yamunanagar district in nine years between January 1, 2010 and December 5, 2018.District Town Planner Amit Madholia said they had carried out demolition drives in 35 of the 59 colonies. “We have registered 39 police complaints, out of which FIRs have been lodged in 32 cases,” he said.
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, joint teams to probe illegal passenger transport||Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma has directed the department officials to form joint investigation teams of Haryana Roadways general managers and Road Transport Authority (RTA) secretaries for keeping a vigil on private vehicles illegally carrying passengers in the state.To be deployed on state, national highwaysThese teams will take action against the drivers having no documents, those not depositing tax regularly and carrying passengers illegally across the state. Sharma was presiding over a review meeting of the Transport Department via videoconferencing here on Tuesday.The meeting discussed several important issues, including giving report of challans issued or fines imposed by the RTA staff to the headquarters on a daily basis, policy-making with respect to commercial vehicles older than 20 years, checking buses on interstate routes, appropriate functioning of buses, number of dysfunctional buses and auctioning them, e-ticketing status, status of buses under the km scheme, insurance of buses, performance of general managers and deputation of drivers in the RTA offices.The minister said teams should be constituted for regular inspection of all private vehicles, including buses and maxi cabs, engaged in carrying passengers illegally. These teams should be deployed for checking on all national and state highways. He said all RTA secretaries should check the vehicles at least two or three times a week and send its report to the headquarters. Along with this, he instructed the RTA secretaries to be present in office regularly and also conduct checks at night.Speaking on the cases of fraud in the name of filling tax that have surfaced near the border areas, he called upon the authorities to take strict action against those who run such kiosks. He suggested that free registration should be done of such kiosks so that they could be checked easily.He directed the officers to make a time table for buses at the depot level and to ensure its adherence. He also directed to give maximum time to the Haryana Roadways buses so as to ensure that the department doesn’t face any loss.Sharma said a meeting of the department would be convened every month to review the action-taken.Suitable handling of buses owing to the circumstances arising due to the lockdown was also discussed in the meeting. Sharma was apprised that Rajasthan, UP and Chandigarh had given permission to run buses while approval from states like Delhi, Uttarakhand and HP was yet to be received, which was expected soon.
09-09-2020||Gurugram||3 nabbed with Rs1.6 cr smack in Gurugram||The police have nabbed three persons for smuggling smack worth Rs 1.6 crore from West Bengal to Gurugram. The accused reportedly revealed that they were involved in smuggling for six years.Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP (Crime), said the three accused were natives of West Bengal and were bringing the consignment to Gurugram. He said 798 grams of smack was recovered from them.The crime unit put up a barricade at Ambedkar Chowk on Monday evening following a tip-off. The team intercepted the Eeco van around 10 pm and during a search, the drug was recovered. The police arrested Minrul of Nadia district, and Mojibar and Majnu Shekh of Murshidabad district. “We are trying to nab others nambe by them,” said Sangwan. — OC
09-09-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Bizman robbed of Rs9L, jewellery in Gurugram||A businessman was reportedly robbed of Rs 9 lakh and some jewellery after being held captive in his car at gunpoint late last night.The police visited the crime spot in Sector 46 here with the victim some time later and recovered Rs 5 lakh and a mobile phone from the spot but the robbers managed to flee. An FIR has been registered and the police are conducting raids to nab the robbers.Manhunt launchedThe police said the incident took place around 8.30 pm on Monday when Vinit Bansal, who runs a tiles business in Delhi’s Sultanpur, returned home in his Ciaz. He was just outside his home when three masked armed robbers came from behind in a Brezza and held him hostage at gunpoint.The robbers first drove his car on the Faridabad road and later reached a forest area near Behrampur village where they took away his Rs 9 lakh cash, a gold chain, a bracelet and a ring. Later, they returned his car keys and told him to return home.Bansal approached the police after returning home and they reached the forest area around 11.30 pm from where the cash and a mobile phone were recovered.An FIR has been registered against three persons under Section 392 (robbery) of the IPC and Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at the Sector 50 police station.“The robbers left the cash on the spot, which was recovered by our team. We are checking the CCTV footage to identify the accused and they will be arrested soon,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.
09-09-2020||Yamunanagar||22-year-old gangraped in Jagadhri||A 22-year-old woman was alleged gangraped by two men in Jagadhri on Sunday.On the victim’s complaint, a case was registered against Santosh of Uttar Pradesh and his unidentified friend under Sections 376D and 506 IPC at City police station on Monday.She and her husband live at a rented accommodation in Jagadhri. Santosh also lives on rent in the same building.“Santosh and his friend forcibly entered my room on Sunday evening and raped me. My husband was not at home at that time. They threatened me with dire consequences if I told anyone about the incident,” she alleged.When her husband returned home at night, she told him about it and they reported the matter to the police. — TNS
09-09-2020||Faridabad||7 illegal structures razed in Faridabad||A team of the District Town Planner (Enforcement) pulled down seven constructions meant for establishing industrial units in an illegal manner in the area of Gothra-Mohabatabad village of the district on Tuesday.DTP Naresh Kumar who led the demolition drive claimed that while notices had been served to the persons who had been constructing the buildings, these constructions were razed after they failed to remove these or halt the illegal constructions in the area.He said as many as 235 illegal structures related to residential, commercial and industrial units were demolished in 43 drives carried out since June. These involve carving out of 40 illegal residential colonies in the revenue areas of about a dozen villages in the district. — TNS
09-09-2020||Rohtak||Number of insured non-loanee farmers rise in 4 districts in Haryana||The Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana has got a remarkable response in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari and Mahendragarh districts this kharif season, with a multi-fold increase in the number of non-loanee farmers compared to the last season.Significantly, the figure of insured non-loanee farmers is the highest in the four districts since the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana was launched in 2016. The increase in such farmers is more than seven times in Jhajjar, 3.8 times in Mahendragarh, 3.1 times in Rewari and 2.6 times in Rohtak.Agricultural experts claim that the ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme, aiming to motivate farmers to switch over to alternative crops from paddy by giving them an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre, and the rising interest of farmers towards the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana to deal with the high risk involved in kharif crops due to uncertain weather conditions are the major reasons behind the increase in the number of non-loanee farmers this season.“As the state government is to refund the premium amount of the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana of the farmers enrolled in the Mera Pani Meri Virasat scheme, scores of farmers, who did not adopt the yojana earlier, have also registered themselves this time to get compensation free of cost, in case of crop loss,” said Ram Kanwar, a retired agricultural scientist.According to sources, 442 farmers have adopted the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana in Jhajjar for Kharif-2019 while the number is 3,154 this time. Similarly, the figure has risen to 2,568 from 821 in Rewari, to 1,438 from 533 in Rohtak and to 1,120 from 294 in Mahendragarh. However, the number of loanee farmers has diminished in all four districts this season due to the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana being made optional.“The number of loanee farmers enrolled in the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana this season has reduced by over 7,000 in Mahendragarh, 6,800 in Rewari, 2,300 in Jhajjar and 1,700 in Rohtak. A total 47,225 loanee farmers in Mahendragarh, 40,154 in Rewari, 19,250 in Jhajjar and 18,209 in Rohtak have been enrolled under the PMFBY this season,” said the sources.Rohtash Singh, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Rohtak, claimed that a hefty compensation being distributed for the crop loss under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana was the prime reason that farmers in large numbers were adopting it. He admitted that the Mera Pani Meri Virasat scheme was also one of the reasons.
09-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Four held in murder case in Kurukshetra||The Kurukshetra police have arrested four men in connection with a person’s murder on Tuesday.The suspects have been identified as Meharchand, his sons Ravi and Binu and son-in-law Sonu.The deceased was identified as Amardeep of Haripura village of Babain.Jatinder Singh, the deceased’s father, in his complaint had alleged that while his two sons (Amandeep and Vikramdeep) were settled abroad, Amardeep was living with him in Haripura village of Babain. The suspects often used to quarrel with Amardeep. On September 6, around 10 pm, Amardeep had gone to his fields, but didn’t return. Around 11.15 pm, Jatinder came to know that his son had suffered head injury and was taken to hospital in Shahabad from where he was referred to Chandigarh PGIMER.The complainant alleged that his son succumbed to his injuries while on the way to Chandigarh. Amardeep had told his father that he was thrashed by Meharchand, his sons Ravi and Binu and son-in-law Sonu.A case was registered under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC.Meanwhile, Babain SHO Rajiv Kumar said the suspect were arrested and produced before a court which sent Sonu and Ravi toone-day police remand, while Binu and Meharchand were sent to jail.
09-09-2020||---||Woman booked for killing 2 daughters||Hisar, September 8A woman has confessed to killing her two minor daughters around three months ago in Khedar village of Hisar district. She, too, had attempted suicide but was rushed to a hospital and saved.The police said the woman, identified as Charya, 32, had recovered from her injuries yesterday and during questioning confessed to murdering her two daughters — one-year-old Kiran and three-year-old Mamta — at their residence on the night of May 24.The police said that during questioning, Charya had stated that she was fed up with the harassment by her husband and in-laws and wanted to commit suicide but was concerned about the future of her two daughters. Thereafter, she slit the throats of her two daughters with a knife and also injured herself with it. She was rushed to a hospital. Her husband Ahmad, too, died in a road accident last month.SHO Kuldeep Singh said the police had registered a case under sections 302 and 309 of the IPC against the accused and started investigation.
09-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra administration's no to farmers’ rally||While the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has been making preparations for its ‘Kisan Bachao, Mandi Bachao’ rally at Pipli grain market on September 10, the district administration has denied permission for the rally due to the Covid pandemic.It has asked union leaders not to hold the rally. Otherwise, action would be initiated against them. However, BKU leaders have refused withdraw their call for the rally.The BKU had given the call for the rally against the Centre’s three ordinances on the agriculture sector.DC Sharandeep Kaur said, “Covid cases are on the rise in Kurukshetra. In such conditions, we can’t allow farmers to hold a rally here. The possibility of farmers from other districts taking part in this rally cannot be ruled out. Keeping these aspects in mind, the farmers have not been allowed to hold a rally. If a rally is organised, it will be considered illegal and legal action will be taken against the organisers. Directions have been issued to the police to maintain law and order.”BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh said, “No action has been taken against the BJP leaders who have been holding meetings and addressing gatherings. We won’t withdraw our call for the rally. Total 17 farmer unions along with arhtiyas and labourers, from across the state will join this rally. We request the administration to let us hold the rally in a peaceful manner and with all precautions. If it attempts to stop the farmers, then they will be forced to stage dharnas on roads and if any untoward incident takes place, then the administration will be responsible.” — TNS
09-09-2020||Ambala||Haryana banquet hall owners seek more relaxations||Reeling under losses due to the Covid restrictions, banquet hall owners and people associated with the wedding industry are seeking more relaxations and clear guidelines regarding night events from the government.The people associated with the industry say that after shradh, they are expecting fresh bookings for October, November and December and so the number of guests should be allowed according to the capacity of the palace or banquet hall.Ajay Baweja, a caterer and banquet operator, said “The pandemic has hit the banquet and catering industry hard and people are struggling to keep the business afloat. There were a large number of bookings for April and May but they got cancelled due to the Covid restrictions and we had to refund the money. As per the last guideline, the permissible limit of guests have been increased from 50 to 100, which will come into effect from September 21, but we request the government to relax the number further to 50 per cent of the size of the banquet hall. So, if a banquet hall has a capacity of 500 people, then 250 should be allowed.”There are nearly 125 banquet halls and marriage palaces in Ambala Cantonment and City.Meanwhile, Sudarshan Singh Sehgal, president of Haryana Marriage Palace and Banquet Association, said, “Not only banquet owners, but allied businesses, including caterers, decorators, waiters, photographers, light and sound service providers are also feeling the heat.”“The banquets have taken heavy loans from the banks, which has to be repaid even if there was no business. There are fixed expenditures, including power charges, maintenance, salaries and other taxes. The big palaces can’t survive in such a situation and they would be forced to shut their business. The industry is going through a bad phase. However, there will be fresh bookings soon and the government should consider our demands and grant more relaxations,” he added.
09-09-2020||Ambala||Now, no dairy, open meat sale, garbage dump in Ambala||All dairies will be shifted out and nobody will be allowed to keep cattle and other animals. There will be a blanket ban on open fish and meat sale. A solid waste management plant will be set up and there will be no open garbage dump.Before Rafale’s formal inductionThe decisions were taken a day before the first set of five Rafale jets would be formally inductedChairing a meeting, Vij made it clear that the country’s oldest airbase will not face any problem and he would ensure that Rafale fighter jets get free air space for landing and takeoffThese were among the major steps taken by the district administration today on the directions of Home Minister Anil Vij to resolve issues posing a threat to the Indian Air Force (IAF) station. The decisions were taken a day before the first set of five Rafale jets would be formally inducted.Chairing a meeting of district officials in the presence of the Indian Air Force authorities, Vij made it clear that the country’s oldest airbase would not face any problem and he would ensure that Rafale fighter jets and other aircraft here got free air space for landing and takeoff.While pet and wild birds were a risk to jets and other aircraft, unauthorised structures in the vicinity of the Indian Air Force station had aggravated the threat. According to rough estimates, over 8,000 people were residing in over 1,000 structures within 100 metres of the airbase.Vij formed a three-member committee headed by the Urban Local Government Chief Engineer to ensure implementation of decisions. The panel would meet at least once a month to review implementation of the action plan.
09-09-2020||Hisar||Board School Education Haryana extends date for online application||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) has extended the date for online application for the Secondary and Senior Secondary Examination September-2020 (academic) and Haryana Open School Examination September -2020. The candidates can now apply till September 13.While giving information in this regard, Board Chairman Dr Jagbir Singh said those candidates appearing for the Secondary and Senior Secondary Examination September-2020, who were not able to apply for compartment, partial mark improvement, full subject mark improvement and additional subject till September 3 and those students who had applied but could not submit the online fee, all such students can apply for the same from September 9 to 13 on the link given on the board website www.bseh.org.in by paying late fee of Rs 1,000.He said the candidates whose re-evaluation/re-examination result was cleared or they had got compartment in examinations could also apply online till September 13. Apart from this, candidates applying for the Haryana Open School Examination September -2020 are also advised to ensure that they apply by the due date.He said the candidates had to submit their application and pay fee through online process only. After submitting the application form and fee, only the candidate of the additional subject should ensure to send the hard copy of their application form and other documents in the name of Assistant Secretary (Secondary/Senior Secondary) Board of School Education Haryana, Bhiwani, in time and the remaining candidates have to keep hard copy of the application with them.He said in case of any difficulty while applying online, the students could contact on helpline number 01664-254300, 254308 and 254309.
09-09-2020||Hisar||Criminal carrying Rs50K reward, aide held in MP||The Bhiwani district police have arrested a criminal carrying a cash reward of Rs 50,000 along with his accomplice from Muraina district in Madhya Pradesh.Bhiwani DSP Virender Singh said a CIA team led by Inspector Yogesh Kumar traced the criminal, Sanjay Kumar of Behal town in Bhiwani district, to Muraina district in Madhya Pradesh. The accused was involved in seven cases of loot and murder registered in Bhiwani.The DSP said the police also recovered a pistol and four cartridges from the accused and arrested his accomplice, Manish of Satnali Mohalla in Mahendragarh district.The police produced both the accused in a court on Tuesday, which reminded them to two-day police custody for interrogation.According to the police, Sanjay was involved murder and loot incidents in the Behal region of Bhiwani district. — TNS
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Power engineers: Office-bearers being targeted||The Haryana Power Engineers Association on Tuesday criticised the management for alleged victimisation of its general secretary KK Malik. The suspension and issuance of chargesheet to the general secretary was criticised at a meeting, presided over by president Rampal Singh. — TNS
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||ISO praises Haryana CM’s decision to waive fee||Vikash Kinha, media in charge of the Indian National Lok Dal Students Organisation (ISO), has welcomed Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s decision to waive admission and registration fee of students and over the grievance redressal helpdesk number.He said this would give some relief to the students facing problems due to Covid. He said for admission to any university or college, students used to be charged a hefty amount, which was completely exploitative of students. He said now, students would benefit from the decision. — TNS
09-09-2020||Karnal||Books distributed to students||Event on 100th birth anniv of CR RaoRohtak: The Department of Statistics at Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU) will felicitate seven professors of various subjects for their commendable contribution to research work on the occasion of 100th birth anniversary of doyen of Indian Statistics Prof CR Rao on September 10. Prof SC Malik, Head of the Department, said selection of the professors had been made by a committee on the basis of their academic record and names of only those professors were discussed, whose more than 30 research papers were published in reputed national and international journals. “CS Pundir from biochemistry, Anil Kumar Chhillar from biotechnology, Renu Chug from mathematics, Arun Nanda and Sanju Nanda from pharmaceutical science, Rajesh Dhankar from bioinformatics and Kanchan Jain from statistics are the professors who will be felicitated at the function,” said Prof Malik.Patent for automatic dialysis deviceHisar: The failure of kidney is one of the common health problems in these days and to address the problem, Dr Sumit Saroha, Department of Printing Technology, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology here has got a patent for developing an automatic dialysis device based on sensors and Internet of Things (IoT). This will automatically complete the dialysis process without any manual assistance. This device can also be connected to mobile through the IoT platforms. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Dr Avnesh Verma congratulated Dr Saroha for this achievement. The VC said every possible help would be provided to Dr Saroha for further research work.Webinar on new Education policyPalwal: Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU) organised a webinar on the New Education Policy 2020. The webinar was attended by Padma Bushan Prof Jagdish Sheth, Goizueta Business School of Emory University Marketing Prof Charles H Kellstadt, Academy of Indian Marketing president Jayant Shah, SVSU Vice-Chancellor Raj Nehru and SVSU Registrar Prof RS Rathore, along with other faculty members and students. Chief guest Dr Sheth spoke on the education policies of developed countries such as the USA, the UK, Japan, Singapore and South Korea etc, and emphasised on the importance of skill education. Jayant Shah said educational institutes should pay more attention to the holistic development of students.Online interactive sessionHisar: The Haryana School of Business (HSB), Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology here organised an online interactive session namely ‘HSBians Talk’ with its alumni Pooja Malik who is currently serving as South Delhi Leasing at Indospace vice-president. She has completed her MBA (Marketing) from the HSB during 1998-2000. HSB director Prof Karam Pal Narwal chaired the session and HSB alumni relations coordinator Prof Sanjeev Kumar acted as the moderator of it. Parmod Kumar and Prerna Tuteja coordinated the session. Prof Narwal pressed upon the need and importance of such interactions between former and current students of an institution.1,350 face masks distributedKarnal: Yamunanagar branch of the Aakash Educational Services Ltd (AESL) distributed 1,350 face masks amongst the citizens of Yamunanagar. The number was equal to the number of students who scored 90 per cent and above marks in the CBSE, state boards and other Class X and XII examinations from Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, the results for which were announced last month. Out of the 1,350, 24 students were from the Yamunanagar branch of the institute. This is a part of the state-wide campaign of the AESL that entails distribution of around 27,000 face masks throughout various cities in Punjab and Haryana by the end of this week.Social entrepreneurship certificateHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology here has received a certificate for social entrepreneurship and sanitation and rural engagement cell from the Mahatma Gandhi National Higher Education Department, Department of Rural Education, Ministry of Education, Government of India. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Dr Avnesh Verma congratulated the university fraternity for this achievement. The VC said this was a proud moment for the university. He said the university had successfully prepared the action plan for social entrepreneurship and rural engagement cell and separate committees had been formed to improve facilities in the areas of sanitation, waste management, water management, energy conservation, greenery and Covid on the university premises and adopted villages.
09-09-2020||DESPITE repeated directives of the state government to install rainwater harvesting systems mandatorily at large government||Rainwater harvesting mostly on paper||Pothole-riddled road irks commutersTHE state of roads near Sector 69 and Sector 53, 54 crossing is very poor. The pothole-ridden roads cause great inconvenience to commuters, especially after a spell of rain. It becomes difficult for commuters to ply vehicles on the roads, which can result into serious mishaps. The concerned authorities must look into the issue as many people suffer due to this problem. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramRespect Covid warriorsTHE Health Department staff is fighting from the frontline to prevent the people from the global pandemic, but they are not given the due respect that they deserve. Several such incidents had been reported from various regions, where people misbehave with the teams and harm them. These Covid warriors have been humiliated several times but they never stepped back from delivering their services. In a recent such incident, a team of the Health Department went to put up a Covid-related poster outside the house of a police officer, but was roughed up by the officer and his wife. People should act responsibly and co-operate with the department teams. — Baljeet Singh, HisarPeople must follow preventive normsSOCIAL-DISTANCING norms are thrown to the winds at various places, especially chemist shops, where chances of contacting Covid increase manifold. Senior citizens should particularly avoid going out amid the ongoing surge of cases these days. Though patients having symptoms such as fever and sore throat should home quarantine, they come out in public without thinking about the grave consequences of this act. People should consider it a social responsibility to isolate themselves if they have any such symptoms. The official figures are just a fraction of the actual number of patients and we must not flout the preventive norms. — Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaDevelopment projects hang fireDUE to lapse on the part of the then local administration, the four-laning of the Zirakpur-Kalka highway has continued to bother residents of Sector 20 and nearby areas for years. The extension - by the NHAI - of the Sector 20 overbridge with an additional bay to directly connect the road from the Manimajra side with the road dividing Sectors 20-21, where the ring road from Kharar terminates, is hanging fire for years. The authorities must wake up from the slumber and expedite the work. — Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
09-09-2020||Ambala||Two killed in road mishaps||3 caught with arms, ammoVijendra Sharma of Ambala was held with a .32-bore pistol and six live cartridges. Sunny of Ambala was held with a .32-bore pistol and four live cartridges. Prince of Ambala was held with a .315-bore pistol and a live cartridge. TNSTwo nabbed in theft caseThe police have arrested Vikram of Panjokhra and Neeraj of Saha for vehicle theft. Dheeraj Kumar of Shahzadpur had reported theft of his motorcycle. A local court remanded the accused in two-day police custody. TNSOne arrested for fraudThe police have arrested Subhash of Ambala for immigration fraud. The accused was sent to three-day police remand. TNS
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||In ramping up testing, antigen test proves to be game changer in Haryana||Introduced towards the first week of July, Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) have proved a game changer in Haryana so far as ramping up testing is concerned, despite being considered unreliable initially.Of the 12.87 lakh samples tested in the state till Sunday, over 10 lakh have been tested in July, August and the first week of September. Of these, nearly four lakh samples have been tested through rapid antigen tests.Haryana had a testing rate of 9,955 per million and the total tests touched the 2.52-lakh mark when it decided to go for rapid antigen tests, particularly for the NCR districts which were witnessing a large majority of cases.While from March till the beginning of July, the state had performed nearly 2.5 lakh tests, the total number of tests till Sunday has touched 12,94,598 while the tests per million in Haryana stand at 50,668.Of these, 8,96,736 tests have been done through the RT-PCR technique while 3,91,108 samples have been tested by rapid antigen tests.Among the NCR districts, where a total of 1,88,354 samples have been tested with 1,24,373 tests per million population, 79,071 samples have been tested by rapid antigen testing.Similarly, in Faridabad with per million testing of 81,356, as many as 67,470 out of 1,47,233 samples have been tested by rapid antigen technique.Though rapid antigen tests are now being used across the state now, Rohtak, Sonepat, Palwal, Nuh, Jhajjar, Rewari and Panipat are some other NCR districts where these kits have been used considerably.This is despite the fact that rapid antigen tests are not considered as reliable as the RT-PCR tests, which is considered the gold standard test for detection of Covid-19.The ICMR guidelines provide that in case a person tests negative with the rapid antigen tests, he or she has to be tested again by using RT-PCR if the person has symptoms.While the sample positivity rate of RT-PCR is 6.7 per cent in Haryana, it is 4.2 per cent in case of rapid antigen tests.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, said that the rapid antigen tests, which take a few minutes to give results, have helped the government test large numbers of people in clusters in the NCR districts and hence facilitate the opening up of industries and business.Giving the recent example of detection of a large number of cases at ‘dhabas’ in Murthal (Sonepat), Arora said that it would not have been possible with the RT-PCR which takes a day or two for the results besides having a limited capacity.“Antigen testing has helped us detect cases early in large clusters and isolate the patients early to prevent further spread of the virus,” he added.The ACS further said that antigen testing has also helped the Health Department to continue with testing where its labs faced bottlenecks because of its staff testing positive, like the one in Panchkula.He, however, said that the department has been maintaining a balance of 70:30 between RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests so that the maximum number of samples are tested by the former method, being more reliable.“As far antigen test is concerned, a positive result is confirmed positive. It is only in case of a negative report, we have to test again by RT-PCR if the person has symptoms,” Arora added.
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||2,286 fresh cases, 25 more succumb in Haryana||With 2,286 fresh cases, the tally of Covid-positive persons went up to 81,059 in the state. The toll reached 854 with the addition of 25 deaths.Faridabad reported a maximum of 266 cases, followed by Gurugram (258), Karnal (224), Panipat (204), Panchkula (269) and Rohtak (162).Karnal and Kurukshetra reported three deaths each, followed by Ambala, Panchkula, Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Fatehabad (2 each). Faridabad, Gurugram, Rewari, Hisar, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Bhiwani, Nuh and Kaithal reported one death each.Two Covid deaths and 98 fresh cases were reported from Ambala district, taking the death toll to 47 and count of positive patients to 4,871. Both casualties were comorbid patients — a 64-year-old man from Ambala City and a 65-year-old man from Naggal.
09-09-2020||Chandigarh September 8||Haryana minister tests -ve||Power and New and Renewable Energy Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala has tested negative for the Covid infection and is completely healthy now.Giving this information on his Twitter account, Ranjit Chautala said that doctors had advised him rest at home for a few days, after which he would be available for departmental meetings and public service functions.
09-09-2020||Jhajjar||Safai karamchari caught on camera dressing wound in Jhajjar||Safai karamacharis at the casualty ward of the local Civil Hospital have been reportedly caught on camera dressing and stitching the wound of a patient.This came to light in a video shot in the Civil Hospital on Sunday.In the video, a doctor can be purportedly heard asking a safai karamachari to dress the wound and tie a bandage on a man, who was rescued from Dubaldhan village after he was kidnapped. The man was found dumped at Dubaldhan village and brought to the hospital on Sunday.The safai karamchari with the help of another Class IV employee can be seen cleaning and dressing the wound and then applying a bandage.The safai karamachari, who dressed the wound, said: “The doctor on duty calls us for help when there is a rush of patients in the casualty ward. Our work is to keep the ward clean but, many times, we also help the attendants to bring patients to the casualty ward from outside.”Sources say only one doctor remains on duty at the casualty ward.Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Dr Sanjay Sachdeva said: “Doctors at the casualty ward have been instructed to stitch the wounds on their own. Attendants dress and bandage the wounds. Class IV employees, however, can also help the doctor in dressing and bandaging if the wound is minor. In case of serious injuries, surgeons are a call away.”
09-09-2020||Kurukshetra||2 men thrash Home Guard on traffic duty in Kurukshetra||The Kurukshetra police have booked two men for allegedly dragging a Home Guard, who was on traffic duty, for 60-70m in their car after grabbing him from his arm and then, thrashing him near Pehowa bus stand on Monday.The suspects have been identified as Surender and Kala, residents of Pehowa.Roshan Lal said that he was on traffic duty near the bus stand. They were also checking if people were wearing masks or not. Meanwhile, two men, who were not wearing masks and seat belts, reached there in a car. When he approached them and asked about masks and seat belt, they grabbed him from his arm, pulled him inside and dragged him for 60-70m. They allegedly thrashed him as well.Pehowa City SHO Jagdish Chand said, “Surender was produced in court today which granted him bail. Kala is yet to be arrested.” — TNS
09-09-2020||Gurugram||Nuh teen held captive for 28 hours, raped||A 17-year-old girl from Punhana in Nuh district was allegedly gangraped by three men after being held captive for 28 hours on September 4, the police have said.A case was registered on Tuesday, three days after the alleged incident, at the Pinangwa police station. The victim’s family alleged the police dilly-dallied on registering the case initially.In her police complaint, the victim said she went to the fields on the morning of September 4 to defecate when her neighbour, identified as Ismail, caught hold of her and raped her. Later, he called his friends Sahil and Irshad, who made her drink sedative-laced cold drink. After falling semi-unconscious, his friends also raped her, she alleged.“They held me captive for 28 hours in the fields,” the victim said.Her father claimed he approached the police on September 5, but the cops refused to listen to him.Investigating officer sub-inspector Chander Bhan said, “The police verified the matter before registering the case against Ismail, Sahil and Irshad. The police are conducting raids to nab them. The victim has been sent to hospital for medical examination.” — OC
