09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Missing liquor case: Cops seize Rs 97 lakh cash, pistol, SUV in raid||The Haryana police, on Saturday, seized Rs 97 lakh in cash, two pistols and three mobile phones besides a sports utility vehicle following a raid in a house to nab the prime accused in the case of a huge liquor stock, which went missing from two godowns in Sonipat.The Sonipat police raided the house of accused Bhupinder Singh, but he managed to escape, said officials.The two godowns in Sonipat, from where a huge stock of liquor was reported gone missing early this week, are stated to belong to accused Bhupinder Singh’s wife.The raid was conducted two days after Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij questioned the rational of keeping seized liquors in “godowns, owned by a person (Bhupinder Singh), who is facing eight to 10 cases of liquor smuggling”.“Keeping liquor in the property of such a person is very wrong. The stock of liquor should not have been kept in these godowns either by the police or the Excise Department. I have asked the SIT to probe which official had ordered that liquor be kept there. It seems the place has become a den of smuggling,” he said.Vij also said a huge stock of seized liquor could not have gone missing from two godowns in Sonipat without the connivance of officials.According to the minister, as many as 5,500 liquor boxes had gone missing from the Sonipat godown, which was under the supervision of the police department.The other godown is being looked after by the state Excise Department.A special investigation team is probing the case of seized liquor gone missing from the two godowns which are close to each other. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/missing-liquor-case-cops-seize-rs-97-lakh-cash-pistol-suv-in-raid-82643
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Khattar says Haryana ‘in touch with investors’ looking to pull out of China||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, on Saturday, claimed that nearly 1,000 investors wanted to take their investments out of China and explore other destinations, adding that the state had got into touch with some of them.The Haryana government had recently chalked out an aggressive strategy to woo investors/companies intending to either shift from China or set up new manufacturing facility in India, a state government statement had said here on Monday.“COVID-19 has spread in the entire world, it started from China, and the investors in China from various countries... (have) made up their mind to explore other destinations,” Khattar said on Saturday evening during a televised address to the people of the state about the COVID-19 situation.“As per our information, 1,000 investors are those who want to take out their investments from China and go to other countries. We are in touch with them. Through video conferencing, we have talked to some of the investors,” Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said, adding that investors from Japan, America, Korea, Germany, Australia, Taiwan wanted to come and invest in India.Khattar said Haryana was offering a congenial atmosphere to such investors for investment.“In terms of ‘ease of doing business’, we were at the 16th spot in 2014 and now we are at third position,” he said.As part of the state government’s strategy to woo investors, the Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, Rajesh Khullar, held an open house with potential investors on May 6, 7 and 8 through video conferencing/webinars.The Haryana government had prepared a strategy to create windows in the existing state policies that would ensure quickly setting up manufacturing facilities in any industrial estate of the choice of investors wanting to shift base from China, the statement had said.Earlier in the day, Manohar Lal Khattar held a webinar with more than 100 representatives of MSMEs.The Chief Minister said he had assured them that the state government was with them in this hour of crisis, as the COVID-19 situation had in particular dealt a blow to the MSME sector.Many labourers got employment in this sector, he said, adding with economic activities restarting amid lockdown, nearly three lakh workers were working now in this sector.“We want our industry to flourish,” he said. “After the MSME, If I talk of big industries, companies such as Maruti Suzuki, Honda, Samsung, Escorts Group, Jindal Steel Industry, Liberty and other companies have played their role in state’s progress,” he added.He said Karnal and Kurukshetra were famous for rice belt, Panipat for its handloom industry, Jind and Panchkula for hatchery industry, Yamunanagar for plywood industry, Karnal and Bahadurgarh for footwear industry.“They are Haryana's pride and we want these to move ahead and flourish,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-khattar-says-haryana-in-touch-with-investors-looking-to-pull-out-of-china-82640
09-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak hotels turned into paid quarantine centres||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 9The district administration has directed the local hoteliers here to prepare their hotel rooms as quarantine centres to accommodate the local residents who are stranded abroad and are expected to return in the coming days by special evacuation flights arranged by the Centre.Rohtak Deputy Commissioner RS Verma convened a meeting with representatives of the local hoteliers’ association on Saturday and asked them to do the needful in this regard.“The residents who return to Rohtak from abroad will be required to stay in quarantine at the local hotels. They will have to pay for the boarding, lodging and food to the hotel managements,” said Verma.The Deputy Commissioner said a committee headed by ADC Mahender Pal had been constituted to fix the room-tariffs and food charges as per the category of the hotels.According to an official statement, the total charges (including room tariff and food) have been kept in the range of Rs 1,200 to Rs 2,100 per person per day.The managements of these hotels have been told to monitor the movement of visitors through CCTV cameras, the statement added.A medical team has also been constituted to screen the quarantined persons and provide them necessary healthcare services as and when required.Rohtak DDA Dr Rohtash Singh has been made the nodal-cum-liaison officer.Meanwhile, Verma has increased the quarantine period from 14 to 28 days in order to effectively check the community spread of coronavirus in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-hotels-turned-into-paid-quarantine-centres-82611
09-05-2020||Rewari||7 cases in last 3 days bring Rewari, Mahendragarh on coronavirus map||Delhi's "negligence" in checking inter-district movement is responsible for bringing Rewari and Mahendragarh districts on the COVID-19 map.Both the districts that remained free from COVID-19 for over two months has recorded a total of seven COVID-19 positive cases in the last three days.The preliminary inquiry has revealed that four of the five people have a travel history of Delhi, while the fifth one is their close contact.A 35-year-old woman, along with her 10-year-old daughter, and one of their neighbours—residing in HUDA Sector-4, here— were tested positive on Friday evening.The woman's mother is residing in Delhi, who suffers from cancer. She and her daughter travelled to Delhi during the lockdown to inquire about her well-being, but the authorities neither quarantined her at home nor kept a tab on her after she returned to Rewari from a high-risk state like Delhi.The district authorities swung into action after they received information that the woman's brother tested positive in Delhi.The authorities immediately isolated the woman and her daughter at Civil Hospital. They took samples and tested eight other neighbours for coronavirus.The mother-daughter and a neighbour were found positive.Rewari Deputy Commissioner, Yashendra Singh, later notified Sector-4, Shakti Nagar, Krishan Nagar, Kamla Nagar and Piwra Ki Dhani area as Containment Zone to prevent the spread of coronavirus.In Mahendragarh, four people, including three constables with Government Railway Police (GRP) posted at Delhi, tested positive in Narnaul town.The trio came to Narnaul from Delhi on May 6 night after getting their COVID-19 test done at a private lab and stayed at a relative home in Housing Board Colony.Two of them were found COVID-19 positive the next day.They informed about their condition to the district health authorities, who isolated them and sent their sample for confirmation.This time, the trio tested positive.Another man, who travelled back to Narnaul from Delhi was, also found COVID-19 positive on Saturday.Significantly, cross-border and inter-district movement is strictly banned due to the lockdown, but the trio managed to enter Narnaul raising a serious question mark over police arrangement at border points.Later, the Mahendragarh Police booked a case against them for violating the lockdown protocols.Dr Ashok, Civil Surgeon, Narnaul, said as per guidelines: "The trio should have been kept under isolation in Delhi till then their repots come out but it did not happen".“Delhi connection has brought COVID-19 infection to Mahendragarh district which was safe from COVID-19 for past over two months,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-cases-in-last-3-days-bring-rewari-mahendragarh-on-coronavirus-map-82600
09-05-2020||---||ED attaches Rs 16.38 crore worth of Mumbai AJL asset; names Moti Lal Vora||New Delhi, May 9The Enforcement Directorate (ED), on Saturday, said it had issued a provisional attachment order to seize assets worth Rs 16.38 crore of the Congress promoted Associated Journals Limited (AJL) and its chairman-cum-managing director and party leader, Moti Lal Vora, in connection with a money-laundering probe.Giving details of the attached properties, the ED in an official statement said these included a nine-storey building having two basements, and the total built-up of the area was 15,000-sq metres in Mumbai. The asset “germinated out of proceeds of crime has been attached to the extent of Rs 16.38 crore,” the ED added.The provisional attachment order, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), had been issued against AJL and Moti Lal Vora, it said.The federal money-laundering probe agency initiated its investigation into the case after FIRs were registered by Haryana police and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which alleged that a plot number C-17 in Sector-6, Panchkula, was allotted to AJL in 1982.However, the same was resumed by the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) Estate Officer on October 31, 1992, as AJL did not comply with the conditions of the allotment letter.The resumption order attained finality after the dismissal of the Revision Petition in 1996. However, the then chief minister of the state and HUDA chairman, Bhupendra Singh Hooda, by misusing his official position, had blatantly and dishonestly allotted the said plot afresh in the guise of re-allotment to AJL at original rates plus interest in violation of the necessary conditions on August 28, 2005.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ed-attaches-rs-16-38-crore-worth-of-mumbai-ajl-asset-names-moti-lal-vora-82590
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Vij wants Khemka to head SIT on liquor smuggling||Home Minister Anil Vij has recommended the name of whistleblower IAS officer Ashok Khemka to head the three-member special investigating team (SIT) to probe the liquor smuggling case at Kharkhoda in Sonepat. It is to be seen if Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar approves Khemka’s name.“The Chief Minister will take the final decision. I have also recommended the name of Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Sanjeev Kaushal and ACS Power TC Gupta as other options,” said Vij. He pointed out that Khemka was his top choice to head the SIT.The other two members of the SIT would be Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Subhash Yadav and Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner Vijay Singh.Around 5,500 boxes of seized liquor worth Rs25 lakh went missing from a police godown in Kharkhoda recently. The Kharkhoda police station SHO had been suspended and a case of liquor smuggling registered against six policemen and four others, including liquor smuggler Bhupinder Singh.Interestingly, the police and Excise and Taxation Department had chosen to store seized liquor in the godown owned by a person facing cases of liquor smuggling.Vij said high-profile persons could be involved in the liquor theft case. He said along with theft at the police godown, liquor was also stolen from the Excise and Taxation Department godown in Kharkhoda. Both godowns were on the same premises.Vij said the SIT would investigate not only the Kharkhoda case, but similar cases in the state as well. He pointed out that it was important to check the stock of those liquor contractors whose contract ended on March 31.“I have an input that the Kharkhoda case is a multi-crore scam where police personnel and officials of the Excise and Taxation Department are involved,” he said. According to Vij, about 2 lakh bottles of liquor had been seized in the state during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vij-wants-khemka-to-head-sit-on-liquor-smuggling-82233
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||High Court bail for man held with liquor||The Punjab and Haryana High Court granted regular bail to a man in an alleged case of liquor recovery from a vehicle shown to be belonging to the Indian Postal Services with different registration number on the front and the rear.Justice Vivek Puri was told that the FIR was registered under relevant sections of the IPC. The prosecution claimed that on April 12, 2019, a vehicle was intercepted and 230 boxes of liquor were seized. The allegations against petitioner Taj Mohammad was that he repainted the vehicle and the fictitious number plates. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-bail-for-man-held-with-liquor-82234
09-05-2020||---||One more death, 26 new cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, May 8Haryana on Friday reported one more coronavirus-related death and 26 fresh cases, nine of them from Gurugram, pushing the number of cases to 639 in the state, officials said. After including 14 Italian nationals, the state’s tally will be 653.The virus entered Rewari too on Friday, with three cases. Now, there is no district which hasn’t reported a Covid case. The doubling rate in the state reached eight days. It was 21 days on May 2.Besides Gurugram, four cases were reported from Sonepat, three each from Faridabad, Jind and Rewari, two from Panipat and one each from Rohtak and Jhajjar. Gurugram’s nine cases include two health workers and as many social workers.Panipat registered one more death, taking the Covid toll in the district to three. It had reported a death on Thursday too. The latest death is of a 20-year-old woman of Gokul Colony of Sector 11 in Panipat city. She tested positive on May 2 and died during treatment at Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College in Khanpur Kalan. She was a patient of tuberculosis. A 25-year-old youth labourer living in the vegetable market also tested positive. He is a close contact of a man who tested positive earlier.Faridabad’s three cases include a 21-year-old pregnant woman from Dabua Colony. She had reported for regular check-up to the ESI Hospital a few days back and was advised a Covid test based on her symptoms. The second patient is a 22-year-old woman working as a receptionist at a private diagnostic lab in Sector 16 of the city. The NIT area resident had come in contact with a security guard who tested positive last week. The third case is a 37-year-old man engaged in trading vegetables at Mujesar Mandi here. He is reported to have contracted the disease from another vendor who was found infected some days ago.In Jind, three members of a family – an 11-year-old boy, a 49-year-old woman and a 71-year-old man — tested positive. Earlier, a 26-year-old man from this family had tested positive.In Sonepat, a 63-year-old fruit merchant of Ashok Nagar in Gannaur market and a 53-year-old vegetable vendor of Shastri Colony in Gannaur tested positive. The 27-year-old wife and three-year-old child of a Delhi Police constable who died in Delhi due to Covid also tested positive on Friday.A vegetable seller tested positive in Bahadurgarh (Jhajjar) and so did a 59-year-old woman of Shiv Colony, Rohtak. The woman was in Delhi recently for the treatment of her husband in a private hospital.In better news, 14 persons got discharged from hospital on Friday, taking the total recovered patients to 265. After including 14 Italian nationals, who took treatment at Medanta Hospital and got cured, the recovery rate reached 43.12 per cent today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-more-death-26-new-cases-in-haryana-82303
09-05-2020||Gurugram||After 2 die in Gurugram, UP, Bengal informed||With reports of two deceased patients having been found positive in Gurugram, persons in contact with them have been quarantined and states concerned alerted.A man hailing from Uttar Pradesh and another from West Bengal were brought dead to the General Hospital in Sector 10 here. Following ICMR guidelines, the bodies were tested for Covid and were found positive.Though the district health authorities did not mention the deaths in the health bulletin, they put the contacts of the deceased in quarantine and informed the states concerned.“One of them was a man from UP and the other from West Bengal. We have informed their home states and quarantined their contacts,” said a doctor at the General Hospital. Sources said the staff who handled the bodies were tested and quarantined. Dr JS Punia, Civil Surgeon, said, “ICMR-mandated procedures were followed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-2-die-in-gurugram-up-bengal-informed-82318
09-05-2020||Ambala||Over 1K migrants take train home from Ambala||As many as 1,316 stranded migrants left for their homes in Bihar on the second Shramik Express special train that chugged off from here on Friday.1,204 leave RohtakRohtak: A special train carrying 1,204 migrant workers left for Katihar in Bihar from Rohtak on Friday. Deputy Commissioner RS Verma said medical check-up of the passengers had been conducted before they boarded the train.The train will take the passengers to Bhagalpur in Bihar from where they will be ferried further in buses to their native districts of Khagaria, Munger, West Champaran and Begusarai.All the migrants were medically screened before being allowed to board the train from platform number 3 at Ambala Cantonment railway station. Besides free travel, they were provided food packets, water bottles, juice, face masks, sanitisers and biscuits for use during the journey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-1k-migrants-take-train-home-from-ambala-82319
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||No uniformity in positivity rate of Covid samples at laboratories||Different government-run viral research and diagnostic (VRD) laboratories conducting tests for Covid by using real time Reverse Transcript Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) have shown highly variable positivity rate, raising eyebrows.State rate comes to 1.45 per centThe data of tests conducted by laboratories set up in five medical colleges of the state and IIMTEC-CSIR, Chandigarh, shows that the positivity rate varies from 0.08 per cent in Maharaja Agarsen Medical College and Hospital, Agroha, to 3.04 per cent in the VDR laboratory in Bhagat Phool Singh Government Medical College and Hospital, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat.Haryana has so far tested 49,746 samples, of which 43,974 reported negative and 647 positive, with a positivity rate of 1.45 per cent, while the result was awaited in 5,125 cases.The VRD laboratory in Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Post-Graduate Institute of Medical and Research (PGIMS), Rohtak, had conducted 14,621 RT-PCR Covid tests, as on Friday evening. Of these, 182 samples were found positive and the rest negative, making it a positivity rate of 1.24 per cent.The laboratory set up at BPS Government Medical College for Women in Khanpur Kalan, on the other hand, conducted 8,077 tests till Friday, of which 246 samples were positive. making it a positivity rate of 3.04 per cent.At Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal, where 7,036 samples were tested till date, only 14 tested positive, with a very low positivity rate of 0.20 per cent. In ESIC Medical College, Faridabad, where 3,430 cases were tested so far, 55 samples tested positive, making it a rate of 1.60 per cent.In Maharaja Aggarsen Medical College, Agroha, only two of the 1,997 samples tested positive. In IIMTEC-CSIR, five out of 403 and in ICAR-NRCE, Hisar, six out of 2,909 samples tested positive.Command Hospital, Chandimandir, and Civil Hospital, Panchkula, tested 179 and 239 samples, respectively, but all these tested negative. Shaheed Hassan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, Nuh, tested 13 samples, of which one tested positive. Dhruv Chaudhary, state nodal officer for Covid, explained that this inconsistency was on account of the areas allocated to these laboratories.“The PGIMS is looking after samples from Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendragarh, Rewari, Palwal, Nuh and Gurugram. Panipat, Sonepat, Kaithal and Jind are sending their samples to BPS Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan. Some samples from Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar were sent to the BPS laboratory. The Karnal, Agroha and Faridabad laboratories are now catering to cases in their vicinity. Samples from Panchkula and Ambala, earlier sent to the PGI, Chandigarh, are now being tested at the IIMTEC-CSIR, Chandigarh,” he said.He said Haryana had witnessed four discernible waves of Covid spread so far. He said the first was when students came from Wuhan, but it did not have much of an impact. He said the second came with the return of people from Europe and it started the process of cases.He said the third wave of Nizamuddin Markaz saw cases coming largely from Nuh and Palwal. He said now, the latest wave was of cases coming from Delhi in Panipat, Sonepat and Bahadurgarh. Dr Sarita Yadav, principal investigator, VRD laboratory, BPS Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan, said till May 1, the laboratory tested 5,573 cases and only 89 of them were positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-uniformity-in-positivity-rate-of-covid-samples-at-laboratories-82320
09-05-2020||Sonepat||Factory worker kills wife in Sonepat||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/factory-worker-kills-wife-in-sonepat-82321
09-05-2020||Hisar||30 Mirasi families convert to Hinduism in Hisar village||Close on the heels of the conversion by six Muslim families to Hinduism in Danodha Kalan village in Jind district, 30 families of the Muslim community today announced to convert to Hinduism in Bithmara village of Uklana block of the district.Sources said that the Bithmara families have social relations with the families of Danodha Kalan. Like the Danodha Kalan families, these families too belong to the Mirasi Muslim community and work as Doms (traditional singers).They took the decision to embrace Hinduism after the demise of an elderly woman Phulli Devi today. Satbir Ahlawat, son of the deceased, informed that his mother died today and his family cremated the body as per Hindu rituals.“In official documents, we are Doms who are Scheduled Caste Hindus. Barring cremation, we have been following the socio-religious activities of the Hindus,” he said.“Earlier, our families had been following the tradition of burying the dead as per Islam. But we have decided to do away with that tradition as well and decided to cremate the body of my mother as per Hindu traditions,” he maintained, adding that there are approximate 150 members in 30 families in the village.He said that they never visit a mosque and, in fact, the village doesn’t have a mosque. “Our localities are close to Jat houses and we enjoy congenial social relations with them. We work as workers in their fields and also help them during social functions,” he added. Satish Patar, another villager, said that there have never been any fissures on communal lines in the village. “These people earn a living by working in the fields and by singing traditional ‘saangs’. If they have decided to convert to Hinduism, we welcome their decision. But there is no pressure on them to do so,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/30-mirasi-families-convert-to-hinduism-in-hisar-village-82322
09-05-2020||Yamunanagar||Parents away to see doctor, teen ends life in Yamunanagar||A 13-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan of her house in Farakpur area of Yamunanagar on Thursday evening.The girl, a Class VII student of a local private school, and said to be a TikTok enthusiast, took the extreme step when her parents had gone to a doctor, the police said. No one else was present in the house when the girl took the step and no suicide note was found.TikTok rising starThe family told the police that the girl had about 1,315 followers on TikTok. She had posted 418 videos so far, which the family claimed were liked by many. The police said after watching her latest videos, no one could tell the girl was in mental distress or depression, or under some pressure which forced her to take the extreme step. However, the investigation will cover all angles, they said.The girl’s father, Virender, a chowkidar at a private firm, told the police that his wife had a stomach ache and they went to the doctor to take medicine. Upon their return, they found the door of their room locked from inside.When they peeped in through the window, they saw their daughter hanging from the ceiling fan. The parents then broke the window and entered inside. They later informed the police.Farakpur SHO Mukesh Kumar said they were investigating the matter and the reason behind the suicide was yet to be known as no suicide note was recovered from the spot. The girl’s body was today handed over to her family after a postmortem at the civil hospital. — TNS & PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parents-away-to-see-doctor-teen-ends-life-in-yamunanagar-82323
