09-04-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Haryana to pay double salary to govt doctors, nurses||The Haryana government on Thursday announced to pay double salary to doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and others who are at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus.Chief Minister Manohar Khattar made the announcement after a meeting with civil surgeons, Indian Medical Association chiefs from various districts in the state, district ayurvedic officers and others through video conferencing.“All those connected in this fight against coronavirus—be it doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, class IV staff, ambulance staff, testing lab staff, their salary will be doubled,” he said.“Till the time the coronavirus period lasts, all the staffers who are directly involved in treatment or taking care of COVID patients, their salary will be doubled,” he said.Earlier, Khattar had announced that doctors, nurses, paramedics and other staff would get ex gratia benefits of Rs 50 lakh, Rs 30 lakh, Rs 20 lakh and Rs 10 lakh, respectively, if they were not covered under the new insurance cover announced by the Centre.Describing the doctors as “next to god”, the chief minister said they are fighting this battle like soldiers and risking their lives to save humanity.Assuring people that everyone involved in the fight against COVID-19 was doing their best, he said, “This is not the time to fear, but to fill everyone with ‘josh’ (high spirit). We have to work as a team, not only health officials but those from police, food and supplies, panchayati raj department, volunteers, all are together in this fight.”Haryana has so far reported 154 coronavirus cases with two deaths.The state’s Home Minister Anil Vij said everyone was together in this “war against virus”.“Our war heroes or corona warriors are fighting this battle with full might. We will win this battle,” he said.He said the spike in coronavirus cases was due to a large number of Tablighi Jamaat members testing positive.“We want to assure the people of Haryana that we will succeed in our fight against the virus. It is the result of our strict vigil and management that we have cases under control despite a large number of people returning from abroad in recent times. Had there not been a spike in cases due to Tablighi Jamaat members, we would have controlled it effectively,” Vij said.“Those who came from abroad numbered more than 15,000. In Haryana, there are 134 active coronavirus patients, out of which 106 are the Tablighi Jamaat members.” the home minister said.Vij said a decision was taken that all coronavirus patients will be treated in 14 COVID-19 dedicated facilities.He said initially there were some difficulties pertaining to availability of personal protective equipment, but now sufficient PPEs, N-95 masks, triple layer masks, ventilators, testing labs, and drugs were available.Health Secretary Rajeev Arora said over the next few days reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing will be carried out and in non-affected districts 125 such samples per district will be taken, while in worst affected districts like Faridabad, Gurugram, Palwal and Nuh, 450 samples will be collected.By April 14, Haryana intends to collect nearly Rs 6,500 samples, he said.Besides, rapid diagnostic kits will be used in hotspots where more than 15 cases have been reported. Arora informed that containment zones have been declared at various places across the state, including 36 villages in Nuh, 9 in Palwal, three villages and colonies of Sonepat, 13 in Faridabad, one in Charkhi Dadri and three in Panchkula. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-to-pay-double-salary-to-govt-doctors-nurses-68895
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Group of youths in Panchkula colony misbehave with women health workers amid coronavirus lockdown||A group of youths in Haryana's Panchkula district misbehaved with women health workers on Thursday when they were conducting a survey to find COVID-19 suspects in a residential colony, police said.An attempt was made to woman constable inside a house by an accused as the youths misbehaved with her too, leaving her injured, police said.A team of accredited social health activists, accompanied by a few police personnel, was conducting a door-to-door survey in the colony. The survey was also aimed to ensure that all the residents of the colony received benefits of various government schemes.“When the team reached Indira Colony in Panchkula, a group of youths misbehaved with ASHA workers. When these youths started misbehaving with the health workers, our woman constable moved ahead to check and an attempt was made to drag her inside a house by an accused. The woman constable was also injured in the incident,” a senior official of the Panchkula Police told PTI over phone.Soon after the incident, police arrested four accused persons and efforts were underway to nab their accomplices.Two of the four arrested were identified as Javed and Azad, he said, adding that some accused persons already have a criminal record.A case has been registered under IPC sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), and under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/group-of-youths-in-panchkula-colony-misbehave-with-women-health-workers-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-68866
09-04-2020|| Chandigarh||Haryana health dept designates COVID-19 hospitals for every district||As Haryana reported 162 COVID-19 cases, the health department has designated 11 hospitals, with 2,901 beds, for treatment of those who are infected.Every district now has a dedicated COVID hospital, according to a letter that was issued to all Civil Surgeons on April 8. For Sirsa, Hisar and Fatehabad, Maharaja Aggarsen Medical College Hospital, Agroha, Hisar, will be the designated hospital. It has 550 beds.For Nuh, Shahid Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, with 600 beds, has been designated while for Rewari and Narnaul, SGT Medical College Hospital, Budhera, Gurugram, with 80 beds have been reserved.For the Gurugram district, ESIC Hospital, sector 9-A, Gurugram, with 125 beds has been designated, and for Rohtak, Jind, Bhiwani and Jhajjar, Pt BD Sharma PGIMS Rohtak, with 500 beds, has been reserved.BPS GMC for Women Khanpur Kalan, Sonipat, with 150 beds will be used for patients from Sonipat and Panipat, and Adesh Medical College Hospital, Shahbad, Kurukshetra, with 410 beds will be for Karnal, Kurukshetra and Kaithal.MMU Mulana, Ambala, with 210 beds will cater to Ambala and Yamunanagar and ESIC Medical College Hospital, Faridabad, with 210 beds is designated for Faridabad and Palwal.For Panchkula, two hospitals have been designated. One is Paras Hospital with 23 beds and other is Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, with 113 beds.As per the latest guidelines, COVID patients will be referred to the designated hospitals of their districts only. They have to be referred in designated ambulances and the staff accompanying the patients have to take precautionary measures. The ambulances have to be disinfected after every visit.Civil Surgeons have been directed to keep a record of every referred case.     Given the Haryana Epidemic Disease, COVID-19 Regulation, 2020, dated March 11, no private medical college or hospital can charge a COVID patient more than the rates or packages fixed for various treatment modalities under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme.  A ‘COVID patient’ also includes those who are suspected of having the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-health-dept-designates-covid-19-hospitals-for-every-district-68862
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana releases 3,385 prisoners||Haryana released as many as 3,385 prisoners in view of the Covid outbreak till April 6. With this, the total number of prisoners in jails has come down to 17,161 against the authorised capacity of 19,306. The total number of prisoners in the jails of Haryana as on March 24 was 20,546. In an attempt to decongest jails, the state under the guidance of the Haryana State Legal Services Authority had on March 30 taken a slew of resolutions, including the release of certain category of prisoners on parole and undertrials on bail. tnsAMBALA 35 held for lockdown violationContinuing its drive against lockdown violators, the district police have arrested 35 persons in 19 fresh cases of flouting the District Magistrate's prohibitory order to contain the further spread of Covid, officials said on Wednesday. According to the police, the accused were arrested from different parts of Ambala district for moving out, opening shops (other than that of essential commodities) and doing other things without any valid permission or authority. TNSSONEPAT 25,000 sanitisers for villagesAs many as 5,000 sanitisers were handed over to the district administration by Padam Singh Dahiya, former MLA and JJP district president here on Wednesday. Talking to mediapersons, Dahiya said Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala had sent 25,000 sanitisers for distribution in six Assembly constituencies of the district. Dahiya said party workers were actively engaged in sanitising exercise being conducted in the villages and these bottles would be used for this purpose. TNSJhajjar 11 Jamaatis test negativeSamples of 15 persons, including 11 Jamaatis and 4 others who attended cremation of Covid-positive Delhi Police SI in Sonepat, tested negative. Their samples were sent to the PGIMS, Rohtak, on Tuesday. Civil Surgeon Dr RS Punia said the jamaties resided in Bahadurgarh town and were isolated at the Civil Hospital, Bahadurgarh, on Monday night, while four others belonging to a village had been kept under isolation at the Civil Hospital in Jhajjar. “No case of Covid positive has been reported in Jhajjar district so far,” he said. TNSPanipat 113 flout orders, arrestedIn all, 113 persons were arrested in the district for violating lockdown orders. Besides, the police have also challaned around 3,600 vehicles till April 7. They have identified 98 persons of Tablighi Jamaat, including two Sri Lanka residents. SP Manisha Chaudhary appealed to the residents to follow lockdown guidelines. She said stringent action would be initiated against violators. Three inter-district borders have been sealed, while 31 nakas have been laid down to control the situation during lockdown, the SP added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-releases-3-385-prisoners-68621
09-04-2020||Sonepat||Bakhtawarpur village, 2 colonies sealed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bakhtawarpur-village-2-colonies-sealed-68616
09-04-2020||---||Hry slashes ministers' grants by 50 per cent||Chandigarh, April 8The Haryana Government has decided to slash ministers' discretionary grant by 50 per cent and transfer an amount of nearly Rs 51 crore to the Haryana Corona Relief Fund.Similarly, funds amounting to Rs 2 crore to each MLA per year under the Vidhayak Adrash Gram Yojana would also transferred to the fund, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said.Releases Rs133 cr for MGNREGA workersOf Rs550 crore approved for 2020-21, the first instalment of Rs133 crore has been released for workers under the MGNREGA SchemeAddressing state residents through television, Khattar said the revenue loss to the state exchequer for March was pegged at about Rs 2,300 crore while a revenue loss of Rs 4,000 crore was anticipated in April.Khattar urged the religious gurus and saints to prevail upon their followers to remain at home, especially during several forthcoming religious festivals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hry-slashes-ministers-grants-by-50-per-cent-68614
09-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram  cops being screened||The Gurugram police have started screening cops manning roads. Starting with policemen on naka duty, a team of doctors screened their temperature.“The police are one of the biggest pillars in war against Covid, who ensure proper lockdown. Under no circumstances can we risk them getting affected. As a safety measure, we are getting them screened.  We are rotating cops on naka duty,” said Commissioner of Police Mohammad Akil.With a majority of them manning the roads for almost 12 hours a day, cops were asked to go for test in case of slightest fever or cough. The were asked to maintain social distancing even at home.An officer said videos showing Tablighi Jamaat attendees sneezing or spitting on cops had made them more cautious. “To keep their families safe, a majority of cops are putting up in police stations or official bunkers and are sanitised daily,” said Rajender Dalal, ACP, City. — OCRs50,000 penalty for lockdown violators||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-cops-being-screened-68613
09-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Transport hit, flower growers count losses||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 8Not long ago, the flowers and exotic vegetable from their farms made it to marriages and events as far as Delhi and Chandigarh, but post the national lockdown, there is no demand for such produce. Farmers are compelled to sell their produce at throwaway prices in the local market and even feed it to animals.Exotic vegetables and flowers are in huge demand during marriages and other functions. Hotel, restaurants and fast food outlets are major buyers, but now with most shut, coloured capsicum, seedless cucumber, jalapeño, broccoli and cherry tomato were being distributing to farm labour and even fed to animals. Whatever little farmers manage to sell in thelocal market is at throwaway prices due to less demand.“I have cultivated exotic vegetables over 12 acres of land, including three net houses. I used to send these vegetables to Delhi, Panipat and Chandigarh, but not after the lockdown,” said Sandeep Kumar, a farmer of Mohidinpur village.He harvests around 150 boxes of seedless cucumber every day, each containing 20 kg, but only five-six are sold in the local market. “The seedless cucumber now sells for Rs 5-6 per kg, while earlier it was sold at Rs 25-30 per kg. I am unable to sell what I harvest every day and have no choice but to distribute it to the farmhands or feed animals.” Naresh Kumar, another farmer, too has a similar tale to narrate.Sanjay Kumar Pundir, who is growing roses over four acres and coloured capsicum in one acre in Nagla Megha village, said there was no demand from any segment and the blooms were beginning to dry in the harsh April sun. “Demand peaks in March and April due to Navrataras and marriages, but not this year. My flower crop is ready for harvest and I’m staring at huge losses,” he said.Horticulturists said the short shelf life of vegetable and flowers and the absence of a warehouse in Karnal district were adding to their mounting losses. “We cannot store flowers and exotic vegetables for long as there is no warehouse in the district. The government must compensate the farming community,” Pundir said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/transport-hit-flower-growers-count-losses-68612
09-04-2020||---||Teams to check black marketing, overpricing||Chandigarh, April 8The state has constituted special teams of the Food, Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department and the district administration to keep a check on black marketing, hoarding and price inflation.A Food, Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department spokesman said price capping of 25 essential commodities, including pulses, sugar, salt, wheat, flour, potatoes and onions, has been done by DCs. Every shopkeeper has been directed not to sell any product above the capped rate and display the rate list outside their shops. It should alsobe ensured that face masks and hand sanitisers should not be sold above MRP. Double the usual ration via PDS The spokesman said directions have also been issued to ensure adequate availability of mustard oil, pulses and other essential items and department officers were in regular contact with NAFED for the same. He said the supply and availability of all essential items was being ensured through wholesalers.He said there was no shortage of LPG and gas agencies were ensuring doorstep delivery. Similarly, petrol and diesel were also available in sufficient volume. He said teams have conducted checks on 378 wholesale drug dealers and 5,197 retailers in the state. During checking, 277 challans and 13 criminal cases were registered due to irregularities.Directions have been issued to open ration depots for longer duration for maximum distribution while ensuring social distancing. In Ambala, Bhiwani and Kurukshetra, ration was made available to consumers at doorstep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teams-to-check-black-marketing-overpricing-68611
09-04-2020||Satish Seth 
||Unable to arrange food, women reach Kaithal mini-sectt||Kaithal, April 8 A group of women from Shiv Colony, Gali No. 5, Patti Afgan, and others from Harsola Basti violated the prohibitory orders and reached the mini-secretariat here on Tuesday to bring to the notice of the administration that they were in dire need of ration.  The women said they were yet to get help from the administration. Due to lockdown, the men of the families, who were daily wagers, were sitting idle at home and their ration exhausted. They had no money to purchase things from the shops opened in their area. When they approached their respective Sarpanches, they were assured help, but they were asked to contact the nearest depot holder to get supply of wheat, rice and other items. The women said when they contacted the depot holder, they were turned away, and as they did not figure in the BPL list, he could not supply them ration. The women said to avoid the police deployed in the area, they travelled in fields and narrow streets on foot to reach the mini-secretariat, 4 km from their locality. They said the DC was not in office and some official sitting there gave them telephone numbers to contact for help. They were illiterate and could not run to different places to contact the officials. Despite repeated attempts, City Magistrate Suresh Ravish and Sugar Mill MD Jagdeep Singh, in charge of food distribution in the town, could not be contacted for their version.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unable-to-arrange-food-women-reach-kaithal-mini-sectt-68610
09-04-2020||Gurugram||ANMs harassed in Nuh village, get police security||Around 20 Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) were allegedly harassed and teased by men of Nuh’s Bisru villager during Covid field duty. When accompanying male staff intervened, they were allegedly manhandled, threatened and driven out of the village.Owing to the high number of cases in Nuh district, ANMs have been asked to conduct door-to-door survey in villages. They alleged villagers passed lewd comments and misbehaved with them repeatedly. “We went to all houses in Bisru village and faced a problem in most. The men kept staring at us and passed lewd comments. One of them even asked me to marry him in the local mosque if I wanted to screen him,” one of the ANMs said.A male health worker accompanying the ANMs said the villagers were ogling at the ANMs and misbehaving with them. “We asked the villagers to behave themselves, but they manhandled us, turned us out of the village and threatened us with dire consequences if we returned. People are neither cooperating nor behaving well,” he said.After being chased out of the village, the workers took up the matter with the Health Department and refused to return to work in such conditions. Taking a serious note of the incident, security has now been provided to the team.“We received a complaint and have immediately deputed a police team to ensure security of staff. This survey is vital to fight cluster transmission of Covid and people need to realise this and cooperate. Anybody misbehaving shall be penalised,” said Nuh Chief Medical Officer Dr Virender Yadav. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anms-harassed-in-nuh-village-get-police-security-68609
09-04-2020||Ravinder Saini||Sale beyond allotted area costs 25 vendors licence||Tribune News ServiceRewari, April 8Rewari District Market Committee has cancelled the licence of 25 vendors for selling vegetables and fruits outside the allotted area.It has also imposed a penalty of Rs 6,600 on six vendors for charging rates higher than the prescribed ones.The action has been taken on the basis of inspection conducted on getting complaints from the local residents in this respect.A team of the market committee is now keeping a close watch on the vendors for proper implementation of guidelines issued by the district administrative authorities to make vegetables and fruits available in the residential localities at fixed rates.The district administration issued licence to around 500 vendors for selling vegetables and fruits in both urban and rural areas of the district after shutting the main local vegetable market for retailers in order to prevent the spread of Covid as visitors failed to maintain distancing despite several warnings.The market is now opened for three hours in the morning only for whole-sellers who provide vegetables and fruits to registered vendors.Satya Prakash, secretary, Rewari Market Committee, said before issuing the licence, every vendor was asked to give option for specific area where they would like to sell vegetables/fruits. The licence was issued according to their choice.“Despite this, some vendors were found selling vegetables/ fruits in other areas in violation of guidelines. The licence of 25 such vendors has already been cancelled while penalty has been imposed on six others for charging arbitrary rates of vegetables/ fruits,” pointed out the secretary, adding that rates of all vegetables/ fruits had been fixed by the district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sale-beyond-allotted-area-costs-25-vendors-licence-68608
09-04-2020||---||Each day, just 100 farmers to visit mandi for procurement||Chandigarh, April 8Haryana will regulate and stagger procurement by observing social-distancing norms during the current rabi season beginning April 15. Only 100 farmers will visit a particular grain market in a day after issuance of e-gate pass to them.This was decided in a meeting through video conferencing headed by Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar today to review the preparedness for the upcoming procurement.Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal participated in the video conferencing from Gurugram while Cooperation Minister Dr Banwari Lal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal and Additional Chief Secretary, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers Affairs Pranab Kishore Das participated from Chandigarh.“To regulate and stagger the procurement, the market committees will ensure that the agriculture produce will enter the mandis upon issuance of e-gate pass only to the farmers who have registered on the Meri Fasal Mera Byora portal. Those who have not registered can still do so till April 19. The produce of farmers from outside the state will not be purchased till further instructions in this regard are issued,” said Kaushal.He said that directions have been issued that only 50 farmers be allowed to enter a grain market from 8 am to 2 pm on a given day and another 50 be allowed to enter from 2 pm to 6 pm to maintain social distancing.During the procurement operations, to minimise the health risk to those engaged in operations and that the premises that farmers have to visit does not become a mode of transmission, the market committees will ensure that sanitary protocols and safety procedures are adopted.Social distancing of at least 1m is to be maintained in the grain markets during procurement operations.Kaushal said that instructions have been issued that at the time of auction, only those essentially required to be there should be allowed.Similarly, the arhtiyas have also been told to maintain a distance of at least 1m from labourers during work and a distance of 2m when they have to sleep, sit or take rest.“Detailed instructions have been issued to the market committees for the prevention of the spread of Covid during procurement operations. These instructions are non-exhaustive and do not cover all the situations which may emerge. The market committees have been asked read those in conjunction with latest relevant advisories issued by the central government in this regard,” said Kaushal.Licences of Arhtiyas to remain valid till June 30||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/each-day-just-100-farmers-to-visit-mandi-for-procurement-68607
09-04-2020||
||Sanitation workers turn saviours at time of crisis||Karnal, April 8 When people are staying their homes, sanitation workers have emerged as saviour of the society. They are working for double hours to ensure cleanliness in the city, besides making the city virus-free by spraying disinfectant.  “I report at my office at 7.30am daily. After loading my sanitation gears along with chemicals, I go to area assigned to me. I return by 8pm,” said Rishi, a sanitation employee of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC), who works foreight hours daily.  They are also giving their service in the distribution of cooked food to the needy. Besides, they are also acting as a “courier agent” and assigned the duty of delivering PPE kits to hospitals from the industries, where these are manufactured in the city. They are also packing the kits for ration which is being distributed among the needy by the district administration. Mahavir and Satpal usually work between 7am and 12pm, 3pm and 5pm daily. Now, they also report at 7.30 at Parnami School, a centralised station for the collection and distribution of ration. Sometimes, they return to their homes at 9 pm. “We understand it is time of selfless service so we are giving our best to serve the society. Earlier, we used to clean the city by sweeping roads and lifting garbage, but now we have been assigned multiple services,” they added. There are around 1,410 sanitation employees in the city. Of them 192 are regular, 177 contractual and the remaining outsourced. Chief sanitary inspector Surinder Chopra said, “All sanitation employees are cooperating and are working dedicatedly on any assignment given to them,” he added. Dheeraj Kumar, Deputy Municipal Commissioner KMC, also appreciated their efforts and called them saviours of the society like doctors and para-medical staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sanitation-workers-turn-saviours-at-time-of-crisis-68606
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||MLAs to take 30% pay cut for a year||All Haryana MLAs have decided to take a salary cut of 30 per cent for one year in view of the economic crisis triggered off by spread of Covid.Besides, the MLAs and former legislators belonging to the Congress and INLD will also contribute one month pension to the Haryana Covid Relief Fund.This was conveyed during an all-party meeting presided over by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar through video-conferencing on Wednesday.All parties unanimously decided to fight Covid and fulfil the basic needs of every individual in the state at all costs during this time.The Chief Minister said the state government would take a loan if required to tide over the financial crisis and tehsils would start registration work keeping social distancing in mind.The hard work being done by the state’s health workers, police personnel, district administration and social institutions as well as contribution by the employees of the state government to the tune of over Rs 70 crore in the Haryana Corona Relief Fund were appreciated at the meeting.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, Health Minister Anil Vij, Power Minister Ranjit Singh, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, BJP president Subhash Barala, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja, president of the Jananayak Janata Party Nishan Singh, INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala and Haryana Lokhit Party MLA Gopal Kanda also attended the conference. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mlas-to-take-30-pay-cut-for-a-year-68605
09-04-2020||---||Army man hurt in attack, 14 booked||Karnal, April 8An Army man, Dilbagh Singh, lost two of his fingers of right hand after he was allegedly attacked by a group of persons in Biana village when he along with other locals were keeping vigil on the area border on Tuesday.The incident was captured in the CCTV cameras installed in the village. The police have rounded up some youths in this regard.“We have registered a case against 14 persons under Sections 148, 149, 326 and 307 of the IPC,” said ASI Rajinder Kumar, incharge of Biana police post.The incident took place when Dilbagh along with other residents was on ‘thikri pehra’. In the meantime, some youths came there and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons. However, the villagers also retaliated and nabbed one of the attackers. They handed him over to the police.Dilbagh is posted in Jammu and came for holidays in the village on March 9. He was to return on March 28, but due to lockdown he could not go. He requested the sarpanch to assign him the duty of guarding the village border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/army-man-hurt-in-attack-14-booked-68604
09-04-2020||Panipat||Panipat Covid survivor back in hospital||A 34-year-old Covid survivor of Panipat’s Naultha village was admitted to the general hospital here after a breathing problem at night.The woman was working in the rice sheller of the 21-year-old Model Town youth who was the district’s first Covid patient. She was admitted to PGIMS-Rohtak after symptoms developed on March 23. She was discharged after two reports returned negative on April 2 and she returned to her village. Had difficulty in breathingHer family members informed the Health Department on 108 and a team brought her to the hospital in the early hours of Wednesday.On Tuesday night, she experienced difficulty in breathing and also developed fever. Her family members informed the Health Department on 108 and a team brought her to the hospital in the early hours of Wednesday.Civil Surgeon Dr SL Verma said the woman reported a problem at night and had been admitted for observation as a precaution. Her sample has been sent for testing to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Woman, Khanpur Kalan, he said. Besides, samples of all quarantined persons in the district with Tablighi links had also been sent for testing, said Dr Verma. As many as 191 samples have been collected, of which 106 tested negative and three were positive. Dr Verma said all Covid patients had been treated successfully and discharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-covid-survivor-back-in-hospital-68603
09-04-2020||---||20 new cases, count mounts to162||Chandigarh, April 8With 20 fresh cases, the number of Covid cases reached 162 in the state on Wednesday, a jump of 14.1 per cent from 142 the previous day.As many as 12 fresh cases were reported from Gurugram district, followed by Sonepat (3) and one each from Kaithal, Faridabad, Ambala, Fatehabad and Nuh. Thirtyeight cases have so far been reported from Nuh, 32 from Gurugram, 29 from Palwal and 28 from Faridabad. The state has witnessed three deaths and 18 persons have recovered.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also described these four districts as Covid hotspots of the state during an all-party meeting through videoconference to discuss the situation in the state with political leaders on Wednesday. Leader of Opposition and ex-CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda assured the government of all support and cooperation in the fight against Coronavirus.Of Gurugram’s 12 cases, 11 were Tablighi Jamaat followers from Himachal Pradesh, who were evacuated from a Sohna mosque. The district administration has implemented a containment plan and initiated door-to-door screening of densely populated clusters and vulnerable areas.In Kaithal, a 9-year-old student of Madni madrasa at the local mosque tested positive. A Jamaati had tested positive in the area on April 4 following which people living in the mosque were quarantined and tested.Home Minister Anil Vij said Tablighi Jamaat members who failed to report to authorities would now be booked under law as the deadline for them to report themselves to the authorities ended at 5pm on Wednesday. Vij, who is also the Health Minister, has maintained that the spike in Covid cases in the state was due to Jamaat members.“The deadline given to them has ended. Those who will be tracked down now and found Covid positive will be booked under IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder),” Vij said. He justified invoking of stringent punishment, saying Covid was a “highly contagious and fatal disease and someone who deliberately conceals it even after being given enough time deserves to be strictly dealt with”.There is no data available on the actual number of Jamaatis. The state has registered FIRs against foreigners who attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi against the social distancing protocol amid the coronavirus outbreak and had come on tourist visas. According to ADGP Navdeep Virk, 1,562 Jamaatis had been tracked till Wednesday. These included 107 foreigners, 1,036 from other states and 419 from Haryana. More than 100 Jamaatis have tested positive so far.Meanwhile, the state has recorded 6,376 violations of lockdown for which 1,892 FIRs have been registered and 2,613 persons arrested. Also, 7,044 vehicles have been seized and a fine of Rs 9.26 crore imposed upon them under the MV Act.Besides, 68 FIRs have been registered against 86 persons and 41 arrests have been made for spreading fake news or rumors on WhatsApp and social media. Also, 492 cases under the Excise Act have been registered and 550 persons arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-new-cases-count-mounts-to162-68602
09-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Karnal siblings feed stray dogs every day||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 8With the enforcement of lockdown to contain the spread of Covid pandemic, a brother and a sister are playing the Good Samaritans by feeding around 250-300 stray dogs daily in different parts of the city.Daljeet Kaur Sahi and her brother Gurlal Singh Sahi, residents of Jyoti Nagar in the city, have a routine of stepping out of their home at 3pm with 7-8 litre milk, biscuits, chapattis and other food items. They return at 8pm after feeding the stray dogs they come across in different areas.“I have been taking care of animals for the last four years, as I love dogs, and now when the countrywide lockdown is going on, stray dogs are in trouble. I, along with my brother, have made it a routine to feed dogs at any cost and make sure that no stray dog remains hungry,” said Daljeet Kaur, who is an immigration consultant.“Initially, we faced several problems such as not getting food due to the lockdown and restrictions enforced by the police, but now we have tied up with a couple of grocery shops. The police are also supporting us in the cause,” she added. Gurlal Singh Sahi, a gym trainer, feels happy while serving the dogs with his sister. “We both enjoy this work. Even my mother helps prepare food for these animals,” said Gurlal. He added that due to the lockdown, people have started staying indoors and stray dogs are facing the problem of food.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-siblings-feed-stray-dogs-every-day-68601
09-04-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Social distancing a big challenge in Nuh dist||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, April 8Nuh has emerged as the hotbed of Covid transmission in the state. The district not only has the highest number of active cases (38) but is also the epicentre of the Covid contagion. As many as 37 patients are Jamaatis. Health assets 1,150 ASHA workers500 bedded Covid hospital NalharCivil Hospital Mandi Khera16 ventilatorsThe district evacuated the maximum number of Tablighis from local mosques (over 600) with around 60 being foreign nationals.Out of them, 300 were sampled and quarantined. As many as 11 Jamaatis have today submitted themselves for screening after disclosing that they visited the ‘markaz’ in Nizamuddin.While the number leaves one terrified, the local health authorities seem confident about being able to geographically contain the disease. As many as 37 villages of Nuh have been declared containment zones while 104 others are buffer zones.“We had speculated this spike in numbers. Only one local resident is affected. He is a truck driver and had travelled from Gujarat. None of the 37 Jamaatis are symptomatic so far. This local driver had developed symptoms and had approached the authorities. All patients have been shifted to Covid hospital, Nalhar, and are doing well. We have traced their primary contacts and screened the villages they were in. We might see some more spike in numbers, but we are all prepared to deal with it and stop cluster transmission,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.Meanwhile, the district authorities have gone ahead and booked 57 Jamaatis hailing from different South Asian countries for violation of visa norms. All of them were travelling on tourist visas but continued to give religious sermons.Social distancing has emerged as the key challenge for the health authorities here. Every day, when the lockdown is lifted for few hours, hundreds of people gather in the local market and ‘sabzi mandi’ without masks, posing a major threat of cluster transmission. The health officials on duty have also reported misbehaviour in some villages.Link to pastWhile the district had gained notoriety for harbouring Jamaatis, not many are aware that Nuh or Mewat region, spanning across Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, is the birthplace of the Tablighi Jamaat movement with Meo Muslims being the biggest followers.Meos, believed to have embraced Islam in various phases starting from the reign of Aurangzeb till date, follow syncretic customs — a fusion of Islamic and Rajput traditions.Homes & villages4,63,340 Population65,398 houses screened98 villages screened and surveyedThe sick||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/social-distancing-a-big-challenge-in-nuh-dist-68600
09-04-2020||---||6 use ambulance to smuggle Rs10L heroin, nabbed||Hisar, April 8The district police arrested six persons who were trying to smuggle heroin worth Rs10 lakh in an ambulance near Agroha in the district on Wednesday.The accused identified as Narender, Surender, Ravinder, Salim Khan, Ran Singh and Surender were booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the NDPS Act and started investigation.A police spokesman said one of the accused was posing as a patient inside the ambulance and others as driver and attendees.Sources said they had procured the banned substance from Gurugram and were on their way to supply it to their clients in the region.In another case, the police seized 7.3-kg ganja from two motorcycles-borne youths in the area under the Uklanapolice station.Besides, there has been a spurt in the incidents of liquor smuggling in the region. Policemen deployed at different points to ensure lockdown said people were defying the orders on petty pretexts and there could be unscrupulous elements smuggling liquor or narcotics by taking advantage of the situation.“A man travelling in his car showed me two-year-old X-ray and said he was going to consult a doctor. Another man told me that he needed to see a veterinary doctor as his dog was not feeling well,” saida policeman.After the seizure of narcotics and illegal liquor smuggling incidents, the police have intensified the checking in Hisar.Senior police officers have directed their subordinates to check the drums of milkmen, goods carrier vehicles and those claiming to be on essential duty.“Though this is causing inconvenience to those on duty for essential services, however, the smugglingincidents are a wake-up call for us,” a policeofficer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-use-ambulance-to-smuggle-rs10l-heroin-nabbed-68599
09-04-2020||---||Haryana Govt authorises civic bodies to conduct victims’ last rites||Chandigarh, April 8Amid fears that the virus could infect those handling bodies of Covid victims, the Haryana Government has issued directions and fixed the roles and responsibilities of different stakeholders.The state government has authorised commissioners of municipal corporations, executive officers of municipal councils and secretaries of municipal committees to dispose of bodies of Covid patients strictly as per the guidelines and protocol issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. As per guidelines, standard infection prevention control practices shall be followed which included hand hygiene, use of personal protective equipment, safe handling of sharp objects, disinfecting the body bag, instruments and devices used on the patient and linen and cleaning and sanitising environmental surfaces.All staff identified to handle bodies in the isolation area, mortuary, ambulance and crematorium and burial ground workers must be trained in infection prevention control practices, the government said.Any person, institution or organisation found violating any provision of orders in this regard shall be deemed to have committed an offence punishable under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code.Families should be advised that children below the age of 10, elderly above 60 and immuno-suppressed persons should not directly come in contact with the body and must not attend the funeral.Religious rituals such as reading from religious scripts, sprinkling holy water and any other last rites that do not require touching of the dead body can be allowed, it is directed.No large gathering at cremation groundsIt has also been directed that the Municipal Commissioner will designate a senior officer of the level of joint commissioner or superintending engineer or executive engineer as a nodal officer for this work, whereas executive officer and secretary will be the nodal officer in their respective area in this regard.The officer should ensure there was no large gathering at cremation grounds and following of social distancing as close contacts of the deceased may be infected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-authorises-civic-bodies-to-conduct-victims-last-rites-68598
09-04-2020||---||In Kurukshetra, unit-level panels to identify needy||Kurukshetra, April 8While some people are finding it hard to manage a single meal, there are several others who have been trying to befool the administration by making false distress calls to get ration and stock it.One such incident has been reported in Kurukshetra where the administration received a false distress call from a person at Murad Nagar village. He claimed that his family had nothing to eat following which ration was sent to the house.When the team reached the address given, it found that the house was a decent one. The team also found wheat and rice in huge quantities. The woman present in the house failed to give any satisfactory reply.To identify the really needy and provide them ration and medicines, the administration has now implemented a micro-plan. As per the information, unit-level committees have been formed at 794 booths.Each committee comprises six members, including two teachers, one sarpanch or councillor, one volunteer, one anganwadi and one ASHA worker. They will carry out a door-to-door survey.The committee will identify the needy who need ration, cooked food, medicine or any other help. The lists will be submitted to the administration and then, relief will be provided accordingly.Kulbir Malik, secretary, Red Cross Society, Kurukshetra, said, “We have been receiving a large number of false calls every day. Whenever we receive any call, a team visits the house for verification. If the call is found to be a fake during verification, that house will be blacklisted. At present, nearly 30 organisations have been distributing ration and cooked food through the Red Cross. The micro plan will help us in getting exact details about needy families. There will be details about the families who are getting ration through public distribution system and who need relief material throughthe administration.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-kurukshetra-unit-level-panels-to-identify-needy-68597
09-04-2020||Sushil Manav||Doctors fear Haryana ill-prepared for Covid challenge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8With Covid cases increasing by the day despite the lockdown, health professionals in Haryana want the state government to increase the number of ICUs, beds for isolation, ventilators and protective gear for frontline medics to prepare for an outbreak, if it happens.Medical professionals say the state is not only abysmally short of isolation wards, ICU beds and ventilators, but also barely 7 per cent of the doctors and nurses are trained to use life-saving equipment.The Haryana chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), a body of qualified allopathic doctors, fears that the state health services are ill-prepared for an outbreak of Covid, if it happens.“We need to increase the number of beds in isolation wards and ICUs, acquire more ventilators and provide protective gear to the doctors and paramedics fighting battle against the infection,” said Prabhakar Sharma, president of the Haryana chapter of the IMA.Dr Sarika Verma, an ENT surgeon from Gurugram, has written an open letter to Home Minister Anil Vij, emphasising the need for a more proactive approach to fight Covid in the state. Whenever the lockdown opens partially or completely, life will come back to normal. When it does, we will face a surge in number of Covid patients, she has warned.The ENT surgeon has suggested steps like starting fever clinics, arranging more test kits and isolation beds in hotels on pay-per-use basis. “I implore you, Health Minister, please move mountains to prepare our state for all eventualities,” she wrote. Vij, however, said enough was being done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/doctors-fear-haryana-ill-prepared-for-covid-challenge-68583
