09-07-2020||Chandigarh||5 more die of COVID-19 in Haryana; 679 new cases take tally to 19,369||Haryana on Thursday reported five more coronavirus deaths as 679 new cases took the total number of infections to 19,369.One death each was reported from Sirsa, Yamunanagar, Palwal and worst-hit Gurgaon and Faridabad districts, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.        The COVID-19 death toll in the state has risen to 287.The districts which reported fresh cases included Faridabad (182), Gurgaon (151) Sonipat (85), Bhiwani (51), Rohtak (46), and Ambala (34) among others.The number of active cases in the state is 4,572 while 14,510 people have been discharged after recovery, the bulletin said.The state’s recovery rate on Thursday was 74.91 per cent, it said. PTI
09-07-2020||Rohtak||Salesgirl held with stolen jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore||The police have arrested Sonia Sharma, a 21-year-old woman employed at Tanishq jewellery showroom in Rohtak as a sales representative, for having stolen gold and diamond jewellery from the showroom last week. She was arrested from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma said five male accomplices of the salesgirl had also been arrested and stolen jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore recovered from their possession.“Of the 71 jewellery items stolen from the showroom, 68 items and a molten lump of gold weighing about 120 grams have been recovered from the possession of the arrested persons,” the SP maintained.Sonia and her five accomplices aged between 19 and 24 years, four of whom are from Rohtak and one from Noida in Uttar Pradesh, were produced before a local court today, which remanded all of them in police custody for two days.As per the police investigators, Sonia planned the theft with her friend Arvind and handed over the stolen jewellery to Rohit.Shiv Kumar, who is a goldsmith, tried to melt the jewellery. She also moved around with Amit and Himanshu.“She put many jewellery items in a dustbin in which a black polythene bag was fixed. Then, she took out the polythene bag containing the jewellery clandestinely and put it in her handbag. She also put some jewellery items in her socks,” police sources maintained.
09-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Medicos, scientists launch social media campaign to get justice for deceased Rohtak dentist||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 9Medicos, scientists and acquaintances of Dr Abhishek Bhayana, a young dental surgeon of Rohtak who died recently, have launched a social media campaign to get justice for him.The 26-year-old dentist, who was serving at Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences in New Delhi, has been denied the status of ‘Covid-19 Warrior’ as he had tested negative for Covid.“Abhishek had symptoms of Covid and was apprehensive of having contracted the disease, but tested negative for the disease before as well as after his death,” said Aman, brother of the deceased doctor.Several organisations of medicos and other scientific professionals have launched a signature campaign to ensure the provision of ‘Covid-19 Warrior’ status for Dr Abhishek and grant of compensation to his family.The campaigners point out that as per medical experts, a person can test falsely negative for Covid even if he/she is suffering from the disease.Meanwhile, the faculty members of Dr Abhishek’s alma mater, Rohtak PGIDS, are still in a state of shock of the sudden and untimely death of their affectionate alumnus.Dr Sanjay Tewari, the Principal of PGIDS, Rohtak, has expressed deep grief over Dr Abhishek’s demise.“We are still unable to get over it. He was such a bright and sincere student. It is shocking and unfortunate beyond words,” stated Dr Shashi Bala, a professor at the PGIDS.
09-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Nearly 47,000 geo-fencing breaches in Haryana so far||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 9As many as 46,963 people, who have been under surveillance for being suspect or infected with Covid, have committed geo-fencing breaches in Haryana so far.The geo-fence is a 300 metre radius for a suspect or patient and if he or she goes beyond that, it gets recorded with the use of mobile tower location data or Aarogya Setu app. The police are alerted immediately about the breach.  It is home isolation which is tricky to monitor as in hospitals or Covid Care Centres, people are under constant watch. Home isolation has been allowed for asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic, very mild or mild cases since last month.      Earlier, health department staff use to monitor people under surveillance at their homes along with the police personnel, but later telecom companies were asked to share mobile tower location data.Now, Haryana Police have been monitoring the mobile tower location and Aarogya Setu app data, and advising violators of geo-fencing telephonically or visiting their place physically for following quarantine protocols strictly. Some have been advised to download Aarogya Setu app when they deleted it.  The number of people committing geo-fencing breaches in the state is 42.3 per cent of 1.10 lakh people, who have been put under surveillance in the state so far.  So far, 25,550 people have been telephonically advised not to breach geo-fence and to follow quarantine protocols. Besides, the number of persons, whose mobile phones have been found switched off or Aarogya Setu app have been deleted, are 16,239 while 7,813 people have been physically advised to switch on the phone and install Arogya Setu app.In the last 24 hours alone, till 11 am today, there have been 575 breaches in the state with 389 alone from Bhiwani followed by 107 from Jind. Also, 129 people were telephonically advised to follow quarantine protocols, 74 were advised physically, and in case of 345 people the mobile phones were found switched off or Aarogya Setu app found deleted.DGP Haryana Police Manoj Yadava said, “We do not register FIRs in these cases. Whosoever jumps geo fence, we advise him telephonically or physically go to them. We caution them. If someone repeatedly violates geo fencing, we will register FIR.”“Earlier, the police personnel used to accompany health staff to go and check whether someone has jumped quarantine. At that time, there were limited cases. But later cases increased significantly and model was changed. Now, mobile tower location data of a person is being used,” he added.  The states like Punjab, Kerala and Tamil Nadu have also been using the same technology for surveillance of suspects and infected people.
09-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Commercial vehicles likely to get tax exemption for June, July||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 9Commercial vehicles are likely to get exemption in the motor vehicle tax for June and July. The Transport Department has sent a proposal to the state government suggesting the exemption, from 25 per cent to 100 per cent, in view of Covid-19 crisis.All commercial vehicles were earlier given total exemption from tax in March and April. Following the proposal, the vehicle owners are now eagerly waiting for the government’s decision in this regard. There are around 7 lakh commercial vehicles in the state.“A 100 per cent exemption in the tax for school, stage carriage and contract carriage buses, 50 per cent exemption for auto/ maxi cab/ taxi and special purpose vehicles while 25 per cent for goods vehicles and private service vehicles has been proposed for June,” sources said.For July, the proposal has suggested 100 per cent exemption for school buses, 75 per cent for stage carriage buses and 25 per cent for auto/ maxi cab/ taxi while no exemption had been proposed for goods vehicle, contract carriage buses, private service vehicles and special purposes vehicles, they maintained.“The proposal has been sent to the state government two days ago and it is likely to be approved within two-three days as various associations of commercial vehicles are persistently raising the demand for tax exemption,” an officer of the Transport Department said.Sunil Kumar, president of The Haryana Cooperative Transport Society Welfare Association, said private buses remained off roads for the past four months, causing a huge loss to the owners. “Now, the state government has allowed the buses to ply as per schedule, with half the seating capacity, but the number of those willing to take public transport is negligible on majority of the routes, so we were demanding tax waiver,” he added.Ravinder Nandal, state president, Haryana Private School Sangh, said exemption in the tax was the need of the hour. “The government must exempt the school buses from the tax till the schools are not opened,” he maintained.
09-07-2020||New Delhi/Berne||Swiss govt issues public notices on sharing of bank details of Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi, wife||The Switzerland Government has issued public notices on sharing of details with India about Swiss bank accounts and other financial assets of Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi and his wife Renuka following receipt of an ‘administrative assistance’ request from the Indian authorities.The Bishnois have been asked to reply within ten days to exercise their right to appeal against sharing of information as per the Swiss laws, according to two separate notices published in Switzerland’s latest federal gazette, dated July 7, in Berne.Similar notices have also been issued for Grande Maison Ltd and Hollyport Ltd—two British Virgin Islands-based companies suspected to have links with the Bishnoi family.Both the companies were incorporated on the same day on July 19, 1996, and also figured in ‘Panama Papers’, a leaked list of entities based in various tax havens. As per official records, both the companies were struck off from the registry of companies in April 2016 after remaining inactive since August 2014.Repeated queries sent by PTI to Bishnoi, a sitting MLA in the Haryana Assembly, and his office remained unanswered.In the notices, Bishnoi, his wife and the two firms were asked to appoint a representative within 10 days to assert their right to be heard against the ‘administrative assistance’ proposed by Switzerland’s Federal Tax Administration.Such assistance includes sharing of banking and other details of the individual or the company having accounts with banks or other financial institutions in Switzerland.While the notices did not disclose any specific details about the probe, such notices are typically issued by the Swiss Federal Tax Administration after receipt of a request by a foreign jurisdiction along with prima facie evidence of suspected tax evasion or other financial wrongdoings.If the concerned person or company fails to provide a valid reason against the administrative assistance, the details are subsequently shared by the tax department with the requesting authority.While an automatic exchange of information framework is in place between India and Switzerland since last year, sharing of details for older cases also takes place under the mutual ‘administrative assistance’ pact between the two countries on submission of a request along with satisfactory prima-facie evidence of financial wrongdoings.Bishnoi has been facing probe by multiple agencies including the Income Tax Department, which had conducted raids at various places linked to him in July last year.The tax department had also attached a five-star hotel in a prime business area of Gurugram, while designating that as a ‘benami’ or unaccounted property of the Bishnoi family. It was alleged at that time that the shareholding in the hotel was routed through a front entity registered in British Virgin Islands.The tax department had also said in August 2019 that foreign assets worth over Rs 200 crore allegedly linked to Bishnoi and his family were detected and were being probed.At that time, the Congress party had alleged that the tax department’s move was politically motivated ahead of assembly elections in the state.Bishnoi, son of former Haryana Chief Minister Bhajan Lal, eventually won the election from the state’s Adampur assembly seat in October 2019.The tax department had also said that foreign holdings of Bishnoi and his family had “remained hidden for decades” under complex multi-layered structures through companies located in countries like the British Virgin Islands, Panama, UK, UAE and Jersey.“These structures have involved various front men and corporations across continents,” it had said, while alleging that the black money generated in India was stashed abroad in the form of lavish properties in the names of foreign trusts and companies located in tax havens. PTI
09-07-2020||Ravi S Singh||AAP will henceforth contest all elections in Haryana: Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 9In a bid to expand its base in Haryana, AAP will henceforth contest elections at all levels, including the upcoming by-election in the Baroda Assembly constituency."AAP will contest in the next panchayat and local urban bodies elections, besides the Assembly and Parliamentary polls,” AAP Rajya Sabha MP and co-incharge of Haryana Sushil Gupta said here on Thursday.Gupta, who released the list of names of new office-bearers of Palwal and Faridabad districts, said AAP had completed the process to constitute its units in all the districts of the state.The process to constitute Assembly and bloc units will be completed by September-end.The party was geared up to contest elections at grass-roots level.The party will hit the streets with programmes and issues in a sustained way shortly, he added.Gupta said that all the established political parties in Haryana had been exposed politically and AAP would work to present itself as a credible force. AAP contested Faridabad, Karnal and Ambala Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 General Election, and at 48 seats in the last Haryana Assembly elections. However, it failed to open account on both the occasions.Gupta said that the party would contest the by-election in Baroda, which had fallen vacant due to demise of sitting Congress MLA Sri Kishan Hooda.The seat has influence of Jat community and AAP will be up against the ruling BJP-JJP, the Congress and the INLD.The AAP has about four prospective candidates in mind for Baroda. "The party will announce the name of its nominee as soon as the schedule of the poll is announced," said Gupta.With regard the new office-bearers of Palwal district, Kuldip Kaushik, Dharmendra Hindustani and Satyaprakash Mittal have been appointed convener, organisation secretary and treasurer respectively.While Sunder Lal, Mukesh Sharma, Nepal Singh Tomar and Jagannath Sharma have been appointed vice-presidents, Sacchin Bansal is the secretary.With regard to Faridabad, Dharamveer Bhadana, Vinod Bhatti and Rajan Gupta have been appointed convener, organisation secretary and treasurer respectively.Vice-presidents are Narender Saroha, Raghuvar Dayal, Hiralal Soni, YK Sharma, Sohan Raj and Kuldip Chawla. Bhim Singh Yadav is the secretary.
09-07-2020||Ambala||Biker killed in road mishap||A biker, Swatantar Kumar (45), of Kurukshetra, was killed on the spot in a hit-and-run case, said the police on Wednesday. A case has been registered against the driver, said the officials. TNS2 arrested with drugsThe police have arrested two persons - Rahul of Panchkula and Ravi of Manimajra, Chandigarh - on the charge of smuggling drugs and claimed to have recovered 5,800 capsules of intoxicant capsules and 100 bottles of intoxicant syrup. TNS
09-07-2020||Hisar||Online group discussion by GJUST||Webinar on career opportunitiesYamunanagar: A webinar on career opportunities and guidance for the students on Life Sciences was organised at Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar. Principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said Dr Neena Puri was the speaker and Dr Catherine Masih performed as moderator for the webinar. He said various options available to the students of Class X and the graduates in life sciences were discussed in detail with special reference to BSc Industrial Microbiology Medical and Industrial Chemistry available at the college in addition to MSc Biotechnology by Dr Puri. “The various opportunities available for Class XII students range from various professional courses such as MBBS, BDS and BSc Microbiology Biotechnology Industrial Chemistry,” said Dr Kang. He said some of those courses had high job opportunities in the industrial sector. “The college is future ready for dealing with online mode of teaching with a vast range of facilities and technology savvy teachers,” said Dr Kang. Bhupinder Singh Jauhar of management committee congratulated Dr Neena Puri and Dr Catherine Masih for the successful organisation of the webinar.HAU students selected to IIMRewari: HAU Vice-Chancellor KP Singh said nine students from the university were selected to Indian Institute of Management during 2020-21 academic year. “This is a proud moment for the university,” said the VC while congratulating the selected students and said it was the result of hard work and guidance of the teachers. He said presently the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCSHAU) was progressing in academics. Singh said this was the fourth consecutive year that CCSHAU students got selected to IIM. He said the journey of selection to the prestigious institute started in 2017 with selection of two students after a gap of more than one decade. Four students were selected in 2018, three in 2019 and nine this year. Student Welfare Director Dr Devender Singh Dahiya said 12 students of CCSHAU were selected to the management institutes - nine to IIM, two to IRMA and one to NIAM. Bhawna and Aman Madan got admission in IIM, Ahemdabad, while Pragati Verma in IIM, Calcutta, Sundram Bajaj in IIM, Shilong, Harsh Vardhan Godara in IIM, Kashipur, Bharti Yadav in IIM, Udaipur, Raj Kumar and Shubham Mathur in IIM, Kojhikode, Bhushan Mehta in IIM, Jammu, and Rekha and Daivik Kadyan in IRMA and Ritu Phogat in NIAM.
09-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon---||Panipat mink blanket makers ready to take on dragon globally||Tribune News Service Panipat, July 8 Panipat mink blanket manufacturers are ready to take on the dragon at the international level. The blanket manufacturers claimed that they would soon show the dragon the door from not only Indian market, but also challenge it in the international market.  “We have been receiving regular inquiries from international stores in Europe and the USA markets about mink blankets during the lockdown period and we are ready to export it internationally,” says Pritam Singh Sachdeva, president, Panipat Industrial Association.  “After the tussle among Europian countries and the USA due to Covid, buyers from international stores have started approaching us. Now, scores of buyers have ordered mink blankets,” he said.  “This was not a one-day development, it took five year to reach this level. Earlier, 95 per cent of the mink blankets were imported from Korea for Rs 3,500-4,000 per piece, which was made of acrylic, but later, China had started manufacturing mink blankets by using polyster and India market started importing these from there for Rs 1,500-2,000 per piece while only 5 per cent was manufactured in Punjab”, he said. The Panipat industrialists started manufacturing mink blankets two years back and now around 60 plants are operational in Panipat. Approximately 20 plants will become operational by the end of this year, he said.  “We brought the cost of mink blankets very down. Earlier, we imported the blanket per piece, but now it is available for Rs 150-170 per kg, Sachdeva said. On an average, a blanket weighs 3 kg and it costs Rs 500-600, he added. Panipat is manufacturing approximately 9-lakh kg mink blankets in a day i.e. 3 lakh blankets per day, he claimed.  Now, mink blanket are not being imported from China in the Indian market as we have been providing better quality at a lower rate here, he added.  “The major problem we have been facing is lack of skilled labour and experts. There is no specific institute in India from where we can get experts for the blanket industry. There are engineers for weaving and spinning, but we can’t get engineers or experts for the mink blanket industry”, asserted Sachdeva.
09-07-2020||---||‘Chitta’ being sold openly: Dalit leader||Fatehabad, July 8 Dalit rights leader Sham Lal Rathi has alleged that ‘chitta’ was being sold with impunity in certain pockets of Fatehabad and no concrete action was being taken against the drug-peddlers involved in the illegal trade. Rathi said he had lodged complaints regarding the matter with the local police authorities as well as at the CM window, but to no avail. “The complaints proved counterproductive as some residents involved in the illicit drug trade attacked my home and threatened me with dire consequences. They also damaged my car, which was later stolen. I have shifted to another locality for my safety,” he stated. Fatehabad SP Rajesh Kumar said he would get the matter examined and take appropriate action in this regard. — TNS
09-07-2020||---||31 head of cattle consume chemical mixed wheat in Rewari, die||Rewari, July 8As many as 31 head of cattle died after consuming chemical mixed wheat on the Delhi-Jaipur highway near Nikhir overbridge here on Tuesday evening. The wheat was being transported by a tractor-trailer, which met with an accident there.The mishap took place when a canter carrying chemical fell on the tractor-trailer after the driver lost control over the wheel on the bridge. The wheat got scattered on the road after the accident and the chemical got mixed with it.A herd of cattle passing through the highway then started eating the wheat. They died after sometime. On getting information, a team of the district administration rushed to the spot and took the carcasses of the cattle to the cremation ground.Rewari SDM Ravinder Yadav said the canter driver had been booked under relevant sections of the IPC. “A team of veterinary doctors was immediately sent to the spot. The team saved the lives of several cattle by giving them treatment. The carcasses were buried after the post-mortem,” Yadav added.
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana allows educational institutes in agricultural zone||In an important policy decision, the Haryana Government has allowed the setting up of educational institutions after obtaining change of land use (CLU) certificate in agricultural zone. The decision to grant CLU for setting up educational institutions in agricultural zone is a major departure from the current policy of granting CLU for allowing educational activity “in public interest”.K Makrand Pandurang, Special Secretary, Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP), in a recent order, said that setting up of educational institutions in agricultural zone would be treated as permissible use. “An amendment in the zoning regulations of the development plans would be carried out and parameters mentioned in the current policy would be made part of zoning regulations,” the order asserted.Under the new policy, the proposed educational institutes should be conceptualised as supporting the hinterland and urban area surrounding it. The site should be approachable from minimum 33-feet wide revenue rasta/ public road, in case of primary school, middle school, high school and senior secondary school.In case of university/engineering/ architecture college, medical college, B Ed college, ITI, polytechnic, hotel management colleges, skill development centres and institutes for providing self employment, the site should be approachable from minimum 40-feet wide public road.In case of a proposed skill development centre and a specialised technical training institute, the application should be accompanied by a scheme/ plan for the surrounding region in terms of providing opportunities to impart relevant skills to the local youth.The proposed skill development centre and specialised technical training institute shall also submit a plan for the development of the region under Corporate Social Responsibility. — TNSDeveloping the hinterland
09-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||MBBS students put on Covid duty, Haryana rights panel seeks report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 8Taking up the complaint of final-year MBBS students against their deployment on Covid duty, the Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) today sought a report from the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Health, Medical Education Department and the Director General, Health Services (DGHS), on the issue.Please ensure our safety, say pupils"Please intervene to ensure safety of students and our families. Moreover, our online theory classes have been stopped because of their posting in the Civil Surgeon’s office despite the fact we have paid huge amount of fee to medical colleges. Our posting in hospitals is also not in the interest of Covid patients."students in a letter to hhrcDuring a hearing today, the commission observed that “there is a serious violation of human rights of patients as well as untrained doctors”.The Director General Medical Education and Research, Haryana, vide an order dated June 19, had asked all final-year (part 1) MBBS students of all government and private medical colleges to be deputed with the Health Department “for effective tackling of management of Covid”.There are 1,106 such students with maximum 204 students from Pt BD Sharma PGIMS, Rohtak, followed by 150 each from Adesh Medical College and Hospital, Kurukshetra, and Maharishi Markandeshwar Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Mullana (Ambala).The commission received a complaint from students through an email dated July 3 stating, “Please intervene to ensure safety of students and our families from Covid infection. Moreover, our online theory classes have been stopped because of our posting in the Civil Surgeon’s office despite the fact we have paid huge amount of fee to medical colleges. Our posting in hospitals is also not in the interest of Covid patients.”The commission observed that it had been alleged that the education of students had not been completed so far and they were not competent enough to treat patients.It was also pointed out the students had not been provided any transport and hygiene facilities and would not be paid any salary for their work, the order stated.The next hearing is on September 8.
09-07-2020||---||691 more test +ve in Haryana, highest tally in day||Chandigarh, July 8With 691 new cases reported on Wednesday, the highest so far, the state’s tally has reached 18,690. Three persons — two from Faridabad and one from Ambala — died of the virus in the past 24 hours.The fresh cases emerged from Faridabad (156), Gurugram (133), Rewari (81), Sonepat (66), Rohtak (57), Hisar (38), Jhajjar (27), Panipat (21), Sirsa (20), Bhiwani (18), Mahendragarh (15), Ambala (14), Karnal (13), Palwal (seven), Nuh (seven), Panchkula (five), Kurukshetra (three), Yamunanagar (three), Kaithal (three), Charkhi Dadri (two) and Jind (two).Gurugram and Faridabad alone contributed more than 41 per cent of the new cases.In Faridabad, the fresh cases were reported from Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, Dabua Colony, Sanjay Colony, Jawahar Colony, Adarsh Colony, Kheri Kalan village, Adarsh Nagar, Dheeraj Nagar, SGM Nagar, and Sectors 8, 16 and 82.Among the positive cases in Mahendragarh, six came from Kanina mandi, two each from Guda, Mohallada and Ateli Mandi, and one each from Surana, Gaud and Baghaut village.Covid-19 CasesDiSTRICT-WISE COUNT
09-07-2020||---||Bodies of 3 kids found in canal, 12 booked||Panipat, July 8The bodies of three children were found in a minor canal flowing along an illegal bleaching house in Binjhol village here on Wednesday morning. The children had gone missing on Tuesday evening. The police have booked 12 persons on the charge of murder.The deceased have been identified as Lakshya (10), Vansh (10) and Arun (12).Jai Kumar, in his complaint to the police, said his son Lakshya, along with five other children — Vansh, Arun, Sachin, Sagar and Sawan — went to the bleaching house near the village to bring thread to fly kites.But the unit manager, along with the labourers, beat them up. Three children — Sawan, Sagar and Sachin — managed to escape while Lakshya, Vansh and Arun did not reach home till late night.The family members started searching for them and reached the bleaching house to ask about their children, but did not get any response. They then informed the police and filed a complaint.The families and villagers started looking for the children and fished out the bodies from the minor canal, within 100 m of the bleaching house, around 4.30 am.The villagers further alleged that they informed the police about the bodies but the latter did not reach the spot.Enraged over the police inaction, the villagers blocked traffic on the Panipat-Gohana road around 6.30 am. DSP Sandeep Kumar and Inspector Sunil Kumar, SHO Model Town, reached there and pacified the protesters and sent the bodies for the post-mortem examination.Following a dharna by the villagers in front of the General Hospital to press for murder charges, the police added Section 302 of the IPC to the FIR registered against the bleaching house manager and labourers.Bleaching unit illegalThe bleaching house near Binjhol village is illegal. As per reports of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), no bleaching unit in the district is registered. A joint committee, which included HSPCB officials, had sealed the unit in the last week of June. However, the unit started operations again. The bleaching house is operational here for the past many years, sources said.
09-07-2020||Mahendragarh||Father, uncle held for killing  BSc student||The police have arrested four persons, including the deceased’s father and uncle, in connection with the murder of BSc student Vikas Saini.The police claimed that the family members were upset over Vikas’s behaviour as he used to argue with them.“Vikas’s father Ishwar and uncle Anil had given a bounty of Rs 4 lakh to Mohit, alias Monti, and Ashutosh to kill Vikas, who used to harass his family. On Monday night, Vikas consumed liquor with his uncle and two others. He was strangled when he fell unconscious,” investigation officer Ravinder said, adding the body was crushed under the wheels of a car after the murder.“The police scanned the call detail records of Vikas’s cellphone and found that his uncle had called him up before the murder while his number was deleted from the call history. On suspicion, the police rounded up his uncle who spilled the beans during the interrogation,” sources said.The accused on Wednesday were produced before a court, which remanded them to a two-day police custody. — TNS
09-07-2020||---||Now, district-wise plan to fight virus in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 8 With Covid cases surging by the day and the numbers reaching 18,690 today, the Health Department in Haryana has now prepared a district-wise agenda to contain the virus.  Among the major agendas set by the department are limiting sample positivity rate of high caseload districts like Gurugram and Faridabad below 10 per cent, ramping up testing in some other districts and containing the spread in some districts which have witnesses recent spike in cases. As per the district-wise agenda released today, Haryana today has the sample positivity rate of 5.66 per cent, recovery rate of 75.81 per cent and case fatality rate of 1.55 per cent. According to the agenda, the tests per million in Haryana at present are 12,761. However, Gurugram with sample positivity rate of 11.16 per cent and Faridabad with 13.26 per cent have become cause for concern. “Our immediate agenda is to bring sample positivity rate in these districts to less than 10 per cent. For this, testing needs to be increased in these districts and stricter perimeter control in containment zones and large outbreak zones is planned,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department. Besides, steep surge in confirmed cases has been witnessed in Bhiwani, Karnal, Sonepat and Rohtak. The department has proposed more challaning for violation regarding wearing of masks, social distancing and night curfew in these districts to bring down the steep rise of cases. The department has also proposed intensive testing in emerging hotspots in these districts. “Our focus is reducing the fatality rate. For this, we plan to increase testing so that positive cases can be identified early,” said Arora.
09-07-2020||---||Yamunanagar ASI grants bail to accused, judge asks SP to probe matter||Yamunanagar, July 8An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) assumed the role of a court and granted bail to two accused in non-bailable offences in Yamunanagar district.On Tuesday, the matter came to light during the course of argument in a plea for an anticipatory bail filed by the accused, Balwinder Singh, alias Kaka, and Gurdeep Singh, alias Ajju, of Veena Nagar, Yamunanagar.Taking note, Abdul Majid, Additional Sessions Judge (Duty Magistrate), district court, Jagadhri, has asked Yamunanagar Superintendent of Police (SP) Kamaldeep Goyal to take action against ASI Satnam Singh for releasing the accused on police bail in non-bailable offences (Sections 324 and 506 of the IPC).On the complaint of Deepak of Veena Nagar, a case was registered against Balwinder and Gurdeep under Sections 148, 149, 323, 324 and 506 of the IPC at the Gandhi Nagar police post on May 26.As per the complainant, the accused, who are his neighbours, attacked him and his family members at his house on May 25 without any reason. In the attack, they sustained injuries.After the registration of a criminal case, the accused filed applications in the court seeking anticipatory bail and a reply was filed on Tuesday.During the course of arguments, it was brought to the notice of the court by ASI Om Prakash that both petitioners had already been released on bail on June 24 by ASI Satnam Singh, then investigating officer in the case.“How could ASI Satnam Singh release them on bail in non-bailable offences? It appears to be a matter of serious concern,” Additional Sessions Judge Abdul Majid said.Later, the bail applications were withdrawn by the advocate of the petitioners (accused).
09-07-2020||---||Jail soil sold cheap, Lokayukta for probe against 3 officials||Chandigarh, July 8Haryana Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal (retd) has recommended inquiry against Jagjit Singh, IG Prisons; Sunil Sangwan, Superintendent, Rohtak jail, and Dayanand, Superintendent, Jhajjar jail, for the alleged sale of farm land soil worth Rs 3 crore for Rs 3 lakh.A Karnal resident, Bharat Bhushan, had filed a complaint against the three jail officials in 2018.District Jail, Rohtak, has 19.5 acres of farm land but it was uneven. So, in December 2014, the then Superintendent wrote to DGP Prisons for its levelling. An estimate of about Rs 1 crore was submitted in 2015 after a “superficial” survey “without any measurement”.In 2016, the then DGP Prisons formed a committee, comprising Jagjit Singh, Sangwan and Dayanand, for a viable solution to the issue.They recommended lifting of the extra soil through an open auction. ACS Jail approved the proposal in April 2017 but mentioned that proper assessment of material must be made. In May, DGP Prisons asked the same committee to carry out the auction.“The aforesaid committee — in utter violation of the aforesaid approval — held an auction. They did not bother to ascertain the pre-auction topography of the jail farm land; to conduct technical survey of the land in consultation with the Mining Department for assessment of the material required to be lifted,” said the Lokayukta.He added, “Obviously, the quantity of material (soil) was also not mentioned in the Auction Notice published in the newspaper so as to make the auction procedure transparent.”The auction was held in July 2017 and the contract was allotted at the bid price of Rs 3 lakh.After allegations, an inquiry was assigned to then Inspector General of Prisons-cum-Chief Vigilance Officer M Ravi Kiran who held Jagjit Singh, Sangwan and Dayanand guilty. He mentioned that the surplus soil of jail farm land would have fetched Rs 3.01 crore and a huge loss had occurred to the public exchequer.But the then DGP Prisons sought some clarifications from Ravi Kiran on July 22, 2018, on the assessment of soil to be lifted and following of auction procedure as per the advertisement. The Lokayukta pointed out that such clarifications were unnecessary.Auction held in 2017, fetched Rs3 lakh
09-07-2020||---||Baroda bypoll will trigger fall of BJP-JJP alliance: Hooda||Karnal, July 8 Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday said the Baroda byelection would be crucial and with the victory of the Congress, the downfall of the BJP-JJP government would start.  He was at the residence of Trilochan Singh, former chairperson of the Haryana Minority Commission. Accompanied by former Assembly speaker Kuldeep Sharma, Hooda launched scathing attack on the BJP-JJP government on increasing unemployment and said it had failed to provide even jobs to youths. Haryana has left Sikkim behind in unemployment, he added.   Hooda alleged that the BJP-JJP government had failed on all fronts and people were fed-up with the government. The former CM said the new ordinance regarding the market committee would not be beneficial for both the farmers and commission agents.   On being asked about the registration of FIR against the chairman and members of Haryana Staff Selection Commission in the recruitment of the PTIs, Hooda said it was an attempt to divert the attention from this issue as the government did not raise it strongly.
09-07-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar cane growers await Rs 23 crore subsidy since February||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, July 8The Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department has not released Rs 23 crore subsidy to sugarcane farmers associated with Saraswati Sugar Mills here.The pending payment is for the February-May period. However, the subsidy for the November 2019 to January 2020 period has already been paid.Sources say about 20,000 sugarcane farmers are associated with Saraswati Sugar Mills. These farmers belong to 672 villages of Yamunanagar, Ambala and Kurukshetra districts.As per a letter by the Haryana’s Cane Commissioner to the Managing Director of Haryana State Cooperative Apex Bank Limited on July 3, the state government had released Rs 79.27 crore to 13 sugar mills out of the total 14 in the state.The money to 10 co-operative sugar mills was released for the crushing period starting from November 2019 till April 2020. However, the pending subsidy amount of the Hafed Sugar Mills, Assandh; the Naraingarh Sugar Mills Limited, Naraingarh and the Piccadily Agro Industries, Bhadson (Karnal district) is from February 2020 to April 2020.As the Yamunanagar mill has been left out, farmers are disappointed. “Most of the affected farmers belong to Yamunanagar district. All farmers should be treated equally. The department must release the subsidy soon,” said Satpal Kaushik, a sugarcane farmer.DP Singh, senior vice-president, Saraswati Sugar Mills, said: “We have already paid our share to farmers. The delay is on the part of the state government. The pending amount of Rs 23 cores is a result of the differential between state-advised price (SAP) and fair and remunerative price (FRP). The government will remit subsidy directly into the bank accounts of farmers.”
09-07-2020||---||2 booked for raping teen in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, July 8 A 14-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by two persons of her village in the Yamunanagar district. The girl was alone at home when the crime took place as her parents had gone to the factory where they work as labourers.  On the complaint of the victim’s mother, a case has been registered against Rizwan and Shahrukh under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, Sections 376-DA (gangrape on woman under 16 years of age) and 452 (house trespass) of the IPC at the Woman police station on Tuesday. Kusum Bala, SHO, Woman police station, said the accused would be arrested soon.
09-07-2020||---||Dushyant contests Hooda claim on quota for locals||Chandigarh, July 8 Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has questioned former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on his claim that the 75 per cent reservation for Haryana youth in the private sector existed since 2011. “If that was the case, why didn’t his government enact the provision when he was in power for 10 years,” he told the media here on Wednesday. “The government has made stringent provisions in the proposed law. Any company denying employment to the youth of the state will have to pay a heavy penalty,” the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader said. He further said that after the Governor’s nod, the legislation would make it mandatory for private companies, societies, trusts and factories to reserve 75 per cent jobs for the local youth. “The law will be applicable on jobs offering less than Rs 50,000 as monthly salary.” Dushyant also took a dig on the Congress for floating the idea of a “shadow Cabinet”. “First, the Congress must set its house in order and then review the BJP-JJP government’s performance.” The Deputy CM said the state government had taken important decisions in the recent Cabinet meeting for the welfare of youth, farmers and other section of society. “Stamp duty has been reduced to Rs 100 on loan agreements. Moreover, by removing Kalka and Pinjore from the Panchkula Municipal Corporation, the government has fulfilled a long-pending demand,” he added.
09-07-2020||---||Villagers seek probe into  recruitment||Mahendragarh, July 8Residents of Pali and Jant villages launched an indefinite dharna outside the Central University of Haryana (CUH) today and sought a high-level inquiry into the recruitment of teachers and jobs for local youths on various posts. They also raised slogans against the university authorities.Ashok Kumar, a protester, said the university authorities had assured of giving jobs to the youths of these villages in lieu of the land, but were now recruiting residents of other places. The villagers said the dharna would continue until the demands were met.Acting V-C RC Kuhad could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
09-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Files of  PGIMS Covid victims ‘misplaced’, kin fume at lapse||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 8The files containing the record of certain Covid patients who died at the Rohtak PGIMS during treatment have been misplaced. As a result, the family members of the deceased have failed to get the death certificates.Test reports on phoneThe PGIMS authorities have decided to provide the reports of Covid tests on the phone. Covid sampling incharge Dr Amrish said the persons who have given their samples for testing may call on Covid helpline no. 9416377346 after 24 hours of giving the samples. The calls may be made from 9 am to 6 pm.As per PGIMS sources, the files of Covid patients are considered infected with fomites and kept aside for a week or so as a safety measure. The files of certain Covid patients who were admitted for treatment got misplaced during the “disinfecting” period, maintain sources.“My husband had tested positive for Covid and died while undergoing treatment at Rohtak PGIMS. I have been shuttling between different departments to get his death certificate, but to no avail,” says a woman who used to work as a cook in Gurugram.She had also tested positive for Covid, along with her three young daughters. She underwent treatment at PGIMS and got discharged after testing negative.She was handed over a cheque of Rs 1.51 lakh while being discharged. The said amount had been collected through donations. “I am unable to get his death certificate and other documents required to get the due compensation,” she maintains.Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, Head of the Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine at PGIMS and State Nodal Officer (Covid-19), admitted that the files of a couple of patients had been misplaced.“It is an administrative lapse. Efforts are being made to trace the missing files and we will ensure that the death certificates and other documents required by the family members of Covid victims are issued at the earliest,” he maintained.
09-07-2020||Kurukshetra||Migrants create ruckus as girl goes missing, nine held||The police have arrested nine migrant labourers for creating ruckus outside the house of a retired PWD official in Sector 3 here on Tuesday night after they accused the house owner of kidnapping a 16-year-old maid, who is the daughter of one of the accused persons. The house owner, however, claimed the girl had left his house after completing the work in the evening. Her family said she did not return home. They accused the house owner of killing the girl.  When the girl did not reach home, about 50 migrants gathered outside the house of the retired PWD official and started protesting. On their complaint, a kidnapping case was registered against an unidentified person. Late night, more than 400 people again assembled outside the house and started pelting stones. On being informed, the police reached the spot and controlled the situation.  Thanesar Sadar SHO Jagdish Chand said, “Three policemen have been injured in stone-pelting. Nine persons have been arrested for obstructing government officials from performing their duty. Efforts are being made to trace the girl.” —TNS
09-07-2020||ibune News Service---||Rain a boon for paddy farmers||Ambala, July 8 The rain on Tuesday morning has come as a boon for paddy farmers in Ambala.  As the paddy sowing season is on, the farmers need to irrigate their fields by running tubewells, but the rain has helped the farmers switch off their tubewells. It has helped save groundwater too. Nearly 86,000 hectares are covered under paddy crop every year and so far, nearly 70 per cent area has been covered. Rajiv Sharma, a farmer in Hasanpur village, said, “Paddy needs a huge amount of water and rain at this stage is very beneficial for the crop as well as for the farmers as our expenses on running generators and consumption of power to irrigate the field will come down.” Guru Prem Grover, Subject Matter Specialist (Soil and Water Management) at Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Tepla, said, “The fields have got the required moisture through rain. The farmer should ensure that the water remains in the field and the field remains moist.” Deputy Director Agriculture Girish Nagpal said, “The sowing of maize will now pick up in Saha, Barara and some areas of Shahzadpur blocks where farmers wait for the rain for sowing. The department has deployed a vehicle in the district to motivate farmers to grow maize instead of paddy.”
09-07-2020||Gurugram/Kanpur||Vikas Dubey flees Faridabad hotel; aide shot||An alleged aide of gangster Vikas Dubey was killed and six others arrested in separate operations even as a raid to nab the fugitive, the main accused in last week’s Kanpur ambush that left eight policemen dead, from a hotel in Haryana’s Faridabad proved futile.This even as suspended Chaubeypur station officer Vinay Tiwari and another cop were held for leaking information to Dubey of last week’s police raid. In UP’s Hamirpur district, gangster’s alleged accomplice Amar Dubey, carrying a reward of Rs 50,000, was shot in a firefight. Sources said Amar looked after Dubey’s security.In Faridabad, Dubey was reportedly seen at a hotel, but escaped before the cops reached there. Dubey tried to check in using a fake ID. CCTV footage showed him inside the hotel and later on the roadside. He earlier reportedly took refuge at the house of a relative, Shravan, in the city. Shravan, son Ankur have been arrested along with Dubey’s aide Kartikey. Shravan later tested positive for Covid. — TNS/PTI
