09-01-2021||New Delhi||Gurugram student among winners of NASA app development challenge||A high school student from Gurugram, Aryan Jain, is among the winners of an app development challenge organised by NASA.Aryan Jain is amongst the winners of NASA’s Artemis Next-Gen STEM – Moon to Mars App Development Challenge this year, according to a release.A student of SunCity School, Gurugram (Haryana), he had teamed up with six high school students from the US.The competition is a coding challenge in which NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) presents technical problems to high school students and seeks their contributions to deep space exploration missions.The six-member team developed an app using the cross-platform game engine Unity and programmed it in C#.By participating in the challenge, the students took part in the Artemis Generation endeavours to land astronauts—including the first woman and the next man—on the Moon by 2024, as per the release.In this year’s challenge, organised by NASA’s Space Communications and Navigation (SCaN) Team, the participants were required to develop an app to visualise the Lunar South Pole to assist in mission planning and exploration activities. PTI
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Drive to cull poultry birds starts in Haryana's Panchkula||A drive to cull over 1.60 lakh poultry birds at five poultry farms commenced in Haryana's Panchkula district on Saturday, officials said.The move comes after samples of some birds in two poultry farms at Kheri and Ganauli villages in Panchkula tested positive for the H5N8 strain of avian flu on Friday."The process (to cull birds) started today by the state's animal husbandry department," Panchkula Deputy Commissioner M K Ahuja said.He said it will take around two to three days to complete the drive.The deputy commissioner further informed that a team of National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal would visit Panchkula next week.On Friday, Haryana Animal Husbandry Minister J P Dalal had said that 1,66,128 birds of five poultry farms would be culled and buried as per the guidelines of the Union government.The state government had constituted 59 teams for the drive.The owners of the poultry farms would be given a compensation of Rs 90 per bird.The state government has already declared the area within 1 km radius of the two poultry farms as an 'infected zone' and the area from 1 km to 10 km as 'surveillance zone'.Around four lakh birds had died in poultry farms in Panchkula in the past month.Panchkula's Barwala-Raipur Rani area is one of the largest poultry belts in the country with 70-80 lakh birds in more than 100 farms. — PTI
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions persist in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions prevailed in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday even though the minimum temperatures in the region hovered above normal levels.Common capital Chandigarh recorded a low of 10.8 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded their respective minimums at 9.4 degrees Celsius, 10.7 degrees Celsius and 10.3 degrees Celsius, up to six notches above normal for this part of the year, the weather office said.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 11.6 degrees Celsius, 8.7 degrees Celsius, 6.3 degrees Celsius, 7.5 degrees Celsius and 8.8 degrees Celsius respectively, it added.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 9.6 degrees Celsius, 7.2 degrees Celsius and 9.6 degrees Celsius, up to three degrees above normal, the Met said.The minimum temperatures of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 10.5 degrees Celsius, 10.8 degrees Celsius, 8.8 degrees Celsius and 7.2 degrees Celsius respectively, up to six degrees above normal, it added.There was fog in Ambala, Patiala, Pathankot, Bathinda, Ludhiana and Sirsa. PTI
09-01-2021||Karnal||Energy conservation week Observed||Two DAV students on KU merit listKarnal: Shubham and Pardeep, students of MSc geography at DAV PG College, Karnal, have brought laurels by securing the third and fourth positions, respectively, in the merit list of Kurukshetra University (KU). Principal Rampal Saini congratulated the students, their parents and teachers on the achievement. He announced to extend all possible help to the deserving students such as fee waiver, free books and stationery items.MDU’s schedule for practical examsRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has notified the schedule for the practical examinations of BCom 1 and MCom (previous)- distance education programmes. Director, DDE, Prof Kuldeep Singh Chikkara said the practical examinations of BCom 1 (distance education) would be held on January 11-12, whereas that of MCom (previous) would be held from January 13-17. Students could check the university website for more details.Counselling for vacant seatsRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) will organise admission counselling for vacant seats in postgraduate programmes and LLB three-year course on January 12. MDU, Dean, academic affairs, Prof AK Rajan said the candidates who had applied for admission online up to November 16, 2020, and whose result of qualifying examinations had been declared by the university up to December 27, 2020, could attend counselling on January 12. The reporting time in the department concerned would be 9 am to 11 am. Those reporting after 11 am would not be considered for physical counselling. Admission would be made on merit basis. Professor Rajan said the physical counselling for admission to vacant supernumerary seats would be held on the spot in the department concerned on January 13. For details, interested candidates could contact the department concerned.Workshop at Guru Nanak collegeYamunanagar: The IQAC team of Guru Nanak Girls College, Yamunanagar, organised a one-day workshop. It was presided over by Principal Anu Atreja and IQAC team in-charge Nina Goyal. College Director Varinder Gandhi, Principal, Sant Nischal Singh College of Education for Women, Anju Walia, Dr Aarti Singh, Dr Prabhjot Kaur, Dr Shruti Sharma, Dr Ambika Kashyap, Dr Laxmi Gupta, Dr Mamta Kumar, Dr Ramneet Kaur, Dr Sudesh Panjeta, Dr Sarabjit Kaur, Kuljit Kaur and Dr Narendra Kaur were present. The team in-charge made the gathering aware of the revised rules of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC).
09-01-2021||THE photograph captured outside a water boosting station||Inviting trouble||Transformer, a lurking dangerA transformer put up by the power department midst a crowded market in Narwana causes a lot of inconvenience to commuters. It has blocked a lot of space in the area, which could otherwise be used to ease traffic flow on already narrow road with traffic moving on both the sides. Sometimes the wires connecting the transformer also catch a spark which can be a cause of serious mishap and is a threat to adjoining shops and vehicles parked nearby. The authorities must look into the issue and make arrangements to relocate it. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaMake state disabled-friendlyNO attention has ever been paid to make public places in the state disabled-friendly. The state government must endeavour to make all government/public offices, roads, pedestrian paths, parks, tourist and historical places, hospitals, police stations, fuel stations, Haryana tourism hotels/ restaurants, banks, post-offices, factories and markets etc handicap-friendly. Right equipment and aids are important for independent living. The same will be highly useful for white/blue/pink collared differently-abled people who face innumerable hardships in their day-to-day life. Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaCovid contained in GurugramIT is very pleasing and satisfying to observe that two days back only 35 fresh cases of Covid were reported, which is the lowest figure in the past few months. It proves that the people of Gurugram district are following the precautionary rules and regulations strictly. Earlier the condition was alarming and fearful. I appreciate the efforts made by people and the administration jointly to check the spread of virus. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramHigh security registration plates causing discomfortEarlier number plates of vehicles were changed citing that the newer ones were high security plates and now fuel colour coding of vehicles has also been made mandatory along with certain stickers. All vehicle owners are also made to pay for these apart from the discomfort that is caused by these processes. But, do all these changes provide any better security? Have the new provisions resulted in decreased number of vehicular thefts or increased the number of recoveries of stolen vehicles by the police? If the answer to both of these questions is no, then these provisions are either a question mark over the efficiency of our policing system or the policy itself needs to be abandoned. Sandeep Chaudhri, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
09-01-2021||---||3  succumb, 281 new cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, January 8With 281 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 2,64,442 on Friday. With three deaths, the toll went up to 2,943.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (63), followed by Faridabad (48) and Panchkula (34). One death each was reported from Jhajjar, Jind and Faridabad.
09-01-2021||Ambala||Western Command chief visits Ambala||Western Command Army Commander Lieutenant General RP Singh visited the Kharga Corps today to review the operational preparedness of the formation.He was received by Lieutenant General SS Mahal, GOC Kharga Corps. He was briefed about administrative preparedness of the formation. — TNS
09-01-2021||Hisar||Set up panel to redraft Acts, agriculture scientists tell govt||Agriculture scientists headed by former Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) have suggested to the Centre to keep the new agriculture Acts in abeyance for one year and redraft the Act by setting up a committee having representation from diverse sections of society including farmers.The agriculture experts held an online meeting yesterday chaired by the former HAU Vice-Chancellor, Dr KS Khokhar. The meeting had retired agricultural scientists from different state agricultural universities and ICAR institutes as participants to discuss the present scenario emerging due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Dr Khokhar said the participants agreed that the demand of the farmers to give statutory provision to MSP of their produce is genuine. — TNS
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' agitation: Abhay Chautala threatens to resign from state Assembly, again||Abhay who arrived at Tikri border with his supporters, all driving tractors, said he would hand over his resignation from the state Assembly to Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta with copies to media on January 27 if the farmers’ demands are not met by Republic Day. The INLD leader said that he would set out on a statewide tour from tomorrow to create awareness on the farm laws. Abhay had set out on a tractor march from Bhavdeen toll plaza in Sirsa on Thursday. TNS
09-01-2021||New Delhi||Haryana CM Khattar meets Amit Shah||Though the CM and officials in the Ministry of Home Affairs remained tight-lipped as to what transpired during the meeting, sources said the two leaders took stock of the situation in the state as most of the farmers’ dharnas are taking place at the state’s border areas adjoining the National Capital. To a question on farmers’ demand for repealing the three farm laws, the Chief Minister said that if that was the case, then the negotiation with farmers would have stopped long back. TNS
09-01-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Damaged highway motorists’ nightmare||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, January 8A 10-12 km-long patch of the Ballabgarh-Sohna highway has been lying heavily damaged for the past over two-and-a-half years. But the authorities concerned are yet to take up repairs despite the matter being taken up at various levels in the past over two years.Claiming that a stretch of 10 km in Ballabgarh area had become non-motorable, Jitender Bhadana, a resident, says that it was perhaps unprecedented that toll was being collected for a damaged road.“Travelling on it is dangerous as the road turns into a slush pool after every downpour. Commuting on it has been a nightmare for the past two-and-a-half years,” says Umesh Kumar, a resident of NIT segment here.Questioning the justification of toll collection on this stretch, Neeraj Sharma, MLA from NIT Assembly segment, has demanded a probe into the matter as he claimed that several crores of rupees is collected on this stretch every year.Demanding intervention of the Chief Minister’s Office to resolve the issue on a priority basis, he said that he has taken up the matter with the Secretary, PWD, also.The 32-km-long road built on build-operate-transfer (BOT) basis was opened in 2012 and is claimed to be the second busiest road in the district after NH-19 (Delhi-Agra) in view of traffic movement.The toll charge varies between Rs 25 and Rs 300 per vehicle for one way depending upon the type of vehicle. Balkishan Prasad, Manager of the Gurgaon-Faridabad Toll Road (GFTR) Private Limited (that is collecting the toll), blamed the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF). He alleged that the road was dug up for laying a sewage line in 2018, but has not been repaired as per the agreement.BK Kardam, Chief Engineer, MCF, said that the civic body is ready to pay the cost of repairs, but it is the toll company that has to take up the repairs according to their specifications.“Though a notice has already been served to GFTR on the issue, a meeting will be held soon to discuss the remedial measures,” says Rajiv Yadav, SE, PWD.
09-01-2021|| 
||Man gives talaq over phone, booked||Palwal, January 8 The police have registered a case of triple talaq in Hathin subdivision of the district. No arrest has been made so far. According to the FIR lodged, the accused, identified as Imran (36) of Bibipur village of Nuh district, had got married with a woman hailing from Hathin in the district in 2004.  The victim alleged that while they had five children from the marriage, Imran, his father and mother sent her to her parents’ house and declined to take her back till she fulfilled their demand of a car and Rs 1.5 lakh as dowry.  The victim, according to the police, claimed that while she expressed her inability to fulfil their demands, her husband called her recently on phone and gave her triple talaq.  “We have registered a case and have launched a probe into the matter,” said Investigating Officer Inderaj.
09-01-2021||
||Youth stabbed to death||Hisar, January 8 A youth was allegedly stabbed to death by an unidentified assailant at his residence in New Model Town here on Friday.  The deceased has been identified as Vipul (35), an employee with a private firm. He was alone at home when the incident took place.  The police said when the victim came home, the accused was already present and attacked him with a knife.  Superintendent of Police Balwan Singh Rana said they suspected it to be the handiwork of a thief, who broke into the house and attacked the youth.
09-01-2021||Rohtak||Residential campus opened at SUPVA||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated the residential campus of Pandit Lakhmi Chand State University of Performing and Visual Arts (SUPVA) through video-conferencing on Friday.“The university has been a sanctuary of art since inception. It is heartening to see young students carrying forward the baton of promoting art and culture, especially of Haryana. I am glad that the faculty and staff of the university can now avail residential facility and work with renewed rigour towards making this institution even more worthy,” said Khattar.Prof Rajbir Singh, Vice Chancellor (VC), thanked the Chief Minister for his involvement and extending support to the long-pending demand of residential quarters at the university, built at a cost of Rs 37 crore.He informed the Chief Minister that the residential campus had been modelled on modern urban landscaping and infrastructure and included eco-friendly measures like rain-harvesting system and solar water-heating facilities.“Ours is the only university in the country to offer niche creative programmes like film and television, visual arts and architecture. The university is competing with eminent institutes like the FTII in Pune and the National Institute of Design,” said the VC. He stated that the residential campus comprised faculty residences, VC residence and girls’ hostel, covering 9.77 acres. — TNS
09-01-2021||---||43 NHM workers to be dismissed||Sonepat, January 8Panipat Deputy Commissioner Dharmender Singh has constituted a special committee in the National Health Mission (NHM) recruitment scam to prepare the record of those candidates who were given additional marks in violation of the norms. The details of the selection committee members have also been sought.Earlier, a probe ordered by Health Minister Anil Vij had detected anomalies in the selection of nurses, ANMs, programme officers and computer operators recruited under the NHM in 2019. For 64 posts, advertised in September 2019, 43 candidates were selected in violation of norms and they had joined service in January last.The mission director has asked the Civil Surgeon to cancel the recruitment of all such candidates and has also sought the details of the members of the selection committee such as their names and post.The special committee will be headed by CEO, Zila Parishad, Vivek Chaudhary.The Deputy Commissioner said the committee would scrutinise the recruitment process and submit a report within a week.
09-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Obscene video during online class at KU||The incident of an obscene video being played during an online class of the department of social work has come to light at Kurukshetra University (KU). As per the information, an online class for first-year students of the department of social work was in progress on Thursday when someone allegedly played an obscene video, following which around 40 students left the class. Following the incident, KU Vice Chancellor Somnath Sachdeva set up a committee under the proctorial board to investigate the matter and asked the committee submit its report at the earliest. “Some content was played during an online class. Taking serious note of the incident, the Vice Chancellor constituted a committee. The help of cyber crime cell will be taken. Strict action will be taken against the person who played the clip,” said Dr Brajesh Sawhney, director public relations. — TNS
09-01-2021||Gurugram||Drug peddler from Nigeria arrested||A Nigerian drug peddler was arrested by the Crime unit here and 7-gm heroin was seized from his possession. He was produced in a city court today and sent into judicial custody.  According to the police, the arrested accused has been identified as Bethel Kelechi Aroh (26), presently working with an African restaurant in Delhi. He was held from near Ambiance Mall and an FIR has been registered. “The arrested accused said he had purchased the drugs from Delhi to make easy money after selling it in Gurugram. We are trying to nab the person who provided him with the drugs in Delhi,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime. — OC
09-01-2021||Nitish Sharma||24x7 langar of ‘kheer’,  biscuits, tea en route to Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, January 8As farmers continue to traverse the National Highway-44 on their way to the Singhu border, several volunteers and farmers have come forward to ensure that no commuter cross the district without food and water. They have set up langar en route the Singhu border.One such langar is being run by volunteers of the Virsa Sambhal Sewa Society near Shahabad. It’s been 10 days that they are serving langar, day and night.Nishan Singh, a volunteer, said: “Langar is for anyone, be it farmers or commuters. We serve them ‘kadi chawal’, tea, biscuits, ‘bread pakoras’ and water. The ‘sewa’ was started after collecting donation from four villages. Now, people from all sections of society are coming forward to help us in our endevour.”He further said, “The daily expense on the langar is around Rs 35,000 to Rs 40,000. Besides local support, we have received support from friends living in Canada, the US and Europe.” The sewa begins at 7 am and continue till late in the night.Another volunteer Hardeep Singh said, “It gets very cold at night, but three cooks and as many volunteers stay here all the time. In case someone is not in a position to travel further and wants take rest for the night, there is arrangement for at least four persons.”Gurbaksh Singh, a young farmer who stopped here on his way to the Singhu border, said it was good to see people serving langar en route and keep farmers energised.A few meters ahead, another group of volunteers servers sugarcane juice and “kheer”.Jitender Singh, a farmer from Machhroli village, said: “Several farmers from my village have been contributing to the ‘sewa’. We serve sugarcane juice, ‘kheer’, tea and ‘bread pakoras’. We will continue serving langar until the demands are met.”
09-01-2021||Parveen Arora||Faceoff in Karnal village ahead of Khattar event||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 8There was high drama on Friday at Kaimla village in this district, where Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was scheduled to address a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ on Sunday.Hundreds of farmers from across the district marched to the village to disrupt preparations for the event, but village residents organising the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ resisted them, leading to a faceoff between the two groups.The villagers formed a human chain, forcing the protesting farmers to leave. The agitating farmers threatened that they would not allow the event.A large number of police personnel led by Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia camped in the village to maintain law and order. Barricades were put up at all entry points to the village to stop protesting farmers.The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) had on January 6 announced that it would oppose the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’. On Thursday, it had threatened to gherao the residence of local MLA Harvinder Kalyan in Kutail village the following day.As per the plan, farmers assembled at the Bastara toll plaza and started their march on combine harvesters, tractors, SUVs, cars and motorcycles towards the MLA’s residence, where a large number of police personnel had been deployed.The farmers changed their route at the last moment and moved towards Kaimla village. The police stopped the vehicles of farmers by barricading the road, but farmers marched into the village on foot.They staged a dharna in the village. In the meantime, Kalyan and some villagers moved towards the protesting farmers in a bid to pacify them.In view of the gravity of the situation, SP Punia alerted the personnel. Villagers formed a human chain to stop the protesting farmers from proceeding further.“The BJP is rubbing salt on the wounds of farmers by holding a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’. We will not allow the BJP to hold the event,” said Rajinder Arya, a farmer leader.Bhupinder Singh Ladi, another farmer leader, said they had gone to Kaimla village to request the villagers to oppose the programme, but it was unfortunate that some villagers were adamant.“We will force the BJP to cancel the event. We will continue to oppose this programme,” he added. “We will not allow anyone to disrupt proceedings in the village,” said Ramesh Verma, a local resident.Kalyan said they would pacify the protesting farmers and the Chief Minister’s programme would be held as scheduled. He said Khattar would dedicate projects worth Rs 30 crore to the people during the event.“The ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ is being organised to make people aware of the three laws. We are ready to clear all doubts of the protesting farmers,” said the MLA.Punia said they had made security arrangements in the village for the Chief Minister’s visit. “Nobody will be allowed to take the law into his hands,” he said. Later, Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, DC Nishant Kumar Yadav, IGP Bharti Arora and Punia visited the venue.
09-01-2021|| 
||Help farmers in getting laws repealed: Hooda to Haryana CM||Jhajjar, January 8  Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has said that instead of opposing protesting farmers, CM Manohar Lal Khattar should help them in getting the laws repealed. “The three farm laws should be repealed immediately. Laws must be enacted after discussing them with stakeholders,” he told the media at the residence of Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal here on Friday. He accused the BJP government of being insensitive towards farmers, who had been protesting against the farm laws for more than a month in the bone-chilling cold. “The government should withdraw the laws and guarantee farmers that the MSP will become their legal right. If the Modi government remains adamant on not repealing the laws, the Congress will revoke the legislations when it assumes power at the Centre,” the former Chief Minister said. On the job scenario in the state, Hooda referred to a report by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) published in December to point out that Haryana had once again topped unemployment figures in the country. “The unemployment rate in Haryana is estimated at 32.5 per cent, which means that every third working age person in the state is unemployed,” he said. Earlier, the Congress leader visited the family of martyr Naib Subedar Ravindra in the district’s Salhawas village and paid homage. He lauded the bravery and valour of the jawans.
09-01-2021||Our correspondent||11 crows found dead in Biodiversity Park||Gurugram, January 8The death of 11 crows at Biodiversity Park here in the past two days has sparked fears of the outbreak of avian influenza in the area. The authorities have taken the samples and sent to Jalandhar.The authorities said although no bird flu cases had been reported in the district so far, the Health Department had been put on alert.“People should abstain from undue panic. We are taking all precautions,” said zonal wildlife officer RP Dangi.
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Gurugram school murder: CBI files chargesheet against four cops||The CBI on Friday filed a supplementary chargesheet in a special court in Panchkula against four Haryana Police personnel, including an ACP and an Inspector, for their alleged role in framing a bus conductor in the killing of a seven-year-old boy of a Gurugram private school in September 2017.It was found later that the boy was murdered allegedly by a senior student of the same school. In a statement, the CBI said the chargesheet was submitted for criminal conspiracy read with criminal intimidation (Section 506 of the IPC), public servant disobeying direction under law (Section 167-A), public servant framing an incorrect document to cause injury (Section 167) and voluntary causing hurt to extract confession (Section 330).A Class II student, whom the court named ‘Prince’ to protect his identity, was found near the toilet of the school with his throat slit on the morning of September 8, 2017, within an hour of his father leaving him at the school.The local police had arrested bus conductor Ashok Kumar and showed the recovery of a knife, claiming it to be the murder weapon. The police had claimed to have solved the case quickly by implicating the bus conductor.The CBI, after taking up the case, debunked the police claim and found the conductor to be innocent. During the investigation, the agency questioned teachers and students, and scanned local markets, which led them to a Class XI student of the school, who the court named ‘Master Bholu’.CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said the Class XI student was apprehended on November 7, 2017. “It was revealed during the CBI investigation that the conductor earlier arrested by the Gurugram Police was not involved in the murder case. During further probe, the alleged role of four police officials came to light,” he said.According to the CBI, the Class XI student, believed to be weak in studies, allegedly slit the throat of the Class II student so that the school declared a holiday, and deferred a scheduled parent-teacher meeting and an examination. The accused is facing a murder trial. — TNS
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||1.6L birds to be culled in Panchkula||Haryana’s Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Minister JP Dalal has said over 1.66 lakh birds of five poultry farms in Panchkula district will be culled after poultry samples from two farms tested positive for avian flu.Dalal said the culling operations had started following the Centre’s guidelines stipulating that poultry in farms located within 1 km of any infected farm would have to be culled. “The employees of these farms would be examined by the Health Department and administered anti-viral drugs,” the Animal Husbandry Minister asserted.Meanwhile, avian influenza on Friday spread to six states, including Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat, with the Centre asking the authorities to mount surveillance operations and begin culling infected birds or poultry. — TNS
