09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers hold 2-hour ‘chakka jam’ against police action on farm Bill protesters in Sirsa||Farmer organisations held a two-hour ‘chakka jam’ (road blockade) in parts of Punjab on Friday to protest the use of water cannons and tear gas by the Haryana Police during a stir in Sirsa against the new farm laws.Protesting farmers blocked highways and some other roads in the state, causing disruption in vehicular movement, though officials said traffic was diverted to alternative routes at many places.“The national highways and some other roads remained blocked during the two-hour ‘chakka jam’ from 12 pm to 2 pm. However, ambulances and other vehicles having any kind of emergency were allowed to pass,” said Darshan Pal, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union.He said farmers also held dharnas at various toll plazas in the state.“We were protesting the police action against farmers in Sirsa, Haryana. They were not allowed to protest, water cannons and tear gas was used, and later, they were evicted from the site,” Pal said.A farmer protesting near a toll plaza in Ludhiana hit out at the Centre, saying, “It does not understand the pain of the farmers. Our colleagues were protesting in Sirsa against the farm laws, but their voice was suppressed.“The central government claims that these laws are for our benefit, but they must understand if farmers are unhappy, what is the worth of these legislations then,” he asked.Farmers protesting in Amritsar and in Hoshiarpur’s Tanda said the new farm laws will not only “hit them but labourers and small shopkeepers too will be impacted”.A protest was held near the Shambhu border, blocking the national highway towards Ambala.Haryana Police had on Tuesday used water cannons and tear gas to disperse agitating farmers, who tried to cross barricades and proceed towards the residences of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and his grand uncle and Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala in Sirsa located barely 200 metres from the protest site.The farmers were seeking resignations of Dushyant Chautala, a JJP leader, and Ranjit Singh Chautala, an Independent legislator, from the Manohar Lal Khattar government over the recently enacted farm legislations.Meanwhile, in reply to a question, Pal said the Centre should listen to the concerns of the farmers.“The government should call us by extending a proper invite and listen to our concerns. Not only farmers, but so many parties are opposed to these laws, which means there is something controversial on which a discussion should be held.“They should call us on some official forum. Either the prime minister can talk to us or they can form a parliamentary group or authorise some Group of Ministers to discuss things. They should consider these voices of protest from Punjab, Haryana and other parts,” the Krantikari Kisan Union president said.Farmers are continuing their ‘rail roko’ agitation against the agri-related legislations across Punjab. Rail tracks are blocked at 33 places in the state. Protesting farmers have staged sit-ins outside several petrol pumps, toll plazas and shopping malls.Many are also sitting on ‘dharnas’ outside the houses of some BJP leaders.The farmers have said they would continue their agitation till their demand for revocation of the farm laws was met.They have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm reforms would pave a way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. PTI
09-10-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Now, PGIMS nursing college to admit male candidates too||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 9Here’s some good news for the male students who wish to pursue a course in nursing.The PGIMS nursing college, which used to admit only female students till now, will admit male students as well from the coming academic session.A proposal to this effect has been approved by the authorities of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak.Santosh Hooda, Principal, College of Nursing, maintained that the move would benefit the unemployed youth as well as patients.“It will create more employment opportunities for the boys and make the services of trained male nurses available to the patients,” she stated.Ashok Yadav, the president of the PGIMS Nurses Association, has welcomed the move.He said the association had been demanding that the in-service male nurses be allowed admission to Post-Basic BSc and MSc (Nursing) courses at the college.As per the college authorities, apart from the said courses, the male candidates would also be admitted to Nurse Practitioner in Critical Care (NPCC) course.“Forty per cent seats of the said courses would be reserved for the in-service candidates working at the PGIMS as well as the state Health facilities,” said Hooda.
09-10-2020||Deepender Deswal||Hansi trader believed to have been murdered arrested from Chhattisgarh||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 9In a dramatic turn of events, a trader who was stated to be a victim of loot and murder was arrested from Bilaspur town of Chhattisgarh by the Hansi Police on Friday.Hansi SP said that they were investigating the matter and police were bringing the person identified as Ram Mehar from Chhattisgarh to Hisar.Mehar, 48, a matriculate owned an industrial unit in Barwala town .SP Lokender Singh said that when the police team along with forensic expert visited the spot of crime, the circumstantial evidence led the experts to doubt about the occurrence of the incident.The SP revealed that the trader had secured term life insurance of Rs 1.10 crore from a private insurance firm and Rs 50 lakh LIC policy recently.He said that further details were being gathered about the person who is on the way back from Bilaspur in custody of the police.The SP said that Ram Mehar was tracked down after a trail of investigation. He said that no other person had been arrested till now.On October 7, the police got information that a trader Ram Mehar was looted and burnt to death inside his car by two unidentified robbers on the Data-Gurana road near Mahjat village in the district.The SP said that police had formed three teams after the scene of crime led to doubts and started investigation from different angles.“The entire incident turned out to be fabricated. The person is still alive and was nabbed from Bilaspur. We managed to get the breakthrough after the initial probe provided crucial leads.”The officer ruled out loot as motive of incident that occurred on night of October 6-7. He, however, refused to share more details and stated that they would reveal the mystery behind the incident later on.Lokender Singh said that the police were investigating about the skeleton recovered from the car and were likely to extract information from Ram Mehar on his return.Recalling the incident, the SP said that a relative who lodged the complaint about the incident had said that Ram Mehar was returning from Hisar to his native village when the incident occurred.As per his family, the alleged victim called them on phone to inform about the loot and sought help.He had withdrawn Rs 11 lakh from a bank and was carrying the cash with him in the car at the time of the incident, they added.However, the officer said that the scene of crime indicated that there was no trace of any struggle.The family though maintained that at 11.15 pm, Ram Mehar called up his nephew and sought help stating that he was being chased by two motorcycle-borne youth.One of his relatives called the SHO of Hansi police station at 12.05 am. The SHO directed the Bhatla police Chowki personnel who reached the spot in five minutes (at 12.10 am). By then the car was up in flames.The police registered a case under Sections 396, 201 of the IPC against unknown persons and started investigation.The SP said that more details would be revealed by tomorrow.When asked about any missing report he said that he would disclose some more details tomorrow.The Hansi Sadar police station SHO denied about any missing report in the last 2-3 days.
09-10-2020||Ravinder Saini ||Four Left Parties lend support to farmers’ agitation against three farm Bills||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 9Four Left parties of Haryana on Friday announced their full support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three farm Bills.The announcement was made at a joint meeting held here. Prem Singh Gehlawat, Surender Singh and Inderjit Singh of the CPM, Daryao Singh Kashyap and Satpal Beniwal of the CPI, Satyawan and Anoop Singh of SUCI(C) and Prem Singh Gehlawat of CPI(ML) were present at the meeting. “The meeting greeted the farmers of Haryana for putting up a stiff resistance against the three farm Bills imposed in a dictatorial manner in the country. The Bills are bound to destroy the crucial sector of agriculture as well as the larger national interests, including food security,” said Inderjit Singh.He informed four parties had asked all their units and urged upon the mass fronts to mobilise all sections of people in support of the programme of action announced by the All-India Kisan Sangharsh co-ordination Committee for boycotting all those public representatives who were supporting the bill for their personal vested political interests. “The Left parties will also support the Delhi chalo programme on November 26 and 27.  The meeting also condemned the Hathras' horror and denounced the Yogi government of Uttar Pradesh whose conduct was a blot not only on the Constitution and rule of law, but also against humanity,” Singh added.
09-10-2020||Rohtak||Gold medal for PGIMS doctor||
09-10-2020||Hisar||Guru Jambheshwar University organises webinar on climate change||
09-10-2020||---||Fire breaks out at car showroom in Faridabad; 20 cars, other vehicles gutted||Faridabad, October 9At least 20 cars and other vehicles were reduced to ashes after a massive fire broke out in a Maruti car showroom at Pyali Chowk in the NIT area here on Thursday night around 12.30 am.The fire was doused in about four hours by six fire tenders pressed into the job. No injuries were reported.Though the cause of the fire yet to be ascertained, sources in the fire department said the fire could have been caused due to electrical short circuit.The police have launched a probe into it.
09-10-2020||Parveen Arora||NDRI ‘sets’ somatic cell counts limit in milk||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 8Scientists of the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) have set standard limits of somatic cell counts (SCC) in milk of indigenous cattle and Murrah buffalo to monitor the prevalence of sub-clinical mastitis in dairy herds, quality of raw milk and hygienic conditions at farms.They are trying to set up a reference value of milk cells in other animals across the country so that the milk products can meet international standards. “Setting up of legal limit for SCC in milk will reduce antibiotics residues in milk as well as will help in reducing udder infection and produce grade-A milk. It will also help in growth of both quality and quantity of milk leading to increase in farmers’ income and also improve cow comfort and welfare,” claimed NDRI Director Dr MS Chauhan.Dr Chauhan said the research would help in enhancing the export quality of milk and milk products. “With 189 million metric tonne of milk production annually, India is leading the world, but our milk export is less than 10 per cent.All the developed countries such as the US, European Union and others use SCC in milk for quality parameter and paying more premiums for the milk having low somatic cell counts, while in India, milk quality and pricing are still based on the fat percentage in milk. This research will help in enhancing the milk quality,” he said. After a research of more than 10 years, Dr Ajay Dang, principal scientist, lactation and immunophysiology laboratory, NDRI, along with his team members consisting of scientists and students set the SCC limits up to 1 lakh/ML in Murrah buffalo milk and 1-1.5 lakh/ML in ingenious cattle milk, which are gold value in these animals.“We conducted the research on more than 500 indigenous cattle and Murrah buffalo. We isolated and cultured milk cells from the udder gland in order to develop cell count sensors for these animals. Any type of stress to the animals increases the SCC in milk. We consider SCC above 2 lakh in milk may indicate sub-clinical mastitis, poor milk quality and products,” said Dr Dang.
09-10-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Covaxin trials on track, 2nd dose given to volunteers at Rohtak PGIMS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 8Second dose of Covaxin – the indigenous Covid vaccine – has been given to volunteers under the Phase II of the clinical human trials at Rohtak PGIMS. As per the project investigators, the trials are going well and no adverse effects have been reported from any volunteer so far.“After the administration of the second dose to all volunteers under Phase II trials and subject to positive outcome of their test reports, the Phase III of the clinical human trials will begin soon,” said Dr Ramesh Verma, a co-investigator of the project.In Phase I, two doses of Covaxin were given to healthy volunteers in the age-group of 18-55 years, while in the Phase II, two doses of the vaccine have been given to different volunteers in the age-group of 12-65 years.While only healthy volunteers were involved in the Phase I, the volunteers who have controlled diabetes, hypertension or asthma etc have been involved in the Phase II of the trials.Meanwhile, apart from the launch of the post-Covid clinic for the benefit of the recovered Covid patients, modalities are also being worked out for the creation of a Covid-sampling site in the waiting area of the trauma centre.Prof (Dr) Pushpa Dahiya, the newly appointed Medical Superintendent of PGIMS, inspected the site today and directed the officials concerned to take necessary measures to ensure that the suspected Covid patients did not face any inconvenience.“As of now, the samples are being taken near the old casualty wing, due to which the chances of the spread of the infection is high. Hence, the sample-collection facility is being shifted to the trauma centre waiting area,” she said.
09-10-2020||Ambala||Plasma bank to come up in Ambala||A plasma bank and free testing are among the new initiatives to check the further spread of Covid in Ambala. The plasma bank will be set up at the Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantonment within a week.Free Covid testing has already been introduced in the district. No posters are now being pasted outside the houses of those in quarantine.Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the formalities for establishing a plasma bank had been completed and the technical staff sent for mandatory training. “The facility will be equipped with requisite technology for convalescent plasma therapy procedures for treatment,” he said. — TNS
09-10-2020||---||Health activists warn of rally in Baroda||Karnal, October 8Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) on Thursday held a state-level rally in CM’s city to press for their demands, including implementation of the remaining points in the notification dated July 21, 2018, grant of status of health workers to ASHA workers and others.They were assured of a meeting with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on October 20. They threatened to hold a state-level protest in Baroda constituency on October 22 if their demands are not met at the meeting.They handed over a memorandum to the district authorities for the CM.Rani Devi, state vice-president, while addressing the workers said that around 2,000 ASHA workers have been protesting since August 7 to press for their demands and nobody took their demands seriously, forcing them to hold this state-level protest rally. They are demanding implementation of the notification for the regularisation of services of ASHA and NHM workers , she said.
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid19: 20 more succumb in Haryana||With 1,284 fresh cases, the total number of Covid cases in the state went up to 1,38,682 on Thursday. The number of deaths reached 1,584 with the addition of 20 deaths.The government discontinued the practice of pasting posters outside the houses of Covid-positive patients under self-isolation at home. An order to this effect was issued by the Director General (Health Services) on the directions of the Chief Secretary. Gurugram reported a maximum of 264 cases, followed by Faridabad (182), Hisar (129), Karnal (100) and Panchkula (80).Four deaths each were reported from Hisar and Rohtak, three from Rewari, two each from Faridabad and Jhajjar and one each from Ambala, — TNS
09-10-2020||---||Crackers catch fire, three injured||Yamunanagar, October 8 Three persons sustained burn injuries after a huge cache of crackers stored in a house in Srinagar Colony of Jagadhri caught fire today. The police are yet to determine the exact cause of fire, but short circuit is suspected to be one of the reasons behind it. The victims have been identified as Raj Rani (65) and her grandchildren Priyanshi (13) and Gokul (9). They have been admitted to Civil Hospital, Jagadhri. According to information, Sanjeev Kumar allegedly stored a huge consignment of crackers illegally at his house ahead of Diwali. The crackers kept in the house suddenly caught fire at about 11 am. In the fire, Sanjeev Kumar’s mother Raj Rani, his daughter Priyanshi and son Gokul sustained burn injuries. They were rushed to the  Civil Hospital. A person of Srinagar Colony said when the fire broke out, an explosion was heard in the colony. After getting information about the fire, two fire engines were pressed into service to douse it. Sumesh Pal, Investigating Officer, said a huge cache of burnt crackers was lying on the spot.  “We are yet to find the exact cause of fire as the statements of the injured persons are yet to be recorded,” said Sumesh Pal. Puran Singh, SHO, city police station, Jagadhri, said a police team  had been  constituted to investigate into the matter.
09-10-2020||Sushil Manav||Nominations for Baroda byelection from today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8As filing of nominations for the Baroda Assembly bypoll begins on Friday, the ruling BJP-JJP combine as well as the Congress, the main opposition party, have begun the process for finalising the candidate.The Election Commission will issue the gazette notification for the bypoll on Friday morning, starting the process for filing of nominations.Nominations can be filed till October 16 and scrutiny of papers will be done on October 17. Withdrawal of papers will be allowed till October 19 and polling will be held on November 3. The counting of votes will be held on November 10. The election has been necessitated due to the death of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda.State BJP president OP Dhankar has convened a meeting of the state election committee of the party in Rohtak on October 10 to discuss the names of probable candidates.Though no information has been provided to the media on when and how the BJP and JJP have decided the alliance partner which will field its candidate, it has become clear that the BJP will contest the bypoll.Dhankar, who heads the state election committee of the BJP, said a panel comprising Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, in charge of the election for the party, district BJP president Dharamveer Nandal, Sonepat MP Ramesh Kaushik and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, in charge of Sonepat district, would submit a list of potential candidates to the committee.“After considering the names forwarded by them, the state election committee will recommend the names to the central committee, which will take the final call on the candidate,” said Dhankar.The Congress had invited applications till Thursday for those interested in contesting the bypoll. State Congress president Kumari Selja said the party had received 25 applications so far. Sources said the late MLA’s son Jitender Hooda had also applied for the Congress ticket.Abhay Chautala of the INLD said the party would announce its candidate on October 15 or 16, adding that at least 12 workers had shown interest in contesting the bypoll.The Congress had won the seat in 1968, 1972, 2009, 2014 and 2019. The INLD and its previous incarnations had won the seat seven consecutive times between 1977 and 2007. In the last election held in October 2019, Sri Krishan Hooda had defeated BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt, an Olympic bronze medallist and Commonwealth gold medallist in wrestling, by nearly 5,000 votes. Bhupinder Singh of the JJP had finished third.In the Congress, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda wields considerable influence over voters in Baroda and Sri Krishan Hooda owed allegiance to him.“It is to be seen whether Hooda’s will prevails in the selection of candidate as active campaigning by him will be must if the Congress wants to win this seat,” said a Congress worker.The BJP is confident that people will vote for the ruling party as there are four years to go for the next Assembly poll and people will like to see development activities in their area in this period.“This bypoll is a challenge for them (Congress) and an opportunity for us (BJP) since it is being held due to the death of their MLA,” said Dhankar.
09-10-2020||---||Tardy lifting leads to paddy glut in Karnal grain markets||Karnal, October 8 Paddy arrivals in full swing and tardy lifting have led to space crunch at various purchase centres of the district. Official data shows that around 42 per cent of the procured paddy is lying in the grain markets, waiting to being lifted. The data of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB), Karnal, shows that as many as 19.83 lakh quintal paddy have been procured by the three procurement agencies till Wednesday. Out of that, 11.47 quintal was lifted from all 13 grain markets. Haryana Warehouse Corporation (HWC) has lifted around 62 per cent of its procured paddy, Food and Civil Supplies has so far lifted 58 per cent and HAFED has lifted 56 per cent of its procured paddy. In Gheer purchase centre, only 32 per cent of procured paddy has been lifted. The remaining is lying there. Only 38 per cent paddy has been lifted from Nigdhu grain market, 45 per cent from Kunjpura, 46 per cent from Nilokheri, 48 per cent from Nissing, 50 per cent from Assandh grain market, 53 per cent from Gharaunda, 57 per cent in Indri. Jundla grain market has witnessed 80 per cent lifting, 74 per cent from Taraori grain market, 65 per cent from Ballah and 63 per cent from Karnal grain market. The situation can be gauged from the fact that paddy bags have occupied all the space in Nigdhu, Karnal, Nissing and other grain markets. Sewa Singh, a farmer, said that this season, they were facing a lot of problems. Earlier, he faced problems in getting the message from Meri Fasal Mera Byora portal to bring his crop. Later, he had to wait for hours to get gate pass through the e-kharid portal. Now, when he has reached the grain market, he did not get space to unload the grain. He said that the government must ensure speedy lifting.  Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said that the officials have been directed to ensure lifting within 24 hours of the procurement. “The situation will become smooth in a couple of days,” he added.
09-10-2020||---||Will protest till Dushyant, Ranjit quit: Farmers||Hisar, October 8The farmers of 17 organisations who have been staging dharna at Sirsa started indefinite and round-the-clock dharna at Shahid Bhagat Singh stadium on Barnala road here today.The core committee of the farmers’ bodies took a decision that the dharna would continue till Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and Power Minister Ranjit Chautala resign from the government.Haryana Kisan Manch state president Prahlad Singh Barukhera said that they have formed committees that would visit villages to mobilise support for the ongoing stir and spread awareness about the anti-farmer policies of this government.Rajender Arya Dadupur, a farmer leader, said that the farmers’ agitation would be spread across the country to wake the government up from slumber. He said that Dushyant Chautala had assured that his doors were open for farmers but the opposite happened in Sirsa where the police not only stopped the farmers but also registered cases and detained them.
09-10-2020||---||Farm unions call for 6-hr ‘chakka jam’ on November 3||Kurukshetra, October 8Farmer leaders from different states, who gathered in Kurukshetra today to chalk out further strategy against the three farm laws, have called for a nationwide ‘chakka jam’ and decided to block the national highways across the nation for six hours on November 3.Leaders of around 30 farmer unions and organisations from Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi had gathered at Kamboj Dharmashala today. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh said: “A meeting was organised to spread the farmers’ movement across the country for which leaders from different states were here today. We have decided to block the national highways for six hours (from 10 am to 4 pm) on November 3 to mark our protest against the farm laws. Leaders in Punjab are also holding another meeting tomorrow where the further strategy and decision about next meetings will be taken. Soon, another national-level meeting of farmer unions will be held and some union leaders, especially from southern states who couldn’t reach here today due to Covid or non-operation of trains, will also be invited to further strengthen the agitation.”He said: “The farmers will hold peaceful agitation and besides blocking the national highways, local units can also decide on blocking the state highways.” Farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Rampal Jat, Sewa Singh Arya, Ranjit Singh Raju, VM Singh, Prem Singh Gahlawat, Gopal Das, and Suresh Dahiya were among those who attended the meeting.The state unit of the Shiromani Akali Dal came out in support of the farmers today and announced to observe black Dasehra and Diwali this year.
09-10-2020||Though various complaints have been made by residents regarding the wastage of power as streetlights/residential parks’ lights are left switched on even when the sun arises||Streetlights, park lights switched on during day||Gopal Mittal, PanchkulaAdmn should mull ‘library on wheels’On the lines of “palace on wheels”, the Panchkula Administration should seriously mull about starting a “library on wheels” (either bus or rail coach), which can really be helpful to all sections of society. The same can be initiated on a weekly basis for each sector of the city. The same will help in inculcating reading habit in non-readers and enhance everybody’s knowledge.Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Reinstate Kaithal Civil Surgeon, says docs’ body||The Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA) on Thursday came out in support of Dr Jai Bhagwan, Civil Surgeon, Kaithal, and called for his reinstatement.He had been suspended following a complaint by local MLA Lila Ram. The HCMSA alleged that the MLA wanted to save the persons caught in connection with a sex determination test. — TNS
09-10-2020||Faridabad||Emphasis on making varsity paperless||Submission date extendedRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has extended the last date for the submission of online application form for admission to various postgraduate (PG) programmess (first semester) and LLB three year course (first semester) session 2020-2021 till Oct 26. MDU Registrar Prof GL Taneja said details of these academic programmes were available on the MDU website.Dr Sharma appointed DeanRohtak: Dr Nov Rattan Sharma, professor, department of psychology has been appointed the Dean, Faculty of Social Sciences of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) by Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh in terms of provisions of Statute 19 of the MDU Act. MDU Registrar Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja said Prof Nov Ratan Sharma's tenure as Dean, faculty of social sciences would be with effect from October 1, 2020 till his retirement date - January 31, 2023.
09-10-2020||Ambala||Three killed in accidents in Ambala||Three persons were killed in separate hit-and-run mishaps. Pedestrian Sewa Singh of Mullana was killed after a car hit him. An unidentified pedestrian was killed after a vehicle ran over him near Ambala. Biker Dinesh Kumar of Naraingarh was killed after a truck hit him. The police registered separate cases. TNS1 nabbed in drugs caseThe police arrested Christin Nanhemika of Nigeria for drug smuggling. The arrest was made following the confessional statement of Kingshali Chinonaso of Nigeria. A local court remanded the accused in 14-day judicial custody. TNSWoman held for fake noteThe police arrested a woman of Kurukshetra for using counterfeit currency. Roshan Lal of Barara had reported that she gave him a counterfeit note of Rs 2,000 denomination. A local court remanded her in 14-day judicial custody. TNS1 caught with illicit boozeThe police arrested Ishu of Ambala Cantonment and claimed to have recovered 79 bottles of illicit liquor from his possession. The accused was remanded in 14-day judicial custody by a local court. TNS
09-10-2020||---||Norms to recognise private schools issued||Chandigarh, October 8The Haryana Government has issued guidelines for granting recognition, permission and no-objection certificates to private schools across the state.The government has instructed all District Education Officers (DEOs) of the state to clear all the pending files of private schools within 20 days. An official spokesperson said various issues related to recognition, permission and no-objection certificates of private schools were discussed at a meeting chaired by the Director of Secondary Education Department here on Thursday. After this, instructions were given to all DEOs that cases of granting recognition, permission and no-objection certificates to private schools should be accepted only through the online mode. Files submitted by hand would not be considered, he added.
09-10-2020||Panipat||Three charred to death in Gohana road mishap||Three persons were charred to death after a car they were travelling in collided with a tractor and caught fire on Khanpur Kalan-Kakana link road in Gohana of Sonepat district on Thursday. The three were burnt badly and were not identified so far. The police and fire brigade reached at the spot and controlled the flames. — TNS
09-10-2020||Panipat||RC, driving licence racket busted in Haryana||The Chief Minister’s flying squad has unearthed a racket of agents involved in preparing registration certificates (RCs), driving licences and permits at higher rates allegedly in connivance with officials of the Regional Transport Authority here.Seized items87 RCs, 47 vehicular fitness certificatesRTA stamps, registers of RTANumber of licences, permitsThe police have registered two separate cases and arrested two agents, Yajuvendera and Manoj Kumar Verma, who were running the racket. Produced in the court on Thursday, the duo was sent to three-day police remand.The flying squad recovered stamps and registers of the RTA, 87 new RCs, 47 vehicular fitness certificates and a large number of licences and permits from the two agents.SI Shishpal Singh said that following a tip-off, the police team in the presence of Duty Magistrate Anil Kaushik raided the two shops owned by Verma and Yajuvendra.Manoj Kumar Yadav, ADC-cum-Secretary, RTA, said they were probing the matter. — TNS
