09-12-2020||Noida (UP)||Ghaziabad’s air ‘severe’ 6th day on trot, ‘very poor’ in Noida, Faridabad||Ghaziabad air quality remained “severe” for the sixth day in a row while it was “very poor” in Noida and Faridabad and “poor” in Gurugram, according to a government agency data on Wednesday.Presence of pollutant PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Wednesday was 418 in Ghaziabad, 394 in Noida, 404 in Greater Noida, 395 in Faridabad and 296 in Gurugram, according to CPCB’s Sameer app.On Tuesday it was 424 in Ghaziabad, 407 in Noida and 405 in Greater Noida, 382 in Faridabad and 347 in Gurugram.On Monday it was 438 in Ghaziabad, 422 in both Noida and Greater Noida, 388 in Faridabad and 357 in Gurugram.On Sunday it was 428 in Ghaziabad, 402 in Noida, 396 in Greater Noida, 392 in Faridabad and 325 in Gurugram.The CPCB states that an AQI in the “poor” category causes breathing discomfort and “very poor” may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure, while “severe” affect even healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad have four stations each, while Gurugram has three and Greater Noida two, according to the app. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ghaziabads-air-severe-6th-day-on-trot-very-poor-in-noida-faridabad-182043
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Haryana reports 26 deaths, 1,400 fresh cases||Twenty-six more people succumbed to the coronavirus in Haryana, bringing the death toll to 2,650 on Wednesday, while 1,400 new cases pushed the state's infection tally to 2,48,079, according to a bulletin.The new fatalities included eight from Faridabad, five from Hisar and three each from Gurugram and Jhajjar, the state health department's daily bulletin said.Among the districts which reported a big spike in fresh COVID-19 cases included Gurugram (436) and Faridabad (218).The state has an active COVID-19 case count of 11,733 and a recovery rate of 94.20 per cent, according to the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-reports-26-deaths-1-400-fresh-cases-182015
09-12-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Fake call centre busted in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, August 16Another fake call centre was busted in Gurugram on Wednesday by the cybercrime unit.The accused duped the US nationals posing as Amazon security support staff.Two owners of the call centre have been nabbed while 13 workers were detained from the call centre.Meanwhile, two main server and two mobiles have also been seized by the police.The cybercrime team, led by ACP (DLF) Karan Goel conducted a raid after getting a tip-off that a fake call centre was being run from the basement of a plot at Sector 45.When the team reached the spot, more than 13 employees were busy on computers and laptops. A majority were busy making calls in English and working on their computer systems. They did not possess any valid OSP licences of Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work.The police detained more than 13 and arrested two masterminds, who had operated the fake call centre from January this year.The arrested accused are identified as Praveen Kumar (32), resident of Gujjar Majri village in district Rewari, and Manish Kumar (31), native of district Buxar in Bihar.“The masterminds behind the call centre have been arrested. They had registered their company name as Squad. They generated calls through their employees to Americans, and on the name of Amazon security support service, they dupe them. They asked Americans to purchase I-tune gifts cards and then took their number and charged $300 to $700 from one customer,” said the ACP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-182000
09-12-2020||Noida (UP)||4 cattle thieves active in west UP, Haryana held after gunfight in Gr Noida||Four suspected cattle thieves of a gang active in western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana were held in Greater Noida after they got injured in a gunfight with police, officials said on Wednesday.The encounter took place late Tuesday night in Dadri area when the accused men, who were in a pick-up truck, were intercepted by the local police for checking, the officials said."The men opened fire on the police party and tried to escape from the spot. However, they got injured in retaliatory firing," a police spokesperson said.They were taken to a hospital for treatment and later arrested, the spokesperson said.Six illegal firearms along with some ammunition, seven ropes, Rs 48,500, and some stolen jewellery were seized from the accused, who belong to a gang of cattle thieves active in western UP and parts of Haryana, the official said.Those held have been identified as Rahees, Nasem, Harpal and Sonu, all natives of adjoining Bulandshahr district, police said.Police Commissioner Alok Singh also announced a reward of Rs 40,000 for the police team that arrested these men, they said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-cattle-thieves-active-in-west-up-haryana-held-after-gunfight-in-gr-noida-181978
09-12-2020||---||Haryana among 9 states eligible to borrow more||New Delhi, December 9The government has given permission to nine states, including Haryana, to borrow Rs 23,523 crore from the market as they had fulfilled one condition set by the Centre to become eligible to take loans.Nine states—Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Tripura and UP – had completed reforms in the Public Distribution System. The states undertook three major initiatives in this regard: they seeded the Aadhaar numbers with all ration cards, biometrically authenticated beneficiaries and automated all Fair Price Shops (FPS).Haryana has been allowed to borrow Rs 2,146 crore while UP will borrow the maximum of Rs 4,851 crore.It all began when the pandemic-induced lockdown led to a sharp fall in states’ incomes. The Centre allowed them to take debt up to 2 per cent of their respective Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in 2020-21. Of this 2 per cent, 0.25 per cent of the borrowing by states was linked to their implementing some major components of the “One Nation One Ration Card” system.The Centre said it linked a part of the additional borrowing to states carrying out reforms in those sectors that are critical for service delivery to citizens. This linkage will ensure long-term debt sustainability and prevent any adverse impact on future, it argues.Work on this project began over two years back with the Integrated Management of Public Distribution System (IM-PDS) and a nation-wide roll-out was announced in May this year by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.An official news release said this step has enabled states to mobilise additional financial resources to fight the pandemic and improve the standards of service delivery to the public. After all states implement this system, migrant workers and their families as well as beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and other welfare schemes will be able to get ration from any Fair Price Shop (FPS) in the country.The intended reform will also better target beneficiaries, and eliminate duplicate or ineligible ration cards and thus enhance welfare and reduce leakage, said an official news release.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-among-9-states-eligible-to-borrow-more-181961
09-12-2020||New Delhi||Farmers’ unions reject Centre’s proposal, stir to continue||Farmers' unions on Wednesday rejected a fresh draft proposal by the Centre and said that they would continue their struggle against the three contentious farm laws. With the Centre-farmer talks ending in a stalemate, thousands of farmers stayed put at Delhi borders on Wednesday to press for repeal of the agri marketing laws.A farmers' forum received a proposal from the Union government and held a meeting at Singhu border to analyse the proposal.Also read: 5 Opposition leaders meet Prez Kovind seeking repeal of farm lawsReady to give written assurance on continuing MSP: Govt's proposal to agitating farmersAs farmers reject conciliatory proposals, BJP-led Centre in Catch-22 situationTomar meets Shah after protesting farmers reject govt’s draft proposalThe united forum of farmer leaders rejected the amendment proposal of the Union government on Wednesday. The leaders now have decided to intensify their protest.The farmer leaders announced to seal Jaipur-Delhi and Jaipur-Agra highways till December 12.The nationwide protest at district level is scheduled for December 14.During the nationwide protest, farmers will protest and gheroed the BJP offices.The unions have also decided to boycott Ambani and Adani products, JIO mobile and petrol pumps owned by Reliance.A meeting called by Home Minister Amit Shah ended in failure on Tuesday night as farmer leaders rejected the government's offer to amend new farm laws, saying they would settle for nothing less than the scrapping of the legislations.The sixth round of talks between the government and farmer unions to end the protests on Delhi's various borders, which was scheduled on Wednesday, has been cancelled.This comes after many farm leaders had threatened to boycott the talks.As the protests continued, traffic was disrupted at border points with farmers agitating on the Singhu, TIkri and Ghazipur borders of Delhi.Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about that the Tikri, Jharoda, Dhansa Borders are closed for any traffic movement. However, Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement. It also said that those travelling to Haryana can take Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders."Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH-44 is closed on both sides. Take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli, NH8/Bhopra /Apsara borders /Peripheral expressway, the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.It also said that the traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road and suggested commuters to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road, NH-44. Farmer leaders have been firm on their demand for repeal of three new farm laws enacted in September. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-unions-reject-centres-proposal-stir-to-continue-181918
09-12-2020||The light in Sector 51||Light remains switched on the entire day||Veena and Aarohi Kansal, GurugramDengue cases increasing in PanchkulaDengue cases have more than doubled from 33 last year to 73 in 2020, most cases being reported in October and November. As a majority of health and civil workforce remains involved in fighting the pandemic, regular checks for reduction of larvae at source, regular sprays and fogging seems to have taken a beating for the worst. The Panchkula Health Department is requested to take steps to eradicate the spread of vector-borne diseases in the area.Ramit, Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaParking app to be helpful to motoristsIt is a matter of great satisfaction that the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is planning to develop a dedicated app for parking that will help people find available parking. People always have problem parking their vehicle as parking is hardly available. With the app installed, reasonable parking fees will be charged. It is a praiseworthy move by the GMDA. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/light-remains-switched-on-the-entire-day-181900
09-12-2020||Kurukshetra||Refresher course on earth sciences||Lifetime achievement awardGurugram: Prof Ram Singh has been honoured with the Lifetime Achievement Award for outstanding contribution to agricultural entomology and higher education in India and abroad by Dr B Vasantharaj David Foundation during a national conference on "Recent scientific advances in agricultural and environmental sciences" in Chennai, Tamil Nadu. Dr BV David with 60 years' experience in the field of crop protection and toxicology, established BV David foundation to promote science and green environment. Besides teaching entomology in various institutes, he established and headed several public and private research institutes in India. He visited 18 countries to popularise crop protection and was nominated Fellow of 12 scientific academies/societies in his career.MDU to organise training programmeRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) plans to organise training programmes aimed at updating skills and knowledge of university teachers to facilitate their capacity-building in digital teaching-learning domain. MDU Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh chairing a meeting under the aegis of MDU's digital learning centre (DLC) gave a clarion call today to prepare a futuristic road map for digital teaching-learning at the niversity. Rajbir Singh said a three-pronged strategy of capacity building of teachers, improving the pedagogy to make digital teaching-learning efficient, and preparing comprehensive e-contents for academic programmes, would be adopted. He congratulated the team DLC and the university teachers for rising to the challenge thrown by Covid pandemic and facilitating the digital teaching-learning process in the university. The Director, DLC, Prof Nasib Singh Gill gave feedback about the ongoing digital teaching-learning process in the varsity. He said that online classes were being conducted smoothly at the MDU.Officiating Registrar takes chargeKurukshetra: Dr Sanjeev Sharma, associate professor of library and information science, Kurukshetra University has been given the charge of officiating registrar of Kurukshetra University as per the notifications issued by KU Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath. Dr Sanjeev assumed charge as the registrar on Monday. Dr Sanjeev thanked Chief Minister Manohar Lal and the Governor-Chancellor Satyadeo Naryan Arya. Thanking the VC, Dr Sanjeev said he would work for the development of Kurukshetra University and with the cooperation of teachers, staff and students, take the university to new heights.Students bring laurels to collegeKarnal: Nine PG students of the KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, brought laurels to the institution by securing positions in top 10 of Kurukshetra University topper's list. In MSc I, geography (sem.-I), Anisha with 65.6 per cent secured first position. In MSc. I, computer science (sem.-1), Shabnam with 84.9% secured first position and in MSc II, computer science (sem. III), Aarushi Aggarwal with 80.6% secured 5th position and Navneet Kaur with 80 % bagged seventh position. In MSc biotechnology (sem.-III), Ramika got 69.3% securing first position, Meena Kumari got 65% bagging second position and Mahima Tanwar got 60.5% securing third position and in MSc biotechnology (Sem I),. Diksha with 61.5% secured fourth position. In M.Sc. I, mathematics (sem-1), Sarita with 72.3% secured 10th position. The principal, Sujata Gupta, congratulated these students and prayed for their bright future.English teacher releases bookKurukshetra: Manika Mehta, an English teacher has released her second book 'Step million reasons to cry', which aims at giving voice to common ache of those unfortunate children who have an unwanted guest in their life in form of step parents. The book brings to the light how traumatising it can be for such children. Manika had earlier published a short story book 'Scattered leaves' which shows different facets and indomitable spirit of Indian women in general.KU to hold exams in online modeKurukshetra: The examination branch of the Kurukshetra University has released the date sheet for various post graduate and under graduate courses. The spokesperson of the university said in view of the pandemic, the university administration had decided to conduct examinations in a blended mode. He said PG and BTech, BA LLB honors examinations would start from December 21. In these examinations, students will have to solve 75 per cent paper and will have to send the answer books through Google Forms. All department heads, directors and principals will be trained to send the answer books to Google Forms. The practical examinations of these courses will be got conducted internally by all concerned Chairpersons/Directors/Principals through online/offline mode before the commencement of the theory examinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/refresher-course-on-earth-sciences-181899
09-12-2020||Parveen Arora
||Money under PMAY yet to be disbursed||Tribune News Service Karnal, December 8 Scores of beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) (Urban) are waiting for the first and second instalments. A few are waiting for the third and final instalment. As per the data collected by The Tribune, the Union Government had launched this scheme on April 1, 2016 to provide housing for all in urban areas by 2022. The municipal corporation (MC) had invited applications in this regard in July and August 2017. Following that, a survey was carried out in 2018. Out of total 1,896 applicants, 82 were rejected. Of the remaining 1,814 beneficiaries, 286 beneficiaries had been given letter of intent. As many as 75 had received the first instalment, 42 have got the second and three beneficiaries have received the third and final instalment. Sources in the MC said that the shortage of employees, particularly JEs, and a technical glitch in the portal are the main reasons behind the delay in the disbursement of instalments. In the absence of employees, the geo-tagging to track the construction activities is not being carried out smoothly, leading to delay in disbursement. Several beneficiaries have been making rounds to the offices of the MC in Nehru Palace and also to the residences of the councillors concerned. A 55-year-old widow Saroj Bala of Ward 15 has been running from pillar to post for the instalment for the repair of her house, but to no avail. “I had applied for the scheme in 2018. But even after three to four inspections, I have not received a single instalment under this scheme. The roof of my house collapsed last year, but despite this, I was not given the benefit of this scheme,” she added. Yudhveer Saini, councillor of Ward 15, where the maximum beneficiaries had been identified, said that there was a problem in the portal as well. Most of the people had applied for renovation of their houses, but the portal was showing that they had applied for a new house. “I had raised this issue with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and requested him to resolve the issue,” he said. Parveen Kumar Chugh, city project officer, said that they were making payments to the beneficiaries after complete verification through geo-tagging. So far, they have made payments of around Rs 1.05 crore while a payment of Rs 30 lakh would be disbursed in a couple of days. Vikram Singh, Municipal Commissioner, said that earlier, they were facing shortage of JEs conducting geo-tagging to track the construction of each household. A sum of Rs 2.5 lakh is given in three instalments (Rs 1 lakh each in first and second and Rs 50,000 in third) for the construction of house. A sum of Rs 1.5 lakh is given in three instalments (Rs 60,000 each in first and second and Rs 30,000 in third) for the repair of the house.  “I have appointed a dedicated JE for the geo-tagging of the houses, which is mandatory for speedy disbursement of payments,” the Municipal Commissioner added. He said 288 beneficiaries had not uploaded their documents required for the scheme. “These beneficiaries can come to the MC office in Nehru Palace, where a team will assist them in this work,” said the Municipal Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/money-under-pmay-yet-to-be-disbursed-181682
09-12-2020|| 
||Govt doctors  too join in too||Chandigarh, December 8  Members of the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA) on Tuesday supported the Indian Medical Association’s protest for withdrawal of Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) notification allowing Ayurveda post graduate practitioners to learn and practice modern surgical procedures and techniques. In a letter to the Prime Minister, it also supported the protest against Niti Aayog’s committee on medical education, practice, public health administration and research which called for officially mixing all systems of medicine.  “We strongly condemn the policy regarding incentivising doctors to opt for government service after completing MBBS degree course and revising the fee structure in government medical colleges for MBBS course 2020-21 of the Haryana Government. Due to this policy, students of Haryana have to adopt other states for MBBS course and poor and middle-class students will be deprived from admission in the state government medical colleges,” said the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-doctors-too-join-in-too-181684
09-12-2020||
||Members of Karnal IMA protest||Karnal, December 8 Members of Indian Medical Association (IMA) of Karnal chapter on Tuesday protested against the new guidelines of Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) of allowing Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries.  They handed over a memorandum to the Additional Deputy Commissioner Veena Hooda for the National Medical Commission, demanding complete rollback of the guideline. IMA president Dr Arun Goel, Secretary Dr Rajat Mimani and senior doctors of the Karnal IMA alleged that the new guidelines were against the medical profession. “We are not against the Ayurveda and Ayurveda practioners, but the new guidelines will create a great confusion among Ayurveda and Allopathy among general public, so these orders should be rolled back,” they demanded. The Karnal IMA will shut down non-essential services on December 11, said Dr Mimani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/members-of-karnal-ima-protest-181685
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||13 more die; 1,391 cases in Haryana||With 1,391 fresh cases, the Covid tally in Haryana reached 2,46,679 on Tuesday. With 13 deaths, the toll went up to 2,624. Four deaths were reported from Hisar, two each from Bhiwani, Palwal and Kaithal and one each from Gurugram, Ambala and Jind. The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (418), followed by Faridabad (277), Rohtak (78), Sonepat (76), Panipat (71), Panchkula (56), Karnal (54) and Hisar (51). A total of 1,557 patients recovered from Covid in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of discharged cases to 2.32 lakh. At present, the state had 11,947 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/13-more-die-1-391-cases-in-haryana-181687
09-12-2020||
||Dy CM wants check on illegal sale of liquor||Chandigarh, December 8 With a  view to preventing the illegal sale of liquor and ensuring close monitoring, Deputy Chief Minister  Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday directed officials concerned to ensure that sale receipts were provided electronically at liquor vends in all  districts  by January 15. He said this while presiding over a review meeting with District Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioners regarding licence fee through video-conferencing. He directed officials concerned to conduct raids from time to time to prevent the illegal sale of liquor.  Dushyant directed officials to impose penalty in cases of delay in recovery. He said in cases where recovery was outstanding and property of those concerned attached, appropriate action should be taken to ensure recovery through property.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dy-cm-wants-check-on-illegal-sale-of-liquor-181689
09-12-2020||Gurugram||Cab driver arrested for killing neighbour||A cab driver of Jharsa village was arrested by the police for shooting his neighbour dead following an altercation last night. The police have recovered a country made pistol from the possession of the accused, which was used in the murder. An FIR has been registered at the Sadar police station. According to the police, the incident happened around 9.30 pm on Monday night when Virender Singh (59), a resident of Chopra Patti, Jharsa, was going to attend a marriage at the Community Centre in Sector 39. When he was returning home, the cab driver identified as Kaushal alias Kosu, allegedly shot at Virender who died on the spot after a bullet hit his chest and the accused managed to flee. After getting information, Amit, son of the deceased, reached the spot and found his father lying in a pool of blood. He rushed him to a nearby private hospital, where doctors declared him as brought dead. As per the complaint, an FIR has been registered against Kosu under Sections 302 (murder) of the IPC and Sections 25,54,59 of the Arms Act at the Sadar police station.  “He will be produced in a city court by tomorrow”, said inspector Dinesh Kumar, SHO of the Sadar police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cab-driver-arrested-for-killing-neighbour-181691
09-12-2020||ibune News Service
||Bharat bandh evokes mixed response||Chandigarh, December 8 The Bharat bandh call by protesting farmers to press for repeal of the Centre’s new farm laws evoked a mixed response in Haryana on Tuesday even as it passed off peacefully. Most of the rural pockets extended support by closing shops and vegetable and grain markets while the call received a lukewarm response in urban pockets. The agitating farmers blocked several key roads, including the Bhiwani-Delhi, Hisar-Chandigarh and Yamunanagar-Chandigarh highways. Inter-state and intra-state bus services remained disrupted. The Sarv Karamchari Sangh held a gate meeting of employees of various government departments, boards and corporations. Opposition parties — the Congress and Indian National Lok Dal — had already decided to extend support to the Bharat bandh. Ambala: The Bharat bandh call evoked a mixed response. National highways were blocked by the protesting farmers by parking their tractor-trolleys and vehicles on the highways. Emergency vehicles and those belonging to farmers marching to the Delhi border were allowed to proceed. The protesters also laid siege to internal roads.  The Haryana Petroleum Dealers’ Welfare Association’s support to the bandh call did not evoke any response as most fuel stations remained open throughout the day. Kurukshetra: Farmers blocked NH-152 in Pehowa. Several roads were blocked in Shahabad and Thanesar. Farmers burnt effigies of PM Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and CM Manohar Lal Khattar. Yamunanagar: Many shops remained closed in the district even as several others remained open. Farmers blocked the Yamunanagar-Panchkula highway. Karnal: The call evoked a good response, with no report of violence. Several social and political organisations extended support. Most of the markets remained closed between 11 am and 3 pm. Farmers took out a procession on tractors. Except NH-44, most of the roads leading the district headquarters remained closed as farmers staged dharna on roads at 16 places. Hisar: Most markets remained open even as farmers resorted to blockades on the Hisar-Chandigarh highway and approach roads in the district. The District Bar Association, Haryana Vyapar Mandal and HUDA sector resident welfare associations extended support to the bandh. The bandh evoked a good response in Sirsa, Fatehabad and Jind districts. In an attempt to ensure success, protesting farmers collecyed Rs 3,000 as donation for a shopkeeper at Agroha who refused to down shutters. Faridabad: The bandh call evoked a poor response as all shops, private and government offices, commercial establishments, markets and industrial units remained operational. Gurugram: The bandh call got a lukewarm response, with markets remaining open. There was heavy police deployment at sensitive points and junctions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bharat-bandh-evokes-mixed-response-181693
09-12-2020||---||Resign or face boycott, Dy CM Dushyant Chautala, minister told||Hisar, December 8Residents of Chautala village in Sirsa district have asked Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala to resign from their posts within two days or else face social boycott.Dushyant and Ranjit Singh are natives of Chautala village.The decision was taken at a meeting in the village on Tuesday.Farmer leader Dayaram Ulania said, “The village urges the Deputy Chief Minister and the Power Minister to support the protesting farmers and join them at the Delhi border after resigning from their posts in two days. If they don’t resign, they will face social boycott. This means the panchayat will ban their entry to the village.”Meanwhile, the panchayat of Sirsa’s Kharia village resigned in support of the farmers. The panchayat members submitted their resignation to the Block Development Officer, Rania.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/resign-or-face-boycott-dy-cm-dushyant-chautala-minister-told-181694
09-12-2020||
||It’s a mass movement now: Farmer leaders||Sonepat, December 8 Representatives of the united forum of farmers on Tuesday reiterated their stand that any amendment to the farm laws would not be accepted. Their message was loud and clear: “We won’t settle for nothing less than the rollback of the laws.” “The Centre is on the back foot. The response to the Bharat bandh call has opened the eyes of the Modi government,” Ruldu Singh of Mansa (Punjab) told the media.  He thanked businessmen and transporters for supporting the Bharat bandh call. Gurnam Singh Charuni, president, BKU (Charuni), claimed that people from Kashmir to Kanyakumari responded to the bandh call. “It is no more a farmers’ protest. It has become a mass movement,” he said. Yogendra Yadav, convener, Jai Kisan Andolan, said: “We have received reports that Bharat bandh was observed in 25 states. Every Indian is to be thanked for that. It will lead to many more movements. The Tuesday’s bandh has opened the eyes of the Union Government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/its-a-mass-movement-now-farmer-leaders-181696
09-12-2020||---||Cong, CITU back MP farmers stuck in Palwal||Palwal, December 8Madhya Pradesh farmers, who have been held up by the police here since December 3, on Tuesday received support from leaders of the Congress, CITU and the Left-wing All-India Kisan Sabha.Ashok Dhavle, national president, All-India Kisan Sabha, said: “The Centre is siding with corporate houses. Only a mass movement against the black laws will provide relief to farmers.”Karan Dalal, a former Congress MLA from Palwal, staged a demonstration marched to the spot, where the farmers are camping.In his address, he criticised the Union and state governments. “The Congress stands with farmers. Some of the leaders of the ruling party tried to give the protest a communal colour. But they failed. The policy of divide and rule has been exposed. Not allowing farmers to march towards Delhi is an act of oppression,” he said.Meanwhile, Surender Singh Sidhu, one of the MP farmers, said that they were ready to stay put in Palwal for long as they had adequate quantity of food and ration in 60 tractor-trolleys. He thanked local people for their generosity and support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-citu-back-mp-farmers-stuck-in-palwal-181697
09-12-2020||Tibune News Service||Farm Acts’ amendment long-pending: Khattar||Karnal, December 8Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said the agricultural reforms were long-pending and recalled that even Sharad Pawar as the Union Agriculture Minister in the UPA Government had demanded amending the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act.“The Centre is in favour of farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to double their income. The new laws will ensure just that. The same demands were raised during the UPA government,” the CM told the media at Government Girls Senior Secondary School here.He was in his constituency to inaugurate 53 smart classrooms in nine government schools under the Smart City Mission. About Rs 3.67 crore has been spent on the Smart Shiksha Pariyojana project so far. The CM also visited the mathematics park on the school campus.Khattar claimed that a majority of the farmers were in favour of amending the new farm laws and only a handful of them were demanding a rollback.The CM said Bharat bandh passed off peacefully and expressed hope that demands of farmers would be met through negotiations and not through pressure tactics.On the perception of threat to his government as five JJP legislators are supporting the farmers’ agitation, the CM dismissed such reports. “Everyone is free to extend support to anyone.”To another query, Khattar said he didn’t approve of writers and sportspersons returning their awards in solidarity with the farmers. “An award symbolises national honour. Their decision is not in good taste,” he said.About smart classrooms, the Chief Minister said it was an attempt to uplif the standard of education in government schools. “The concept of ‘Building as Learning Aid (BaLA) is designed in such a manner that students study with the help of the latest technology.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-acts-amendment-long-pending-khattar-181698
