10-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Test arrested persons for COVID-19 before putting into jail: DGHS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 10The Director-General of Health Services (DGHS) has directed all Civil Surgeons across the state not only to ensure testing of all arrested persons for COVID-19 before putting them into jails but also to keep them in isolation at a designated place in the jail concerned till their report comes out.The direction has been issued in order to check the spread of COVID-19 in jails.“Complying with the directives, we have, with immediate effect, started doing COVID test of all those arrested by the police. The test is done at the time when the police bring the accused to the hospital for medical examination before sending him/her to jail,” said Anil Birla, Civil Surgeon, Rohtak.Birla maintained that besides prisoners, the prison staff returning from leave was also being tested for COVID-19 as precautionary measures.Meanwhile, the Jhajjar district health authorities have also directed the Medical Officer (MO) posted at the dispensary in district jail, Dulina, to prepare isolation room/ward in the jail immediately so that new jail inmates could be tested for COVID-19 and kept there under observation till their report came out.“The MO has also been asked to carry out screening of all jail prisoners and employees as early as possible and submit their report to my office within three days. A dental surgeon has been deputed at the dispensary for sample collection, packaging and transportation to the designated lab,” said Randeep Singh Poonia, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar.Poonia informed they had also decided to conduct regular screening of all prisoners and employees of the jail to detect COVID-19 infection, if any.
10-05-2020||Panchkula||Two truck drivers test positive in Panchkula||Two truck drivers of Majri Chowk Truck Union tested positive for Coronavirus in Panchkula, officials said.District health authorities took their samples during a random testing.The development takes Panchkula’s cases to 22 and active cases to four.
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports death, 4 more cases; state toll rises to 10||Haryana on Sunday reported a coronavirus fatality and four more cases of the deadly disease, taking the state's death toll to 10 and case tally to 683 .Faridabad reported the death of a 72-year-old woman, hailing from sector 28, taking the district's death toll to three. The other two patients who have died in the district include a 55-year-old security guard from Old Faridabad and a 68-year-old man hailing from sector 88, who died on May 4 and April 29 respectively. A total of 94 cases have surfaced in the district out of which 55 have been cured and discharged.Two more tested positive for the contagion in Faridabad, taking the total in the district to 96. The new cases are that of a 42-years-old resident of sector 62 and a 41-year-old employee of an SBI branch in sector 16 of the district. Both of them have been admitted to the ESI hospital in Faridabad. Panchkula reported two more COVID-19 cases, taking the total in the district to 22. Two truck drivers of Majri Chowk Truck Union tested positive for coronavirus in Panchkula. Their samples were taken during random testing by health officials. With the latest cases, the number of active cases stood at four in the district.
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||In photos: Chandigarh wakes up to 'night-like' morning; rain, storm hit parts of Punjab, Haryana, HP||Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali and many parts of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh were hit by strong winds accompanied by a burst of sharp rain on Sunday morning.Chandigarh residents woke up to a 'night-like' morning as dark clouds blanketed the city around 7:45 am. The city also witnessed several lightning flashes and roaring thunder. Mercury dipped to around 31 °C in Chandigarh on Sunday. Strong velocity winds, accompanied with a thunderstorm, and heavy rains lashed Shimla and adjoining areas on Sunday. The local Met office has predicted that light to moderate rain/thundershowers, with the possibility of hail, is very likely to occur at isolated places in the districts of Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur, Chamba, Kangra, Mandi, Kullu, Una, Bilaspur and Hamirpur.Heavy showers, accompanied by a thunderstorm, were witnessed in Panipat and Karnal also.
10-05-2020||---||Buses for some, wait for others||
10-05-2020||Jhajjar||Footwear unit catches fire||Two held for injuring copKaithal: The CIA-2 team arrested two persons, Sagar and Tarsem Saini, for attempting to run over an ASI at a naka on the Dhand road here. ASI Satish Kumar, who suffered multiple injuries, was under treatment at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. The i20 car in which they were travelling in was impounded and two bottles of liquor seized. OC
10-05-2020||Karnal||Stubble burning cases down 74% in Haryana||Amid the ongoing lockdown, Haryana has witnessed a drastic dip in stubble burning this wheat harvesting season. There is a reduction by around 74 per cent in cases.As per information from the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), 690 active fire locations have been detected in the state from April 15 to May 7,gathered by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC). During the corresponding period in 2019, there were was 2,647 cases.Jhajjar reported the maximum of 176 cases this wheat season, followed by Sirsa (119), Rohtak (58), Hisar (47), Fatheabad (45), Sonepat (43), Jind (38), Palwal (36), Bhiwani (27), Karnal (17), Panipat (16), Charkhi Dadri (14), Gurugram and Kaithal (11 each) and Ambala and Yamunanagar (eight each), said Dr Jai Bhagwan, Senior Scientist, HSPCB (HQ), Panchkula.Seven cases were reported in Faridabad, five in Nuh and two each in Kurukshetra and Rewari. In Mahendragarh and Panchkula, no active fire location had been detected till May 7, he said. “Due to the lockdown and less stubble burning, air quality index has improved this year compared to last year,” he said.About the reasons, an official said due to the lockdown, the procurement season got extended and farmers were busy in the procurement process. He said rain had also played a major role in discouraging farmers from burn stubble.
10-05-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Liquor theft: SIT recovers Rs 97 lakh cash, 2 pistols & gold jewellery||Tribune News ServicePanipat, May 9In a major development in the high-profile Kharkhoda liquor smuggling case, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Sonepat police recovered Rs97 lakh cash, jewellery and two pistols from a house in Sector 50 of Chandigarh, where the liquor smuggling kingpin was living.Besides, Sonepat SP also forwarded the matter to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Income Tax (I-T) Department and recommended to start financial probe into the matter.SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said on a strong tip-off that main accused Bhupender Singh of Sisana village and his wife were living in Sector 50 of Chandigarh our special team raided the residence on Friday midnight. We have recovered Rs97-lakh cash, gold jewellery, two pistols and three mobile phones from there, he added.We’ve been investigating that the recovered pistols are legal or illegal and also collecting details through the cyber cell of the mobile phones recovered from there, he added.Though we have been probing the case but the detailed matter is being forwarded to the ED and I-T Department for financial probe too, the SP added.As per the police record, 12 cases have been registered against Bhupinder. He was arrested in six cases only while he is wanted in six other criminal cases registered against him within the last two-and-a-half month.The SP has also recommended a reward of Rs5,000 on his arrest to the DGP.
10-05-2020||Yamuanagar||Yamuanagar police seize 1,200 boxes of booze||A team of the CIA-II of the Yamunanagar police seized 1,200 boxes of country-made liquor, which was allegedly being unloaded from a truck in a godown illegally in Yamunanagar on Saturday.2 held in PalwalChamkaur Singh, police spokesperson, said contractor Sushil Kumar owned licences of the retail outlets of liquor in Yamunanagar, Ambala, Kurukshetra and other districts of the state. Besides, he had a licence of the wholesale of country-made liquor (L-13) in Ambala City.He said the CIA-II got information that the contractor got the boxes of the liquor loaded in a truck from a distillery of Yamunanagar.The spokesperson said CIA-II incharge Mehroof Ali formed a team, which raided the godown in Yamunanagar and recovered 1,200 boxes of country-made liquor. He said a case was registered under the Excise Act. — TNS
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||3 IAS  officers shifted||The state government issued transfer and posting orders of three IAS officers on Saturday. Among IAS officers, Sanjeev Verma, Director and Special Secretary Sports and Youth Affairs, has been posted as Managing Director, Haryana Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation and Managing Director, Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam. Satyavir Singh Phulia, Transport Commissioner and Special Secretary, Transport Department, has been posted as Director and Special Secretary, Sports and Youth Affairs Department, in addition to his present duties. Amna Tasneem, Managing Director, Haryana Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation and Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam, and Additional Secretary, Finance Department has been posted as Director, Consolidation of Land Holdings and Land Records, Special LAO and Additional Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, and Additional Secretary, Finance Department. — TNS
10-05-2020||Sushil Manav||More than 50,000 tested so far in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9With Covid cases rising by the day, Haryana achieved a milestone of sorts today by conducting over 50,000 tests. The state plans to increase its testing capacity gradually to 5,000 tests per day in a week.By Saturday evening, Haryana had sent 53,282 nasopharyngeal samples for testing to various diagnostic laboratories, of which 48,468 tested negative and 693 positive, while report was awaited in 4,121 cases, with a positivity rate of 1.3 per cent.In other words, for every positive case, Haryana conducted 76.89 tests. All these tests had been performed using real time Reverse-Transcript Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), the standard test for Covid. Haryana had reported nine deaths due to Covid so far.In contrast, Punjab, where 1,762 patients had tested positive for Covid so far and 31 persons had lost their lives, only 39,462 samples had so far been tested, with a positivity rate of 4.46 per cent. This also means that for every positive case, Punjab performed 22.39 tests.In Chandigarh, where 169 persons had tested positive so far and two persons had died, the Administration had tested only 2,055 samples, with a positivity rate of 8.22 per cent. This also means that the health authorities in Chandigarh conducted only 12.16 tests for every positive case.Haryana witnessed reasonably good growth in testing during the past one month. From 2,964 tests on April 9, the figure rose to 12,687 on April 19, 24,826 on April 29 and 53,282 on May 9.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Haryana, said the state government would gradually take daily testing capacity to 5,000 in around a week.Among the major government laboratories in Haryana, the Viral Research and Diagnostic Lab at Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, conducted 15,499 tests, of which 202 were found positive. Bhagat Phool Singh Government Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat, was next with 8,591 tests, with 250 positive.Among others, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College conducted 7,645 tests, ESIC, Faridabad, 3,654 tests, ICAR-NRCE, Hisar, 3,116 tests, Command Area Hospital, Chandimandir, 212, Civil Hospital, Panchkula, 239, Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, Nuh, 30 and Maharaja Agarsen Medical College, Agroha, 24 tests so far.While government laboratories together accounted for 39,010 tests, the rest of the Covid tests had been performed by private laboratories in Gurugram. Core Diagnostics, SRL Diagnostics, Lal Pathlabs and Pathfinder are the various private laboratories conducting Covid tests after approval from the ICMR.“We are using core diagnostic laboratories with capacity of 800 tests per day and are paying for the tests from government funds. This is the reason Haryana plans to enhance its capacity,” said Arora.
10-05-2020||Kurukshetra||Torn pages of ‘Bir’ found in gurdwara||The local police have registered a case against unidentified people for allegedly tearing pages from Guru Granth Sahib at Gurdwara Singh Sabha in Gobind Nagar village near Dera Fateh Singh in Pehowa here.  After getting information, Sikh Mission Haryana incharge Mangpreet Singh along with Dharam Prachar Committee member Tajinderpal Singh Dhillon reached the gurdwara to probe the matter on Friday.  Mangpreet said, “On May 6, between 5 pm to 6.15 pm, somebody tore the pages of Guru Granth Sahib. As per gurdwara officials, the ‘Bir’ was left below the palanquin. We got the information on May 7. There is no information about the person responsible and there are no CCTV cameras installed in the gurdwara. A complaint has been made and to maintain the sanctity, the ‘Bir’ will remain under the custody of the gurdwara committee.” A case has been registered under Section 295 IPC at Pehowa police station. — TNS
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM announces steps to bring MSMEs back on track||To bring industry back on track, CM Manohar Lal Khattar today announced several measures including setting up of bank complaint information centres for redress of issues related to banks, extending the date of depositing electricity bills without penalty till May 31, to provide guarantee to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) for bank loans from Small Industries Development Bank of India by the state government, fixing the power rate at Rs 4.75 per unit for agriculture-based industries up to 20 KW and pre-fabricated housing for labourers in the factories itself.1.1 lakh workers want to returnChief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said about 1.1 lakh people, mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, want to return to Haryana as economic activity has restarted.The CM said this while interacting with the representatives of MSMEs along with the members of the Laghu Udyog Bharati Association of all the districts of the state through video conferencing here today.He said the revenue collected in the past two months has almost been negligible. The revenue is mainly collected from GST, Excise, Stamp Duty, VAT refund from the Centre and mining, he added. He said that these were now being operationalised in a phased manner.He assured that a separate nodal officer would be appointed for issues related to HSIIDC. In addition, issues related to VAT refunds of 2017 are being resolved in a timely manner. For about 1,300 applications, a refund of Rs162 crore has been made since April.He also assured to re-assess MSME’s bank loans. The scheme to provide 10% working capital has also been announced by the Central Government, he added. The CM said that in long-term loans, the margin money taken from MSMEs would be reduced to 15%. — TNS
10-05-2020||---||40 more cases in Haryana, tally 679||Chandigarh, May 9With 40 fresh cases today, Haryana’s Covid tally reached 679. The fresh cases were registered in Gurugram (16), Sonepat (12), Faridabad (6), Panchkula and Mahendragarh (2 each) and Kaithal and Sirsa (1 each).The 16 cases in Gurugram included five residents of Dundahera village, three from the Khandsa vegetable mandi, two from Basai village, a delivery boy with an e-commerce company and a health worker from Sohna.Among the 12 patients in Sonepat are a 23-year-old youth of Mimarpur village, working as vegetable vendor at the Azadpur mandi in Delhi, and a 63-year-old person, under treatment for cancer at a private hospital.In Faridabad, four of the new cases are members of a family residing in Sector 28. They are a 73-year-old man, his 45-year-old daughter, 42-year-old daughter-in-law and five-year-old granddaughter.Earlier, a 73-year-old woman of this family was found positive. She is on ventilator and undergoing treatment at the ESI Hospital.In Mahendragarh, two persons tested positive. One of them is a 27-year-old GRP constable posted in Delhi. The constable, along with two colleagues, visited his relative’s house in Narnaul on the night of May 6. The colleagues were found Covid-positive earlier.Meanwhile, the government decided that the restriction of 33 per cent on office attendance for Group C staff would not apply to Junior Engineers. They would be on duty on all working days as per routine.The government issued guidelines to take preventive steps for protection and safety of persons with disability.On the request of private schools, the state government allowed these to open their administrative offices to dispose of urgent matters, including payment of salaries.
10-05-2020||---||Man booked for raping minor cousin in Panipat||Panipat, May 9A 26-year-old married person raped his 11-year-old cousin at a village of Madlauda area of the district. The police have registered a case under the POCSO Act.As per the information available, the victim belongs to a poor family and is studying in Class VII. Her family does not have a smart phone for her to attend online classes. To attend online classes, she used to go to the house of her cousin who stays nearby.When she went to attend online class on Friday, her cousin sent his daughter outside and raped the victim.Woman violatedYamunanagar: A 19-year-old woman of a local colony was allegedly raped on multiple occasions by a man on the pretext of marriage. On the complaint of the victim, a case of rape was registered against Mustkeem alias Arif of Raipur village at Hamida police post on Friday. TNSAs she did not reach home for over one-and-a-half hour, her mother started searching for her. She found the victim lying in the room in a pool of blood.She immediately informed the family members and called the police. Meanwhile, the accused managed to flee from there.Inspector Virender Singh, SHO, Madlauda, said a case has been registered under various Sections of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The medical examination of the victim has been conducted in the general hospital and the accused has not been arrested so far, the SHO said.
10-05-2020||New Delhi||Narco-terrorist nabbed after NIA raid in Sirsa||Anti-terror probe agency NIA today arrested notorious narco-terrorist Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, alias Cheeta, following raids in Sirsa.Facilitated Hizb fundingRanjit is prime accused in 532-kg heroin seizure case, was at large for a yearAlso prime accused in Hizb terror funding module busted in AmritsarHelped ultras push drugs into India, fund activities in Valley“The NIA along with teams of the Punjab Police and Haryana Police carried out raids in Sirsa and arrested notorious narco-terrorist Ranjit Singh alias Rana alias Cheeta, a resident of Ram Tirath Road, Amritsar,” the agency said in a statement.Ranjit and his accomplice Iqbal Singh alias Shera are the prime accused in a case registered in connection with 532-kg heroin seizure at the Attari border. The narcotic was found hidden in a consignment of rock salt imported from Pakistan.The Punjab police busted a Hizb terror-funding module in Amritsar on April 25. Ranjit is the key accused in the case that led to the arrest of J&K resident Hilal Ahmad Wagay, a close aide of slain terrorist Riyaz Naikoo, besides seizure of Rs 29 lakh.“This money was being transported to the Valley to be handed over to Naikoo, chief operational commander of Hizb. The case has been re-registered and taken over,” the NIA said. It said Ranjit and his five brothers were involved in smuggling and peddling drugs for years.
10-05-2020||New Delhi||3 Karnal rice exporters booked by CBI for defrauding banks of Rs 411 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked three Karnal-based rice exporters for allegedly cheating a consortium of six banks to the tune of Rs 411 crore.Acting on the complaint filed by the SBI, which has suffered a loss of more than Rs 173 crore, the CBI has registered an FIR against Ram Dev International and its directors Naresh Kumar, Suresh Kumar and Sangita, who have allegedly fled the country. Other members of the consortium are Canara Bank, Union Bank of India, IDBI, Central Bank of India and Corporation Bank.CBI officials said the company had three rice milling plants and eight sorting and grading units in Karnal district with offices in Saudi Arabia and Dubai for trading. The company exported basmati rice to West Asian and European nations.As per the complaint, when the company’s account was declared non-performing asset (NPA) on January 27, 2016, the banks conducted a joint inspection of properties, only to find Haryana Police personnel deployed there. The borrowers had allegedly removed the entire machinery from a plant and fudged the balance sheets.“On inquiry, it has come to notice that borrowers are absconding and have left the country,” the complaint read.
