10-04-2020||Gurugram||Hate crime:  Mob attacks SPO in Nuh amid rising coronavirus cases||An ex-serviceman now employed as a Special Police Officer in Nuh was allegedly attacked by a group of men who accused him of spreading coronavirus, sources said on Friday.A mob that included the local sarpanch of a village allegedly put a chain around Saimmuddin’s neck and dragged him, wounding him grievously, his wife Samina told police in her complaint.Saimmuddin is an SPO at Nuh Police Station.She said in her complaint that the incident happened at noon, when he was taking routine rounds of the fields in the area to check on the harvesting that went on there.The local sarpanch, whom identified only as Rajender, allegedly abused him with communal slurs, and accused him of trying to spread the contagion. He then asked people nearby to attack him, she said."They charged at him and gagged him with iron chain and dragged him on road. He fainted and somebody called my father in law. When we rushed there, a few men stopped us and tried to chase us away with sticks,” she said.Some relatives who lived nearby took Saimmuddin to a hospital in Gurugram, she said.Police have booked the sarpanch and eight other people, which includes the sarpanch’s nephew.The incident comes at a time when hate crimes have been reported from several parts of the country in the back of rising cases of coronavirus, particularly after the rise in the number of infections after a religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin held last month.
10-04-2020||Panchkula/Gurugram||FIR registered after Randeep Surjewala claims life threat from UP gang||All India Congress spokesperson and former Haryana minister Randeep Singh Surjewala has moved police alleging life threat from a gang in UP.Surjewala in an online complaint to police claimed that a man who identified himself as a member of the gang headed by Mukhtar Ansari, Raja Bhaiya and Papu Yadav, threatened to shoot him and his cousin Sudeep.“I was with my neighbour and also attending video conference when the call was made to landline. The caller identified himself to be a member of the gang headed by Mukhtar Ansari, Raja Bhaiya and Pappu Yadav from Uttar Pradesh. He threatened to eliminate my cousin Sudeep and me and disconnected the call. A minute later he said he knew I was in Panchkula and he was aware of my location and car movements. He made a third call and identified himself as Agrim,” read the complaint.The life threatening calls were made on his official landline at Sector 6 house here between 9:50 am and 10:20 am on April 1.According to the FIR, the suspect threatened to eliminate Surjewala and his brother Sudeep and then disconnected the call.The caller claimed that he was aware of Surjewala’s location in Panchkula and had complete details of movement, vehicles and residential addresses of him and his brother.Surjewala received another call from the same number at around 10:15 am and the caller extended the same threat and this time identified himself as Agrim.The Congress leader apprised the police that he had earlier too received such threatening calls and letters on behalf of Surinder Geong.Accordingly, Surjewala had approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, asking for his personal security in 2016. The court had granted him ‘Y’ category security through a central agency.The police have registered a case under Section 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons at Sector 5 police station.Inspector Karambir Singh, in-charge Sector 19 crime branch, said the investigation into the matter is on. However, the police was yet to find any leads in the case.
10-04-2020||Panchkula||Coronavirus: Man tests positive in Panchkula, district's tally rises to 5||A 37-year-old man tested positive for COVID-19 in Panchkula on Friday.He is likely to have contracted the disease while he attended a religious congregation in Sikar in Rajasthan.With this, Panchkula district's COVID tally now stands at 5.Two men—an 18-year-old from Banoi Khuda Baksh and an 80-year-old from Bakshiwala—recently tested positive.The district's first two cases, a 40-year-old woman from Khark Mangoli and a 30-year-old staff nurse have recovered.
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||With 6 fresh coronavirus cases, Haryana count reaches 162||Six fresh cases of coronavirus were reported in Haryana on Friday, taking the total number patients to 162 in the state.While four cases were reported from Ambala, one case each was reported from Sonipat and Panchkula, according to the state Health Department’s evening bulletin.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar appealed to people to wear masks whenever they venture out.“I appeal that anyone who is outside should wear a mask, even if it is an ordinary mask, 2-3 layered mask or a cloth mask. They can even use a handkerchief as a mask,” Khattar said in a televised address to the people of the state to update them about the steps being taken to check the spread of coronavirus.The total number of active COVID-19 cases in the state now stands at 138, the bulletin said, adding 22 patients have been discharged. The state has recorded two coronavirus-related deaths.As many as 3,527 samples have been tested so far, out of which 2,447 have tested negative.While positive cases are 162, but the reports of 918 samples are still pending.Among the total coronavirus cases reported in Haryana, 10 are foreign nationals, while 64 are from other states, stated the bulletin.The worst affected districts of the state are Nuh (38) Gurugram (32), Palwal (28) and Faridabad (28).Containment orders have been issued by deputy commissioners for 140 villages in Nuh district.Health Minister Anil Vij maintained that the spike in cases was due to a number of Tablighi Jamaat members testing positive. He said earlier that 106 of the Jamaat members had tested positive.Khattar, meanwhile, in his address, also said that everyone will have to put in united efforts in this fight against coronavirus.With Nuh emerging as a hotspot, Khattar said those Tablighi Jamaat members who attended the Nizamuddin event in Delhi last month and may still be hiding should report to authorities to get themselves tested.He appealed to Muslim religious leaders in Nuh-Mewat region to appeal all to extend their cooperation in this fight against coronavirus.Khattar also made a reference to Battle of Khanwa, in which a famous ruler from Mewat, Hasan Khan Mewati, had extended full support to Rajput ruler Rana Sanga in the fight against invading forces of the first Mughal ruler Babur.The Battle of Khanwa was fought near the village of Khanwa in Bharatpur district of Rajasthan on March 16, 1527 between Babur’s forces and Rajput forces led by Rana Sanga of Mewar.Hasan Khan Mewati, the ruler of Mewat, also joined hands with Rana Sanga in an attempt to build a formidable military alliance against Babur.“Every Mewati stood with Rana Sanga. Today, I want to tell my brothers from Mewat (in Nuh district) that let’s fight this war against coronavirus together. Let’s fight in the same manner as Hasan Khan Mewati supported Rana Sanga,” he said. PTI
10-04-2020||The Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) has donated 31 PPE kits||Ambala PPE kits, sanitisers donated||SONEPAT Two more localities sealedUnder the orders of District Magistrate Anshaj Singh, two more localities — Sainipura in Jatwara village and Gali No. 6 in the Idgah colony — were sealed on Thursday by the district administration. The step was taken after a resident of Sainipura Colony, who was studying in Idgah Colony tested Covid positive on Wednesday. With this, the number of sealed localities had increased to five. Three — Bakhtawarpur village as well as local Mohan Nagar and Shiv Colony — were sealed on Wednesday. OC
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Penalty on dues waived||Due to the Covid epidemic, the Haryana Government has directed the departments and public sector undertakings (PSUs) not to levy any penalty on various types of dues since March 15 including surcharge or penal interest till April 30.An official spokesman said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has approved a proposal to this effect. — TNS
10-04-2020||Karnal||Centre lauds Karnal’s efforts||The efforts of the Karnal administration to facilitate the needy as well as to keep a check on persons under home quarantine have received appreciation from the Union Health Ministry. Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health, Government of India, on Thursday lauded the “adopt a family” move in Karnal, under which around Rs 65 lakh had been donated by various sections of society and people staying abroad. He appreciated the efforts during a press conference in Delhi. Under this campaign, around 13,000 needy families were being given ration and other essential commodities. — TNS
10-04-2020||---||Government extorting donations for fund: Congress||Chandigarh, April 9All-India Congress Committee (AICC) communication in-charge Randeep Surjewala accused the Khattar government of “extorting donations” for the Haryana Corona Relief Fund.He shared a letter of the District Education Officer of Panipat dated April 3 which asked Block Education Officers to ensure registration of all group B and group C employees for donations into Corona Relief Fund. The letter mentioned that those who don’t donate their salary for March will be blocked. He pointed out that heads of departments were taking approvals of their subordinates for donations in Whatsapp groups.Addressing a press conference, he said a web portal had been created by the government in which employees were being made to donate 10 per cent, 20 per cent or more of their monthly pay.“The state government has already raised more than Rs 63.68 crore from 1.64 lakh employees of the state,” he said. “We are not against collecting donations, but the way it is being done by Haryana Government.”Surjewala said that it was more shocking that those on the frontline of the battle against Covid such as doctors, nurses and Health Department employees have not been spared. “When our doctors, nurses and the police personnel were doing their duties by wearing raincoats and helmets in the absence of personal protection equipment, such coercive measures only reflect the inhuman, arrogant and insensitive attitude of the government,” he added.People want to know the amount of donations by the Haryana Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister, Ministers, MPs, MLAs, Chairmen and Members of the Boards, Corporation and Commission, if any, to the Corona Relief Fund, he said. The government should inform if they have used the fund for any purchase of PPE for doctors, nurses, health workers, policemen, sanitation workers, he added.Old age pension not paid, says SeljaHaryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja said old age pension for February and March had not been disbursed in Yamunanagar and other areas. She said the government had announced that Rs 1,000 would be added every week into bank accounts of construction workers and Rs 500 in Jan Dhan accounts, but only Re 1 was credited. Claims of free ration and food to the needy were not visible on the ground, she said.
10-04-2020||---||Bahadurgarh woman tests positive in Delhi||Jhajjar, April 9A 33-year-old staff nurse residing at Dharampura locality in Bahadurgarh here tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi on Wednesday evening. The woman, working at a private hospital in Delhi, quarantined herself at home on March 30 after she experienced Covid symptoms.She is admitted at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi. The nurse herself informed the Jhajjar district administration about her report on Thursday morning. The administration swung into action and declared Dharampura as containment zone, while Bahadurgarh Municipal Council started santising the area where more than 300 houses are located.Sources said 12 persons, who came in contact with her, were isolated at civil hospital in Bahadurgarh, while their samples were sent to PGIMS, Rohtak, for Covid test. The district administration is not counting the case in Jhajjar’s account. “The woman got infected with the virus while working at the hospital in Delhi, so the case does not belong to Jhajjar,” said RS Punia, Jhajjar Civil Surgeon, and in a press release issued on Thursday evening, Deputy Commissioner Jitender Dahiya said no Covid positive case was found in Jhajjar.Dahiya said the Dharampura area was sealed till April 23 and police personnel were deployed to prevent the entry and exit of residents. Different teams of health authorities would carry out thermal scanning of every resident in the locality, he added.Punia said each team would do thermal scanning of 50 houses, while the main team would be available at the entrance of Dharampura to scan those who come to the locality to supply essential commodities.
10-04-2020||---||IMA joins hands with Karnal hospital to fight pandemic||Karnal, April 9 To overcome the shortage of doctors and to provide the facility of super-specialist doctors to patients affected with Covid, the Karnal unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has volunteered to join hands with Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) in the city to fight the Covid pandemic. As many as 56 doctors comprising four cardiologists, one nephrologist, 30 general physicians and critical care intensivists, one pulmonologist and 20 anaesthetists have extended support to the KCGMC in the time of need.  They will provide their services for Covid patients whenever required at KCGMC. The IMA has assured the district administration that they would be available on single call for this purpose.  A duty roaster is being prepared comprising the super specialists of the city with the KCGMC doctors. Besides, IMA Karnal has also consented to use their all ventilators whenever the need arises at KCGMC. The KCGMC is facing shortage of doctors including of medicine, pulmonologist, cardiologist, critical care intensivists and others. At present, around 35 persons are in isolation ward. On the behalf of the district administration, Civil Surgeon Dr Ashwani Ahuja approached the IMA Karnal unit, which immediately gave its consent. The doctors who have been excluded in the list are either above 60 years of age and have a history of cardiac illness. “On a call of DC Nishant Kumar Yadav, the IMA Karnal unit has extended support to the Health Department,” said Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Civil Surgeon. Dr Arun Goyal, president, IMA Karnal unit, said that it was a time of need and everybody should contribute in the national crisis. “We as doctors will contribute by extending our services at KCGMC voluntarily. 56 doctors of the IMA will be available on single call duty. Apart from it, 72 of our doctors are already providing free telephonic consultation to the residents of the district,” he added. DC Yadav also appreciated their support and said that the support of the IMA doctors would help in dealing with Covid in a better way. The Health Department would utilise the services of the doctors whenever the need arises.
10-04-2020||Sanjay Yadav||As veggies get dearer, buyers throng mandis||Gurugram, April 9Social distancing is the key now and such gatherings can be deadly. People need to stay at home to save themselves and others. We have shared a price list and will set things right. Give us a call if anybody gnores the price list, but do not step out.Amit Khatri, Gurugram DCA surge in prices of vegetables being sold near home or being home delivered has pushed residents to wholesale mandis, sending social distancing for a toss.In what has emerged a major challenge for the health authorities, over 100 people gather everyday at the mandis in Sadar Bazar and Khandsa.A majority of them are without masks and ignore circles marked outside shops. This has sparked the fear of cluster transmission among the health authorities.As a damage control measure, an odd-even scheme is being applied, but it proved to be failure on the first day at the Khandsa mandi.The mandi has 119 vegetable and 53 fruit shops while hundreds of retail vendors. The entry of retailers and the common man was banned and the odd-even formula initiated on Thursday.As per the plan, shops were to open every alternate day, but this did not have much of an impact. Over 200 people arrived on Thursday, with many not sporting masks.People complained that vegetables sold near home or home delivered were priced double or even triple and fruits were dearer, making these out of the reach of the middle class.“Tomato is priced Rs 40 per kg here and Rs 100 a kg near my house. I am a school bus driver living on rent. I am not poor enough to get free ration. We have bought overpriced vegetables for 15 days, but cannot afford these now. I have no choice but to come here,” said Ram Sharan.“Social distancing is the key now and such gatherings can be deadly. People need to stay at home to save themselves and others. We have shared a price list and will set things right. Give us a call if anybody ignores the price list, but do not step out,” said Gurugram DC Amit Khatri.With poor availability of essentials near home in Nuh, hundreds of people had to step out every morning and come to the local market during lockdown relaxation hours.“We understand the threat, but cannot die of hunger. We are not rich enough to buy and hoard ration for two months. We have to buy almost every other day,” said Nafis, a local resident.
10-04-2020||Tribune Reporters||Screening of cops starts||Karnal, April 9The police personnel are discharging their duties to implement the lockdown strictly. During their duty, they come in contact of various persons. So, we have started their screening.Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Civil SurgeonThe Health Department on Thursday started the process of screening of cops discharging their duties at nakas amid the lockdown to check the spread of Covid pandemic.On the first day, team members led by Dr Aman Yadav, an epidemiologist, checked the health of 120 cops at various nakas, who were declared fit. “The cops are discharging their duties to implement the lockdown strictly. During their duty, they come in contact of various persons, so we have started their screening,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Ashwani Ahuja. He said their temperature was being checked with the help of thermal scanner.Surinder Singh Bhoria, SP, said, “The health check-up is necessary to ensure that the police force stays healthy.” He said the police were dealing with the lockdown violators strictly. As many as 68 FIRs were registered and 101 persons arrested for violation of the lockdown. As many as 2,015 vehicles were challaned, imposing a fine of Rs 1.29 crore. As many as 29 FIRs were registered and 35 persons arrested for selling liquor during the lockdown.270 examined in KaithalKaithal: Shashank Kumar Sawan, SP, ordered medical check-up of the police personnel on Thursday.As many as 270 cops and employees were examined by a team of doctors. Of these, 96 persons, including class four employees were examined in Kaithal, 61 in Kalayat, 48 in Titram, seven in Dhand and 58 jawans in Guhla and other areas including those deployed at inter-state nakas.A police spokesperson said police personnel of all ranks observed social distancing norms, as well as used sanitisers and masks. The SP directed all DSPs and SHOs to conduct regular medical check-up of those working under their charge.The SP also directed that if employees felt sick, they should immediately report to their in charge.
10-04-2020||Ravinder Saini||By following rules strictly, Jhajjar avoids infection||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 9We are leaving no stone unturned to ensure strict compliance of Covid protocols to prevent the spread of the infection. Besides home quarantining those with travel history abroad, door-to-door survey is being carried out to identify those who returned to Jhajjar from other high-risk states.RS Punia, Civil SurgeonThough no positive case of Covid has so far been reported in the district, residents are confined to stay home like other districts following the lockdown clamped to contain the spread of Covid.All border points are sealed to restrict inter-district movement of people. As many as 64 nakas have been set up at various places in urban and rural areas of the district to ensure proper implementation of the lockdown.‘Thikri pehra’ (community watch) is being organised in the majority of villages to disallow outsiders to enter the village.All shops and business establishments except those providing essential services have remain closed for the past two weeks while the district administration has also closed the main vegetable markets in both Jhajjar and Bahadurgarh city for the common man in order to prevent them from gathering.The health authorities have so far sent 30 samples of Covid suspected persons for test and the report of all the samples has been found negative.The report of 12 other samples sent to PGIMS Rohtak on Thursday is awaited.A total of 907 persons, including 149 with travel history abroad, 738 others who returned from other states and 20 others belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat, are at present under home quarantine.“We are not allowing children and aged members of our family to even step out in the street as they are more vulnerable than youngsters due to their weak immune system. My 70-year-old father used to fetch milk daily from outside, but we are not letting him go out at the moment. Now, my wife or I fetch the milk,” said Nirmal, a serviceman.Charan Singh, a shopkeeper, said it was for the first time in the past two decades that he had to shut his shop for such a long time.The lockdown has hit his income for the time being, but it has provided him an opportunity to spend quality time with his wife, children and other family members. “They are happy with the situation, but it has left me worried due to monetary constraints,” he pointed out.RS Punia, Civil Surgeon, claimed they were leaving no stone unturned to ensure strict compliance of Covid protocols to prevent the spread of the infection.Besides home quarantining those with travel history abroad, now door-to-door survey is being carried out to identify those who returned to Jhajjar from other high-risk states, he added.“The body temperature of policemen deployed at border points and other ‘nakas’ are being screened on a daily basis. All healthcare centres are being sanitised twice a day while samples of those suffering from fever or cough are collected without any delay besides isolating them in the hospital,” he added.Jhajjar SP Ashok Kumar said more than 2,000 challans have been issued and 65 FIRs registered against the violators of the lockdown during the past two weeks. All police personnel had been provided masks. Sanitisers had been kept at every police station so that visitors could sanitise their hands before entering police stations, he added.
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||District containment plans in offing||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Thursday the initiative to fight the global pandemic at micro-level in the state was appreciated by all political parties.The government directed the Deputy Commissioners to prepare their respective district containment plans, as well as constitute committees of officials of various departments and implement it at the ground level.The government prepared a model district containment plan for all districts as a precaution. Villages, neighbourhoods and areas where Covid positive cases were confirmed would be declared as containment zones and buffer zones. The objective is to stop the spread of the pandemic, alert the people and control the spread of infection, he said. Movement of persons in the areas will be banned and teams of Asha Workers and ANM would do door-to-door screening and scanning in the areas and sanitise them. Face masks, gloves, caps, sanitisers and shoes will be provided to the staff deployed on the task. — TNS
10-04-2020||rnal||Covid test trial starts in Karnal, ICMR nod expected||A laboratory to test samples has been established at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) here. It started trial of samples on Thursday. It is expected to get nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), New Delhi, in a day or two. Samples of Covid suspected patients are sent to BPS Medical College at Khanpur in Sonepat, which takes around 25-30 hours. The authorities claim after starting the lab, results would be ascertained in a few hours. After the declaration of Covid as an epidemic in Haryana, the government has given consent to establish one lab for Covid tests in KCGMC. However, the machine, which is being used in the test, is stuck in Germany. “The district administration has arranged the ‘reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction’ machine from the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) for this purpose. After the complete calibration of the machine, the trial was started,” said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav. — TNS
10-04-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Early, aggressive Covid-battling strategy gave Gurugram edge||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, April 9Millennium City Gurugram may be second in the state with 32 Covid cases after Nuh (38), but it also tops the recoveries chart with 12 successfully treated patients. The otherwise chaotic city of the NCR has waged a successful battle to keep infections in check and contain cluster transmission so far, despite its high-risk status.Of its positive cases, 18 were local residents with history of foreign travel or were primary contacts of positive patients, 12 were Jamaatis from UP and Himachal, while the remaining two are a father-son doctor duo of Agra that came to a private city hospital after showing Covid symptoms.Ever since the Covid outbreak in China, Gurugram was categorised as most vulnerable owing to various factors. The city has a large number of MNCs with foreign nationals, including visiting Chinese nationals. It has the highest density of foreign nationals per kilometre km and migrants, which make it a hotspot of mass community transmission of any disease.According to the administration, what helped keep things under control was an early and aggressive Covid-battling strategy. It was on March 5 that 14 Italian tourists, all senior citizens, were brought to Medanta Hospital after contracting Covid. A day later, a Paytm employee who lives in Delhi tested positive, creating panic and sending alarm bells ringing. District authorities swung into action and ordered all companies to ensure maximum employees worked from home and ensured intensive sanitisation.In fact, Gurugram was first district in the NCR that made work from home compulsory. Within two days, all multiplexes, gyms, spas, restaurants and even malls were shut. As many as 5,000 persons returning from abroad were quarantined. The district administration and Municipal Corporation too shifted to the work-from-home model and all public interactions were cancelled.Sensing the gravity of the situation, residents began stocking up and even hoarding medicines, groceries and even liquor. By the time the Prime Minister announced the Janata Curfew of March 22, the city was prepared for a lockdown. It may not be an exaggeration to say Gurugram has given lessons in lockdown implementation to the NCR. Full marks to the Gurugram Police for keeping people and vehicles off roads, but the drive could not have been as success without the role played by local resident associations, societies and even individuals.The district effectively checked the migrant exodus by implementing ‘None goes hungry’ strategy. Over 1 lakh people are being fed daily across the city and being provided medical care, ration and rent-free accommodation. The city has already implemented a special containment plan to survey and screen every resident at his doorstep.Key ChallengeNon-disclosure of symptoms by residents, JamaatisHealth assets2,500Govt health officials (including doctors, paramedics)1,500Pvt health officials315 ventilators126 bed govt Covid hospital500 bed Medeor Hospital in Manesar designated Covid hospital25% beds reserved for Covid patients in pvt hospitalsTotal cases reported 32Discharged 12 Active 20Jamaatis 12 Critical 0
10-04-2020||---||Cases dip, 2 positive in Panchkula||Chandigarh, April 9While a large number of people testing positive for Covid in the state over the past few days, only two fresh cases in the state on Thursday took the total number of coronavirus patients to 164.Both cases were reported from Panchkula and the patients were Tablighi Jamaat followers. They were a part of 27-member group who had come from Sikar in Rajasthan to a village in Kalka. They were evacuated to a quarantine facility at Panchkula’s Nada Sahib gurdwara on April 1. The results of the tests of the rest of the members of the group are awaited.So far, 18 people have been discharged and three died in the state. Overall, 17 districts have been affected. However, there is no case in Jhajjar, Yamunanagar, Rewari, Mahendragarh and Kurukshetra. Nuh with 38 cases leads among the affected districts followed by Gurugram (32), Palwal (29) and Faridabad (28). Additional Chief Secretary Health Rajeev Arora said districts recording more than 15 cases were declared hotspots.Health Minister Anil Vij once again said the spike in positive cases was due to a number of people testing positive after they attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation in Delhi last month.ADGP Law and Order Navdeep Singh Virk said five Jamaat members were booked in Yamunanagar under Section 307 of the IPC (attempt to murder), after the deadline set by the state for Jamaatis to report to the authorities ended yesterday. “The police has tracked 1,597 Jamaat members in the state,” he said.State to ramp up testingAdditional Chief Secretary Health Rajeev Arora announced that testing will be increased in the days to come. So far, the state had tested only 2,964 persons. “In the next four to five days, we will conduct random testing of 150 samples in non-affected districts and 450 in hotspots of Nuh, Gurugram, Palwal and Faridabad. We need to achieve a total of 6,500 tests by April 14. Rapid diagnostic kits will be deployed in hotspots,” he said.Rs30 lakh cover for copsThe state government has decided to provide Rs 30 lakh cover, in case of death, to police personnel directly engaged in the fight against the spread of Covid in the state. This financial assistance will be paid out of Haryana Covid-19 Relief Fund.Chief Secy: Keeping watchChief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora directed the deputy commissioners to keep a close watch on the entry and exit points of wheat procurement centres. About 2,000 procurement centres will be set up in the state. Entry passes to the staff, arhtiyas, labourers and farmers visiting these centres should be given in a systematic manner, so as to avoid mass gathering, she said while presiding over a meeting of the Crisis Coordination Committee via video-conferencing.
10-04-2020||ibune News Service---||Licence of 4 Panipat ration shops cancelled over ‘irregularities’||Panipat, April 9 The District Food and Supplies Department on Thursday cancelled the licence of four depot holders and suspended the ration supply of one depot after finding “irregularities” in the distribution of ration under the Public Distribution System (PDS). “There were several complaints against these four depot holders following which an inquiry was ordered. During the inquiry, the depot holders were found guilty of not properly distributing the ration,” said Anita Kharab, District Food and Supply Controller(DFSC), Panipat. The department has cancelled the licence of depots in ward 7, Bichpadi village, ward 31 and in Desraj colony, she added. “The depot holders failed to submit any satisfactory reply in their defence,” theDFSC added. Besides, the supply of one ration depot in Nimbri village has also been suspended on the basis of the complaints of consumers on Wednesday, she asserted. The DFSC also warned the depot holders not to disturb the consumers or stringent action would be initiated against them. On Thursday, the teams of the department also inspected medical stores for sanitisers and masks and challaned two medical stores in Batra colony in the city, she added. We have challaned 27 medical stores so far in the district during the lockdown, the DFSC maintained.
10-04-2020||---||Centre enhances mustard, gram procurement limit||Chandigarh, April 9 Conceding Haryana’s request, the Centre on Thursday enhanced the daily procurement limit per farmer per day for rabi crops covered under price protection scheme (PPS) from 25 quintals to 40 quintals in view of Covid outbreak. While wheat is covered under the minimum support price (MSP), mustard and gram among the rabi crop are covered under the PPS where the government procures these crops from farmers. Haryana procures mustard and grams under the PPS, but the neighbouring Punjab Government does not procure these crops. Under the provisions of the ‘PPS Guidelines 2018’, the daily procurement limit for mustard and gram per farmer was fixed at 25 quintals. In case a farmer has produce of more than 25 quintals, he was supposed to visit the grain markets again. Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Haryana, said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar took up the issue with the Centre requesting it to enhance the limit, so that farmers did not have to visit the grain markets repeatedly for the same crop. Khattar expressed apprehension that calling the farmers to grain markets twice would lead to crowding in mandis. Haryana Cooperative Minister Banwari Lal also raised the issue with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar during a video conference.
10-04-2020||Panipat||Woman dies in Panipat, kin call it murder||A-20-year-old married woman died under mysterious circumstances in Chulkana village of Samalkha on Wednesday and the in-laws cremated the deceased without informing her parents. The father of the victim alleged that Rahul and his family members murdered his daughter by hanging her for want of dowry.  the police have booked four members of the family of the victim’s husband have been booked under various sections of the IPC. The deceased has been identified as Roopa, wife of Rahul ofChulkana village.  A case was registered against Rahul and his family. —TNS
10-04-2020||Rohtak||Classes at health varsity go online||Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences has decided to start online classes for students of MBBS, BDS, pharmacy, physiotherapy, and nursing courses so that students remain connected to academics during the lockdown. “In view of the prevailing situation, it has been decided to begin online classes for students of the said courses. The faculty members concerned have been instructed about this,” said Prof SS Lohchab, Dean (Academic Affairs). Most students had stopped attending their classes due to the fear of contracting Covid and the ongoing lockdown. “We have repeatedly urged the authorities to discontinue classes as a preventive measure,” said Dr Kunal Gaba, president of the Residents Doctors Association at the PGIMS. —TNS
10-04-2020||---||Supreme Court upholds High Court decision to quash appointment of PTIs||New Delhi, April 9Upholding the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s decision to quash the appointment of 1,983 physical training instructors (PTIs) in Haryana schools in 2010, the Supreme Court has ordered state staff selection commission to conduct the recruitment afresh.The entire process for appointment of PTIs was conducted during the Congress rule in Haryana. It has directed the process be concluded within five months from the date of lifting of the lockdown.“The Haryana Staff Selection Commission (SSC) shall conclude the entire selection process initiated by the advertisement of 2006 as per criterion notified on December 28, 2006, i.e. holding objective type written test of 200 marks and viva voce of 25 marks,” a Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said.The Bench — which also included Justice Navin Sinha — said all applicants who had submitted applications in response to the said advertisement, including those who were selected, shall be permitted to participate in the fresh selection process.The top court ordered the fresh recruitment process to be completed in five months from the date it resumed work after the lockdown was over.It rejected the selected candidates’ contention that they had been working since 2010 and should be allowed to continue on their posts, saying they were allowed in pursuance of interim orders. The rule of estoppel was not applicable to cases where glaring illegalities had been committed, it noted.The top court pointed out that the appointments were immediately challenged and a single Judge of the High Court had, in September 2012 itself, set aside the appointments. Later, the decision was upheld by a Division Bench of the High Court.The Bench, however, made it clear that candidates who had been selected and worked as PTIs shall not be asked to refund salary and other benefits received. Similarly, no refund shall also be asked from those candidates who after their selection worked and retired from service, it clarified.When the selection was set aside, a fresh selection process should have been held as per the 2006 advertisement and recruitment process should have been brought to its logical end.
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana applauds Covid warriors, doubles pay of doctors, paramedics||The Haryana Government today announced the doubling of salaries of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and others directly connected with the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic, besides several other decisions to combat the threat posed by the virus.The other decisions included scaling up the number of tests to 6,500 by April 14 through rapid sample testing and treatment of patients in 14 exclusive Covid hospitals set up across the state.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, addressing the medical fraternity through video-conferencing, announced that the decision to double the salaries of the medical and paramedical staff was taken to salute the spirit of sacrifice of the corona warriors.Earlier, Health Minister Anil Vij said the state government had decided that the Covid patients would now be treated at exclusive Covid hospitals. Putting the blame on the spurt in the number of cases in Haryana on Tablighi Jamaatis, Vij asserted that out of 134 active cases, the number of Jamaati patients was pegged at 107.Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora said Haryana had decided to scale up the testing. — TNSTo expand testing
