10-09-2020||Gurugram||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar discharged from hospital||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was discharged from the Medanta hospital in Gurugram at around 3 p.m. on Thursday after recovering from coronavirus infection, an official said.In a medical bulletin issued by the hospital, Medical Superintendent A.K. Dubey said that Manohar Lal Khattar has recovered from Covid-19 and has been discharged from the hospital on Thursday.Doctors have advised Khattar, who was in the hospital for 17 days, to stay in home quarantine and monitor his health for a week, the official added.Doctors at the hospital said that he did not have any symptoms of the infection and was in good health.A multi-disciplinary team of doctors from AIIMS in New Delhi, PGIMS in Rohtak, Dr Virender Yadav, Civil Surgeon, Gurugram, Dr Sushila Kataria and their team had reviewed his condition, line of treatment.Khattar tested positive for Covid-19 on August 25, just a day ahead of the monsoon session of the Assembly on August 26. The Chief Minister had shared the Covid-19 infection information via twitter.Apart from this, the district health department had detected 306 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total tally to 14,295. Of these, 12,204 people have recovered. The Covid-19 toll has reached 140 in the district. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-discharged-from-hospital-139285
10-09-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Carjacker acting as IPS officer held by Faridabad Police||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 10The Faridabad Police have nabbed two carjackers who used fake IPS identity to smuggle cars to Manipur. A weapon and some forged documents have also been recovered from their possession.The accused have been identified as Abang Mehtab, who posed as ACP of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and his friend Kabir Khan. Both residents of Manipur, said the police.The duo used to steal luxury cars from Delhi and its adjoining areas and sell them in Manipur.Police took the duo on eight-day remand after producing them in a city court on  Thursday.According to the police, a crime unit team led by Inspector Vimal Kumar arrested the duo from Delhi-Faridabad border.Mehtab would pose as the ACP, NIA,  and use fake ID to get the benefits like toll exemption and facilitating his stay in hotels, etc., said the police.He had five fake Aadhar cards on different names and addresses, they said, adding that Mehtab was also carrying an illegal weapon belonging to his friend and had even uploaded a photo with an AK 47 gun (on social media) to influence people.Mehtab told police that he and his friend would fly to Delhi, steal luxury cars and drive them to Manipur.To avoid any checking he used fake ID proof of the ACP and always carried a gun, the police said.An FIR has been registered against the duo under relevant sections of the IPC at Sarai Khwaja police station.“We are trying to crack the network of these carjackers. We have taken them on eight-day police remand for questioning and hope many others will be unmasked,” said Anil Yadav, ACP, Crime, Faridabad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/carjacker-acting-as-ips-officer-held-by-faridabad-police-139265
10-09-2020||Hisar||Farmers, arhtiyas across Haryana protest against ordinance allowing private purchase of produce||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) held a state-level rally at Pipli near Kurukshetra on Thursday to protest the ordinances of the Centre government. Traffic was restored near the Pipli highway around 1:30 pm after remaining shut for several hours. Various farmers and arhtiyas (middlemen) associations extended support to the rally to protest the ordinances which allow private players to purchase agriculture produce.Farmers and arhtiyas across the state heading to the rally are being stopped by the police at respective districts due to the COVID pandemic. Krishan Kirmara, a farmers' leader in Hisar said that they were stopped near the toll plaza at Barwala town of Hisar district. The farmers and arhtiyas from Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Jind districts have been stopped at different places as the police force have been deployed at the nakas.The farmers' leader Kirmara said that they have started dharna at the toll plaza after the police stopped them from proceeding to attend the rally.In Kurukshetra, police used mild force to disperse farmers after they broke a naka in attempt to reach Pipli grain market.Jhajjar/Rohtak: Criticising the use of cane-charge on farmers in Pipli, Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha vice president Inderjit Singh has thrown a challenge to the state agriculture minister to have a public debate with Kisan Sabha leadership anywhere and anytime on the crucial issue of ordinances.While interacting with the media here today, Singh also accused the state govt of adopting an insensitive attitude towards the woes of cotton farmers who suffered heavy loss due to pest infestation.Kurukshetra: The farmer union has decided to start dharnas at district headquarters across the state from September 15, if the Centre failed invite the farmers for discussion or withdraw of the three ordinances by September 14, and seal the entire state on September 20 if their demand is not met by September 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-arhtiyas-across-haryana-protest-against-ordinance-allowing-private-purchase-of-produce-139188
10-09-2020||Washington||US spacecraft named after late Indian-American astronaut Kalpana Chawla||An American commercial cargo spacecraft bound for the International Space Station has been named after fallen NASA astronaut Kalpana Chawla, the first India-born woman to enter space, for her key contributions to human spaceflight.Northrop Grumman, an American global aerospace and defence technology company, announced that its next Cygnus capsule will be named the "S.S. Kalpana Chawla", in memory of the mission specialist who died with her six crewmates aboard the space shuttle Columbia in 2003."Today we honour Kalpana Chawla, who made history at @NASA as the first female astronaut of Indian descent. Her contributions to human spaceflight have had a lasting impact," the company tweeted on Wednesday."Northrop Grumman is proud to name the NG-14 Cygnus spacecraft after former astronaut Kalpana Chawla. It is the company's tradition to name each Cygnus after an individual who has played a pivotal role in human spaceflight," the company said on its website."Chawla was selected in honour of her prominent place in history as the first woman of Indian descent to go to space," it said."While Chawla made the ultimate sacrifice in service to the space programme, her legacy lives on through her fellow astronauts and those she has inspired to follow in her footsteps," it said."Her final research conducted onboard Columbia helped us understand astronaut health and safety during spaceflight. Northrop Grumman is proud to celebrate the life of Kalpana Chawla and her dream of flying through the air and in space," it said.The S S Kalpana Chawla capsule is scheduled to launch on the NG-14 mission atop a Northrop Grumman Antares rocket from the Mid-Atlantic Regional Spaceport (MARS) at NASA's Wallops Flight Facility in Virginia on September 29. The spacecraft will arrive at and be attached to the space station two days later.For the NG-14 mission, the Cygnus spacecraft will deliver approximately 3,629 kg of cargo to the space station.Chawla was born in Karnal, Haryana on March 17, 1962. She received a Bachelor of Science degree in aeronautical engineering from Punjab Engineering College in India in 1982.Chawla then moved to the United States to pursue her graduate education; in 1984 she received a Master's degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Texas, and a Ph.D. in aerospace engineering from the University of Colorado in 1988.She held commercial pilot's licenses for single- and multi-engine aeroplanes, seaplanes and gliders, and was also a certified flight instructor.Chawla began her career at NASA in 1988 as a powered-lift computational fluid dynamics researcher at the Ames Research Center in California.Her work concentrated on the simulation of complex air flows encountered by aircraft flying in “ground-effect.” In 1993, Chawla joined Overset Methods Inc. as vice president and a researcher in aerodynamics.After becoming a naturalised US citizen in April 1991, Chawla applied for the NASA astronauts corps. She was selected in December 1994 and reported to the Johnson Space Center in Houston in 1995 as an astronaut candidate in Group 15.In November 1996, Chawla was assigned as a mission specialist on STS-87 aboard the Space Shuttle Columbia, becoming the first woman of Indian descent to fly in space.Chawla's second spaceflight experience came in 2001 when she was selected for the crew of STS-107. The flight was dedicated to science and research, with approximately 80 experiments completed.Chawla lost her life during the STS-107 mission when the Space Shuttle Columbia disintegrated upon reentering the Earth's atmosphere. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/us-spacecraft-named-after-late-indian-american-astronaut-kalpana-chawla-139179
10-09-2020||At many places in Narwana||Streetlights on  during daytime||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaEncroachment by migrantsDESPITE repeated requests to the local authorities regarding the removal of the illegal migrants who encroached upon verandahs adjacent to the side boundary wall of the Aggarwal Bhawan, Sector 16, Panchkula, no heed had been paid by the authorities. Small kids of these immigrants are usually seen begging in the area. They are a big threat to the life and property of the residents, especially when their whereabouts are not known to anybody. The authorities must step forward in order to avoid any illegal and unlawful activity by them. Gopal Mittal, PanchkulaOpen defecation A Problem in PanchkulaTHE At least 50 slums have come up on public land particularly in Part III of Sector 21, Panchkula, with the active connivance of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) officials. The dwellers, numbering around 500, indulge in open defecation putting the lives of residents on risk amid the pandemic. Moreover, nearby villagers let loose their cattle in the Sector which also become a cause of accidents and add to the residents' woes.ND Bansal, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNE invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/streetlights-on-during-daytime-139086
10-09-2020||Ambala||2 held for chasing ADC’s vehicle||The police have arrested Jaswinder Kumar of Naraingarh and Sachin of Karnal for chasing and hitting Ambala Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Preeti’s official vehicle and obstructing her from performing her official duty. The police released the accused on bail following a court order. TNS1 caught for murder bidThe police have arrested Jatin alias Johny of Baldev Nagar for attempt to murder. Yogesh had reported that the accused and his accomplices had trespassed into his house, assaulted him, his brother and two relatives and threatened them. A local court remanded the accused in 14-day judicial custody. TNSOne arrested for assaultThe police have arrested Sukhwinder Singh alias Johny of Ambala for assault and criminal intimidation. Gian Chand had reported that the accused assaulted, injured and threatened him and his wife. TNSProclaimed offender heldThe police have arrested a proclaimed offender. She had been evading arrest ever since she was booked. A local court ordered her release on bail. TNSOne held in drugs caseThe police have arrested Salinder of Ambala for helping drug smugglers on Tuesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-for-chasing-adcs-vehicle-139075
10-09-2020||Hisar||Monthly online coding test||Students bring laurels to collegeKarnal: Sunaina, a student of MSc Mathematics of RKSD PG College, Kaithal, has secured first place in second semester of the first year, the results of which were released by Kurukshetra University recently. Sunaina secured 540 marks out of 600 and Swati secured 519 marks and got fourth position in the university. In addition to this, Sahil secured 504 marks and Anup secured 503 marks and got eleventh place. Out of 32 students of this course from the college, six students scored more than 80 per cent, seven students scored between 75 to 80 per cent and eight students scored between 70 to 75 per cent marks. President Saket Mangal, Principal Sanjay Goyal, Head of Department Satbir Mehla and other professors congratulated.Faridabad varsity teachers felicitatedFaridabad: The District Administration of Faridabad has acknowledged the efforts of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA here to enable the students to continue their study during the Covid pandemic, and awarded a ‘Certificate of appreciation’ to two faculty members of the university for their contribution in teaching and learning process. Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav, conferred upon the certificate to Dr Komal Kumar Bhatia, Dean of Infomatics and Computing and Chairperson of Computer Engineering and Dr Sapna Gambhir, Assistant Professor, Computer Engineering, at a district-level function organised by the district administration to mark the Teachers’ Day. Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar congratulated the members for the achievement and appreciated the efforts made by the department for the promotion of digital learning.Webinar on violence against womenFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar advocated the role of women in the New Education Policy. He said in order to improve the status of women in the society, there was a need to make it a tradition to give due respect to women as a part of our education system. The Vice-Chancellor was addressing the valedictory session of National Webinar on “Stop violence against Women” organised by the NSS wing of the university in collaboration with Bhagidari Jan Sahyog Samiti and other partner organisations. The session was moderated by Secretary General of Bhagidari Jan Sahyog Samiti Vijay Gaur. Referring the women centric policies of the state government, Prof Kumar said public welfare policies such as ‘Beti Padhao, Beti Bachao’ played an important role in bring reforms in the society and it had made a positive impact on the mindset of the people. He said in order to bring a change in the society, it was equally important to change the mindset of the people about women.Webinar on nat’l education policyKurukshetra: Professor MM Goel, retired from Kurukshetra University, said, “Conversion of careless youth into responsible ones is the greatest challenge in the implementation of the New Education Policy because of the problem of overpopulation in the nation.” He was addressing as a chief guest of the national webinar organised by Sant Tulsidas PG College Kadipur-Sultanpur (UP) on the topic ‘Perceptions on higher education in New Education Policy 2020’. To maintain democratic values is another challenge which calls for motivation of intelligent ethical youth to accept politics as a career, said Goel.Book released onlineHisar: Anjan Kumar Baral, a senior faculty member of the Department of Printing Technology of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology here has penned a book titled “Life in Print”, depicting the life of Prof Kamal Mohan Chopra, the doyen of the Indian Printing industry. This is Prof Baral’s third book. The book was released online by Haryana State Higher Education Council (HSHEC) chairman Prof Brij Kishore Kuthiala from Journalism and Communication. While addressing the congregation, Prof Kuthiala reminded the past and present technological changes in printing sector and the need for bringing the industry to the realm of academics to train and produce skilled professionals in the field of printing technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monthly-online-coding-test-139074
10-09-2020||
||Fake desi ghee seized||Chandigarh, September 9 Tightening the noose around those indulging in manufacturing fake desi ghee and vegetable oil, several teams of the Chief Minister’s flying squad conducted raids in Hisar district and recovered a huge amount of fake food items. An official spokesman said the flying squad had on September 4 raided a warehouse on the Mirzapur road and recovered 285.5 litre ghee. The fake ghee, gas cylinders and other items were taken into possession and Mitesh Kumar was arrested. The spokesperson said the squad on September 5 raided Dev Food Products, a desi ghee manufacturing factory, on the Barwala-Agroha road. The team found 1,199 litre fake ghee branded as “Marka Jivika premium ghee”. A case was registered against the factory owner, Vikas, a resident of new basti in Ambala. In another raid, the team recovered fake ghee of Armik premium quality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-desi-ghee-seized-138924
10-09-2020||---||Rs 50-cr investment scam busted, 2 held||Ambala, September 9With the arrest of two persons and another accused joining probe, the district police today claimed to have busted a multi-crore investment scam in which at least 300 persons had been duped of over Rs 50 crore on the pretext of handsome returns.“While Rasal Singh and Sunil Kumar Dewan of Jagadhari in Yamunanagar have been arrested, Randhir Singh of Naraingarh in Ambala has joined the police probe as per the court order,” Naraingarh SHO Gurmail Singh said.He said Dewan had been taken into police custody from the local court till September 14, while Rasal had been sent to judicial remand.The scam surfaced in February when the police had booked six fraudsters, who had floated a cooperative society to offer up to 12 per cent interest to the depositors but did not even return the principal amount.Three other accused — Kuldeep and Vinod Sharma from Jagadhari and Pawan Kumar of Naraingarh — were yet to be arrested in a case of cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy.Nambardar Sadhu Singh of Naraingarh, a victim, had approached the police. He said the fraudsters had invested the money of the depositors in their own and relatives’ names by acquiring various properties besides setting up drug manufacturing units in Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib.“We’ve registered a case under Sections 406, 420 and 120B IPC against all six accused and some relevant record had been recovered so far.Meanwhile, the hunt for the remaining three accused is still on,” the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-50-cr-investment-scam-busted-2-held-138925
10-09-2020||Yamunanagar||35-yr-old raped in Yamunanagar||A case has been registered against Naveen and Jabbar of Jathlana village.  The victim said her husband and she bought a  plot from Naveen in 2018 and paid him Rs 3 lakh, but he didn’t get the sale deed registered in their name. “We went to meet Naveen and he sent my husband to get Aadhaar card, after which he raped me.” tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/35-yr-old-raped-in-yamunanagar-138926
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Telangana copying state in online land registry||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has said the state will develop a hassle-free and transparent model for registration of land for the convenience of the people. He said the online path adopted by the state was being discussed across the nation and several states, including Telangana, were replicating  the Haryana model.  He instructed all DCs to standardise collector rate by next week. He told them to constantly monitor the process of registry and appoint a coordinator at the tehsil level to work with the district-level departments related so that people don’t face any problems. In response to a question regarding the NRI registry, Dushyant said in such cases, passport numbers would have to be submitted during the online process. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/telangana-copying-state-in-online-land-registry-138927
10-09-2020||Faridabad||11 more illegal dyeing units razed in Faridabad||Buildings of 11 more illegal dyeing units in Tilpat village of the Greater Faridabad area were razed by a team of the District Town Planning (DTP) Enforcement here today. The number of illegal units demolished so far in the region has reached 38. The move comes in the wake of the order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) passed recently in response to a petition filed by Varun Sheokand, a social activist, in 2016.He had alleged that more than 200 illegal dyeing units had been functional in the Neharpar (Greater Faridabad) area. Revealing that the action had been taken in compliance with the NGT directions, Faridabad DTP (Enforcement) Naresh Kumar, who has also been appointed as Vigilance Officer, said no illegal unit would be allowed to work in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-more-illegal-dyeing-units-razed-in-faridabad-138928
10-09-2020||---||No job, Panipat couple ends life||Panipat, September 9Unemployment caused by the Covid pandemic forced a newly married couple to commit suicide in ‘Textile City’ on Wednesday.The newly married couple ended their lives by hanging themselves in their room in Raj Nagar here. The deceased have been identified as Aawed (28) and his wife Nazma (19).Jawed, elder brother of Aawed, in his statement to the police said that Aawed and Nazma got married on August 10. They were happy as the marriage was by their own choice.Earlier, Aawed was working as a welder in a private company but lost his job in the lockdown, he added. He was hoping that he would get work in the unlock phase but he couldn’t. So he was mentally upset, Jawed asserted.Around 9.30 am, Jawed’s wife Chandni saw the duo hanging from a fan in their room, he said.Sunil Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Model Town, said the family members of Aawed and Nazma, in their statement to the police, didn’t point a finger of suspicion at anyone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-job-panipat-couple-ends-life-138929
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||28 succumb; Gujjar among 2,294 cases in Haryana||Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar was among the 2,294 fresh Covid cases in Haryana, taking the tally to 83,354. The state reported the biggest spike in deaths, with 28 fatalities taking the toll to 882.On Wednesday, Gujjar said he had tested positive for Covid. “After some symptoms, I got my Covid test done and it turned positive. I request all those who might have come in contact with me to isolate themselves and get their tests done,” the minister tweeted.Faridabad reported the highest number of cases at 287, followed by Gurugram (260), Kurukshetra (235), Ambala (180) and Karnal (160).Karnal and Hisar reported four deaths each, followed by Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar (three each). Faridabad and Panchkula reported two deaths each and one fatality each was reported from Panipat, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Mahendragarh, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kaithal.In Ambala, three more deaths and 180 fresh cases were reported, taking the toll to 50 and count of virus patients to 5,051.With two more deaths reported in the past 24 hours, the death toll in Faridabad rose to 182. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/28-succumb-gujjar-among-2-294-cases-in-haryana-138930
10-09-2020||Ravinder Saini||4 part of BCG vaccine trial infected||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 9Four persons, including two doctors and a nurse, undergoing a clinical trial to test the efficacy of tuberculosis vaccine in warding off Covid-19 have contracted the virus at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here.The trial was initiated at the PGIMS on May 1 and the vaccine was administered to 174 attendants of Covid patients, including close contacts, doctors, nurses, ward boys and sanitary workers. Dr Savita Verma, Principal investigator of trialResults only after studyThe results will be out after the trials, so it will be inappropriate to comment on the initial results right now.All participants are under the observation of a team of doctors to find out the effects of the Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine on them.One of the doctors infected said: “I was administered the vaccine in June. My duty was to take care of the Covid patients but I contracted the virus in August. I wasn’t required to be admitted to the hospital and recovered while in home isolation.”Another doctor who was part of the trial tested positive for the virus but he remained asymptomatic and got cured within a week.Dr Savita Verma, principal investigator of the research and professor in the Department of Pharmacology, said some participants had contracted Covid-19.“The trial is aimed at ascertaining the rate of Covid infection after BCG vaccination and its severity,” she said.Dr Ramesh Verma, co-investigator and professor in the Department of Community Medicine, said the trial involving 6,000 participants was being conducted at 40 medical institutions across the country.“All 174 participants here have been registered with a mobile app to receive feedback about their health at regular intervals. They have been asked to inform the doctors if they get fever and other symptoms. Once the observation period is over, they will be tested to see if there is any increase in the levels of antibodies due to the vaccine,” said Dr VermaThe BCG vaccine enhanced immunity and had the ability to induce potent protection against infectious diseases, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-part-of-bcg-vaccine-trial-infected-138931
10-09-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Proposal to include 26 more villages in Faridabad MC limits||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 9The Faridabad Municipal Corporation has proposed to add another 26 villages to its civic limits. This will raise its tally to 64, which is 44.4 per cent of the total villages in the district. However, the move has attracted opposition.A memo by the office of the Municipal Commissioner says: “Considering the rapid urbanisation happening outside the municipal limits, the MC intends to expand its limit with 26 more villages on a tentative basis.”While the criteria for inclusion says that 60 per cent or more population should be engaged in non-agricultural activity and the expenditure for inclusion must not be more than 80 per cent of the income from the area, a resolution by the village panchayat is must.Local offices such as the District Revenue Officer, DDPO, Estate Officer, HSVP, HSIIDC, DHBVN and the DTP have been asked to provide the data (details) of stamp duty, fix deposits of panchayats, land property, litigation, if any, electricity billing, properties developed or allotted, census and urbanisation aspect for further action. After inclusion, the villages will be governed by the MC for all development works and will be covered under the wards of the civic body instead of the regular village panchayat.With a total of 38 villages already attached to the MC, the move could result in increasing the MCF wards from 40 to 50. However, this has attracted criticism and opposition.Describing it as an authoritarian move, Neeraj Sharma, MLA, NIT Assembly segment, said it was unlawful as no consent of the elected bodies or representatives had been taken. Claiming that it would render the villages as slum areas, he said the residents of the existing villages falling in the MCF limit were still crying for basic amenities and had failed to develop properly.Alleging that the move was aimed at gobbling up the income and property of the villages, Yogesh Dhingra, former Municipal Corporator, said it would make the villages suffer as the MC had been faced with acute financial crunch.“The proposal is at initial stage and will be moved as per the norms set by the state government and only after the consent of all concerned,” said Bhupender Singh, senior official of the MC.Aimed at raising no. of villages to 64||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/proposal-to-include-26-more-villages-in-faridabad-mc-limits-138914
10-09-2020||
||Karnal College pays tributes to Majithia||Karnal, September 9 Dyal Singh College, Karnal, observed Founder’s Day on the 122nd death anniversary of Late Sardar Dyal Singh Majithia. The college used to organise a blood donation camp on this day every year but this time, it couldn’t be conducted due to Covid and the upcoming university examination. However, students were motivated through social media to donate eye and other body organs and consent forms were filled by them. The NSS and NCC units organised a tree plantation drive on the college campus. All senior faculty members planted a tree in the memory of the college founder. Principal Chander Shekhar remembered his contribution and said this organisation was founded by Dyal Singh Majithia, who was known for kindness and benevolence.  Meanwhile, Dyal Singh Public School, Sector 7, organised a hawan to pay homage to the founder of Dyal Singh Trust Society. Academic adviser Nina Rai Singh and principal Shalini Narang paid tributes to the great visionary. Due to Covid, staff members and students attended the hawan through the digital mode. Students were enlightened about the remarkable contribution of Dyal Singh Majithia to the field of education. Dyal Singh Public School, Panipat, too paid rich tributes to Majithia. Principal Vinita Kumar Tomar and headmistress Neelam Vats offered floral tributes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-college-pays-tributes-to-majithia-138915
10-09-2020||Parveen Arora||45% back 3rd degree police torture: Survey||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 9A survey by the Karnal range police has revealed that 45.1 per cent persons justified third degree method by the police to extract truth, while 25.9 per cent people said it should be avoided and 29.1 per cent are not sure.Karnal range IGP Bharti Arora got the survey conducted online with the help of three first-year students of IIT-Delhi — Gopika Arora, Ashi Chkresh Jain and Jatin Aggarwal — who involved 1,176 persons from Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat and other districts of the state.“The purpose was to gather feedback about police functioning from people of Karnal range involving three districts — Karnal, Kaithal and Panipat — but people from other districts also participated enthusiastically,” Arora said.From Karnal, 47.3 per cent persons participated in the survey, while 25.5 per cent are from Kaithal, 10.1 per cent from Panipat and 17.1 per cent from other districts. As many as 72.8 per cent are male, while 27.2 per cent are female.Half of the participants are in the age group of 30-50, while 37.4 per cent age from 18 to 30.The survey revealed that 39.9 per cent people are very comfortable in approaching the police, while 27.4 per cent are comfortable, 9.4 per cent uncomfortable, and 6.9 per cent are very uncomfortable. As many as 16.4 per cent have no opinion on the issue.The survey further revealed that 28.7 per cent feel intimidated by the police, while 55.3 per cent do not feel so and 16 per cent are not sure.More than half (52.3 per cent) of the people preferred to call the police in an emergency, while 39.5 per cent responded that it depends on the situation. In response to a question, 18.2 per cent experienced the response of PCR number 100 very slow than expected, while 29.3 per cent experienced faster than expected.The survey further said 52.4 per cent got police clearance certificate and character certificate on time, while 4.1 per cent had to wait too long and 39 per cent never applied. 38.3 per cent have not come in contact with a member of the police force in the last three-years, 35.6 per cent considered that they were treated with professionalism, dignity and respect, while 10.2 per cent disagreed with it and 7.3 per cent strongly disagreed. 34 per cent were not satisfied with women helpline number 1091, while 27.2 per cent were satisfied. 70.9 per cent considered the police were overburdened, while 14.7 did not think like that.As many as 366 persons faced verbal abuse by the police, while around 30 persons faced physical abuse, and around 190 faced bribery demand.“The survey has given feedback about the working of the police. We will try to overcome the issues to improve the police functioning,” the IGP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/45-back-3rd-degree-police-torture-survey-138916
10-09-2020||
||Now, apply online to get NOC for land registry||Chandigarh, September 9 For bringing transparency and control corruption in issuance of the no-objection certificates (NOCs) for the purpose of Section 7A of the Urban Area Act of 1975, the Department of Town and Country Planning has taken a major decision of accepting such applications online from Wednesday onwards. An official spokesman said all details of the seller and buyer would be taken on the online form along with the land details for which the NOC is required. The software can be accessed from the department’s portal at https://tcpharyana.gov.in He said the application aimed to issue timely NOCs to the applicants. The reform will bring relief to applicants as they will not be required to submit any hardcopy of documents. This will also bring transparency in property registrations at Tehsil offices and also help in curbing the mushrooming of illegal colonies. All approvals will be conveyed online.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-apply-online-to-get-noc-for-land-registry-138917
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Implement biz reform plan by month-end: CS||Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora directed the heads of departments to ensure 100 per cent implementation of Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP) by the end of September so as to improve the ease of doing business (EODB) ranking. Arora was presiding over a review meeting regarding the progress of implementation of BRAP here today. Saket Kumar, Director of Industries and Commerce Department, gave a presentation related to the state and district business reform action plan. The Chief Secretary directed the officers of all departments concerned to work in coordination so as to ensure implementation of business reforms and make sure all services were rendered online within the stipulated time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/implement-biz-reform-plan-by-month-end-cs-138918
10-09-2020||---||State Vigilance Bureau to probe Home Guards recruitment||Chandigarh, September 9The State Vigilance Bureau will probe the alleged irregularities in the recruitment of Home Guards in Haryana.Home Minister Anil Vij said here on Wednesday that the state government had asked the State Vigilance Bureau to hold an inquiry into alleged irregularities into the recruitment of Home Guards to “bring out the truth”.Vij said the decision had been taken in view of several complaints into the recruitment of around 250 Home Guards in the state.It was alleged that the recruitment was done in violation of the rules and regulations especially when there was ban on recruitments in the state in view of Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-vigilance-bureau-to-probe-home-guards-recruitment-138919
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Hooda backs farmers’ stir||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday announced his support to the farmers’ agitation against three agricultural ordinances “which seek to remove protection given to the farmers”.  He said the movement was not only about farmers, but would also impact labourers, commission agents and small traders.  “Everyone believes that without the protection of minimum support price, these ordinances are against the interests of farmers. If the government wants to implement those, then it should ensure that no purchases are made below MSP. “The government could bring in a fourth ordinance separately to provide a clear provision that if any agency buys the crop of the farmer below the MSP, then legal action will be taken against it,” Hooda stated on Wednesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-backs-farmers-stir-138920
10-09-2020||
||Put off agitation, Dalal tells farmers’ union||Chandigarh, September 9 Haryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister JP Dalal has clarified that the state government is committed to providing minimum support price (MSP) for crops.  He said this at a meeting held late on Tuesday between Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Charuni and senior officers. It was clarified that the state government was also ready to strengthen the statutory arrangements in this regard. Therefore, he expected that the proposed Kisan Rally scheduled to be held on September 10 would be withdrawn. While making an appeal to farmers to postpone the rally being held during the Covid crisis, Dalal said, “The Haryana Government is a farmer-friendly government as it has consistently taken farmer-friendly decisions whether it is about giving compensation or developing new mandis.” He said that the three new ordinances namely The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 introduced by the Centre had only given a facility to farmers that if a private agency wanted to purchase crop from outside government mandis at a price higher than MSP, then the farmers could sell their crop at a higher price.  The minister clarified that with the introduction of these ordinances, the government mandis would not be closed and the procurement of crops on MSP would continue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/put-off-agitation-dalal-tells-farmers-union-138921
10-09-2020||---||Section144 imposed in Pipli grain market||Kurukshetra, September 9Ahead of the ‘Kisan Bachao, Mandi Bachao’ rally in Kurukshetra on September 10, the Deputy Commissioner imposed Section 144 restricting the gathering of five or more people at Pipli grain market on Wednesday.Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur said, “The Bhartiya Kisan Union has given a call for a rally, but due to Covid, no permission has been granted by the district administration. We have been urging the public to stay at home and not to reach the rally site. To maintain the law and order situation, Section 144 has been imposed. Besides this, a three-tire security arrangement has been made. Duty magistrates have been appointed at Thanesar, Pehowa, Shahabad, and Ladwa and 54 nakas have been set up. Along with the reserve police force, nearly 600 police personnel and officials will remain on duty. We have appealed to the farmer leaders to withdraw their call for the rally.”Surjewala slams leaders’ ‘illegal detention’Chandigarh: Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala has condemned the "illegal detention of farmer leaders to sabotage" the September 10 rally. Asking the BJP-JJP government to refrain from its crude attempt to undermine the joint strength of farmers, traders and labourers, Surjewala said that the venue of the public meeting, Pipli mandi, has been converted into a 'police cantonment' and the shopkeepers of the grain market were being served notice for closing their shops.While Opposition political parties have come out in support of the farmers, the BJP has appealed to the farmers’ union to withdraw its call.Congress leader Ashok Arora said that the BJP has not only been taking anti-farmers decisions, but it has also been trying to suppress their voice. Instead of asking the farmers to withdraw their rally, the administration should have imposed some conditions and told them to maintain social distancing and limit the numbers of farmers.”AAP leader Jawaharlal Goyal said, “The kisan cell of AAP will participate in the rally. The administration should have given permission to the farmers.”INLD district chief Buta Singh said, “The BJP has been taking anti-farmer decisions. We condemn the decision of not allowing the rally.”BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh said, “We have submitted repeated memorandums but no attention was paid by the government. The commission agents, labourers and rice millers have extended support to the farmers. We are ready for every struggle and will not let the government suppress our voice. The government should allow us to hold a rally in a peaceful manner.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/section144-imposed-in-pipli-grain-market-138922
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Grand ceremony awaits formal Rafale induction||A grand ceremony awaits the formal induction of Rafale fighter aircraft into the Indian Air Force (IAF) at the Air Force Station in Ambala on Thursday, with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Florence Parly, Minister of the Armed Forces of France, being the chief guest on the occasion.The aircraft will be part of No. 17 Squadron, the Golden Arrows. The first batch of five Rafale aircraft arrived in India from France on July 27 after covering an aerial distance of about 8,500 km. A total of 36 Rafale are to be inducted into the IAF with two squadrons, the other being No. 101 squadron at Hasimara in the North-East.Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, Defence Secretary, Ajay Kumar, Secretary, Department of Defence Research and Development, and Chairman, DRDO, Dr G Satheesh Reddy, along with other senior officers of the Ministry of Defence and armed forces will attend the event, being described by the IAF as a very important milestone in history.The French delegation will be represented by Emmanuel Lenain, Ambassador of France to India, Air General Eric Autellet, Vice Chief of Air Staff of the French Air Force, and other senior officials.A large delegation of senior functionaries from French defence industries, which include Eric Trappier, Chairman and Chief Executive of Dassault Aviation, and Eric Beranger, CEO, MBDA, will be present during the ceremony.Florence Parly will be presented a ceremonial guard of honour on her arrival at New Delhi. At Ambala, the programme will include ceremonial unveiling of the Rafale aircraft, a traditional ‘sarv dharma puja’, air display by Rafale and Tejas aircraft as well a performance by the Sarang helicopter aerobatic team.A traditional water cannon salute will be given to the Rafale aircraft.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/grand-ceremony-awaits-formal-rafale-induction-138923
