10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Man shoots self over ‘harassment’ by ex-colleague||A 38-year-old man from Bhiwani in Haryana allegedly committed suicide, just after alleging on Facebook that we was forced to take the extreme step due to harassment by an ex-colleague, police said on Friday.The man shot himself in the head with a licensed revolver at a park on Thursday evening.Before killing himself, the man in a Facebook live alleged that he had been wrongly terminated from a private hospital in Rewari recently and levelled allegations of harassment against a former colleague.A case has been registered on a complaint filed by the man’s family, a police official told reporters, adding that an investigation is under progress. PTI
10-07-2020||Hisar||Nearly 65 per cent clear Haryana Class 10 board exam||Haryana’s Board of School Education said on Friday that 64.59 per cent of the 3,37,691 students that took the Class 10 board exams passed this year.Girls had a higher pass percentage than boys: 69.86 per cent of girls who took the examination passed as compared to 60.27 per cent of the boys.   Urban Haryana (69.86 per cent) had a marginally higher pass percentage that rural (64.39 per cent).Private schools did better than government schools at 69.51 per cent as compared to 59.74 per cent.   Check your results hereSix girls, all from Hisar, took the top two slots.Rishita Kumari from Hisar’s Tagore Senior secondary School in Narnaund scored 500 marks---the highest.  Five students---Uma, Kalpana and Sneh, all from Tagore Senior Secondary School, Nikita Maruti Sawant of GNJN Goenka Girls High School, Ankita of DN High School in Khanda Kheri village of Hisar---were declared joint second.
10-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Probe construction of commercial complex on residential land in Gurugram: HC to CBI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10Nearly 19 years after an order paved the way for construction of Ambience Mall in Gurugram on area initially earmarked as residential, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday not only quashed the same, but also directed the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe the entire issue after registering a formal FIR.It was asked to make efforts to complete the entire investigation within six months and submit a status report within three months.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted the order delicensing a part of the residential area for commercial purpose was without authority of law and needed to be quashed. A separate investigation by an independent agency was also necessary into possible collusion between the builder and the state authorities. The State was also directed to “take necessary consequential steps forthwith”.The Bench asserted no justification whatsoever was forthcoming for delicensing part housing project area for commercial purposes “and a huge mall, Ambience Mall, having been allowed to be raised thereon”. The Bench added the entire sequence of events pointed at prior meeting of minds between the builder and the officials who dealt with the matter.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Gupta asserted: “We are constrained to draw a conclusion that the possibility of builder acting in collusion with the authorities and duping innocent buyers of apartments cannot be ruled out. It appears they were made to sign on the dotted line in the builder-buyer agreement, oblivious of the probable mischief by the builder in connivance with the State officials.”The builder had initially identified 18.93 acres in Nathupur village on Delhi-Gurugram border for establishing a group housing project. Among the promises made to the buyers was reservation of 80 per cent area for open and community services.But “suddenly” the builder moved an application for delicensing of 8 out of 18.98 acres with further permission to erect a commercial complex. Ignoring all statutory provisions and throwing caution to winds, the authorities acted more promptly than expected and an order granting permission to establish a commercial complex on 8 acres was passed in October 16, 2001, while the order to delicense the same area was passed on October 18, 2001. As such, almost every statutory provision contained in the relevant Act and the Rules was violated “resulting in a cascading effect, compromising open spaces, roads, parks, community buildings and schools etc”.Justice Gupta added the fact that there has been undue enrichment of the builder perhaps with the active involvement of the State officials could not be ignored by the Court. Such enrichment was not just in violation of various enactments, but also a loss to public exchequer at the cost of general public.
10-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram crosses national recovery rate; registers at 83 per cent||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 10Having battled one of the worst phases of COVID transmission Gurugram has finally achieved an encouraging recovery rate of 83 per cent.Following a dedicated exhaustive testing, tracking and treating strategy since the past two weeks, the district that was once cited amongst worst four, has left behind Haryana with 74.91 per cent and national recovery rate of 62.42 per cent. The city has till date registered 6,578 cases, of which 5,507 have recovered.The district managed to stabilise the COVID transmission that had an infectivity rate as high as 34 per cent after imposing micro lockdowns in high-risk areas and stepping up the testing from 400 tests per day to 3,000 tests.“Gurugram today has one of the best recovery rates in the entire country. In what seems forever we have more patients recovering or being discharged as compared to new cases. The switch to the new COVID-19 management strategy almost two weeks ago helped us bring COVID transmission under control. We have reached a stabilised state and hope to continue with the same and move towards being COVID-19 free,” said MCG Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh.Addressing the media jointly with DC Amit Khatrai and CMO Dr Virender Yadav, Singh said it was the decentralisation of COVID-19 management which helped the city get things in control.“We have stepped up testing and 3,000 people are being tested every day. We plan to increase it to 4,000. Once private labs are permitted the testing will go up. Gurugram is testing the highest number of people in the NCR and that is what is the biggest success. Wehave also indulged in speedy tracing and fool-proof treatment,” added Dr Virender Yadav.It may be noted that Gurugram had identified and declared eight areas with multiple containment zones as large outbreak regions (LOR). A micro lockdown was imposed here with help of Gurugram police and ever since things started changing. The lockdown is ending on July 14 and Gurugram administration plans to revise the LOR list.“It’s a dynamic process and we will review the areas numbers and needs and then decide on the future course of fate in LOR’s or making new LOR’s. Things are improving but caution is required to ensure we don’t return to nightmare. We are doing all in our might but it’s the social distancing and usage of masks that we seek from residents,” said DC Amit Khatri.
10-07-2020||---||Haryana to launch e-Sachivalya for virtual meeting of public with ministers, officers||Chandigarh, July 10Taking a step further towards using e-governance to make delivery of citizen-centric services to the common man in a time-bound manner, Haryana is all set to soon launch e-Sachivalaya — a digital platform where the general public will have an easy facility of seeking appointment for a meeting with ministers and various officers.e-Sachivalaya aims to bring the government and its functionaries under one roof for better functioning, coordination and ensuring effectiveness in citizen interface especially in times of the COVID-19 Pandemic.The information was shared in a meeting held under the chairpersonship of Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora to review the implementation of e-Sachivalaya and updation of data on the Human Resource Management System (HRMS) and the Litigation Management System (LMS) with all administrative secretaries held here on Friday through video-conferencing.The Chief Secretary directed the officers to swiftly ramp up their preparations for ensuring the timely implementation of the work related to these projects.During the meeting, the Chief Secretary informed that e-Sachivalaya system would allow a functionary to schedule virtual meetings with the public through a video link. The necessary training to the concerned employees for operationalising e-Sachivalaya would be conducted soon and the required infrastructure and personnel would also be arranged, she added.The HRMS is a digital platform which provides a compilation of all data pertaining to service and conduct of employees in government departments, boards, corporations, societies and universities. The Nodal Officers for each of these would ensure smooth streamlining of the operations on the HRMS, she added.The LMS is another digital platform which provides one-stop access to government departments for litigation and arbitration cases. Instructions were given by the Chief Secretary to carry out necessary updation of data on the HRMS and the LMS.In the meeting, Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister Rajesh Khullar and administrative secretaries were also present and other senior officers also attended the meeting through video-conferencing.
10-07-2020||Hisar||Coronavirus: Hisar MP moved to Delhi hospital after fever doesn’t subside for nine days||Nearly five days after Hisar BJP MP Brijendra Singh tested positive for the coronavirus, he has been shifted to a hospital in Delhi after his fever did not subside.A spokesperson for the MP tweeted that Singh had been suffering from fever for nine days. He is under constant observation of a medical team and has been shifted to a hospital. He has no other symptoms except a fever, informed the spokesperson.Brijendra had also tweeted about his health on Thursday to say that he was still experiencing fever while his condition continues to be stable. Union health minister Dr Harshvardhan had also inquired about his condition on Thursday. The MP has visited Hisar on July 1 and interacted with visitors at his residence. He tested positive for the contagion on July 4. He was in home isolation and under the observation of the media team of the Parliament’s medical facility, said one of his aides today. They added that he was shifted to the hospital as the fever has not relented for the last nine days. Singh’s wife also tested positive but recovered soon and tested negative.
10-07-2020||Karnal/Panipat||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 51 new cases, tally rises to 19,420||Haryana on Friday reported 51 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 19,420.Karnal reported 12 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 470. Those infected are three people each from Assandh and Karan Vihar, one each from Padha, Power House Colony, Sector-12, Govind Colony, Basant Vihar and Taraori.Panipat reported 37 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 346.Panchkula on Friday reported two new cases of coronavirus, taking the district's case tally to 135.
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress mum||Accusing Bishnoi of having looted public money, Haryana Minister Anil Vij said the “truth is now out”. He said the BJP government would not spare anyone who had indulged in financial bungling. — TNS
10-07-2020||Sushil Manav||Spraying water to get rid of locust||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 9When officials of the Haryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department sprayed insecticide to kill the locust swarm that had settled on the fields in Hodal, on the night of June 27, little did they know they were spraying just water.A day earlier on June 26, the department had undertaken extensive spraying with tractor-mounted pumps and fire tenders and claimed to have eliminated 30 per cent of the swarm at Rewari. The quality control Inspectors of the department took samples of the insecticide at Palwal and its Sonepat office, procured from a Jaipur-based supplier. Upon testing, one of the samples was found to contain zero per cent chlorpyrifos, while the other sample contained 9.45 per cent of the pesticide instead of the required 20 per cent. “The entire stock of the pesticide supplied has been confiscated and the firm blacklisted. The authorities in Rajasthan have been approached to cancel the firm’s licence,” said Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture. He said the insecticide used in Rewari was supplied by another firm.In a police complaint, the quality control inspector at Sonepat has sought an FIR against the Jaipur firm and also officials of the Haryana Land Development and Reclamation Corporation, who procured the insecticide. Satpal Kaushik, a farmers’ leader, flayed the “connivance between officials and traders” .
10-07-2020||Parveen Arora
||Washermen, dry cleaners in endless wait for customers||Tribune News Service Karnal, July 9 Hundreds of washermen and dry cleaners in the district are struggling amid Covid as they do not have work even after relaxation in the lockdown.  They say people do not prefer to give them clothes for washing and ironing due to the Covid scare and in such circumstances, it is not easy for them to survive. Most of them are living in rented accommodation and it has become difficult for them to even pay their rents. Washing clothes and ironing is their only source of income. “I am the sole breadwinner of my family and during the past two and a half months, I have been without work. Now, the government has allowed us to work, but people are not ready to give their clothes to us for washing and ironing. It is very hard for me to earn my livelihood as I have a family of five,” said Hari Shankar (34), asking the government to extend financial support to people like him.  Prem Lal (70) was waiting for customers in his shop near Raghunath Mandir in the city. He said the Covid induced lockdown had forced them to sit idle as they had no work. “Our permanent customers hesitate to come for ironing. In the entire day, only two to three customers come to me to get their clothes ironed, which is not sufficient even to bear the electricity bill. The government should extend helping hand to us,” he said. RK Chauhan, a dry cleaner in Sadar Bazar, said the pandemic had given a big blow to their livlihood. They say that they have no work. “We are unable to bear the expenses of the shop. To reduce the expenses, I have to remove my two employees. I demand that the government should extend financial support to us also,” he said.
10-07-2020||
||Woman ASI, aide held  for extortion||Kurukshetra, July 9 The Kurukshetra police have arrested a woman Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI), along with another woman, for allegedly implicating a man in a molestation case and extorting money to settle the case.  The suspects have been identified as ASI Kailash Kaur, currently posted at Police Lines, and Bala Devi. Astha Modi, SP, said, “Yesterday, Tarun, a Karnal resident, in his complaint, alleged that Bala Devi, a resident of Kurukshetra, implicated his father in a false molestation case and was seeking money to settle the matter. Tarun said Bala Devi gave an address and he was going to give Rs 30,000 to settle the matter. On his complaint, a raiding party was prepared, the woman was arrested and money was recovered from her. It was found that the house belonged to ASI Kailash Kaur, and the phone used to call the complainant was recovered from the possession of the woman ASI. They both were arrested and produced before a court, which sent them to judicial custody.” The woman ASI was arrested earlier this year by the Rajasthan Police in a car snatching case, and booked in Kurukshetra in 2017 in connection with an extortion case.
10-07-2020||Nitin Jain
||Ambala street vendors to get ID cards||Tribune News Service Ambala, July 9 The local municipal corporation has started issuing chip-based identity cards to registered vendors in Ambala City. Almost 2,000 street vendors have already been registered and those left out will be done in coming days. The pilot project will be replicated in district’s other towns. Chip-based identity cards will provide name, address, age and photograph of the vendor, besides specifying whether he is stationary or mobile. The ID cards will enable customers to know vendors, who will be able to avail one-time bank loan of Rs 10,000 under the PM’s Street Vendors Atam Nirbhar Fund. Crowded public places, busy roads and streets in the district will now be free of the congestion.
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims five more lives||With 679 fresh cases, including 20 from Ambala cloth market, the number of Covid cases reached 19,369 today. Five deaths pushed the toll to 287.One death each was reported from Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Sirsa and Yamunanagar. A 63-year-old man from Dhauj village in Faridabad and a 65-year-old woman in Sirsa succumbed to the virus today.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (182), Gurugram (151), Sonepat (85), Bhiwani (51), Rohtak (46), Ambala (34), Palwal and Karnal (24 each), Panipat (21), Jhajjar (16), Sirsa (14), Nuh (13), Jind (7), Fatehabad (5) and Panchkula, Yamunanagar and Kaithal (2 each).Meanwhile, 404 patients were cured. — TNSSchool board to reduce syllabus
10-07-2020||Sushil Manav||Swiss move linked to I-T raids on Bishnoi’s assets||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 9The Swiss Government’s public notice for sharing of details with India about Swiss bank accounts and other financial assets of Kuldeep Bishnoi and his wife Renuka is linked to the income raids in July last year on the premises connected with the Congress leader.Soon after the raids that were conducted at 13 premises in Haryana, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) had revealed that the I-T investigations had “successfully lifted the mask and has detected undisclosed foreign assets of the said persons of more than Rs 200 crore, apart from domestic tax evasion of more than Rs 30 crore which may, inter alia, lead to severe criminal consequences under the Black Money Act, 2015, apart from action under the Income Tax Act, 1961.”The I-T raids had come close on the heels of the Lok Sabha poll last year in which Bishnoi’s son Bhavya Bishnoi was pitched in a high-profile electoral battle against Brijendra Singh of the BJP and Dushyant Chautala of the JJP. The BJP eventually won that election by a comfortable margin while Bhavya Bishnoi had finished third after Dushyant.In the 2014 Lok Sabha poll, Bishnoi’s Haryana Janhit Congress (HJC) had contested the poll in alliance with the BJP.However, Bishnoi, who contested from Hisar, lost the election to Dushyant of the INLD at that time. The HJC’s other candidate, Sushil Indora, too, lost to Charanjit Singh Rori of the INLD.Losing both seats despite a strong wave in favour of Narendra Modi had cost Bishnoi dearly as the BJP severed its electoral ties with the HJC before the Assembly poll held in October 2014.In the Assembly poll, even though all other candidates, including his elder brother Chander Mohan (Nalwa Assembly seat), lost the election, Bishnoi managed to win from his traditional Adampur seat and his wife was elected from Hansi.Three years after the 2014 Assembly poll, Bishnoi had announced the merger of his HJC with the Congress.Bishnoi is the younger son of former Congress strongman Bhajan Lal who remained Chief Minister of the state from 1979 to 1986 and then again from 1991 to 1996.Bhajan Lal was state Congress chief when Haryana went to the Assembly polls in February 2005 and was a formidable candidate for the post of the Chief Minister again.However, the central leadership of the Congress selected Bhupinder Singh Hooda for the coveted post.Though Bhajan Lal’s elder son Chander Mohan was Deputy CM, Bishnoi never reconciled with Hooda and went on to form his own political party HJC on December 2, 2007.Rs 200 cr undisclosed foreign assets
10-07-2020||
||Nuh court shut till July 12||Chandigarh, july 9  In view of the Covid pandemic, the High Court has ordered that judicial court complex in Nuh will remain closed till July 12. The decision to close the court for five days came after a judicial officer and some officials in the Mewat Sessions Division tested positive. The order came after taking into consideration an advisory issued by the health authorities. A senior officer said the step was taken to prevent further spread. Only matters of extreme urgency would be entertained by the judicial officer on duty by way of video-conferencing from his camp office.
10-07-2020||Rohtak||e-campaign for Rohtak doctor launched||Medicos, scientists and acquaintances of Dr Abhishek Bhayana, a dental surgeon of Rohtak who died recently, have launched a social media campaign to get justice for him.The 26-year-old dentist, who was serving at the Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences in New Delhi, has been denied the status of a Covid warrior as he had tested negative for it.“Abhishek had Covid symptoms and was apprehensive of having contracted the disease, but tested negative before as well as after his death,” said Aman, brother of the deceased doctor.Organisations have launched a signature campaign to ensure Covid warrior status for Dr Abhishek and compensation to his family. — TNS
10-07-2020||
||Girl held with Rs1.5 cr stolen jewellery||Rohtak, July 9 The police have arrested a 21-year-old woman employed as sales representative at a jewellery showroom in Rohtak for having stolen gold and diamond jewellery from the showroom last week. She was arrested in Uttar Pradesh. Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma said five men who were accomplices of the salesgirl, identified as Sonia Sharma, had also been arrested and stolen jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore recovered from them. “Of the 71 jewellery items stolen from the showroom, 68 items and a molten lump of gold weighing about 120 grams have been recovered,” he said. Sonia and her five accomplices, aged between 19 years and 24 years, four of whom were from Rohtak and one from Noida, were produced in a local court, which remanded them in police custody for two days.
10-07-2020||---||Crime falls 3.75% in first half of yr||Chandigarh, July 9The number of heinous crimes, including murder, attempt to murder, dacoity, robbery and kidnapping in the state have shown a decline in the first half of 2020.The overall crimes fell by 3.75 per cent, as 49,978 cases under the IPC were reported between January and June 2020 as against 51,928 cases during the corresponding period of 2019. As many as 84.63 per cent cases of murder, 100 per cent of culpable homicide, 91.75 per cent of attempt to murder, 97.66 per cent of hurt and 83.59 per cent of kidnapping were successfully worked out in the first six months of 2020.Manoj Yadava, DGP, Haryana, said in overall terms, the crime against persons went down by 4.06 per cent during this period. The number of murder cases between January and June went down to 488 as compared to 590 in 2019, a dip of 17.28 per cent. However, the cases of attempt to murder went down by just 18 cases, from 467 to 449 during the same period.Among more serious crimes, there was a massive fall of 957 cases (18.56 per cent) in cases of wrongful confinement of persons, which went down from 5,155 in 2019 to 4,198 in 2020. Similarly, there was a drop of 23 cases in criminal trespass during the same period. The cases of kidnapping of boys and men went down to 88 cases in the first half of 2020 as compared to 350 cases in 2019, a dip of 25.14 per cent.As far as crime against property was concerned, there was a 9.67 per cent fall in the number of burglary cases from January to June 2020, as only 3,258 cases were registered as compared to 3,607 cases in 2019. There was a drastic fall in the number of theft cases, which reduced from 11,794 to 8,123, a sharp drop of 31.12 per cent. The number of robbery cases also fell from 667 to 500. There were 1,023 cases of snatching reported last year, but this year the count stuck to 670. Cases of dacoity were reduced by 10.66 per cent.The Section 188 of the IPC, which deals with willful violation of lawful orders, saw a sharp increase from 98 cases in 2019 to 4,189 cases in 2020.The DGP said enhanced patrolling and close monitoring had helped bring down the crime rate in the first half of the year, as a dip had been seen in murder, dacoity and robbery, all prime indicators of law and order. Increased police presence and checking in connection with Covid-19 also contributed to the impressive fall in crime. Criminals and habitual offenders were forced to stay at home during the lockdown, he said.
10-07-2020||Parveen Arora
||Fund crunch mars bio-waste energy project||Tribune News Service Karnal, July 9 As the authorities did not make headway in the Galvanising Organic Bio-Agro Resources Dhan (GOBAR-Dhan) project launched two years ago in the district’s Kunjpura village, they are planning to shift the project to another village. In most likelihood, Sarwan Majra village will be the new project site, sources say. The proposal and estimate are being prepared for the state government’s approval. On April 30, 2018, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and then Union Minister Uma Bharti had laid the foundation stone of the GOBAR-Dhan project, the objective of which was to manage livestock dung and other bio-waste for generating energy and increasing farmers’ income.  But for the authorities’ “failure” to acquire land in Kunjpura village and lack of funds with the cash-strapped panchayat, the project has not taken shape.  Sources say the estimated cost of the project was Rs 1 crore, but only Rs 20 lakh was sanctioned. The Kunjpura panchayat has no major source of income to implement the project. An entrepreneur was contacted to run the project, but as per the sources, he withdrew because of the hard working conditions  In January, a meeting presided over by Khattar had discussed shifting the project to another village in light of the constraints in Kunjpura village.  Officers discussed several sites for the project and, finally, decided on Sarwan Majra village. Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Ashok Bansal said he took charge a few days ago. “I will review the progress of the project soon,” he added.
10-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur
||Over 46K geo-fence breach cases in state||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 9 A total of 46,963 persons, under surveillance for Covid infection or suspicion thereof, have breached geo-fencing in the state so far. A geo-fence is a 300-metre radius and if the person goes beyond it, the movement gets recorded with the use of mobile phone tower location or Aarogya Setu app. The police are alerted immediately. Monitoring home isolation is tricky as patients in hospitals and Covid care centres are under constant watch. Home isolation has been allowed for asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic, very mild and mild cases since June. Geo-fencing violators account for 42.3 per cent of the 1.1 lakh persons put under surveillance. A total of 25,550 persons have been advised over telephone to follow quarantine protocols. A total of 16,239 persons have switched off their mobile phones or deleted Aarogya Setu app. A total of 7,813 persons have been advised in person to switch on their mobile phones and install Aarogya Setu app. “We do not register FIRs in these cases. Whosoever jumps geo-fence is advised and cautioned. If someone does it repeatedly, we will register an FIR,” said DGP Manoj Yadava. “Police personnel used to accompany health staff checking violators when cases were limited. But cases increased significantly and the model was changed. Mobile phone tower location is being used,” he said.
10-07-2020||
||Tehsildar, owner of school booked for ‘raping’ teacher||Karnal, July 9 The Karnal police have booked the owner of a reputed school and a tehsildar for allegedly raping a teacher of the school on the pretext of promotion.  A woman principal director of the same school is also an accused in the case. The complaint was allegedly raped by the owner of the school with the help of the woman principal director months after her joining in 2018. In November 2018, she was allegedly raped by the owner of the school and the tehsildar at the owner’s residence. She also accused the owner and principal director of harassing her mentally. However, the owner of the school has also filed a complaint of extortion against the teacher. He denied the allegations and said that the teacher was putting pressure on him to give her increment and promotion and when he did not heed to her demand, she filed the complaint. The tehsildar also denied the allegations. Surinder Singh Bhoria, SP, has framed a SIT to investigate the matter. “A case has been registered against the trio under Sections 323, 34, 376-D, 506 of the IPC. The owner of the school has also filed a complaint of extortion against the woman teacher,” he said.  Meanwhile, representatives of various social organisations met IGP Karnal Range Bharti Arora and demanded a high-level inquiry in the case.
10-07-2020||
||‘Missing’ girl returns home||Kurukshetra, July 9 A 16-year-old maid, whose disappearance on Tuesday evening evoked a protest by migrant labourers outside the house where she worked, returned home on Wednesday night. Her statement was recorded before a magistrate on Thursday before she was she was handed back to her family. The girl reportedly claimed she had gone on her own volition.  Thanesar Sadar police station SHO Jagdish Chand said, “The girl returned home last night. Her statement has been recorded.”  On Tuesday evening, migrants had created ruckus outside the house of a retired PWD official in Sector 3 here.  Nine migrants were arrested and sent to judicial custody for creating ruckus.
10-07-2020||Ravinder Saini
||Rs16 cr okayed for road along elevated rail track||Tribune News Service Rohtak, July 9 A 5-km road will be laid between Sector 6 and the railway station along the nation’s first elevated rail track. The state government has approved Rs 16 crore for the road project, which will facilitate residents of over 30 colonies to reach the railway station within minutes. “Around 34 feet will be available after completion of the elevated rail track and an approach road will be developed. The government has conveyed its approval to the Railways, which will float a tender to initiate the process,” said Pradeep Ranjan, Superintending Engineer, PWD. He said residents of colonies beside the Rohtak-Gohana track took at least 25 minutes to reach the railway station through congested roads of the old city, but they would be able to cover the distance within minutes after construction of the road. He said work on laying the 4.8-km elevated rail track would be completed before August 15, after which Railways would conduct trials.
10-07-2020||Ravi S Singh||AAP to contest elections to panchayats & civic bodies||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 9To expand its base in Haryana, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will contest elections at all levels, including the upcoming byelection to Baroda, in the state.“AAP will contest in the next panchayat and urban local bodies elections, besides the Assembly and parliamentary poll,” AAP Rajya Sabha member and co-incharge of Haryana Sushil Gupta said here on Thursday.He released the list of names of new office-bearers of Palwal and Faridabad districts. “AAP has completed the process of constituting its units in all the districts of the state. The process to constitute Assembly and bloc units will be completed by September. The party is geared up to contest elections at the grass-root level,” the AAP leader said.AAP had contested Faridabad, Karnal and Ambala Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 General Election, and 48 seats in the Assembly election the same year. The party failed to open its account in on both elections.He said the party would announce its nominee for the Baroda bypoll after the election was announced.The Jat-community segment fell vacant after the demise of Congress MLA Sri Kishan HoodaThe new office-bearers for Palwal district are Kuldip Kaushik (convener), Dharmendra Hindustani (organisation secretary), Satyaprakash Mittal (treasurer). Besides, Sunder Lal, Mukesh Sharma, Nepal Singh Tomar and Jagannath Sharma have been appointed vice-presidents, while Sachin Bansal secretary.As for Faridabad, Dharamveer Bhadana has been appointed as convener, Vinod Bhatti as organisation secretary and Rajan Gupta as treasurer. The vice-presidents are Narender Saroha, Raghuvar Dayal, Hiralal Soni, YK Sharma, Sohan Raj and Kuldip Chawla. Bhim Singh Yadav is the secretary.
