10-01-2021||New Delhi||Haryana AAP to intensify support to farm laws||Haryana AAP will scale up its support to farmers’ agitation in the state against the farm laws.AAP Rajya Sabha MP and incharge of Haryana affairs Sushil Gipta said on Sunday the Union government must unconditionally accede to the farmers’ demand for repeal of the laws.“Governments are for people, and not otherwise. When the farmers do not want the laws there was no justification in imposing them.”Also, the Union government must provide legal guarantee for MSP for agriculture produce as demanded by the farmers.Gupta said AAP has supported the farmers’ demands against the laws and with regard the guarantee on MSP since the start of their agitation.Referring to farmers’ demonstration at a venue of a public meeting in Karnal today which was to be addressed by Chief Minister ML Khattar, Gupta said the BJP dispensation should take note of it and repeal the laws.With regard AAP’ s political programme in the state in future, he said the entire party machinery  has been involved in the farmers’ agitation for the past more than a month.The party will focus on the upcoming elections to Panchayats, Block Samitis and Zilla Parishad in the state.
10-01-2021||New Delhi||Cold wave conditions in Northwest on January 12, 13||Due to the prevalence of dry winds over most parts of Northwest India, minimum temperature is expected to fall gradually by 3-4°C during the next 3-4 days.This may cause isolated cold wave conditions over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and north Rajasthan on January 12 and 13, the IMD has said.Strong surface winds (speed 15-25 kmph) are also very likely over the plains of Northwest India during the next three days, the IMD added.
10-01-2021||---||Farmers ransack Khattar’s Kisan Mahapanchayat venue; cops use teargas, water cannons to disperse protesters||Karnal, January 10The police on Sunday fired tear gas shells and used water cannons to disperse farmers, who stormed the helipad and vandalised the stage, where Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was to address a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ to highlight the “benefits” of Centre's three agriculture laws.Protesting farmers reached the venue in the afternoon and disrupted the programme. They damaged the stage and broke chairs, tables and flower pots at the venue. The programme was later cancelled.The farmers also took control over a makeshift helipad where Chief Minister's helicopter was to land.Police have registered a case under various sections of damaging to public property Act and others against 71 persons by name as well as some unidentified people. Meanwhile, BJP workers, led by local MLA Harvinder Kalyan, also reached the fields near the helipad.Farmers had, earlier in the day, taken out a march on tractors, SUVs, cars and bikes towards Kaimla village to oppose the Chief Minister’s address.On their way to the venue, farmers successfully crossed the first barricade installed at Gharaunda on the Kaimla road.Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia was seen trying to pacify the farmers but they staged a sit-in near the second barricade as their leaders were busy discussing further strategy.Police from surrounding districts, led by four SPs and more than 12 DSPs, were deployed at different entry points.To stall farmers from marching towards Kaimla village, the police had also parked trucks on Kaimla road.After being stopped by the police, scores of farmers started marching on foot, leaving their vehicles behind, to cross the barricades.Amidst the chaos, farmer leaders appealed the protestors to maintain discipline.When the situation got out of hand, the police used tear gas shells to disperse farmers who were marching towards the venue.Police had made elaborate security arrangements for the Chief Minister's visit to the village where he was to speak to people to highlight the “benefits” of the Centre's three farm laws.Farmers from across the district were, however, adamant on opposing the event.Some Kaimla villagers and residents of surrounding areas, including Kutail village of local MLA Harvinder Kalyan, earlier today extended support to the protesting farmers at the Bastara toll plaza and said they would also oppose the Chief Minister’s visit.Police had made elaborate security arrangements for the chief minister’s visit to the village where he was to speak to people to highlight the “benefits” of the new farm laws.Director General of Police (Crime) Muhammad Akil was also present at the spot.“All the farmers are here to whom the CM ‘sahib’ intends to explain the farm laws. We will not allow the government to hold this programme,” a protester said.The farmers lambasted the Khattar-led dispensation in the state, saying it was holding a programme on the central farm laws at this point of time when farmers across the country have been protesting against the same.“The government is trying to rub salt into our wounds with this ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ programme,” another protester added.Reacting to the incident, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the government should avoid confrontation with the protesting farmers.“Farmers have certain apprehensions over the new farm Acts, the government should rather repeal these Acts as desired by the peasantry and avoid confrontation with them by holding functions like the mahapanchayat,” he said.The former CM reiterated his demand of convening an emergent session of the state assembly.“This government has lost the faith of its legislators and people. The Congress wants to bring a no confidence motion against the Khattar government,” he said.Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said the mahapanchayat convened by Khattar did not get support from the people.“The government had lost trust of the people,” she said.AICC general secretary Randeep singh Surjewala said the proposed mahapanchayat was a “government sponsored” event which has been shown “its true picture” by the protesters.Meanwhile, a purported video of Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni making an appeal to end the arrogance of the CM by not allowing him to address the mahapanchayat circulated on social media.Notably, on January 6, the BKU (Charuni) had threatened that they would oppose the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ programme.Besides addressing the programme, the Haryana CM was also supposed to announce development works worth Rs 47 crore for Karnal. With PTI inputs
10-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold conditions continue in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions continued to sweep most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday, while a thick blanket of fog enveloped many places in the region, reducing visibility.    Chandigarh, the common capital of both states, recorded a low of 9.4 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced their minimums at 7.5, 7 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively.The minimum temperature of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 5.4, 7.2, 8.6 and 7.1 degrees Celsius respectively.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded their respective minimums at 8.6, 8 and 8.5 degrees Celsius, up to five degrees above normal, the official said.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur were 10.6, 9, 8.5, 9.3, 5.4 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively.A thick blanket of fog enveloped several parts including Chandigarh, Ambala, Hisar, Faridkot and Karnal in the morning, reducing visibility, the official said. PTI
10-01-2021||---||Hisar police register attempt to murder case against 20 farmers for hurling stone at Dy Speaker’s vehicle||Hisar, January 10Hisar police on Sunday registered attempt to murder case under Sections 307, 147, 149, 353, 186, 332, 341, 291 and 506 against 20 farmers, including seven identified in connection with the assault on the Deputy Speaker’s vehicle in Arya Nagar village.The case has been registered on the complaint of security personnel Sandeep, who had suffered injury in the incident.A group of agitating farmers allegedly hurled a stone at the official vehicle of Deputy Speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa during his visit to Arya Nagar village to attend a social welfare programme organised by Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) on Saturday.He was the chief guest at the event. Gangwa escaped unhurt.The incident took place when the Deputy Speaker was leaving the venue. The protesters showed him black flags and raised anti-government slogans.One of his security men, Sandeep Kumar, was injured while trying to keep the crowd away. He was taken to the Civil Hospital, where doctors gave him first aid and discharged later.
10-01-2021||New Delhi||Farmers firm: Won’t back off, even if told by courts||Agitating farmers today said they would not back down from legitimate protests against the farm laws, even if the court tells them to. After a meeting with their legal representatives here, farm union representatives said they would only implead in the Supreme Court in the pending petitions seeking removal of protesters from Delhi borders and not in any matter regarding the constitutionality of the farm laws.Another suicide at TikriNew Delhi: A young farmer from Fatehgarh Sahib Amrinder Singh died by consuming poison at the Singhu border on Saturday. Paramjit Singh of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha said Amrinder was a resident of Machrain Kalan in Fatehgarh Sahib district. He died at FIMS, Bahalgarh, Sonepat. TNSThe Supreme Court had in mid-December allowed eight farm unions to implead in the petition challenging their protests on grounds of Covid-related issues. The farm unions said these unions would go to the court on Monday in the pending case.“The eight farm unions which are already part of the case and have been impleaded in the matter of protests by farmers will go to the SC on January 11. The issue of constitutionality is not even before the SC and we will not become party to it. We have consulted our lawyers,” Darshan Pal, one of the union leaders said on a day the Congress threw its weight behind the protesters, daring the PM to quit if he could not rescind the laws.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged the SC to introspect. “The Modi government was elected by the people, not the SC. It is answerable to the people for its decisions and not to the Supreme Court. The responsibility of making and annulling the laws is that of Parliament. I would urge the SC to ask itself why the farmers are so unwilling to approach it? Why does the government want the SC to solve all contentious issues, from the CAA and the National Register of Citizens to farm laws,” he asked. Announcing protests on January 15 in solidarity with the farmers, Surjewala said “Jan Andolans” would be held at all state headquarters and the day observed as Kisan Adhikar Diwas. Swaraj Abhiyan chief Yogendra Yadav also slammed the government for suggesting that the farmers should go to the SC.“The SC has said earlier that it will not intervene... The government is dodging dialogue,” he claimed. “Bring whatever orders you wish. We are not going anywhere until you repeal the laws,” said a resolute BKU leader Rakesh Tikait.
10-01-2021||New Delhi||Farmers' protest: Govt may have ‘Plan B’ ready||After several rounds of fruitless negotiations with farmers, while the Centre appears to be waiting for the outcome of the January 11 Supreme Court hearing on a batch of pleas challenging the validity of the three farm laws, it also seems to have a “Plan B” ready.The likely courseordinance on air quality mgmt during Budget sessionIt is also willing to have a joint 10-member panel todiscuss changes in the lawsSources indicate if nothing works out by January 15, the government may consider bringing amendments (as proposed to the farmers) to the three laws and the ordinance on air quality management in the Budget session. “But it is certain that there will be no repeal (of the three Acts),” the sources say.The ongoing agitation is an “undesirable” situation for any popular dispensation, but the government believes it will be able to “tide it over”. If laws are amended, it will be a proof of the BJP’s intent towards the farmers.The government is also willing to have a joint 10-member panel to “discuss and make changes in the farm laws”.Having relented on the proposed power Act, stubble burning ordinance and amendments to Acts, this is about as far the government is willing to bend. Any further concessions will end uo in “opening possibilities of more protests.”
10-01-2021||Panipat||Groundwater near Panipat refinery unfit for drinking||The groundwater in villages adjoining Indian Oil Corporation Limited refinery here has been found unfit for drinking, according to a survey by the Central Ground Water Board. The pH value of water was not found up to the mark at certain places while heavy metals — iron, fluoride and uranium — were found in excess of the prescribed limit at other places.The Public Health and Engineering Department now proposes to dig new borewells to provide clean drinking water. — TNS
10-01-2021||---||60 officials under lens in land registry case||Chandigarh, January 9With all Divisional Commissioners of the state submitting their reports on probe into land registration malpractices to the government, the role of over 60 officials is said to be under the scanner.Widespread malpracticesThe inquiry into the violation of Section 7-A of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (HDRUA) Act during registration of sale deeds was ordered by the state government after detection of widespread malpractices into registration of sale deeds.The government had also registered criminal cases against six serving and one retired revenue official for executing registration of sale deeds of properties without obtaining no-objection certificates (NOC) in notified urban areas of Gurugram district in August last year.Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue Department) confirmed that reports have been received from all the Commissioners of all the six divisions – Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak, Hisar, Karnal and Ambala – but added that the government was yet to examine the reports.Sources, however, said that the role over 60 officials of the revenue, town and country planning department and urban development department is under the scanner in these reports.Sources further said that nearly 30,000 land registrations are said to have been done in violation of the rules during lockdown where land situated within the limits of civic bodies or town and country planning department have been done without NOCs required under the rules.
10-01-2021||Nitish Sharma||Three years on, 1,700 Kurukshetra University pensioners await arrears||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, January 9Nearly 1,700 pensioners of Kurukshetra University have been awaiting arrears worth Rs 14 crore of nearly 19 months (from January 2016 to September 2017) for the past three years.The pensioners claim that the university had revised the pay of its staff and pension of pensioners with effect from January 1, 2016. The enhanced salaries are being paid since September 2017, but the difference of 19 months is still lying pending.Davinder Sachdeva, PetitionerFacing financial issuesThe pensioners are facing financial issues. Due to age-related ailments and other issues, they can’t go and meet the authorities for the release of their arrears repeatedly. The government should release the grant at the earliest.Davinder Sachdeva, retired assistant registrar, Kurukshetra University, said, “Despite repeated representations, the Kurukshetra University is yet to clear the dues of around Rs 14 crore. Earlier, the university expressed helplessness and claimed that it had no funds to clear the arrears. Later, the university wrote to the government and sought Rs 15-crore grant-in-aid so that the dues of pensioners could be cleared but to no avail.”“Finding no other way, we moved to the Punjab and Haryana High Court earlier this year and the university informed the court that it has been facing shortage of funds, it has sought grant from the government and that is awaited. The High Court also asked the state government as to how much time it will take to consider the request of Kurukshetra University for grant of arrears of pension. The case will be next heard on January 25,” he said.Davinder Sachdeva, one of the petitioners, said, “The pensioners are facing financial issues. Due to age-related ailments and other issues, they can’t go and meet the authorities for the release of their arrears repeatedly. Last month, one of the petitioners also died. The government should release the grant at the earliest.”Meanwhile, Dr Brajesh Sawhney, Director Public Relations, Kurukshetra University, said, “The University has already taken up the matter with the state government, it has sought a grant of Rs 15 crore for this purpose. The matter is being further pursued by the higher authorities with the government.”
10-01-2021||New Delhi||Tell Haryana to stop polluting Yamuna: Jal Board to Centre||Delhi Jal Board Vice-Chairman Raghav Chadha has appealed to Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to intervene on behalf of Delhi in order to stop the Haryana Government from releasing dirty water in the Yamuna. Chadha called for immediate action after the Delhi Jal Board carried out river survey work.“As per our latest survey of the Rohtak X-regulator, it was observed that not only has the water turned a dirty green, but the ammonia levels have risen to an alarming 40 ppm. We would like to bring this to the immediate attention of Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Such alarming levels of ammonia are extremely dangerous and will compel us to shut down our plants, which will have a subsequent impact on the water supply in Delhi,” Chadha said in his statement.“We request the Haryana Government to take urgent cognisance of and immediate steps to curb the release of untreated effluents into the Yamuna,” he added. The Delhi Jal Board team also surveyed Barota village and DD-8 at Piao Manihari.The vice-chairman raised the possibility of shutting down the plants if the release of untreated water is not curbed. — TNS
10-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Five ‘wanted’ inter-state criminals held in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 9The Gurugram police have nabbed five wanted inter-state criminals here.The police said the nabbed culprits were involved in various cases, including attempt to murder, kidnapping and snatching. A bounty of Rs 25,000 had been fixed on one of the accused while that of Rs 5,000 each on other three criminals.A revolver, eight cartridges and a Scorpio car has been recovered from their possession.The accused were identified as Ankit, Amarjeet of Jind, Ajit of Hisar, Mohit of Sonepat and Monu of Rewari district. They have been involved in an alleged shooting incident during a clash in Bamdoli village in November last year.On November 15, two groups clashed in Bamdoli village that lead to firing. Three men, including a former sarpanch, were critically injured and dozen others were hurt.“The arrested accused are involved in a dozen crime incidents in Gurugram, Ambala, Jind and Delhi. We are questioning them and hope many more cases will be solved,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime.
10-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Six fatalities, 279 new cases in Haryana||With 279 fresh cases, the overall Covid tally jumped to 2.6 lakh in the state today.Meanwhile, six fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours, with one death each in Gurugram, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Sirsa and Jhajjar. A total of 211 people have recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of discharged cases to 2.59 lakh. — TNS
10-01-2021||Yamunanagar||Drivers steal govt wheat from trucks, sell it to dhaba||Wheat bought by the government was being stolen and sold by truck drivers to a dhaba of the district at cheaper rates. The crime was being committed while transporting the wheat from one godown to another godown of Food Corporation of India.This came to the fore when a CM Flying Squad team raided a dhaba in Ratangarh village situated on Yamunanagar-Kurukshetra road on Thursday afternoon.The team caught four persons —Vikram Singh of King Colony of Kurukshetra town; Gurnam of Ghumar Kheri village of Kurukshetra district, both truck drivers; Praveen Kumar and Naresh Kumar, both residents of Ratangarh village of Yamunanagar district and owners of Jassi Dhaba. The team handed them over to the Yamunanagar police.According to the information available, a team of CM Flying Squad raided the dhaba on Friday. The team found that two trucks loaded with wheat bags were standing at the dhaba and their drivers were stealing wheat from their trucks.“The truck drivers were stealing wheat from their trucks using an implement (parkhi) and filling it in empty bags to sell it to dhaba owners,” reads the FIR, lodged by Surender Kumar, a sub-inspector of CM Flying Squad, at Sadar police station, Yamunanagar.In his complaint, he said that the wheat was loaded in trucks from FCI godown, Indri (Karnal district), for FCI godown of Pilkhani town of Saharanpur district (Uttar Pradesh).“The dhaba owners had been buying stolen wheat from truck drivers for the past four to five years,” the complainant said. — TNS
10-01-2021||---||Congress to gherao Raj Bhawan||New Delhi/Chandigarh, January 9The state Congress on Saturday decided to gherao the Raj Bhawan on January 15 in solidarity with the agitating farmers.The decision was taken at a meeting of the state Congress leaders chaired by AICC in-charge for Haryana Vivek Bansal.It was attended by senior leaders, including party unit chief Kumari Selja, former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, former CLP leader Kiran Chowdhry, Special Invitee, CWC and MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi.
10-01-2021||---||40-yr-old protesting farmer ends life at Singhu||Sonepat, January 9A 40-year-old protesting farmer reportedly consumed some poisonous substance near the central stage at the Singhu border on Saturday evening.Farmer leaders immediately rushed him to a private hospital, where he died during treatment.The deceased has been identified as Amarinder Singh (40), a resident of Machhrai Khurd village in Fatehgarh Sahib, Punjab.The total deaths at the Singhu border reached 10, including two suicides.
10-01-2021||Palwal||Farmers halt toll collection on National Highway–19||Farmers protesting the three farm laws halted toll collection at Tumsara village on National Highway–19 this morning.According to reports, the toll plaza had resumed collection a day ago after suspending it on January 1.Bhagirath, a spokesperson for farmers sitting on a dharna near Antoha village here, said more than 200 protesters reached the toll plaza in the morning and halted toll collection.He said no collection would be allowed till their demands were fulfilled by the Central Government. Mahesh Chauhan, in-charge of the toll plaza, said although no written orders had been received either from the NHAI or the district authorities, toll collection had been suspended on the request of farmers. — TNS
10-01-2021||---||Will celebrate R-Day at official venue: Farmers||Hisar, January 9As the farmers’ protest is gaining strength in the region, the farmers’ body here today announced that they would hold a tractor march and celebrate Republic Day at the Mahavir Stadium in Hisar.The farmer leaders said that they would reach Mahavir Stadium on January 26 after conducting a tractor march that will see the participation of farmers of the district.Mahavir Stadium is the venue of the official function of the government.Farmer leader Sube Singh Boora maintained that the agitation would continue until the Centre agrees to the demands of farmers to repeal the three farm laws and make MSP and state procurement of crops a legal right.
10-01-2021||Karnal||6 cranes found dead in Karnal||Amid the bird flu scare, six cranes have been found dead in Newal Commando Complex in the district on Friday. However, in the preliminary investigation, the Animal Husbandry Department could not find any strain of bird flu. The samples of the dead cranes have been sent for testing to Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL) Jalandhar.Dr Dharmendra, Deputy Director Animal Husbandry, said that on Friday they got information about the death of six cranes in the complex, following which they sent a team of experts there. “The post-mortem examination was also conducted and the samples have been sent for further testing,” he said. Extreme cold could also be a reason behind the death, he said. — TNS
10-01-2021||---||Stay peaceful, artistes appeal at Tikri border||Sonepat, January 9The farmers’ protest against the three farm laws at Singhu and Tikri borders continued for the 45th day on Saturday. Thousands of people from Punjab and Haryana joined the protest on Saturday.Express solidarityArtistes — Harbhajan Mann, Jazzy Bains, Kanwar Grewal, Rabbi Shergill, Swara Bhaskar, Aarya Babbar, Harf Cheema, Gurpreet Saini, Jass Bajwa, Noor Chahal, Gurshabad Kular — reached Tikri border to solidarity with the protesting farmers. Punjabi singers and theatre artistes appealed to the protesting farmers to stay peaceful and the victory of the farmers would be for sure.The farmers paid tribute to Sir Chhotu Ram on his death anniversary and took oath to fight till their last breath for their rights.Amid bone-chilling cold wave, Singhu border witnessed heavy rush of the farmers today. As per intelligence reports, more than 55,000 farmers were at Singhu border on Saturday.Firm on their demand of repealing of the three farm laws, the farmers said that they were ready to face all odd situations but would return only after the repealing of these laws.Sukhbeer Singh of Fatehgarh Singh said that he, along with his friends, came here to support the farmers. He brought his bicycle in his car to roam about freely in the farmers’ camps. Every day, farmers were dying at the Delhi borders. So, the government must accept their demands as soon as possible so that they could go home happily and safely, he added.Balwinder Singh alias Vicky of Moga, who reached Singhu border along with six friends on bicycles, said that they have come here to support farmers. Earlier, he and his friends had come to Singhu border on motorcycles.Jogender Singh of Ludhiana said that we have come to Delhi for a decisive battle against the three farm laws and for legal guarantee of MSP. We won’t step back till our demands are fulfilled.
10-01-2021||Sushil Manav||Rates of poultry feed decline, farmers suffer losses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9The poultry crisis, first due to Covid and now owing to the bird flu scare, has not just hit the poultry farmers, but also the agriculturists in the state as prices of crops used as feed have witnessed a fall.Insurance coverMaize which fetched farmers Rs 2,600 per quintal in 2018-19 sold for as low a price as Rs 900 per quintal this year while millet that sold for Rs 1,900 per quintal or more two years back is selling for Rs 1,350 per quintal now, according to Jasbir Singh, a trader at Ellenabad in Sirsa district.“The prices have witnessed a further fall during the past one week ever since the bird flu scare has hit the poultry industry,” said Surinder Bhutani, general secretary of Haryana Poultry Farmers Association, adding that 60 per cent of the maize and millets produced in this part of the country is consumed in poultry farms alone. Besides these, broken rice is used as feed in the poultry industry.The poultry industry in the state had suffered a setback with the Covid pandemic hitting the country in March last year. “The business had just revived partially when the bird flu scare hit the industry, forcing poultry farmers to sell their products at rates lower than their costs. As a result, most of the farmers have consciously been decreasing the number of birds in their farms so that they have to spend less on the feed, resulting in lesser demand for maize, millets and broken rice,” said Bhutani.Meanwhile, poultry farmers whose birds are to be culled are unhappy with the government’s decision to cull even those birds which are not affected by the disease.A delegation of poultry farmers from Panchkula last evening met Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar with Speaker Gian Chand Gupta who is also the MLA from Panchkula.Gupta said that culling would be done only for those birds which are necessary to be culled under the protocol.Raja Sekhar Vundru, Principal Secretary of the Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department, said that adhering to the guidelines, 1,66,128 birds of five poultry farms which fall within the 1 km radius of the two infected farms would be culled under the supervision of experts to prevent further spread of the disease. The poultry farm owners would be given compensation for it.Poultry farmers, meanwhile, have termed the compensation to be paid to them against the culling as too little.As per the department’s notification, the poultry farmers are to be compensated at rate of Rs 20 per layer bird if the age if less than eight weeks and Rs 90 if the age is more than eight weeks. For broiler, the compensation price is Rs 20 for less than six-week age and Rs 70 for above six weeks.The compensation for eggs and feed is Rs 3 per unit and Rs 12 per kg, respectively.
10-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||Stone hurled at Deputy Speaker’s official vehicle in Hisar village||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 9A group of agitating farmers allegedly hurled a stone at the official vehicle of Deputy Speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa during his visit to Arya Nagar village to attend a social welfare programme organised by Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) today. He was the chief guest at the event. Gangwa escaped unhurt.Case registeredThe incident took place when the Deputy Speaker was leaving the venue. The protesters showed him black flags and raised anti-government slogans.One of his security men, Sandeep Kumar, was injured while trying to keep the crowd away. He was taken to the Civil Hospital, where doctors gave him first aid and discharged later.Arya Nagar happens to be the village of the Deputy Speaker’s in-laws. Gangwa stayed at the venue for nearly one hour and also visited the residence of local supporter RS Varma. Confirming this to The Tribune, the Deputy Speaker said some protesters carrying flags of farmer organisations gheraoed his vehicle and hurled a stone at it.Jagdish Singh, SarpanchOutsiders’roleProtesters were from other villages and no resident of Arya Nagar village was involved.SHO, Azad Nagar police station, Rohtash Singh said they had registered a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by the injured security guard.Village sarpanch Jagdish Singh, however, clarified that the protesters were from other villages and no resident of Arya Nagar village was involved in the incident.Meanwhile, some BJP workers also faced a protest during a party programme in Barwala town today.At Jakhod Khera village, residents got development projects inaugurated by chowkidar Mamu Ram. Jitender, a representative of sarpanch Poonam, said earlier, they had planned to invite the Deputy Speaker to the inauguration. However, sensing trouble, they dropped the idea and got the works inaugurated by the chowkidar.
10-01-2021||---||Tractor rally in memory of Sir Chhotu Ram||Ambala, January 9Amid tight security, thousands of farmers, under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni), on Saturday took out a tractor march in Ambala City and Naraingarh block of the district to mark the death anniversary of Sir Chhotu Ram, who is remembered as a farmer leader. They termed the march just a trailer.Gulab Singh, District Vice-President, BKU (Charuni)Sir Chhotu Ram always worked for the cause of farmers. He will always be remembered for creating a new awakening among them. At least 3,000 tractors participated in today’s march. Farmers are ready for any struggle. We are hoping for the best and prepared for the worst. It is just a trailer.In Ambala City, the farmers gathered at the grain market and paid tributes to Chhotu Ram before taking out the march. The farmers, some of whom were accompanied by children, raised slogans and played songs in support of the agitation. The march passed through Aggarsain Chowk, Polytechnic Chowk, Kalka Chowk, Baldev Nagar, Jandli area and Prem Nagar before culminating at the grain market.The farmers also tied the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in front of their vehicles.A heavy police force was deployed and traffic was diverted. Some youths were seen sitting on speakers and the bonnet of their tractors, risking their lives.District vice-president, BKU (Charuni), Gulab Singh, said, “Sir Chhotu Ram always worked for the cause of farmers. He will always be remembered for creating a new awakening among them. At least 3,000 tractors participated in today’s march. Farmers are ready for any struggle. We are hoping for the best and prepared for the worst. It is just a trailer. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala is scheduled to visit Ambala on the Republic Day and we will hold a protest against him.”BKU spokesperson Rajiv Sharma said another tractor march was organised in Naraingarh block. It started from Karasan village and culminated at Ambala Chowk.
10-01-2021||---||Stage set for Khattar’s ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ in Karnal||Karnal, January 9Security has been tightened at Kaimla village in the district, where Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar is scheduled to address a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ on Sunday to highlight the benefits of the three farm laws. Farmers from across the district are, however, adamant on opposing the event.Some Kaimla villagers and residents of surrounding areas, including Kutail village of local MLA Harvinder Kalyan, today extended support to the protesting farmers at the Bastara toll plaza and said they would also oppose the CM’s visit.The police have installed barricades at all entry points to the village and a helipad has been constructed near the venue.DC Nishant Kumar Yadav and SP Ganga Ram Punia today held a meeting with farmer leaders and made it clear that no one would be allowed to disrupt the event. However, the meeting, which lasted for around two hours, ended without any outcome. Farmers said they would continue their protest and oppose the mahapanchayat. “We have made it clear to the administration that we will oppose the visit of any BJP-JJP leader. We also requested officials to cancel the CM’s visit to maintain the spirit of brotherhood in the village,” said Rampal Chahal, president of the farmers’ committee formed for the protest at the Bastara toll plaza.Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, state core committee member of the BKU (Charuni), said they would assemble at the toll plaza and move towards Kaimla village at 10 am.The DC said the CM would interact with farmers and apprise them of the benefits of the laws. “We have warned farmers not to disrupt the programme, otherwise action will be initiated,” he added.The SP said they had made elaborate security arrangements and no one would be allowed to cross the barricades.Meanwhile, local MLA Kalyan claimed that some residents of Kaimla and surrounding villages were in favour of the programme. On the occasion, the CM would also dedicate projects worth Rs 4,717 lakh for the district.
