10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Six more COVID-19 fatalities in Haryana, death toll rises to 489||Six more deaths due to COVID-19 were reported in Haryana on Monday and 794 fresh cases pushed the state's total caseload to 42,429, according to the health department's daily bulletin.While Rewari reported three fatalities, two deaths were reported from Panipat and one from Faridabad district. With these, Haryana's COVID-19 death toll rose to 489.Among the districts which reported fresh cases were Faridabad (154), Ambala (84), Panipat (72), Rewari (71), Panchkula (59), Gurugram (57), Yamunanagar (44), Kurukshetra (43), Rohtak (40), Karnal (32), Sonepat (31) and Hisar (23), as per the bulletin.The number of active cases in the state is 6,448 while 35,492 people have been discharged after recovery.As of Monday, the state's recovery rate was 83.65 per cent while the rate of doubling of infections was 29 days. --- PTI
10-08-2020||New Delhi||CBI searches 4 locations over ‘illegal’ use of land to raise Ambience Mall in Gurugram||The CBI on Monday conducted searches at four locations after filing a case of illegal conversion of residential land to raise the swanky Ambience Mall in Gurgaon, officials said.The CBI has registered an FIR on the orders of Punjab and Haryana High Court which had termed the mall illegal. The High Court had sought a separate investigation by the CBI to probe alleged illegal actions, if any, and possible collusion between the builder and state authorities.The Ambience group runs Ambience Malls in NCR and luxury hotel The Leela Ambience Convention Centre among other such real estate properties. The petitioners had alleged before the High Court that 18.98 acres of land on Delhi-Jaipur National Highway in Gurugram earmarked for Ambience Lagoon Island Residential Complex was reduced to just 7.9 acres with a commercial complex erected on the remaining land. They had alleged that such violation the builder-buyer agreement and provisions of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act, 1975 was not possible without the collusion of officials and builders. — PTI
10-08-2020||Karnal||Coronavirus: Karnal reports 21 more cases, tally rises to 1,322||Karnal on Monday reported 21 new cases of coronavirus, taking the district's case tally to 1,322.Three cases were reported from Shiv Colony, two from Old Housing Board, one each from Sakpura in Gharaunda, Ashok Nagar, Jhiverheri, Taraori, Ram Nagar, Barthal, Azad Nagar, Nilokheri, Sector-6, Sector-33, Sector-9, Jundla Gate, KCGMC campus, Jarnali Colony, and Moti Nagar.
10-08-2020||---||Employees against privatisation of firms in Haryana||Panchkula, August 9A demonstration was held today at Major Sandeep Sankhla Memorial in Sector 2 here on a call given by trade unions and numerous independent federations of employees.They were protesting against “the privatisation of state-owned firms, bid to weaken labour laws, retrenchment of employees and deduction in allowances”.The protest was organised under the banner of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and Haryana Sarv Karamchari Sangh. Even ASHA workers took part in the protest demanding 50 per cent incentives during the prevailing situation of Covid-19.Savita Malik of the Haryana Sarva Karamchari Sangh and CITU state secretary Virendra Singh alleged the present government’s policies were against the rights of employees, labourers, farmers and even the general public.“Public departments are being privatised, labour laws are being weakened to benefit capitalists, farmers are under distress, prices of petrol and diesel have skyrocketed, employees’ allowances are being deducted,” they said.
10-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Black sheep in Excise Department delaying probes: Lokayukta||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9Haryana Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal (retd) has come down heavily on the Excise and Taxation Department for delaying probe into tax evasion cases. He made the comment while referring to a case related to the misuse of tax identification number (TIN) of one firm by another.In 2017, a Sirsa resident had approached the Lokayukta against Pratham Industries for allegedly cheating the state government of lakhs of rupees by using the TIN of another firm, Manish Marbles.In February 2019, the Lokayukta had asked the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Excise and Taxation Department, to inquire into the matter. In spite of several reminders, the department did not file a report.On February 10 this year, a show-cause notice was issued to the ACS. Even then the department submitted an action-taken report, and not the inquiry report, to the Lokayukta on March 6.By that time, the cases against Pratham Industries became time-barred. It means an investigation Pratham Industries against the industry could not be carried out. The Section 16 of the Haryana VAT Act sets a three-year time limit on investigations into tax evasion cases.The complaint against Pratham Industries pertaining to the period from 2006 to 2009, but the complaint was received in 2017. So, as per the Act, the cases were time-barred.The Lokayukta, in its July 27 order, observed that the action-taken report issued by the Joint Excise and Taxation Commissioner (Range), Hisar, and endorsed by the Excise and Taxation Commissioner claimed that “the cases against Pratham Industries have become time-barred and Manish Marbles is not involved in tax evasion”.“The Excise and Taxation Department did not wait for the report of this authority (Lokayukta) and decided the matter at its own end,” the Lokayukta said.He added the matter related to Sirsa firms showed that excise and taxation officers were ignoring tax evasion and if it was taken as an example, it would not be difficult to presume the quantum of loss to the public exchequer on account of tax evasion in the entire state.“There is not an iota of doubt in my mind that there are some black sheep in the department, who delayed the enquiries and have not done their duties to detect such matters,” the Lokayukta said in his report.He called for a fresh enquiry into the case by the ACS (Excise and Taxation) and for taking stern action against erring officials “if complainant’s allegations are correct”.The triggerIn 2017, a Sirsa resident approached the Lokayukta against Pratham Industries for allegedly cheating the state of lakhs. It allegedly used tax identification number of another firmIn Feb 2019, the Lokayukta had asked the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Excise and Taxation, to probe the matter. In spite of several reminders, the dept did not file a reportOn Feb 10 this year, a show-cause notice was issued to the ACS. Even then the dept submitted an action-taken report, and not the inquiry report, to the Lokayukta on March 6
10-08-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Departments with 300 employees under e-transfer policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9In a move towards transparency in government transfers, the government has effected major amendments in its online transfer policy by bringing departments with a sanctioned strength of 300 and above under its purview.The new policy, which covers boards and corporations, besides government departments, makes special provision for newlywed and recently divorced women. These employees will be entitled to preferred places of posting against vacancy after the transfer drive.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioners (DCs) and Chief Medical Officers (CMOs) have been empowered to recommend deputation and temporary transfer of certain employees for genuine and compelling reasons under the relaxation clause.Welcoming the amendments, Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh, has stressed the need for making the policy more employee-friendly in consultation with all stakeholders.Taking into account legal complications at a later stage, the government has asked all departments to get their respective online transfer policies vetted from the Advocate General before implementation.The government has asked 10 departments, including agriculture, development, excise and taxation, education, PWD, transport, women and child development, animal husbandry and industrial training, to implement the transfer drive by August 31.MAJOR CHANGES
10-08-2020||Karnal||Fatal fall  for BSF jawan||A BSF jawan posted in the district jail here has died in hospital after falling from a watch tower while on duty.  The deceased has been identified as Sagarmal (32) of Sikar in Rajasthan. Amit Bhado, Jail Superintendent, said the jawan fell from the watch tower on Saturday morning and was taken to Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, where he succumbed at night. Ram Nagar SHO Jaswinder Tuli said they handed over the body of the jawan to his parents after the autopsy. — TNS
10-08-2020||---||BKU activists stage dharna outside Karnal MP’s house||Panipat, Augut 9Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Sunday staged a dharna outside Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia’s residence in Model Town here in protest against the Centre’s three ordinances.They also sought a purchase guarantee law on minimum support price (MSP).The BKU activists from Karnal and Panipat district gathered at Kisan Bhawan here and held a panchayat, led by state president Rattan Mann and presided over by district president Kuldeep Balana.After the kisan panchayat, the farmers held a protest march towards MP Bhatia’s residence and staged a dharna there. The protesting farmers submitted a memorandum to Anju Bhatia, wife of MP Sanjay Bhatia in his absence.The farmers protested against the Centre’s three ordinances — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance.BKU state president Rattan Mann said they had started an ‘August Kisan Kranti Andolan’ this month. He said as per the scheduled programme, the memorandum has been submitted to Kurukshetra MP Naib Singh Saini and Hisar MP Brijendera Singh.Showing anger over MP Bhatia’s absence, Mann said the BJP was an anti-farmers’ party, which was not hearing the genuine demands of the farmers. The BJP-led government will suffer for it, he said.“The Centre is trying to destroy the farming sector with the implementation of these three ordinances,” Mann alleged.He said these ordinances would pave way for the entry of corporates into agriculture activities, forcing small farmers out of their ancestral profession.
10-08-2020||Ravinder Saini---||65 illegal colonies came up in Rohtak in 18 months||Tribune News Service Rohtak, August 9  The Department of Town and Country Planning has detected 65 illegal colonies in the past one-and-a-half years. Surprisingly, sale deeds in many of the colonies have been registered without obtaining the no-objection certificate. The authorities demolished five of the colonies on Friday. An NoC is required for the registration of sale deed of land falling under the urban/controlled area. Unapproved colonies have mushroomed in villages of Bohar, Garhi Bohar, Gaddhi Kheri, Pehrawar, Kanheli, Makrauli Kalan, Makrauli Khurd, Sarai Ahmed, Baland, Dobh, Chamaria, Bhaiyanpur, Maina, Teja Majra, Bahu Jamalpur, Sunarian Kalan, Sunaria Khurd and Kheri Sadh.  The authorities have lodged 59 police complaints against property dealers and developers in the past one-and-a-half years, but that seems to be no deterrent. Property dealers get off the hook because of their political connections. “The registration of sale deeds is one of the main reasons behind mushrooming of unauthorised colonies in the district. Once the sale deed is registered, residents can avail themselves of several basic facilities such as electricity connection. So, they do not hesitate to carry out illegal construction,” an official of the department said. Sources say the department has issued only 15 NoCs for the registration of sale deed in the past 18 months. “Last year, 10 NoCs were issued and, this year so far, five NoCs have been issued,” the sources said. District Town Planner Ashok Garg said that on getting information, immediate action was taken against landowners who carried out illegal construction.
10-08-2020||Gurugram||30 youth have booze party in Aravallis, held||The Gurugram police busted a late night booze party in the Aravallis on Saturday.In all, 22 boys and eight girls were nabbed from Faridabad Road. They were drinking and making merry, throwing Covid caution to the wind.The police booked them for not just drinking in public but also violating pandemic Act precautions. Many of them appear to be underage.The host, Sector 46 resident Harsh Gosain, has been booked under the Excise Act also as he has no valid permission to hold a party or serve liquor. Four cartons of liquor were seized from the spot.As per Police Commissioner KK Rao, they got a tip-off about an illegal party being held at Baliyawas village. A special team headed by ACP Karan Goel raided the spot and caught 30 people. As per the police, a majority of them had no masks on when they were caught. They were invited via WhatsApp. — TNS
10-08-2020||Ambala||Three remain in HSGMC election fray||With three members of Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (Ad hoc) remaining in the fray, the stage is set for the election of  president on August 13. The poll will be held at Kaithal’s Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin and Nauvin in Guhla-Cheeka .On Sunday, Jasbir Singh Bhatti and Harpreet Singh, who had filed nomination as covering candidates of Baljit Singh Daduwal and Jasbir Singh Khalsa, respectively, withdrew their papers leaving Swaran Singh Ratia, Baljit Singh Daduwal and Jasbir Singh Khalsa in the fray for the president’s post.  Earlier, Swaran Singh was expected to withdraw his papers, but he continued to remain in the fray. The contest is likely to remain between Daduwal and Khalsa. Darshan Singh Barari, election officer, said, “I had received five papers. Of them, two have withdrawn. Now, three members will contest on August 13. At present, there are 36 members and they are eligible to vote.” There are primarily two factions — former president Jagdish Jhinda group and senior vice-president Didar Singh Nalvi group. — TNS
10-08-2020||Ravinder Saini---||Only four industries show interest in Mahendragarh  project||Tribune News Service Mahendragarh, August 9  A cloud of uncertainty looms over the ambitious Industrial Modern Township (IMT) project in Khudana village here. The HSIIDC has not received the expected response from industrialists despite contacting them personally and extending the date for inviting expression of interest (EoI) for the project.  Sources said that only four industries submitted the EoI by July 31 which was the extended last date for it.  Keeping in view the dismal response, the HSIIDC authorities are now contemplating whether the date should be extended further or a report should be submitted to the state government.  “Industrialists are reluctant to set up their units in the IMT due to the site being located away from national capital Delhi and low potential of developing the area as an industrial hub,” said a HSIIDC official on condition of anonymity.  Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had laid the foundation stone of the IMT project in February 2019 and the BJP later sought votes in the Lok Sabha poll by propagating this project. However, the project had been announced by the then CM Bhupinder Hooda in 2014 just before the Assembly poll, but it could not take off. The HSIIDC first invited EoI by July 15, but just two industries turned up. Then, the date was extended till July 31 and two more industries submitted the EoI. “Who will invest in a situation when no basic infrastructure has been developed at the proposed site? The HSIIDC is trying to attract industrialists by showing them an open ground. The Khudana gram panchayat has proposed to provide 1,000 acres for the project, but the state government has not yet developed anything over it. The CM had announced to spend Rs 200 crore over its basic infrastructure,” said Sandeep Yadav, a local social activist. Ram Kumar, Senior Town Planner, HSIIDC, confirmed that just four industrialists had turned up despite contacting them personally. “We are now planning to submit a report to the state government in this respect,” he added.
10-08-2020||---||Dalit’s head ‘smashed’ against wall, three booked for murder||Faridabad, August 9The police have registered a case in connection with the murder of a 36-year-old Dalit man at a nearby village on Saturday night. No arrest has been made so far.According to the complaint lodged with the police, the victim identified Parshu Ram (36), a labourer and a resident of Sahupura village, died after he was assaulted by three persons at 10.30 pm on Saturday in the village.It is claimed that Parshu Ram died on the spot after his head was smashed into a wall by three youths, who had stopped him in the street and had started assaulting him all of a sudden.It is revealed that one of the accused, identified as Sahil, was a neighbour of Parshu Ram. They had developed an enmity over some issue three months ago.Sahil, who was accompanied by two other youths, allegedly smashed Parshu Ram’s head into a wall, resulting in his death.The accused fled away after the incident. The police found the body at the spot and shifted it to the Civil Hospital for post-mortem examination.Old enmity.
10-08-2020||---||Nine more die, Faridabad goes past 10K cases||Chandigarh, August 9The spike in Covid cases continues in Haryana, with 792 fresh cases today taking the total number of cases to 41,635. The death toll rose to 483 with nine more deaths.Faridabad reported a maximum of 150 cases, followed by Karnal (93), Gurugram (80), Sonepat (53) and Ambala (52).With one more death, the toll in Faridabad rose to 140. The patient was a 56-year-old woman from Sector 55 who was suffering from comorbidities. The total number of positive cases surged to 10,129.The localities which reported fresh cases included Old Faridabad, Ballabgarh, NIT, Dabua Colony, Jawahar Colony, Sanjay Colony, SGM Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Kheri Kalan village, Adarsh Colony, Sector 7, Sector 8, Sector 16 and Sector 21-A.In Yamunanagar, 43 persons tested positive, taking the tally of cases to 459. Karnal reported 93 new cases, taking the tally to 1,302.Kurukshetra MP positiveAmbala: Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini tested positive for Covid on Sunday. The MP shared this information on his social media account.He requested people who were in contact with him to get themselves tested and quarantined.Sources in the Health Department said the MP had quarantined himself at his residence in Naraingarh and sampling of his contacts had been started.
10-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Couple booked for woman’s murder||The police have booked a couple in connection with the murder of a 30-year-old woman here on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Pinki. On the complaint of her brother Lakhan, the accused Ganga and his wife, residents of the district’s Amin village, have been booked under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC.As per the police complaint, Pinki had developed a relationship with Ganga, who is an alcoholic. He used to demand money from Pinki for liquor. When she refused, Ganga and his wife used to beat her up, Lakhan alleged.The accused are on the run. — TNS
10-08-2020||Sushil Manav||SET highlights ‘dilly-dallying’ by Excise Department in giving info||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9The Special Enquiry Team (SET) headed by IAS officer TC Gupta to look into the ‘liquor scam’ on the directions of Home Minister Anil Vij has highlighted “dilly-dallying” by the Excise Department, which comes under Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, in providing information sought for the purpose of the probe.The SET could not go into aspects like shortage of liquor found in stock of wholesalers, movement of liquor from wholesalers to vends and production of liquor by various distilleries in the state during the lockdown as the Excise and Taxation Department refused to part with the information, saying that “the competent authority has not yet taken a decision whether this information is to be compiled or not”. The SET, in its report, said these aspects needed to be probed further.“The SET would like to highlight dilly-dallying in furnishing information required by the Excise and Taxation Department. The SET asked for information on various aspects from the department through a letter on May 22. The Excise and Taxation Commissioner (ETC) provided some information, but did not do so on some other important aspects citing different reasons,” the report said.The SET observed that Subhash Yadav, who was a member of the team, had stated that sale of liquor had been reported across the state despite the lockdown.As per the law, liquor licensees were required to surrender the unsold leftover stock to the department at the end of the financial year on March 31. Several complaints regarding theft of leftover unsold stock were received across the state and FIRs registered.It seemed that during the lockdown, the sale of liquor was largely from unsold leftover stock of the previous year and hence, the SET decided to seek information about such stock.However, in response to the SET request for information regarding physical inspection of stock of wholesale licensees conducted by DETCs and DCs, the ETC replied that information was being compiled and would be submitted to the Chief Minister.To the request about information regarding movement of liquor from wholesale licensees to retailers in March and stock and production of liquor by all distilleries, breweries and bottling plants and supply from April 1 to May 6, the ETC replied, “The competent authority has not yet taken a final decision as to whether this information is to be compiled or not.”“The ETC supplied information pertaining to the distillery issue on July 28 after an e-mail and two reminders. As per information, three distilleries — ADS Spirits Private Limited, Jhajjar; Piccadilly Agro Industries, Bhadson, Karnal; and Falcon Distilleries Limited, Sonepat — produced liquor during the lockdown while others had reported no production,” said the report, adding that this aspect needed to be looked into as the SET could not inquire this.The report further said though the ETC did not provide information about shortage of liquor detected during physical verification, the DETCs, when called for interaction, admitted that a substantial difference in stock was detected.When asked to furnish the data, all except the Fatehabad DETC said the details of physical inspection was done by officers assigned by DCs and the report had been directly sent to the government.The Fatehabad DETC reported shortage of 201 cases of IMFL and 456 cases of beer with Vinayak Associates.
10-08-2020||---||Congress wants probe monitored by High Court||Chandigarh, August 9State Congress chief Kumari Selja and AICC communication incharge Randeep Surjewala today demanded an inquiry monitored by the High Court into the report of the SET into the ‘liquor scam’.In a statement issued here today, the Congress leaders alleged that the reactions of senior BJP and JJP leaders to the SET report clearly showed that the state government was trying to hush up the report.The differing stands of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Home Minister Anil Vij and Excise and Taxation Minister Dushyant Chautala to the findings of the SET had brought out the contradictions within the coalition government into the open, they said.Alleging that the liquor mafia was having a field day in Haryana, the leaders asserted that only a probe monitored by the judiciary could bring out the truth about the siphoning of huge stock of liquor during the lockdown.‘Govt trying to hush up matter’The Congress leaders alleged the reactions of senior BJP and JJP leaders to the SET report clearly showed that the state government was trying to hush up the report.
10-08-2020||---||Three of family booked for duping youth of Rs6.5L||Panipat, August 9The police have booked three members of a family, including a woman, for allegedly duping a Karnal youth of Rs 6.5 lakh on the pretext of providing a clerk’s job in the government through the Haryana Staff Selection Board.In his complaint to the Superintendent of Police, Krishan Kumar of Karnal’s Bal Rangran village said he had applied for the post of clerk of the Haryana Staff Selection Board and given a test in Hisar on September 23, 2019.He came in contact with Vidyawati, wife of Lakshman Dass Bhola of Tej Colony in Panipat, and she lured him saying that she had a relationship with the board chairman and would help him get the job, he alleged. She demanded Rs 6.5 lakh from Krishan for the purpose.He gave Rs 2 lakh to her at his relative Pawan’s home at Sanjay Colony in Panipat and transferred Rs 1.5 lakh in her account on September 14 last year. After that he again transferred Rs 1 lakh in her account and handed over Rs 2 lakh cash to her in the presence of her son Bharat and Lakshman Dass on October 24 last year. They took Krishan’s roll number slip and assured him that his job would be finalised. But his name did not appear in the list, Krishan added.Then he went to her and asked about his selection following which he demanded his money back, but she refused to return it and threatened him of dire consequences and implicating him in false cases.The Model Town police have lodged a criminal case against Vidyawati, her husband and son under various sections of the IPC and launched a probe into the matter.
10-08-2020||---||Gurugram RWAs yet to reopen gyms||Gurugram, August 9The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has allowed reopening of gyms, but Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) here have still kept their community areas closed in view of the Covid pandemic.Several RWAs of the Golf Course road, Sohna road and New Gurugram have still kept their gyms, parks and community centres, where yoga classes are held, closed. Residential societies of the area have been deferring reopening of gyms, fearing the spread of the virus.“All residents are going out for work in high-risk areas of Delhi and Faridabad. Anyone could be a carrier of virus. We have allowed residents to take a walk on society premises, but reopening gyms and parks could be risky,” the RWA president of the Golf course road said.Residents, however, claim they have been paying fee for the facilities for the past five months and it is safest option.“We are a close community, where every resident is santised and their temperature is checked regularly. We had requested the RWA to reopen gyms in a staggered manner, but it has not accorded permission. The district administration needs to intervene and ensure compliance with the Unlock guidelines,” said a memorandum submitted by residents of Sohna road.Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri said the administration was reviewing the situation and would find a solution.
10-08-2020||---||2 labourers commit suicide in Panipat||Panipat, August 9 Two migrant labourers allegedly committed suicide by hanging themselves in their rooms at separate places in the district. The deceased have been identified as 26-year-old Jafral Ahmad of Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh and 34-year-old Rajkumar Ghosh of West Bengal.  As per information, Jamil Ahmad was working in a private company for the last seven years. He was living at a rented accommodation near Jatal Road. His room partner came to the room in the wee hours and found Jamil hanging. The Quilla police reached the spot and sent the body to the General Hospital.  Meanwhile, Rajkumar Ghosh came to Panipat 15 days ago and was working in the IOCL refinery. He was suffering from diarrhoea and left the room to go to see a doctor.  When his friends came to their room at 10.30 pm on Friday, they did not find him there. They started searching him and found him hanging in a nearby hut. After getting information, the police reached at the spot and sent the body to the General Hospital. The police handed over the bodies to the victims’ kin after the postmortem examination on Saturday.
10-08-2020||Parveen Arora||Location of eastern Karnal bypass may be changed||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 9The location of the proposed eastern bypass is likely to be changed to provide direct connectivity to Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Medical University, Karnal, in Kutail village with the National Highway-44 as well as with Indri road and Meerut road.The district authorities have directed the officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to work on Plan B, instead of Plan A. Earlier, the length of the project was 19.4 km and it was planned from Madhuban to Uchana after passing through Kunjpura, Meerut and Indri roads. Now, it may be of around 22 km and it will be between Bastara toll plaza and near Oasis Tourist Resort.Earlier, a large portion of the project was planned along the augmentation canal and around 73 acres of land was to be acquired, but with the new proposal around 120 acres is expected to be obtained. The state government will bear 50 per cent of the land cost, which will be acquired, while the remaining 50 per cent will be borne by the Centre, said an official.The NHAI officials have been asked to complete the drawing in 15 days and the work on the project may start by December after the approval from the district authorities. These changes are being made after a meeting of the district authorities with Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan and the NHAI officials two days back. “I have suggested providing direct connectivity to the medical university with the NH-44 as well as Indri and Meerut roads,” said Kalyan.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the NHAI officials had been asked to work on Plan B for providing benefits to maximum people.Part of city’s outer ring road
10-08-2020||Karnal||362 cremation grounds in Karnal lack basic facilities||More than two years after the launch of ‘Shivdham Navikaran Yojana’, in all 362 crematoriums in the district lack basic facilities. Some of those don’t even have the facility of water and boundary wall.As per the information gathered by The Tribune, there are around 1,070 cremation grounds in the district. Of those, 362 crematoriums are waiting for renovation.Most of those do not have proper cleanliness as lots of bushes and shrubs have come up at many places. As many as 146 crematoriums do not have the facility of water, 84 are without boundary walls, 64 crematoriums have no sheds and 65 do not have a metalled approach road.Among those that need renovation, 49 crematoriums are from Nilokheri block, 62 from Nissing block, 31 from Karnal block, 33 from Gharaunda, 20 from Kunjpura block, 41 from Munak, 31 from Assandh and 92 from Indri block. Three cremation grounds in the limits of the Karnal Municipal Corporation lack basis facilities.In March 2018, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had launched ‘Shivdham Navikaran Yojana’ under which renovation and strengthening of crematoriums were to be done in the urban and rural areas of the state. The facility of water, construction of a maximum of two sheds and boundary wall, and a path to cremation ground were to be provided.An official on the condition of anonymity said shortage of budget is one of the reasons behind the slow pace of renovation.Karnail Singh, XEN Panchayati Raj, said that there were 1,051 cremation grounds in the various villages of the district which were to be renovated after the launch of this scheme. Of those, they have renovated 692 crematoriums. Sheds were constructed at 141 cremation grounds, boundary walls of 123 were made, water facility in 240 was provided and the path of 188 cremation grounds had been constructed. He said that the estimate for the remaining work is being prepared and the work would be completed at the earliest.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said that he has recently reviewed the progress of this project and directions have been given to speed up the renovation of cremation grounds. — TNS2 yrs after ‘Shivdham Navikaran Yojana’In March 2018, CM Manohar Lal Khattar had launched ‘Shivdham Navikaran Yojana’ under which renovation and strengthening of crematoriums were to be done in the urban and rural areas of the state
10-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Two abuse woman sarpanch, booked||The police have booked two persons on the charge of outraging the modesty of a woman sarpanch of a Yamunangar village. On the complaint of the woman, a case was registered against Aalimgir and Gavar, both residents of the same village, under various Sections of the IPC and the SC/ST Act on Thursday. — TNS
10-08-2020||---||9 Yamunanagar traders object to fine, MC lodges complaint||Yamunanagar, August 9The authorities of Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, on Saturday lodged a police complaint against nine shopkeepers found without masks and didn’t pay fine.The Municipal Corporation team led by Ajay Walia, zonal taxation officer (ZTO), also issued challans to 19 shopkeepers and staff members of a private hospital for not wearing masks.According to information, the team visited ITI Road, Meerabai Market, Radaur Road, Sasauli Road and Model Town and inspected shops and other establishments in these areas.Walia said during inspection, 19 shopkeepers and staff members of a private hospital were found without wearing masks. “We have issued challans to these shopkeepers and private hospital staff. But nine shopkeepers, who were found without wearing masks, didn’t pay fine and objected the move of challaning of the team. Therefore, a police complaint was lodged against those nine shopkeepers,” said Walia.He said the Municipal Corporation authorities had started a drive to make shopkeepers and employees of other establishments aware of the benefits of wearing masks.“On the direction of Municipal Corporation Commissioner Dharamvir Singh, we have started an awareness drive. But we also take action against shopkeepers and workers who are found working without masks,” Walia added.
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Villages to have modern libraries||Village youth in Haryana will not have to go to cities to prepare for competitive exams, with Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala aiming for a modern library in each village on the pattern of coaching centres. He called upon all village panchayats to provide a room or two in their respective villages for construction of library. He said the state government would construct a modern library and gift it to students in rural areas. He said computers for online education and books related to competitive exams would be provided in these village libraries. He said the expense for making a modern library would be borne by the government. — TNS
10-08-2020||Panipat||For infection-free rail travel||Motivating less privileged kidsRohtak: Baba Balak Nath, Alwar MP and Baba Mast Nath Matth head, on Sunday visited a makeshift Gandhi school for children of migrant labourers being run by social activist Naresh Kumar for the past 15 years. He encouraged children to toil with dedication and assured them succour in pursuing higher education. Dr RK Yadav, nephrologist at AIIMS in Delhi, motivated the children to see dreams and leave no stone turned to realise these.Taking cleanliness to villagesRohtak: The district administration has launched ‘e-ratri chaupal’ to interact online with sarpanches in the evening for motivating them to keep villages clean and ensure their contribution to prevent Covid spread. Deputy Commissioner RS Verma said nine sarpanches participated in the first ‘e-ratri chaupal’ on Friday and sarpanches of other villages were encouraged on Saturday to carry out campaigns against single-use plastic.Discussing problems onlineYamunanagar: Young novelist Aarit Gupta of Yamunanagar will organise the first Statecraft Model United Nations online on August 22 and 23. He said students from Class VI to college could participate. “It is usually held in a school or college, but is being conducted online due to Covid. It is a simulation of the United Nations, where students debate and discuss problems. The winner gets a cash prize,” he said.
10-08-2020||Palwal||3 arrested with ‘ganja’ worth Rs 6.4L||The police have recovered around 64.7 kg of ‘ganja’ (cannabis) in two incidents in the past 24 hours. The market value of the contraband is around Rs 6.4 lakh.A police spokesperson said the first recovery was made last evening when they intercepted a private vehicle on the Nuh-Utawar link road.Majlish and Wasim of Nuh, told the police that they were part of a gang involved in smuggling ‘ganja’, which had been brought from Odisha. Six others involved in the racket were identified as Wassim, Rukumddin, Sakir, Nisar, Pappu and Jamil, residents of Palwal and Nuh districts.The second seizure was effected in Gulabad village of the district this morning when a bike was intercepted after receipt of a tip-off. Bisambar of Sira village in UP, who was driving the bike, was nabbed with a bag containing 10.3 kg of ‘ganja’. He told the police that he and two others were supplying narcotics for the past over a year. Pillion-rider Radhe fled the spot. — TNS
10-08-2020||Despite several complaints and reminders a blocked drain in Kambasi is a constant trouble for the residents. Stagnant water in the drain has become a breeding place for mosquitoes and is a source of vector-borne diseases. The concerned authorities must look into the issue immediately and do the needful. — Sameer Bakshi||Blocked drain irks Kambasi residents||Heavy rain leads to waterlogged roadsIT is a matter of great pity that the roads in Sector 53 and 69 were waterlogged after the recent heavy rainfall in the region. It is causing inconvenience to the commuters as it has become hard for people to ply vehicles on roads. The authorities must look into the issue and do the needful so that people do not suffer due to this situation as it can become a cause of casualty too and also have become breeding spot of mosquitoes. —Subhash C Taneja, GurugramNo end to stray cattle menaceAbandoning unproductive cattle is not unusual in India. Farmers or the owners of cattle let off the animals which lose their ability to produce milk or are of no use to them. These abandoned animals when left on roads become a cause of many mishaps. Further, instead of reporting the issue to civic authorities, Hisar residents can be seen providing fodder to stray cattle roaming on the roads and streets, ignoring the risks they pose, which also is a blow to Swachh Bharat Mission. All the cattle owners are requested to look into the issue and understand people's plight. — Baljeet Singh, HisarTwo years on, deed writers yet to be shifted to cabinsThe district administration got constructed 30 cabins/booths along the boundary wall of the second building of the administrative block for the convenience of registered deed writers sitting in temporary sheds in the parking lot of Mini-Secretariat, Karnal. Despite this, after almost two years, they have yet not been shifted there. The administration had spent lakhs to build the cabins but they are not being put in use. The deed writers too have not pressed the issue as it is an inconvenience to them and general public to move from the cabins to the tehsil after crossing the road between the two secretariat buildings. Either the tehsil office should be shifted near the cabins or these cabins should be used for any other purpose. The government must look into the isuue and take concrete steps. — Shakti Singh, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
10-08-2020||Rohtak||Webinar on job opportunities||Student brings laurels to schoolAmbala: Yashpati of SD Vidya School here won first prize at a national-level painting competition which was organised by the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH). The INTACH Ambala Chapter organised the national painting and essay writing competition ‘Gandhiji at 150’ to mark the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi in December 2019. The results of the competition were announced recently. Yashpati bagged the first position by beating 104 selected entries out of 12,000 across the country. Students of classes VII, VIII and IX participated in the event. Director-Principal of SD Vidya School Neelinderjeet Kaur Sandhu congratulated Yashpati and his parents for the achievement. She said the students of the school were provided with all opportunities to explore and polish their hidden talents.Talk on new education policyMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) in collaboration with Students for Holistic Development of Humanity (SHoDH), Haryana, and the Centre for Educational and Social Studies, Bengaluru, organised a national webinar on National Education Policy. “The new education policy will play a pivotal role in building new India,” said CUH Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad. Prof SC Sharma, Director of National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), while speaking as the chief guest, shared his experience and presented his views over the policy.
10-08-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||70 Haryana projects under lens after High Court order||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9Real estate developers of 70-odd projects in Haryana could be in the soup in view of the Punjab and Haryana High Court order declaring the Ambience Mall in Gurugram “unauthorised” since it had come up on a de-licensed portion of over 18 acres of land originally meant for a residential complex.Sources said the government, following the court order, had begun to compile a list of all such projects where portions were delicensed and subsequently relicensed to allow a new project. A total of 2,000 licences were issued of which the government has so far identified nearly 70 such projects. The process of identifying such projects is taking time since each file has to be thoroughly studied. Sources said the total tally could be 80.According to sources, most projects were delicensed and relicensed before 2014 and 18 after 2014 when the BJP formed government in Haryana. Sources in the government say the High Court directions to the government in the Ambience Mall case could mean it may have to be demolished, unless the builder approaches the Supreme court.However, the government maintains that though the Haryana Urban (Regulation and Development) Act does not provide for delicensing, the General Clauses Act gives the government the power to undo what it can do. “By virtue of that, if the government can issue a licence, it can also delicence a project partially or completely. The big catch is that after doing so, the project should have changed hands. There is no third-party interest in any of the projects identified so far,” sources say, drawing strength from a 2016 order which states that what the law does not permit, it does not prohibit either.
