10-10-2020||Chandigarh||14 more succumb; 1,250 fresh cases in Haryana||The Covid tally in the state reached 1,39,932 on Friday with the addition of 1,250 cases. The toll went up to 1,562 as 14 more deaths were reported.Gurugram reported a maximum of 263 cases, followed by Faridabad (153), Hisar (108), Sonepat (89) and Rohtak and Sirsa (75 each). Panipat reported three deaths while Gurugram, Hisar, Jhajjar and Yamunanagar reported two each and Ambala, Rohtak and Bhiwani reported one each. — TNS
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||AAP to gherao Khattar’s Karnal house tomorrow||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday announced that it would gherao the Karnal residence of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on October 11 on the issue of farm Acts. Addressing a press conference, Sushil Gupta, Rajya Sabha member and convener of the Haryana unit, asserted that AAP workers and farmers from across Haryana would participate in the protest.Charging the government with failure on all fronts, he demanded immediate resignation of the Chief Minister. He claimed that the three Acts would wreak havoc on farmers, arthiyas and farm labourers. — TNS
10-10-2020||---||New laws will improve farmers’ lot: Haryana BJP chief Dhankar||Panipat, October 9State BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar has said the new farm laws are revolutionary steps by the BJP-led Union Government in agriculture and these would actually work to strengthen the financial condition of farmers. The Congress is spreading confusion over these only for politics, he said.Dhankar was addressing farmers in a thanksgiving tractor ‘kisan dhanyawad rally’ by the BJP held in the grain market at Gohana on Friday. Dhankar, along with Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, reached the rally venue on a tractor which was driven by MP Karnal Sanjay Bhatia.Taking a dig at the Congress, the BJP state chief said that the politics of Congress is being run on lies and the people have understood their policies. The Congress has now adopted the politics of opposing everything, he said.The Congress in its manifesto had promised that when the party comes to power, it would amend the agricultural produce market committees’ laws and would abolish all restrictions on export of agriculture produce and trade in other states. But when the BJP has made these amendments, they are opposing those, Dhankar said.The Congress is creating a scene that grain markets would be closed, MSP would be eliminated, the farmers’ land would be sold to corporate houses, but nothing like these would happen, the BJP state president claimed.JP Dalal said that the massive crowd at the rally was sufficient to prove that the laws are pro-farmer.
10-10-2020||ibune News Service---||Hooda: Make law to ensure MSP||Karnal, October 9 Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday reiterated the demand for a law to ensure that crops were not procured below the MSP. “We stand by farmers and want their produce to be produced at MSP. The government should bring in a fourth law, making it mandatory to purchase farmers’ produce at MSP, failing which they will be penalised,” he said. He said his government had made amendments in the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act in 2007, ensuring that no produce was procured below MSP and crops not covered under MSP were procured on market rates. Taking a dig at the BJP’s ‘kisan dhanyawad rally’, he said it did not do anything for farmers. “The BJP has done nothing for farmers and has failed to give them the right to MSP. They have no right to hold such rallies,” he said.
10-10-2020||---||Liquor trader shot in Sonepat, 12 booked||Panipat, October 9A 28-year-old liquor trader was shot, while two others sustained bullet injuries in Liwaspur village here today.The police said the deceased, also a history sheeter, was suspected to be killed due to old enmity.The police recovered 27 rounds from the spot, while 24 bullet injuries were found on the deceased. Twelve persons were booked under the IPC and Arms Act.The deceased has been identified as Sukhvinder alias Dhola of Liwaspur. His elder brother Ravinder and Sandeep of the opposite party were injured and being treated at a hospital.Vikas, younger brother of the deceased, told the police that Sukhvinder was out with his one-and-a-half-year-old daughter Bhavika when the incident occurred.He said when Sukhvinder neared Sandeep’s house, the latter stopped him and around seven persons opened fire at Sukhvinder.Ravinder tried to save Sukhvinder, but the assailants shot at him. After hearing the gunshots, scores of villagers reached the spot.Vikas said Sukhvinder had enmity with Sooraj, Pradeep alias Bhola, Kuldeep of Khewra and Deepak of Liwaspur. Deepak was in Faridabad jail, while Pradeep had come out of the jail two months ago.
10-10-2020||Rohtak||Four Left parties back farmers’ stir||Four Left parties have announced their support to the agitation of farmers against the three controversial farm laws. The announcement was made at a meeting here on Friday.  Prem Singh Gehlawat, Surender Singh and Inderjit Singh of the CPM, Daryao Singh Kashyap and Satpal Beniwal of the CPI, Satyawan and Anoop Singh of the SUCI (Communist) and Prem Singh Gehlawat of the CPI (Marxist-Leninist) were present. — TNS
10-10-2020|| ---||Postal ballot for differently abled in Baroda bypoll||Chandigarh, October 9  In view of the Covid pandemic, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has decided to issue postal ballot papers for physically challenged voters and those above 80 years of age for the Baroda bypoll.  The Returning Officer has to identify such voters. Also, those who want to use the postal ballot paper or come to the polling station to vote, all necessary arrangements should be made in both the cases. Haryana Chief Electoral Officer Anurag Agarwal directed the officers of the Sonepat district administration today to closely monitor the movement of cash, liquor and drugs in the district and take prompt action if any such matter is reported. Agarwal was presiding over the meeting with the officers through video-conferencing here. He directed that all polling stations should be verified well in advance in the presence of the Supervisory Officer and also to ensure that all polling stations had basic facilities like Internet, electricity, water and toilets. He further directed that SVEEP activities should be implemented in the Assembly constituency as per the directions issued by Election Commission of India during the Covid pandemic and thorough adherence to the model code of conduct should be ensured. He said compliance of all Covid guidelines such as wearing masks, social distancing and maintaining hand hygiene should be ensured for the containment of the infection.
10-10-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad civic body’s new garbage dumping site hits wall||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 9The decision of the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) to set up a new site to dump the city’s waste near the byepass road here has entered into a row following opposition by residents of four villages and three residential sectors.A memorandum has been submitted to the civic authorities seeking suspension of the move.While the MCF has already spent about Rs 25 lakh on constructing a concrete base and lining of the spot spread over five acres to dump waste generated by the city, the decision of the new dumping site in the revenue area of Sihi village located adjacent to the byepass road had been made about four months ago, according to officials concerned.The move came in wake of the reports that the current landfill site at Bandhwari village located on the Faridabad-Gurugram highway has already got filled up to the maximum level and was unable to adjust more garbage.However, Rajvir Singh, head of the joint committee of the residents representing Sihi, Mirjapur, Mujheri and Neemka villages, said the move to set up landfill site here was unacceptable.He said while no consent had been taken from them, it would result in severe air and water pollution in the area, which was mainly residential. He said while a memorandum had been submitted, the committee would resort to other measures of protest, if the proposal was not dropped.It is reported that Ecogreen, the company that was outsourced the garbage disposal work here, had asked the MCF to provide an alternative spot in view of overstack problem at the Bandhwari, which was proving a hurdle in setting up waste to power plant. The civic authorities have already been pulled up by the apex court for creating a mountain at the main landfill site and a delay in processing of the waste, it is claimed.Admitting opposition to the move, Birender Kardam, chief engineer, MCF, said the new site was being developed on a temporary basis as no space was left at the present site at Bandhwari village. He said efforts were on to resolve the issue.
10-10-2020||---||Man booked for storing crackers||Yamunanagar, October 9 The police have booked Sanjay Kumar for storing huge cache of crackers illegally in his rented house at Srinagar Colony in Jagadhri town. A case was registered under Sections 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire), 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC and 8 Explosives Act at the city police station, Jagadhri. “A case has been registered against Sanjay Kumar for storing crackers illegally at his house in Jagadhri. The accused is yet to be arrested,” said Sumesh Pal, Investigating Officer of the case. Three persons had sustained burn injuries after the crackers caught fire at Srinagar Colony on Thursday. Sanjay’s mother Raj Rani (65), his daughter Priyanshi (13) and son Gokul (9) sustained burn injuries and they had been admitted to Civil Hospital, Jagadhri. According to information, Sanjay Kumar stored huge consignment of firecrackers illegally at his house ahead of Diwali festival. The Investigating Officer further said the matter was being investigated and the exact reasonbehind the fire was yet to be ascertained.
10-10-2020||Deepender Deswal||Water crisis looms as Barwala branch shut for desilting||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 9The stoppage of water supply in the Barwala branch canal from Khanauri head on Bhakra canal for repair and desilting is likely to aggravate water crisis in the region.While farmers are likely to face water shortage for irrigation as the rabi season is approaching, residents of Hisar town will also face potable water shortage.Water supply rationalisedThe Barwala branch is the main supply line of water in Hisar district. It is closed twice a year for desilting but the canal could not be closed in April due to lockdown as the labour force was not available.The water flow in the canal has been closed for 12 days — from October 8-20. With water tanks drying up in Hisar, the public health engineering department has started rationalising the supply. The PHED has decided to release supply water on alternate days in some localities, while the supply time has also been cut short in the residential sectors in view of the water shortage.The public health engineering department has bored three tubewells to supply water to Mahavir colony water works. Officials said the residents were likely to get lesser amount of water in next few days. Ramesh Kumar, executive engineer of the public health engineering department, said there was a need for judicious use of water by the residents for next few days. The department will ensure equitable and adequate supply of water even as the canal has been closed for desilting. He urged the residents not to waste water.Ashok Kumar, a resident of Urban Estate, said the shortage of water supply and change in the timing caused problems. He said the department should inform the residents about it in advance so that they can take measures to deal with the problem accordingly.
10-10-2020||---||Kurukshetra starts online registration of plasma donors & seekers||Kurukshetra, October 9The Kurukshetra district administration has come out with online registration of plasma donors and seekers to facilitate Covid patients who need plasma and those aging between 18-50 years who have recovered from the virus and want to donate plasma.The recovered patients will be asked to fill a consent form available on the official website of the district administration and also on the e-care mobile application.A health official said: “We have details of all patients who have recovered and we have started motivating them to donate plasma. As soon as they give their consent, their names will be shared with those who have been seeking plasma donors. There are nearly 1,200 people in the age group of 18-50 years who have recovered from Covid in Kurukshetra and only they can donate their plasma.”On the official website of the district, three options — know your Covid-19 result, register for plasma donation, and find plasma donor — have been displayed.Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur told The Tribune: “Efforts are being made to prepare a pool of plasma donors in the district. People who were corona positive and have now recovered should come forward to donate their plasma so that the needy could get the plasma on time. A list of donors will be shared with the plasma seekers.”She said: “Only those who were corona positive and are fully cured can donate plasma. There is a great need for plasma during the Corona period, which makes it possible to treat a serious patient. There is no physical harm in donating plasma, therefore, people who have recovered should donate in maximum numbers.”
10-10-2020||Kurukshetra||Nepal youth killed; kin arrested||A 25-year-old Nepalese man was killed allegedly by his relative over a petty dispute when they were having drinks, the police have said. His body was found on the Ladwa road in Shahabad on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Chander Kumar. The accused, Vinod Kumar, who also belongs to Nepal, has been arrested. Chander worked as a cook in the CIA-2 unit of the Kurukshetra police, while his relative works at a fish farm in the district’s Mathana village.Shahabad police station SHO Devender Kumar said, “Chander and Vinod were consuming liquor on Thursday night when a dispute over some petty matter broke out between them. Subsequently, Vinod hit Chander with a stone on the head multiple times. The accused has been arrested. He will be produced before a court on Saturday.” The body was handed over to the family after the postmortem.— TNS
10-10-2020||---||Fire in car showroom in Faridabad||Faridabad, October 9More than 25 vehicles were burnt in a massive fire that erupted in a Maruti dealer showroom in NIT area here on Thursday night. It took about four hours for 12 fire tenders to put out the fire.Sources say short-circuit could be reason behind the fire. Fire Department officials said fire broke out around 12.30 am and fire tenders reached the spot within 15 to 20 minutes of receiving the information.“Among the burnt vehicles are new cars and four to five two-wheelers. Some cars, which were in the workshop for repair or service, were also burnt,” an official said, adding that closed shutters and a glass wall in the front of the double-storey building aggravated the damage.The loss is yet to be ascertained. A Maruti employee said no one entered the showroom till noon as it was filled with smoke.
10-10-2020||---||Bureaucrats get time slots to meet MLAs||Chandigarh, October 9Keeping in view the inaccessibility of senior bureaucrats to public representatives, especially MLAs, the government has asked all administrative secretaries to keep exclusive time slots for meeting them to redress their grievances.Two-hour time slots on Tuesdays (3 pm to 5 pm) and Wednesdays (11 am to 1 pm) will be reserved for officers to meet public representatives, including legislators, according to an order of Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan.“It may be ensured that official meetings are scheduled in such a way that these are not held in these time slots and official tours may be avoided on these days,” read the order.Many MLAs, especially of the BJP, had been quite vocal about the inaccessibility of bureaucrats since theformation of the BJP government in 2014.With the Baroda byelection scheduled next month and the Opposition on the offensive on the issue of farm Acts, the decision seemed to be taken with a view to mollify legislators.
10-10-2020||ibune News Service||Pilot project to manage stubble gets going in 2 Ambala villages||Ambala, October 9The work to manage paddy straw instead of burning it has started with the baler machines reaching Ugara and Bara villages, which were selected under a pilot project by the agriculture department in the district.Farmers to earn Rs300-500 per tonneTo curb stubble burning, the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department came out with a pilot project in which both villages were identified, and their sarpanches were asked to motivate farmers to stop burning the straw and sell it for power generation to a company (Verve Renewables Private Limited) that purchases paddy straw for Naraingarh Sugar mill in Ambala.As per a survey carried out by the department, about 4.1 lakh tonne paddy straw is generated in Ambala district in a year. The mill offers Rs 1,800 per tonne for stacked paddy straw, if the stock is delivered on the doorstep of the mill.Deputy Director (Agriculture) Girish Nagpal said: “With the passage of time, farmers will understand that paddy straw burning is harmful in every aspect. In Ugara and Bara villages, the baler machines have arrived and registration has been started. The farmers are giving information about their land and date of harvesting so that the machine could be sent for straw management. The straw is being managed in the form of stacks and stored at panchayat land in Ugara.”He said: “A group of people has arrived from Punjab to manage the straw. The company will manage and lift the stock itself and after deducting its expenses it will give the remaining amount to farmers, who are likely to get Rs 300-500 per tonne. Nearly 1,000 acres are under the paddy crop in both the villages this year.”Bara village sarpanch Vikas Beghal said: “Farmers who have harvested their crop have got themselves registered to sell stubble and we have started giving schedule to the company. If farmers burn the straw, cases will be registered against them.”Jaswinder Singh, a representative of the Ugara village sarpanch, said: “Farmers are also happy as they don’t require to manage or burn the straw and it is a good opportunity for them to earn some extra income.”
10-10-2020||---||In Karnal, no rent on Happy Seeders||Karnal, October 9To encourage farmers shun burning stubble, the Agriculture Department will provide them with Happy Seeders free of cost this season.A Happy Seeder is a tractor-mounted machine that cuts and lifts crop residue and sows wheat into the bare soil. Besides, it deposits the stubble over the sown area.On Friday, the Agriculture Department sent 15 Happy Seeders to all six blocks of the district. It had purchased the machines for demonstration purpose in 2018 for making farmers aware of the importance of the crop residue management.Last year, the department had rented out the machines at Rs 100 per hour. But this season, Happy Seeders will be provided free of cost.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “The district administration has taken permission from the higher authorities to provide farmers with the machines free of cost.”He claimed Karnal, which is known for paddy production, became the first district in the state to start the free service. “Farmers can get Happy Seeders from the block agriculture office on the first come, first served basis.”A Happy Seeder can sow an acre of wheat in an hour and it is more effective in comparison with manual sowing.“Paddy residues get mixed into the soil and turn into a fine manure, which increases the soil fertility,” the DC said.Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director (Agriculture), said the department had set up 253 custom hiring centres (CHCs) in the district, while 147 more were in the pipeline.He added wheat would be sown over 1.72 lakh hectares in the district this season. He exhorted farmers not to use Happy Seeder in wet land.
10-10-2020||Palwal||9 fined for burning stubble in Palwal||The district administration has slapped a fine of Rs 47,500 on nine farmers on charges of burning paddy stubble in their fields in the district. This is the first time that a fine has been imposed in the district this season after a warning had been issued by the district authorities to curb the menace.  DC Naresh Narwal said while a fine of Rs 15,000 each has been imposed on two farmers identified as Oman and Kishan hailing from Kushak village of Hasanpur block in the district, the seven others who have been penalised include one Puran Singh from Baswa, Jaidev from Mandkol, Kallu from Janoli, Bir Singh from Asawata, Suraj and Mohan Lal from Kondal and Kishan Lal from Kondal village of Hathin block. He said these farmers have been found to have burnt stubble in their fields despite a ban.  He said show-cause notice has been served to the sarpanches of these villages for their inability to check it or inform the administration about these incidents. — TNS
10-10-2020||ibune News Service---||Religious bodies roped in to feed farmers, labourers||Karnal, October 9 To ensure two meals and 12-hour tea facility to farmers and labourers at all 13 paddy purchase centres in the district, the authorities have roped in various religious organisations, arhtiyas and rice millers. They have been assigned duties to ensure food, tea and water to farmers and labourers there. “Food, tea and water will be provided free to them,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. He said that this step has been initiated from Thursday and now, at all 13 purchase centres, food and tea facility is available. Nirmal Kutiya has been providing food and tea at Karnal grain market and arhtiyas’ associations in Gharaunda and Taraori grain markets.  In Nilokheri and Nissing grain markets, rice millers are providing food, he said, adding that similarly, other religious organisations, arhtiyas and rice millers’ associations are feeding farmers and labourers. Yadav said that they have fixed a time slot of two hours for food — between 10 am and 12 noon and between 4 pm and 6 pm. Tea will be served from 6 am to 6 pm daily. At some places, stalls with tents have been set up to facilitate farmers and labourers, he said.
10-10-2020|| ---||Pollution control rooms for Faridabad, Gurugram||Chandigarh, October 9  To reduce the increasing pollution levels in the National Capital Region (NCR), two control rooms will be set up by the state government in Gurugram and Faridabad districts which will be functioning 24 hours. The public can contact them directly for problems and complaints related to pollution.  Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan gave these directions while presiding over a meeting of the Haryana Pollution Control Board here today. At the meeting, the Chief Secretary, while ensuring compliance with the directions of the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) directed to ban the use of diesel generator sets (other than essential/emergency services) in Faridabad and Gurugram and for this, electricity from the grid could be supplied without disruptions in these areas, which would then obviate the need for diesel generators. He further directed that large construction projects, including highways and metro, would provide an undertaking to the state pollution control boards or pollution control committees that they would assure adherence to the prescribed norms and guidelines for dust management. Along with this, industries, particularly in the red and orange category, will provide an undertaking to the state pollution control boards or pollution control committees that they will use only authorised fuel. “Control of air pollution during winter will require greatly enhanced vigilance on ground so that sources, such as industrial stacks and garbage dumping and use of illegal fuel are checked. The use of all technologies for dust management, including smog guns, should be extensively used during this period,” asserted Vardhan.
10-10-2020||Gurugram||204 kg marijuana seized, 2 nabbed||The police have seized 204 kg marijuana in Nuh district and arrested two people in this connection. The consignment was being transported in a truck from Odisha to Haryana via Hodal.The accused have been identified as Mohammad Azruddin alias Langda, a resident of Bhajalka village, and Tarif of Sakaras village in Nuh district.When they reached the district with the consignment yesterday, the Tauru crime unit got a tip-off. Sub-inspector Rakesh Kumar conducted a raid in which they intercepted the truck. An FIR has been registered.“The accused admitted they were supplying marijuana from Odisha to Pipaka village resident Mamman, a drug peddler. We are conducting raids to arrest Mamman,” said Rakesh Kumar. — TNS
10-10-2020||Gurugram||Sarpanch held||Jagat Singh, sarpanch of the district’s Bhungrka village, was held for allegedly forging signatures of panches to open a liquor shop in the village. He is also accused of embezzling money meant for buying 100 dustbins. — OC
10-10-2020||Rewari||Lecture on 'Aatmnirbhar Bharat'||Webinar on National Edu PolicyKarnal: The NCC Air wing of the KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, organised a webinar on 'National Education Policy(NPE)- 2020' for creating awareness among cadets about this changed policy. The key speaker of this webinar was Sujata Gupta, principal of the college. She deliberated on the NPE and highlighted its benefits in higher education. She also said this webinar was an exercise for the cognisance of the new policy for the NCC cadets so as to reach as many people as they could, creating awareness about it in the society. Pawan Goyal, Wing Commander and Commanding Officer No 2, Haryana Air SQN NCC, Karnal, congratulated Sujata Gupta, convener Dr Deepti Sharma, co-convener Dr Anju Narwal and the cadets for the conduction of the webinar and active participation and discussion.As many as 70 NCC Air Wing cadets from various colleges and schools - KVA DAV College for Women, Dyal Singh College and Kendriya Vidyalaya No2, Ambala Cantt, participated in this webinar via google meet.Webinar on bio-entrepreneurshipMahendragarh: The Department of Microbiology and Centre for Innovation Skill and Entrepreneurship Development (CISED) at the Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised a webinar on "Bio-entrepreneurship: A step towards Aatmnirbhar Bharat". Speaking on the occasion, Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad said the concept of 'Aatmnirbhar Bharat' mainly stood on five pillars such as economy, infrastructure, technology, demand and vibrant demography.
10-10-2020||I am an 87 years old senior citizen||Security not refunded||Ramesh Kumar Bagga, PanchkulaFaridabad residentsface harassmentResidents of Faridabad have to face a lot of problems when they go to pay their tax at the Property Tax Department situated at BK Chowk. The dealing staff are non-cooperative and ask them to come again and again to take their receipts of tax paid. The staff come late to the office and leave their seats much before 2pm and hence tax payers keep waiting and most of the time go back without getting their work done. Will the authorities wake up and look into this problem?Dilip Saksena,FaridabadToilets in panchkula hospitals stinkThere are complaints that toilets at hospitals where Covid patients are undergoing treatment stink. It seems that the authorities concerned have not done anything to solve the issue. Patients, who are highly susceptible to catch infection, require cleaner and hygienic conditions. Why is the government blind and not paying heed to proper sanitation. Those hospitals which do not follow proper hygiene should be penalised.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaIllegal diversions by motorists near NarwanaThere are two toll plazas at a short distance from Narwana. Many motorists take their vehicles to the village link roads, just to avoid toll fees. In Birodi village near Khatkar Plaza, a villager died in a car accident, as there was heavy traffic. The villagers parked their tractor trailers in the middle of link roads in protest just to prevent the traffic from passing through their villages. This is a very typical scenario around toll plazas in Haryana.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
10-10-2020||---||Road mishap leaves 2 motorcyclists dead in Ambala||Ambala, October 9Two persons were killed on the spot when the two-wheeler they were riding on collided with a dumper loaded with sand near the Ugala village chowk on the Barara-Shahabad road here late on Friday night.The deceased have been identified as Rahul of Shahabad-Markanda in Kurukshetra and Gaurav of Sadhaura in Yamunanagar.The incident took place around 9 pm near The Emperor Marriage Palace in Barara.After the incident, the dumper driver fled, leaving the vehicle behind.The deceased were reportedly employees of the Shahabad Municipal Council.The Station House Officer (SHO), Barara police station, Virender Singh, said, “They were commuting on the Barara-Shahabad road and their motorcycle collided with a dumper when they reached near the Ugala village chowk. We have informed the families of the deceased and their bodies have been shifted to a hospital.”
10-10-2020||---||Punjab farmers block roads for Haryana brethren||Patiala/Bathinda, October 9To protest the recent police lathicharge on farmers in Haryana’s Sirsa, state farmers today blocked the border with the neighbouring state at the Shambu barrier for two hours. The road blockades were reported from several parts of the state also. At many places, farmers staged a sit-in and raised slogans against the Haryana Government.Condemning the police action in Haryana, the farmers said they stood united with farmers of the neighbouring state in the fight against three contentious agriculture Acts.‘Won’t be scared by pressure tactics’There is no space for discussion, expression and dialogue right now. We won’t be scared by lathicharge and other pressure tactics. We will resist the Acts till our last breath. — Saudagar Ghudani, general secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan)“Today’s ‘Chakka Jam’ was against the police action of Haryana. “We (farmers) are united against the Acts. One should not take this as a daylong or weeklong protest. It is an indefinite protest, which continue till the Acts are rolled back,” said Buta Singh, a farmer leader.Swaran Singh, another farmer leader, said: “If the Modi government believes farmers are divided, they are mistaken. We will not be scared by the lathicharge or the cases against us. The protest will be intensified in the days to come.”Protesting farmers blocked the Patiala-Sirhind road near Baran village, Patiala-Samana road near Dhaintal and Patiala-Nabha road near Kalyan village.In Bathinda also, farmers blocked roads. A major protest was held on the GT Road connecting Mansa and Dabwali roads near ITI Chowk flyover. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “Apart from ongoing protests, BKU today staged separate protest at seven places against the cane charge incident.” In Sangrur too, farmers blocked the Barnala Chowk and announced to intensify their agitation against the farm Acts.“The government can’t scare us by using force. We will further intensify our agitation against the farm Acts,” said Bhupinder Singh Longowal, a leader of the Kirti Kisan Union.In Mandi Ahmedgarh, farmers staged dharnas on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla highway. While the dharna in front of a filling station of Reliance continued for the ninth day, protesters began a sit-in today at a toll plaza for an indefinite period. At Doraha in Ludhiana district, residents of several villages joined the protest led by the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), resolving not to move even an inch till their demand for revocation of the contentious farm legislations was met.Commuters a harried lot on national higwaysRopar: Commuters faced harrowing times as traffic remained disrupted due to dharnas by farmers on two national highways. A large number of vehicles were stranded on the Chandigarh road and Morinda bypass on the Kharar-Ludhiana road as farmers protested.The traffic was diverted towards Bahrampur Zamindara and Khabra villages. The narrow village roads failed to accommodate a heavy traffic of the national higways.
10-10-2020||Deepender Deswal||Hisar trader fakes own death for Rs1 cr insurance||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 9In a dramatic turn of events, a trader who was recently reportedly declared murdered after getting robbed, was arrested today from Bilaspur town of Chhattisgarh by the Hansi police. The trader, incidentally, had recently got insured for Rs 1.10 crore from a private firm and for Rs 50 lakh from the LIC.Lands in police netThe SP, Hansi, said the matter was being investigated. The police are bringing the trader, identified as Ram Mehar (48), who owns an industrial unit in Barwala town, to Hisar. On the intervening night of October 6 and 7, the police got information that Ram Mehar was robbed and burnt to death in his car by two unidentified robbers near Mahjat village in the district. After recovering a charred body, the police started probing different angles.SP Lokender Singh said the circumstantial evidence at the crime spot led forensic experts to doubt the occurrence of the incident. The police are now probing a murder angle.The SP said a relative of the trader said Mehar had called them at 11.15 pm on October 6, informing them about the robbers and seeking help. Mehar claimed he was carrying Rs 11 lakh he had withdrawn from a bank.The relative called the Hansi station house officer, but by then the car was in flames. The police, however, said the scene of the crime had no traces of any struggle. A case under Sections 396, 201 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unknown persons.
10-10-2020||---||Interact with players before training, says hockey legend Sandeep Singh||Panchkula, October 9Haryana Sports and Youth Affairs Minister and hockey legend Sandeep Singh interacted with young players and coaches at Tau Devi Lal Sports Stadium in Sector 3 here this morning.The former Indian captain and two-time Olympian shared mental and physical health lessons with the players while presiding over a mental health camp organised by the Haryana Sports Department in coordination with The Art of Living Foundation.The minister also had a virtual session on mental health with all district sports officers (DSOs), coaches and young sportspersons from across the state.“When it comes to sports, having mental strength is nearly as important for players as physical fitness. During anxiety, the player can neither concentrate on the game nor can he give better performance. Therefore, it is necessary to be mentally sound before coming onto the field,” he told the young players.“Winning and losing are part of the game. If a player enters the field with clear thinking and determination, he can make valuable contribution to his team to register a win,” he added.He urged the coaches to interact with the players before training and matches to boost their mental health.
10-10-2020||Ambala||Private schools in Ambala seek free coronavirus test for teachers||Kulbhushan Sharma, president of the Federation of Private Schools’ Welfare Association, Haryana, has appealed to the Haryana Government to make the Covid-19 test, which costs Rs1,200, free for private school teachers like that of government schools.Accusing the Haryana Government of adopting indifferent attitude towards them, Kulbhushan, who is also the president of the National Independent Schools’ Alliance, said “Private schools, especially budget private schools, have received around 5 per cent fee and they have 25 to 50 per cent fees due from the last year as well. So, these are unable to bear the cost of the Covid-19 test for their teachers. Also, teachers have not received full salaries and are already facing financial crunch.”“The government has already allowed students of Classes IX to XII to attend school and now the government is contemplating opening schools for Classes VI to VIII, which is an appreciable move, but we request the government, especially Health Minister Anil Vij, to make the Covid-19 testing free for private school teachers just like government school teachers,” he said.Kulbhushan demanded from the government to give relief on passenger tax, electricity bill and tax on other items that had not been used by schools lately. He said in most of the schools in rural areas, children were brought to the schools in buses and these schools had suffered the most during the lockdown. — TNS
