10-12-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Harassed for dowry, woman allegedly sets herself, sons on fire in Nuh district||Allegedly harassed for dowry and unable to take it anymore, a 27-year-old woman allegedly set her house on fire and then jumped with her two sons in the fire in Jatka Sheeshwana village in Nuh district.The woman and her one son were charred to death while another son is being treated in a hospital.The father of the deceased woman filed a case of dowry death in Rajasthan. Nuh police are investigating the matter.The incident happened in Jatka Sheeshwana village near Nagina in Nuh yesterday late night.The deceased woman, Jamshida, wife of Sabir, allegedly set the house on fire and then jumped in the fire with her two children.Jamshida and her three-year-old son Shahrun died while two-year-old Arsan was severely scorched. He is being treated at the district hospital, Mandikheda.Police said the deceased woman had four children and two were sleeping outside the room when the incident happened.Police started investigation into the matter and questioned the husband.“Rahman Khan, father of the deceased woman, filed a complaint of dowry death in Kishangarh police station in Rajasthan. We are investigating all the angles and action will be taken as per the law,” said sub inspector Virender Kumar, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/harassed-for-dowry-woman-allegedly-sets-herself-sons-on-fire-in-nuh-district-182447
10-12-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Now, only 2 guns per licence allowed in Gurugram||Gurugram, December 10Out to curtail the menace of misuse of firearms in the city, Gurugram police have restricted the number of guns allowed per licence to two.Issuing an order in this regard, the police on Thursday said licences having more than two guns attributed to them will stand cancelled. The police have allowed licence holders to sell off their extra weapons to gun houses by December 13.“There has been a trend that people are using their licence to buy multiple guns and majority of times these guns are not used or in possession of the licence holder it leads to misuse,” said Kulwinder Singh, joint commissioner of police, Gurugram.“After December 13, we will review all licences and those violating the set limit of arms will be immediately suspended,” added JCP Singh. As per the official data, Gurugram currently has 6,685 licence holders. The city was rattled by arms licence scam in year 2017 when arms licences of many sportsmen and even cops were used to buy multiple guns.Police said this is being done as per Ordnance Amendment Bill-2019 and action to revoke the arms licence will be started after December 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-only-2-guns-per-licence-allowed-in-gurugram-182444
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana schools to reopen for class 10, 12 students from December 14; COVID report must||Due to the board examinations, Haryana's Education Department has decided to restart physical classes for 10th and 12th students from December 14. The classes would be for three hours daily for government and private schools.They would run from 10 am to 1 pm.School for classes 9th and 11th would be permitted from December 21.In a letter issued to all district education officers from the Directorate of School Education, it has been mentioned, that before attending school, the students have to get a medical check-up from any doctor or health centre for COVID symptoms.They need to provide a letter from the doctor specifying their medical condition. The letter shouldn't be more than 72 hours old before entering the school premise.Various Primary Health Centres or Community Health Centres would attend the students free of cost.The written consent of the parents will also be required by the students coming to schools.Besides this, temperatures of students and teachers would be daily monitored. In case, their temperature is high, they would be sent home.The schools have to upload data about the body temperature on an app provided by the Education Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-schools-to-reopen-for-class-10-12-students-from-december-14-covid-report-must-182434
10-12-2020||---||4 food and supplies officials among 6 nabbed in Sirsa wheat scam||Hisar, December 10Sirsa police have arrested six persons, including four officials of the food and supplies department in connection with wheat scam of 15,000 quintal in the public distribution system in the district.The scam occurred three years ago when the officials involving with the deport holders allegedly usurped wheat meant for distribution in the PDS.Director, food and supplies, Ram Niwas had ordered an inquiry into the matter three years ago after which the police registered a case against 58 depot holders and eight officials of the food and supplies department in Sirsa district. The police spokesperson said CIA branch of the police after inquiry arrested 6 persons today. The officials have been identified as assistant food and supply officer Jagat Pal Singh, Narendra Sardana, Sanjeev Kundu, retired inspector of the department Ashok Kumar and two others -- Ravinder Kumar and Mahendra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-food-and-supplies-officials-among-6-nabbed-in-sirsa-wheat-scam-182415
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers' protest: Dushyant Chautala hopes deadlock will end after Centre's offer||Breaking his silence on the farmers' protest at Delhi's borders, Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday hoped that they will call off their stir now that the Centre has offered to give written assurances on MSP and their other demands.After the Centre's move, it was now up to the farmers' union to make their decision, the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader said.Chautala said he is “quite hopeful” that the farmers protesting over the new agri-marketing laws will understand that when the Centre is giving written assurances, it “a victory for their struggle”.Hoping that they will arrive at a settlement with the Centre, he said, “When a written assurance is being given, I don't think the issue now needs to be taken further.” Chautala said he had been in regular touch with the Centre on the farmers' issue, adding that his JJP had also given its suggestions.“We are hopeful that this deadlock will end soon,” he told reporters here after an “informal meeting” of the state cabinet at his home, where he hosted a lunch for Chief Minister M L Khattar and his other colleagues.Chautala, who faces pressure from the opposition and some Haryana farmers to withdraw from the BJP-led government in the state, reiterated that he will resign if the minimum support price (MSP) system is threatened.“As long as I can assure the MSP to farmers, I am here. The day I am unable to do so, I will be the first to quit,” he said.The deputy CM first said this as opposition over the new laws picked momentum, but has not commented on the issue since the farmer unions began their “Delhi Chalo” protest a fortnight back.“Chaudhary Devi Lal used to say a government listens to the farmers' voice when they have a stake in government,” he said, referring to his great-grandfather and a former Haryana chief minister.“And we and our party have been placing the farmers' concerns before the government,” he said. As long as the JJP is part of the state government it will ensure that “every single grain” that farmers produce is bought at the MSP.He recalled JJP president Ajay Singh Chautala's recent remark that the Centre should give a written assurance on MSP, adding that “it is a matter of happiness that Centre has agreed to do so”.When asked about the open support expressed by his own party MLAs for the protesting farmers, he said, “I am a farmer first, when did I deny that?” He said it is “our responsibility” that farmers get the right price for their produce and “we have been assuring that and will continue to do so”.The opposition Congress has attacked Dushyant Chautala for “clinging” to power and supporting the “anti-farmer” laws enacted by the BJP-led government at the Centre.Senior JJP legislator Ram Kumar Gautam recently demanded the convening of a special assembly session to bring a resolution urging the Centre to scrap the laws.Farmer unions, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, say that the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the MSP system under which government agencies buy their crop at an assured price.In its proposal to farmers on Wednesday, the Centre said it will give a written assurance that the MSP system will remain and also redress their other key concerns.The unions, however, demand the complete rollback of the central laws and are continuing their agitation. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-dushyant-chautala-hopes-deadlock-will-end-after-centres-offer-182400
10-12-2020||New Delhi||26 more die in Haryana as national Covid tally rises to 97.6 lakh||India's Covid caseload climbed to 97,67,371 with 31,521 fresh infections, while the total number of recoveries surged to 92.53 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.74 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Thursday.The death toll rose to 1,41,772 with 412 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 92,53,306.The active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the fourth consecutive day. There are 3,72,293 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 3.81 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 15,07,59,726 samples had been tested up to December 9 with 9,22,959 being tested on Wednesday.The 412 new fatalities include 75 from Maharashtra, 50 from Delhi, 47 from West Bengal, 35 from Kerala, 26 from Haryana, 20 each from Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh.The total 1,41,772 deaths reported so far in the country include 47,902 from Maharashtra, followed by 11,900 from Karnataka, 11,836 from Tamil Nadu, 9,813 from Delhi, 8,867 from West Bengal, 7,987 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,045 from Andhra Pradesh and 4,980 from Punjab.The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities."Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/26-more-die-in-haryana-as-national-covid-tally-rises-to-97-6-lakh-182355
10-12-2020||Kurukshetra||KU releases datesheet for exams||MDU extends last date for admissionRohtak: The Directorate of Distance Education (DDE) of Maharshi Dayanand University has extended the last date for admission to its undergraduate (UG)/postgraduate (PG) programmes for the session 2020-2021. The Director, DDE, Prof KS Chhikara, said that the last date for the submission of online application forms, without late fee, is December12. Thereafter, online application forms, with late fee of Rs 500 will be accepted upto December 19, after which, online application forms can be submitted with a late fee of Rs 1000, upto December 31. Details of the admission process are available on the MDU website.JC Bose varsity inks MoU with NHAIFaridabad: To share its knowledge on the latest trends in the highway and transportation sector, and to instill a sense of contribution in building local infrastructure among students, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has partnered with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). According to this partnership, the university will share its knowledge with the NHAI and adopt national highway stretches of about 50 kilometres under the university's social responsibility, and the NHAI will offer internships with stipend to the students of the university. According to the Vice-Chancellor, the MoU will help researchers and students of the Civil Engineering Department to improve their practical knowledge and make them ready for employment.Three students get placementHisar: Three students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Mumbai-based HDFC Life Insurance organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor and Dr Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university congratulated the selected students. Pratap Singh, director, placement, said e-campus placement drive was conducted virtually and 80 MBA students participated in this drive, out of which three students got selected. Aditya Vir Singh, assistant director said selected students are Mehak Goel, Nidhi Agarwal and Akash Garg from MBA 2021 batch.Four students honouredKarnal: Four students of the KVA DAV College for Women were honoured for qualifying the national eligibility test (NET) and JRF. Three students have cleared NET and one JRF. Sujata Gupta, principal of the college, congratulated and honoured Vandita Batra for clearing JRF, Smriti Garg, Jyoti Gupta and GarimaTomar, for clearing NET.Retd teachers meet Edu MinisterYamunanagar: A delegation of Retired College Principals and Teachers Federation (RCPTF) met Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar. Dr Balbir Singh, newly elected general secretary of the federation led the delegation. Professor Subhash Vohra and Dr Dile Ram Chaudhary were also present on the occasion. Dr Singh said they told the minister that for the last so many years the payment of pension was being inordinately delayed. He said even now the pension for October and November was still pending. "Consequently, the retired teachers of all the aided colleges of Haryana are facing many financial hardships even for their day to day needs," said Dr Singh. He added that the Seventh Pay Commission arrears had not been paid so far.Assistant Professor clears NETYamunanagar: Pinki, an Assistant Professor of Commerce of Mukand Lal National College, Radaur won accolade for clearing NET exam for the third time in a row. She is an alumna of this college. Her feat becomes exceptional in view of the fact that she never attended any coaching class for this exam. Congratulating Pinki, Dr Deepak Kaushik, principal of the college, applauded her.Armed Forces Flag Day celebratedYamunanagar: NCC cadets and NSS volunteers of Khalsa College celebrated Armed Forces Flag Day under the guidance of Command Officer of 14 Haryana Bn NCC, Colonel Ajay Pal Kaushish and Adm Officer Colonel Suresh Chaudhary. The principal of the college, Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang, said since December 7, 1949, Armed Forces Flag Day is celebrated all over the country to honour the martyrs and those in uniform who protected the honour of the country and fought on their borders.Online induction programmeHisar: Haryana School of Business (HSB) of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised an online induction programme for the batch of 2020-22. Prof. Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of the university, said the purpose of the student induction programme was to thoughtfully help the newly admitted students to quickly adjust and feel comfortable in the new academic environment, attempt to willfully inculcate in them the internal academic systems, sub-systems, the organisation procedures, the academic culture, special human ethos and values of the institution, which may successfully help them to build desirable bonds with senior students, faculty members and other officers of the university that creates a great sense of belongingness among the newly admitted students for their university and department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ku-releases-datesheet-for-exams-182302
10-12-2020||Currently||Indian Railways must cover coal wagons||Rakesh Sudan, KurukshetraResidents must follow Covid SOPs in P’kulaResidents of Panchkula district refuse to learn any lessons from the fact that the total number of Corona positive cases here has now reached 9,180 with 69 fresh cases being reported on Monday. Notably, its death toll has also risen to135. However, it also goes without saying that the people should blame themselves for this situation. A large number of residents can be seen moving without a face mask or not using it in a proper way. Leave alone social distancing, the general masses appear to be least bothered about Covid SOPs. We are not getting Covid vaccine anytime soon, so the people should watch out.Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaAirport road dangerous for commutersDesign flaws in the curves on the Mohali Airport Road has made the entire stretch of 17.5 km connecting the Mohali-Kharar road with the Zirakpur-Patiala road, deadly. On Friday, December 4, a 43-year-old woman and her 13-years-old daughter were crushed to death under the wheels of a tipper near a blind curve close to Sohana Gurdwara. Moreover, no signage, pelican lights and speed humps are seen on the approach to black spots on the roads. It is high time the authorities fix the responsibility of officials concerned so that precious lives are savedGopal Mittal, PanchkulaDrain a breeding ground for mosquitosWhile there is rise in the number of dengue cases in Ambala, a drain in Sector D, Defence Colony, on the side of Kalahari road has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. The authorities concerned should take measures to prevent the breeding of mosquitos.Rajeev Mukerjee, AmbalaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/indian-railways-must-cover-coal-wagons-182303
10-12-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Fake call centre targeting foreigners busted in Gurugram||Gurugram, December 9Another fake call centre was busted in Gurugram on Wednesday by the cyber crime unit. The accused duped the US nationals posing as Amazon security support staff.Two owners of the call centre have been nabbed while 13 workers were detained from the call centre. Meanwhile, two main servers and two mobile phones have also been seized by the police.The cybercrime team, led by ACP (DLF) Karan Goel, conducted a raid after getting a tip-off that a fake call centre was being run from the basement of a plot at Sector 45.When the team reached the spot, more than 13 employees were busy on computers and laptops. A majority were busy making calls and working on their computer systems. They did not possess any valid OSP licence issued by the Department of Telecommunication or any other agreement/MoU related to their work.The police detained more than 13 persons and arrested two masterminds, who had operated the fake call centre from January.The arrested accused have been identified as Praveen Kumar (32) of Gujjar Majri village in Rewari district, and Manish Kumar (31) of Buxar district in Bihar.“The masterminds behind the call centre, Praveen and Manish, have been arrested. They had registered their company name as Squad. They generated calls through their employees to the US nationals, and on the name of Amazon security support service, they duped them. They asked the foreigners to purchase I-tune gifts cards and then took their number and charged $300 to $700 from one customer,” said the ACP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-targeting-foreigners-busted-in-gurugram-182274
10-12-2020||Sushil Manav---||28 vie for mayoral ticket from Congress||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 9 A total of 28 aspirants have applied for the Congress ticket for the three mayoral seats in the upcoming elections to Panchkula, Ambala and Sonepat municipal corporations. The party has set up committees at the local level to shortlist names of candidates before the filing of nominations begins on December 11. Former Union minister Venod Sharma’s Jan Chetna Party and former Haryana minister Nirmal Singh’s Haryana Democratic Front have decided to field candidates for posts of mayor and member in Ambala. The BJP and JJP will finalise their candidates on December 12. They have already announced that they will contest the polls together. “We have assigned the task of finding candidates to our local units. These have been told to find candidates in consultation with district units of the JJP. We have called a meeting of the state election committee in Panchkula on December 12 to finalise candidates,” said OP Dhankar, state BJP president. Nishan Singh, state JJP president, said party leaders held meetings with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Sonepat in charge Kanwar Pal Gujjar, during which it was decided to let district units hold initial discussions.  Kumari Selja, state Congress president, said the party had received 10 applications for the post of mayor in Sonepat, 13 in Panchkula and five in Ambala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/28-vie-for-mayoral-ticket-from-congress-182275
10-12-2020||---||Now, take virtual tour of Kurukshetra||Chandigarh, December 9 People can now witness the 48 kos (mile) cultural tour of Kurukshetra from anywhere in the world. This 48 kos cultural journey and 134 pilgrimages can be experienced through video films. An official spokesperson said the online 48 kos cultural journey was started by a special team. Along with this cultural journey, all subjects related to this could be accessed from any corner of the world. Under-training IAS officer Vaishali Singh was given the responsibility to curate the cultural journey, put it into words and make videos. Efforts were put in by Sri Krishna Museum curator Rajendra Rana, artists Balwan and Bharat Saini and students of journalism at Kurukshetra University. The spokesperson said keeping in mind the pandemic, efforts had been made to make the International Gita Mahotsav 2020 accessible online to devotees and tourists across the country and the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-take-virtual-tour-of-kurukshetra-182276
10-12-2020||Gurugram||Jail inmates caught using mobile phone||The Bhondsi jail authorities on Tuesday busted illegal use of mobile phone by five inmates, who pooled in Rs 85,000 and bought a phone from another inmate. The accused were reportedly inspired by a web series, the police have said. The mobile phone was recovered from Rahul, who is facing trial in a vehicle robbery case, during routine checking.  On the complaint of Sajid Khan, Deputy Superintendent of the jail, Rahul and his accomplices — identified as Sadrudin, Imran, Ishtaq and Imran Hussain — were booked under Section 42 of the Prisoners Act at the Bhondsi police station. Sources say the accused charge a hefty amount from other inmates for making calls. They had 20 permanent customers.  Rahul reportedly told the police that he had bought the mobile phone from another inmate Sahun for Rs 85,000, while its market value was only Rs 26,000. The police have sought detailed call records from the mobile company as the accused have erased the call records.   Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime, said: “The police have sought the detailed call details. Subsequently, we will take the inmates on production warrant for questioning.” —  OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jail-inmates-caught-using-mobile-phone-182277
10-12-2020||---||2 held for fake insurance racket||Faridabad, December 9The police claimed to have busted a fake insurance racket with an arrest of two persons here on Wednesday. The accused duped people on the name of reviving or starting new life insurance policy for higher returns.DCP (Headquarters) Arpit Jain said a team of the cyber cell and the crime branch had managed to arrest two of the accused from Moti Nagar in New Delhi. He said the accused, posing as employees of a prominent insurance company, used to call customers to assure resolving any issue regarding the policy which had either been stopped or had matured. He said after getting all details of the policy, they used to ask the customer to deposit a certain amount as registration fee or principal amount for the policy. They had set up a call centre in Moti Nagar.He said the police began a probe after a complaint was lodged by a local resident Yashpal who alleged that the accused duped him of over Rs 22 lakh on the name of higher returns for a new policy. He said he was contacted by the accused after one of his policies matured in 2018. According to the complainant, the accused stopped attending his calls last month after he started asking for a refund since March.The police had registered a case under Section 419, 420, 467, 468 and 120- B of the IPC on November 27. The arrested accused had been identified as Mohammed Iqbal and Vinod Kumar hailing from Bihar and UP respectively and residing in Rani Bagh and Uttam Nagar of Delhi. While the two accused were nabbed on December 5, raids are being conducted to arrest the remaining members of the group, said the police.The police have also recovered Rs 14.10 lakh and 21 mobile phones. The two accused were remanded to judicial custody after four-day police remand.Modus operandi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-for-fake-insurance-racket-182278
10-12-2020||---||AAP extends support to HDF in MC poll||Ambala, December 9 The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) unit in Ambala has extended its support to the Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) for the upcoming Ambala Municipal Corporation elections. AAP district vice-president Gagandeep Kapoor said on Tuesday that the party had extended its unconditional support to the HDF. Even during the last Assembly elections, the AAP leader had come out in support of the HDF in Ambala Cantonment, but at that time, he had extended the support in his personal capacity. Kapoor said, “Last time, the support was in personal capacity, but this time it is official. HDF leader Chitra Sarwara has sought support from AAP and the senior party leaders have decided to give full support to the HDF in the corporation elections. The only thing we have asked the HDF leaders is to ensure that they will develop Ambala City on the pattern of Delhi. The decision regarding the election of Ambala Sadar Municipal Council will be taken later.” The HDF has already announced its mayoral candidate and candidates from 11 wards, while the nine candidates are yet to be declared.On the other hand, the Congress has received 47 applications from 20 wards and four applications for the mayoral post. Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee treasurer Rohit Jain said, “We have sought applications from willing candidates and some good candidates have come forward to contest the elections. There are 47 applications from different wards while four applications for the post of Mayor have been received. The names will be forwarded and the senior party leaders will declare the candidates in a couple of days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-extends-support-to-hdf-in-mc-poll-182279
10-12-2020||Ravinder Saini---||A helping hand for hands that feed||Tribune News Service Rohtak, December 9 A local plumber, water provider and private bank official have lent a helping hand to Punjab farmers by providing them free accommodation in Bahadurgarh. A private hospital has ??extended free medical aid. “Laxman of Bahadurgarh, who works as plumber in Delhi, has offered his flat, located near the dharna spot, for use. He took us to his flat and handed over the key, saying we could use the flat for as many days as we need,” said Jaspreet Singh of Sangrur. He said the flat owner remained in touch with them over other needs. Karnail Singh of Fatehabad said his group wanted accommodation on rent in Bahadurgarh and they had met several persons in this respect. “We met Sumit, an official with a private bank, and requested him to give us the first floor of his building on rent. He opened a hall in his building for us, but refused to charge anything,” he said. The banker, hailing from Sampla in Rohtak, said farmers were food providers and it was the responsibility of every citizen to help them in this time of crisis. “Between 20 and 25 farmers are staying at my office, where food, water and toilets are available,” he said. Gurlal Singh Baliya, another farmer from Punjab, said a local water provider not only provided them potable water daily, but also made rooms at his house available. “We go to his house to bathe,” he said. He stated that a private hospital had been extending them free medical aid. “The condition of a woman activist worsened some days ago. We took her to the hospital and doctors treated her free of cost. They said they stood with farmers and would provide us free medical aid during the duration of the protest. Several farmers are getting medicines and check-up for free,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/a-helping-hand-for-hands-that-feed-182280
10-12-2020||---||Amid online classes, children’s zeal to protest continues||Rohtak, December 9A Class X student from Ratia (Fatehabad), Arshdeep Singh, is sitting atop a mini-truck waving a flag at the Tikri border, where thousands of farmers are protesting against the three controversial farm laws at the Tikri border for more than 10 days.He has come with his father to, what he says, “strengthen the protest”. “Come what may, we will force the Modi government to repeal the three laws,” Arshdeep says.Sitting beside him is 15-year-old Ramandeep, a native of Fatehabad. He says, “Farmers are providers of food. If anyone thinks that they can survive without farmers, they are mistaken.”Like Arshdeep and Ramandeep, hundreds of schoolchildren are participating in the protest. They raise slogans, distribute langar and chop vegetables without losing sight of their studies. They are carrying their books along with them and take out time to attend online classes.Harmandeep Singh, a 14-year-old Class IX student from Sangrur (Punjab), says, “I study for two to three hours every day and devote rest of the time in distributing langar. I have been here for the past one week.”Harshdeep Singh (13), a Class IX student from Sahuwala village in Sirsa district, has been at the Tikri border for the past four days. “My uncle and I are supporting Punjab farmers wholeheartedly. It is a fight for our rights and we will force the Centre to cancel the three black laws.”These students have only one message for the Centre: “Stop testing our patience, we will not bow down”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-online-classes-childrens-zeal-to-protest-continues-182281
10-12-2020||---||Selja, Abhay Chautala join farmers at Tikri; not invited to dais||Jhajjar, December 9State Congress president Kumari Selja and senior INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala joined the farmers’ dharna at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Wednesday. They were, however, not invited to the dais to address the protesters. They sat on the ground among farmers and went back as soon as the dharna concluded at 3.30 pm.“No political leader is allowed to speak from the dais. So, neither Selja nor Abhay were invited to address the dharna. However, we are grateful to them for extending their support,” said a farmer leader.Later, Selja told the media the Centre must repeal the three “black laws”. “It is unfortunate that the food provider of our country is compelled to agitate in chilly conditions.”“History bears testimony to the fact that farmers have brought revolution with their unshakable determination. The BJP government is suppressing their rights. Today, the entire nation stands with them against the three ‘black laws’. The Centre is making every effort to thwart the protest, but the farmers are prudent enough to protest peacefully, she added.Abhay told the media he came to Tikri as a farmer and to express his solidarity with the protesters, who “have been carrying out the agitation in peacefully”.“The INLD has been opposing the farm laws from the beginning by terming these as death warrants for farmers. The INLD is the only party which not only flagged the matter in the Vidhan Sabha, but also submitted memorandums in every district demanding a review of the ordinances,” he said, adding party workers had been helping the protesting farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selja-abhay-chautala-join-farmers-at-tikri-not-invited-to-dais-182282
10-12-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Unfortunate that people move court at drop of hat: High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 9 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has described as unfortunate the tendency of people to invoke writ jurisdiction at the “drop of a hat” as “if High Courts are tehsil courts”. The Bench has made it clear that citizens are expected to approach the right forum before raising their pleas and not come to the High Court directly. The Division Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj also made it clear that the legislature had provided remedies for each grievance by enacting statutes, which were required to be invoked. The Bench was hearing a petition seeking directions to Haryana and other respondents to expedite repairs and re-carpeting of a road from a village to the IOCL township gate in Karnal. The assertion, putting to some extent the onus of needless legal action on the litigation tendency of the people, comes at a time when the High Court is staring at a crisis of sorts. It has no less than 6,31,653 cases pending adjudication and 32 vacant positions of Judge. The High Court currently has 53 Judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. The problem is expected to worsen as four senior Judges are scheduled to retire next month, followed by many more later next year. The High Court is expected to witness an unmanageable flood of litigation once it reopens for normal operations. Functioning in restricted mode since March-end following the Covid outbreak, the High Court has been hearing a limited number of cases through video-conferencing. The cases being taken up are primarily the ones involving an element of public interest or urgency. The Bench noted that the inherent powers were to be exercised consciously and by exercising self-restraint.  Dismissing the petition as non-maintainable, the Bench asserted that inter se dispute as to who was to maintain the road was among two government entities and this factual aspect could not be decided in a writ petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unfortunate-that-people-move-court-at-drop-of-hat-high-court-182283
10-12-2020||Parveen Arora||HSVP to relocate slum dwellers in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 9During his visit to Sector 32 and 33 slum area in the city on Wednesday, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar directed the authorities to chalk out a plan for the rehabilitation of the slum dwellers under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), under which each slum dweller can be given a loan up to Rs 5 lakh on low interest.“I have asked the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) authorities to prepare a plan to rehabilitate the slum dwellers,” said the CM.Deputy Commissioner Nishnat Kumar Yadav said around 500 shanties there would be rehabilitated by the HSVP, for which they had been making a plan.HSVP Estate Officer Pradhuman Singh said the HSVP had constructed 264 flats under the Ashiyana scheme in Sector 14, Part II, and these families can be adjusted there. For remaining families, they had a plan to rehabilitate them on the land earmarked for economically weaker section (EWS) in the Sector. “We will send a proposal to the government in this regard and the work on plan will begin after the approval,” said the EO.Notably, the HSVP had constructed 264 flats in Sector 14, Part II, for the people living in Valmiki Basti of Sector 12, Part II, following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, but the residents of Valmiki Basti had refused to shift there and the state government had started a project for their rehabilitation in Sector 16. These flats are lying abandoned.Shifting of shanties from these places in the city is a long pending demand of the local residents, who had been raising the issue at various platforms citing that the slum dwellers had encroached upon the prime land of the Sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hsvp-to-relocate-slum-dwellers-in-karnal-182284
10-12-2020||---||Now, RT-PCR test for Rs 700||Chandigarh, December 9The Haryana Government on Wednesday reduced the price of RT-PCR test at private hospitals and laboratories from Rs 900 to Rs 700.However, in case of samples collected through home visit, the charges for RT-PCR test would be Rs 900 per test. Meanwhile, the state recorded 26 deaths and 1,400 fresh cases on Wednesday.Eight deaths were reported from Faridabad, five from Hisar, three each from Gurugram and Jhajjar, two each from Rohtak and Fatehabad and one each from Sonepat, Ambala and Bhiwani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-rt-pcr-test-for-rs-700-182285
10-12-2020||Yamunanagar||18-yr-old sexually abused on pretext of marriage||An 18-year-old girl was allegedly sexually abused by a man from Himachal Pradesh on the pretext of marriage, the police have said. The accused, identified as Shah Rukh Khan, reportedly hid his identity to befriend the girl. On the victim’s complaint, a case was registered against four persons — Shah Rukh Khan, his brothers Amir Khan and Sidu, and their father Gulfaan, all residents of Sirmaur district in Himachal Pradesh. They were booked under Sections 4 and 8 of the POCSO Act, and Sections 323, 365 and 506 of the IPC at the women’s police station here on Monday. The complainant said she met Shah Rukh at a wedding in Paonta Sahib (HP) on February 17. “He introduced himself as Shanu. We exchanged phone numbers. The next day (February 18), he called me up and claimed that he wanted to marry me. He threatened to commit suicide and blame me for that if I didn’t marry him,” she alleged in her complaint. Before the lockdown was imposed, Shah Rukh took her to a paying guest accommodation in Paonta Sahib several times and sexually abused her, she alleged. She accused Shah Rukh’s brothers of molesting her as well. On May 30, Shah Rukh allegedly kept the girl hostage for two to three days in Paonta Sahib. She said she learnt about his real name from his Aadhaar card. The victim alleged Shah Rukh’s father had threatened her with dire consequences when she went up to him to talk her marriage with Shah Rukh. Somvati, SHO, women’s police station, said: “After recording the victim’s statement, the hunt to arrest the accused will be launched.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-yr-old-sexually-abused-on-pretext-of-marriage-182286
10-12-2020||---||Map  gaushalas,  officials told||Chandigarh, December 9 Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan has directed officials concerned to conduct survey and mapping of gaushalas in the state for setting up biogas plants under the Gobar Dhan scheme so that electricity can be supplied at low rates or gas used for cooking. Vardhan was presiding over a meeting regarding implementation of the Gobar Dhan scheme. It was stated that work on setting up community biogas plants was under way in Bhiwani and Mahendragarh districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/map-gaushalas-officials-told-182287
10-12-2020||---||6 held over PDS scam||Chandigarh, December 9 Six people, including four officials of the State Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, have been arrested by the police in Sirsa for a scam involving 15,000 quintals of wheat, 2,000 quintals sugar and 1,200 quintals dal meant for Public Distribution Scheme (PDS). An FIR in this connection was registered three years ago after an inquiry ordered by Ram Niwas, the then Additional Chief Secretary of the Department, had detected the scam by some depot holders in connivance with the officials of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-held-over-pds-scam-182288
10-12-2020||Deepender Deswal---||Farmers irked as CCI slashes cotton prices citing parameters||Tribune News Service Hisar/Sirsa, December 9 The sudden slashing of price by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), which is the only government agency for procurement of cotton, has created panic among farmers in the region, which is known as the cotton belt of Haryana.  Earlier, the government had fixed the minimum support price (MSP) at Rs 5,725 per quintal, which was cut down by Rs 60. Now, the CCI will purchase the cotton at flat rate of Rs 5,665 per quintal. On getting information about the slash in the MSP, the farmers have been flooding the grain market since Monday. However, no procurement was carried out on Tuesday due to the Bharat bandh. The CCI officials maintained that they had revised the rates as per the fixed parameters regarding the quality of the produce. The quality of cotton is of inferior quality so they have decided to cut down the rate. The CCI has procured nearly 16.70 lakh quintals of cotton in Haryana this season. Sushil Kumar, commercial officer of the CCI, informed that the CCI had already revised the prices across the state. He said while the rates had already been revised in other than Sirsa districts and other states, now, this rate would be applicable in Sirsa district too. The CCI official maintained that the quality parameters as the reason behind the revision of rates. Meanwhile, the farmers expressed surprise over sudden revision of rates by the CCI. “The private arhtiyas are already offering much lesser prices ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 5,500 per quintal to the farmers. It seems unjustified on part of the CCI to revise the MSP midway of the procurement season”, said Harjinder Singh, a farmer of Mallekan village in Sirsa district. Stating that a number of farmers are facing problem in the procurement of cotton, Harjinder Singh said out of ignorance, those farmers who failed to register their crop on the “Meri fasal mera byora” were not eligible for selling their produce to the CCI which was the only agency, which offers the MSP for cotton. He said a number of farmers had either resorted to distress sale to private arhtiyas or had to take their produce to Punjab mandis for procurement. The farmers maintained that though they had a grain market in Mallekan village, it was not a purchase centre for cotton and paddy and they had to take their produce to Sirsa mandi, which was 20 km from the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-irked-as-cci-slashes-cotton-prices-citing-parameters-182289
10-12-2020||Karnal||Five held for planning to loot petrol pump||The police have arrested five persons while they were allegedly hatching a conspiracy to loot a petrol pump in Kaithal.  Superintendent of Police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said the accused had been identified as Rajesh, alias Raju, of Baata village, Balwinder, alias Kaira, of Patiala, Virender and Rakesh of Kalayat and Meenu of Danoda Khurd. They were said to be members Kalayat gang, said the SP adding that the police have recovered five illegal pistols, 51 cartridges and two bikes from their possession. On a tip-off, a team of CIA arrested them during night patrolling from Francewala bus queue shelter. They were hatching the conspiracy to loot a petrol pump. “The arrested accused were involved in around a dozen of petty and heinous crimes,” said Sawan.  The police registered a case under the various sections of the IPC against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-held-for-planning-to-loot-petrol-pump-182290
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Hafed to sell FPO products||The government has decided to make products of Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) available to consumers through Haryana State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation Limited (Hafed) sale outlets. Two memorandums of understanding to this effect were signed between Hafed and FPOs on Tuesday. Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal said  the Hafed platform was being provided to FPOs so as to double the income of farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hafed-to-sell-fpo-products-182291
10-12-2020||Panipat||Newlywed robs  in-laws||Two days after her wedding, a bride decamped with cash, jewellery and valuables after giving some intoxicant to her husband and in-laws. Dinesh of Naultha village in Israna said he married Sunita of Almora in Uttarakhand at Kashipur on December 2. He said he gave her a gold mangalsutra, two gold rings, gold tops, silver jewellery and clothes worth Rs 20,000. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/newlywed-robs-in-laws-182292
10-12-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||After CLU grant, Adani Group setting up silos for FCI in Panipat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 9After securing permission for change of land use (CLU) from the BJP-led Haryana government, the Adani Group is constructing high-tech silos for storage of foodgrain procured by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) in Panipat’s Jondhan Kalan and Naultha villages.“Construction began in our village a couple of months back. The group had approached me for purchasing another two acres of panchayat land which falls in the vicinity of the land that they have already purchased from the farmers. However, I refused to commit since I am not authorised to sell panchayat land. I told them to meet the higher-ups in the state government,” said Balraj Singh, sarpanch of Naultha.The land purchased by the group lies next to a railway track and is 2 km from the national highway. “The land purchased by the group was not cultivable. It does not have any supply for irrigation and the water in the area is brackish, making it unsuitable for cultivation. The group started purchasing land nearly three years back and paid Rs 30 lakh per acre to farmers to begin with. Gradually, it kept revising the rates and the price went up to Rs 2 crore per acre, leaving landowners who sold their land initially a little sore,” the sarpanch added.In Jondhan Kalan, the group began construction a month ago, confirmed sarpanch Vijender Singh. The CLU was granted by the office of the Director of Town and Country Planning, Haryana, in May this year.The company paid Rs 27,00,469 on account of conversion charges and the CLU terms specify that it shall give at least 75 per cent employment to the domicile of Haryana where the posts are not technical in nature. A quarterly statement also has to be furnished, indicating the categorywise employment.Meanwhile, the Adani Group has clarified it neither buys food grains from farmers nor decides the pricing of food grains, adding that it only develops and operates grain silos for the FCI. “The company has no role in deciding the volume of storage as well as the pricing of grain as it is only a service/ infrastructure provider for the FCI,” it said in a statement posted on its Twitter handle.The FCI has partnered with private investors to commission high-tech silos equipped with latest fumigation and preservation techniques for food grains for two to four years and dispatch it in bulk through special trains across India.Adani Agri Logistics emerged as the lowest bidder in the competitive bids invited by the FCI in mid-2000 to commission silo facilities. Currently, it operates grain silos in Moga (Punjab) and Kaithal (Haryana) to store grains in North India, another statement said.‘Service provider’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-clu-grant-adani-group-setting-up-silos-for-fci-in-panipat-182181
10-12-2020||New Delhi||Haryana fulfils PDS norms, allowed to borrow Rs 2K cr||The Centre has given permission to nine states to borrow Rs 23,523 crore from the market as these fulfilled the eligibility criteria. Haryana can borrow Rs 2,146 crore.The nine states — Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh — have completed reforms in the public distribution system. The states undertook three major initiatives in this regard — seeding of Aadhaar with ration cards, biometrically authenticated beneficiaries and automation of fair price shops. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-fulfils-pds-norms-allowed-to-borrow-rs-2k-cr-182183
