11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports another COVID-19 death, cases rise to 730||Haryana reported one more COVID-19 death on Monday as the total number of coronavirus cases in the state rose to 730.The death was reported from Faridabad district bordering the national capital, as per state health department’s daily bulletin.This was the fourth COVID-19 related death in Faridabad district and eleventh in the state, the bulletin said.As per the bulletin, among the 27 fresh cases reported on Monday, 9 were from Jhajjar followed by Faridabad (7), Sonepat (5), Gurgaon (3), Charkhi Dadri (2), Mahendragarh (1).Total COVID-19 active cases in the state are 382 while those discharged are 337.All of Haryana’s worst-affected districts fall in the National Capital Region.The cumulative cases reported in Gurgaon district are 145, which also has the maximum 94 active cases. Sonepat has a total of 105 cases, Faridabad 102 and Jhajjar 83.Among the total coronavirus cases, 24 are foreign nationals, including 14 Italian tourists of which 13 were discharged after they recovered while one elderly woman in the group passed away last month despite recovering.Other 10 foreigners are from Sri Lanka, Nepal, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia while another 64 COVID-19 patients are from other states, as per the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-another-covid-19-death-cases-rise-to-730-83451
11-05-2020||---||No active case of coronavirus in Ambala district, all patients discharged||Ambala, May 11Following the discharge of 28 patients after being cured on Monday, Ambala became Covid-free with no active case in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said all 28 patients admitted at different hospitals in the district were discharged after their two consecutive samples tested negative while a patient from Tharva village in the district, who was admitted at Chandigarh’s PGIMER, had recovered from Covid but was kept at the PGIMER for dialysis.Earlier, 11 patients had been discharged after being cured in the district. Of the total 3,765 samples taken in the district so far, 3,611 had tested negative, 41 positive and reports of 116 samples were awaited while 2 patients had died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-active-case-of-coronavirus-in-ambala-district-all-patients-discharged-83441
11-05-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad reports fourth COVID-19 fatality, 10 new infections||Faridabad reported a coronavirus death and ten new infections on Monday, officials said---developments that take the district’s numbers past 100 and death tally to four.An 85-year-old man from Faridabad’s Sector 18 who tested positive for COVID-19 on May 8 died at private hospital on Monday, officials said. He had heart problems and underwent stent replacement surgeries in the past.Of the district’s 10 new coronavirus cases, six were people working at a shop in a vegetable market at Dabua Colony were among the nine.Bhood colony, Milhard colony and Fatehpur Chandila village each had one positive case.The district tally now stands at 106.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-reports-fourth-covid-19-fatality-10-new-infections-83440
11-05-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak university researcher designs anti-Covid vaccine||In a major breakthrough, a researcher from Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in Rohtak has designed a vaccine against Covid, the most dreaded global pandemic which has gripped many countries and continues to affect and kill millions of people worldwide.The ‘3CL Hydrolase-based Multi-Epitope Peptide Vaccine against SARS-CoV-2’ has been designed by Dr Renu Jakhar, who has recently completed her PhD at Centre for Medical Biotechnology of MDU, by using immuno-informatics.The said research paper of the Rohtak university research scholar has been accepted for publication by the Journal of Medical Virology, a reputed international journal published from the USA, after sharing it with the World Health Organisation (WHO).“This is a protein-based vaccine which will strengthen our body’s immunity by raising the generation of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. Utmost care has been taken to ensure that the epitopes used in the vaccine are non-toxic and non-allergic,” Dr Renu revealed while talking to The Tribune here.The researcher maintained that after the vaccine is ready, animal trials could be carried out at MDU if the government and university authorities grant permission to do so.It may be pertinent to mention here that the clinical trials on animals and human beings is a time-consuming process and it may take up to nine months for the vaccine to be available in the market. “The development of vaccines usually takes several years. It would be unprecedented if the vaccine is available by the end of the current year or early next year.“This has become possible with the advent of computer-aided immuno-informatics tools, genetic and protein engineering,” observes Prof SK Gakhar, eminent scientist and Vice-Chancellor of Indira Gandhi University (IGU), Meerpur, Rewari, under whose supervision the said research has been carried out.Professor Gakhar points out that as of now there are eight candidate vaccines in clinical evaluation stage and nearly 100 others in pre-clinical evaluation stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-university-researcher-designs-anti-covid-vaccine-83438
11-05-2020||Sanjay Yadav||36-year-old shot dead in front of his kids in Gurugram||Gurugram, May 11In a shocking incident a 36-year-old gym owner was allegedly gunned down in front of his children at the Naurangpur mini-stadium here on early Monday morning.The victim, identified as Manjeet Yadav, had gone for a morning walk with his 15-year-old daughter and 8-year-old son to the mini-stadium when unidentified assailants came in an SUV and opened fire at him, killing him at the spot. The assailants later fled from the scene. The incident led to panic in the area.Though the accused are yet to be identified, police suspect it to be yet another crime pertaining to the newspaper distribution mafia.The victim's wife told us that he had taken up newspaper distribution in the Vatika area and was getting threat calls to stop it, said police.According to police, Manjeet Yadav, alias Manjeet Pehalwan, hailed from Wazirpur village in Delhi and was staying at his uncle's farmhouse in Shikohpur village along with his family for the last few years.As part of his daily routine, Yadav left home for a walk to the mini-stadium at Naurangpur village around 5:00 am on Monday with his children.Onlookers told police that the children were exercising on the walking track opposite their father when three men stepped out of a Creta car and pulled out their guns and started firing at Manjeet.Yadav sustained eight bullet injuries and died on the spot, while the accused fled, onlookers added.The children raised an alarm and called their father's uncle who called the police.The police rushed reached the spot and rushed Yadav to a nearby private hospital where doctors declared him as brought dead.“I got a call about the incident and reached spot with my son Hariom and nephew Yogesh only to find Manjeet's body lying in a pool of blood. The way he was killed looked like a conspired murder," Manjeet’s maternal uncle and complainant Jaipal told the police.On his complaint, an FIR was registered against unidentified accused under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and section 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at the Kherki Daula police station."We have fetched all the available CCTV footage and got some leads. Prima facie, it seems an outcome of rivalry between newspaper distributors. The deceased was involved in total five cases, including a murder at toll plaza. We are investigating with all angles," said Deepak Saharan, DCP, Manesar.Manjeet had been booked for extortion and firing at Kherki Daula in the past.Notably, Gurugram has witnessed murders over newspaper distribution in the past as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/36-year-old-shot-dead-in-front-of-his-kids-in-gurugram-83434
11-05-2020||Sonepat||3 labourers killed after being buried alive under sand in Sonepat district||Three labourers were killed after they were buried alive under a heap of sand, while laying a water pipeline under a road, in Sonepat district late on Sunday night. The incident occurred at Lath village of the district. The bodies of the victims have been identified as Mukesh and Ajit of Lath village and Pradeep of Shaharmal Pur in Panipat district. The bodies have been sent to the civil hospital at Gohana for postmortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-labourers-killed-after-being-buried-alive-under-sand-in-sonepat-district-83351
11-05-2020||---||Leopard poaching: FIR filed against unknown persons in Panchkula||Panchkula, May 10An FIR has been registered at Chandimandir police station against unidentified persons for causing serious injuries to a leopard, which died at Pipli zoo on Saturday.The leopard was rescued by wildlife officials after it fell into a 15-foot-deep tank in Tikri village in Morni block on May 7.The complaint was lodged by wildlife official, Ramkesh, under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.On the basis of animal’s physical condition and Veterinary Surgeon’s medical report, the leopard’s paw got caught in a deadly foot trap set by unidentified poachers.After 3.5 hour rescue operation, the leopard was moved to Pipli zoo for further treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/leopard-poaching-fir-filed-against-unknown-persons-in-panchkula-83177
11-05-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat 
||Water supply to 34 illegal RO plants cut||Tribune News Service  Faridabad, May 10 The Municipal Corporation Faridabad has disconnected water supply of 34 private water reverse osmosis (RO) plants in the city in the past 24 hours. The authorities have announced to take a legal action against all unauthorised sources of water supply and connections. Over two lakh of the total five lakh water and sewer connections in the city are reported to be illegal.  The RO plants whose water supply has been disconnected include seven in Sanjay Colony of Sector- 23, seven in Dabua Colony, 18 in NH-1 and NH-2 and two in NH-5 of the NIT area here. Claiming that action against several water RO plants running in the NIT and Badkhal subdivisions after complaints was received recently, a spokesperson of the civic body said it was also aimed at improving the water supply in the summer months. Though the city has a total of about five lakh households and other units availing water and sewer connections, it is reported that only 2.85 lakh units were paying the bills. Majority of such connections are located in slum clusters and densely populated colonies of the city. It is claimed that tanker and private water supply mafia enjoying political patronage has also been exploiting the water supply sources and piped water supply network, resulting in inequitable distribution. Against a demand of 265 MLD daily, the municipal corporation is supplying about 250 MLD of water daily to a population of 18 lakh. The total revenue from water and sewer connections is between 10 and 12 crore each year. “FIR will be lodged against anyone who reconnects the supply to these (RO),” said Virender Kardam, Superintending Engineer, Municipal Corporation Faridabad. Helpline numbers, 0129- 2415549 and 0129-2411664, have been made functional for lodging complaint or information about any such activity, he said adding that regularisation of illegal connections had been stuck up due to Covid crisis. More than 12,000 connections have been regularised in the past two years, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/water-supply-to-34-illegal-ro-plants-cut-83126
11-05-2020||
||Sanitation worker dies in road mishap||Karnal, May 10 One sanitation worker was killed while another received injuries in a road mishap yesterday near Behlolpur village when the bike they were riding on was hit by a tractor-trailer. The deceased has been identified as Jaina Ram (38) of Chochra village, while the injured, Rajesh, of the same village, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital, said Karambir, investigating officer. Both were working on contract basis in the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) and were returning home to Chochra village after completing their duty. The driver of the tractor managed to escape from the crime spot after leaving the tractor-trailer behind. “We have registered a case against the tractor driver for rash driving,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sanitation-worker-dies-in-road-mishap-83127
11-05-2020||Kurukshetra||Special investigation team to probe sacrilege case||A special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to probe the incident of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib at Gurdwara Singh Sabha in Gobind Nagar village near Dera Fateh Singh in Pehowa here. SP Astha Modi said, “A special investigation team under the leadership of Pehowa DSP Dheeraj Kumar has been formed while CIA-1 in charge Gurvidner Singh, ASI Prem Chand and ASI Balinder Singh are the other members who have been included in the SIT.” State Sports and Youth Affairs minister Sandeep Singh also reached the gurdwara and said every person should cooperate with the SIT . — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-investigation-team-to-probe-sacrilege-case-83128
11-05-2020||Karnal||Girl child’s body found||The Civil Lines police have recovered the body of a girl child from a drain in Sector 12 on Sunday. The postmortem will be conducted on Monday, said Sanjeev Gaur, SHO, Civil Lines. He said a case had been registered against the unidentified persons under Section 315 and 318 of the IPC. As per information, some passerby spotted the body in the drain and informed the police. “We took the body into custody and inquired from the people living in the vicinity, but no one has claimed the body so far. It seems she is one-day old, but the accurate age will be ascertained after the postmortem,” he said, adding that the probe is underway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girl-childs-body-found-83129
11-05-2020||Our Correspondent
||Man beaten to death, kin held||Sonepat, May 10  A 60-year-old man, Raj Pal, of Jakhoda village in Jhajjar district was allegedly beaten to death with a stick by his relative Sunita (23) in a TDI flat at Kundli in the district on Saturday. Sunita, originally a resident of Kansala village in Rohtak and at present is staying in a TDI flat in Kundli was arrested on Sunday by the police after registering a case against her on the complaint of Raj Pal’s son Ravinder. In his complaint, Ravinder submitted that he came to know about the murder of his father from one of his relative Jagbir of Bhadana village in the district. Jagbir also informed him that Raj Pal was allegedly murdered by Sunita. Investigating Officer Sub Inspector Devender Singh said during preliminary interrogation, Sunita confessed to have taken about Rs 10 lakh from Raj Pal and allegedly murdered him with intention of not having to return the amount.  “Her samples have been sent for Covid testing and after receiving test report, she will be produced in the court for taking into police custody, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-beaten-to-death-kin-held-83130
11-05-2020||
||Man found murdered in Panipat colony||Panipat, May 10 A 40-year-old man was found murdered in the Khail Bazar area of Panipat on Sunday. The Quilla police began probe into the matter.  The deceased has been identified as Doodhnath (40) of Chandpura village in Uttar Pradesh and he was living here in a rented accommodation of Harish Kumar of Khail Bazar.  On Sunday morning, Suresh, younger brother of Harish, saw Doodhnath’s body lying in a pool of blood and his throat was slit by a sharp-edged knife, which was also lying nearby.  Satish Vats, DSP, Headquarters, along with Inspector Sandeep, SHO, Quilla, reached the spot along with a forensic team to probe the matter. The police sent the body to the mortuary at General Hospital for a postmortem examination and informed the family of the deceased. Sandeep Kumar said the case had been registered against unknown persons under various sections of the IPC.We have been probing the facts and collecting the footage of CCTV cameras installed nearby, he further said. Teams have been constituted to nab the accused involved in the murder case, the SHO maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-found-murdered-in-panipat-colony-83131
11-05-2020||---||Death reported from Faridabad; 11 new cases||Chandigarh, May 10Haryana reported its 10th casualty today and the total Covid tally reached 690 with 11 fresh cases.Fresh cases were reported from Bhiwani (3), Panchkula (2), Faridabad (2), Mahendragarh (1), Rohtak (1), Charkhi Dadri (1) and Palwal (1).Faridabad district reported its third death due to Covid today. It is the 10th death of the state.A 72-year-old woman who tested positive on May 6 and was shifted to a Covid hospital from a private hospital of Sector 19 succumbed to the disease last night. She was under treatment for disorders like urinary tract infection, diabetes and heart ailment. She was a resident of Sector 28, Faridabad.Besides it, two more cases were reported from the district. The new cases are of a 42-year-old resident of Sector 62 and a 41-year-old employee of the SBI branch in Sector 16 here. While the bank employee contracted the disease from a security guard who had been working in his close vicinity in Sector 16, the other person had got admitted to a private hospital with complaint of illness and nasal bleed three days ago. He tested positive for Covid today. The tally in the district has reached 96.Three persons tested positive in Bhiwani, taking the district tally to six today. The positive cases included an 11-year-old boy, 15-year-old girl and a 42-year-old man, who are all residents of Vidhyanagar locality in Bhiwani town.Two tested positive in Panchkula, taking the district’s tally to 22. The first case is of a 33-year-old Sector-19 resident who works in a pharma company in Baddi in Himachal Pradesh. He had self-reported at the Civil Hospital a few days ago.The second person is a 45-year-old truck driver from Majri village. His sample was taken during random testing of 10 truck drivers of Majri Chowk Truck Union on May 6. His exact source of infection is not known yet.In Rohtak, a 26-year-old sanitation worker at PGIMS was found positive, taking the total count to five.A 23-year-old teacher with travel history to Delhi tested positive in Mahendragarh town, taking the district’s count to five cases today. One case each was reported from Palwal and Charkhi Dadri too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/death-reported-from-faridabad-11-new-cases-83132
11-05-2020|| 
||Govt wary of new discharge protocol||Chandigarh, May 10 Haryana wants to tread cautiously on the new directions from the Centre on releasing very mild, mild and moderate Covid cases without RT-PCR tests for negative confirmation.  Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said, “I have asked officials to consult the central government officials again before implementing the directions even though the Centre must have prescribed this new procedure after some studies.”  On May 9, the Centre had prescribed that “mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic cases admitted to a care facility will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring and the patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days”.  Also, “there will be no need for testing prior to discharge, but at the time of discharge, the patient will be advised seven-day home isolation. If prior to discharge, the patient’s oxygen saturation dips below 95 per cent, he will be moved to a dedicated Covid health centre”.  Only severe patients, including immune-compromised HIV, transplant and malignancy patients, will need to test negative once by RT-PCR before discharge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-wary-of-new-discharge-protocol-83133
11-05-2020||Ravinder Saini
||Out of work, many turn street vendors||Tribune News Service Rohtak, May 10 The lockdown has forced many people in the city to sell vegetables to make ends meet. Electrician Jagdeep, autorickshaw driver Deepak, milk-seller Dharampal, wedding band master Sunil Kumar, confectioner Gola and almirah makers Anil and Vineet are selling vegetables and fruits to eke out a living. “My primary job is to instal electrical fittings in newly constructed buildings. I used to earn Rs 15,000 per month before the lockdown. My earnings came to an abrupt end when construction was banned due to the lockdown. The situation forced me to sell vegetables and fruits to fend for my family. I hardly earn Rs 100 per day, but it is better than nothing,” said Jagdeep of Sanjay Nagar. Dharampal of Anandpura had to sell two buffaloes at a much lower rate when his customers stopped buying milk due to fear of Covid infection. “I had been dealing in milk for two and a half decades and selling 40 litres daily before the lockdown. Customers refused to buy milk till Covid ended.  To sustain my family, I sold two of my four buffaloes for Rs 30,000 each instead of the market price of Rs 60,000 each,” he said. He pointed out that his lone son was unemployed as the cloth shop where he had been working was closed since March 22. “I have been selling vegetables in the streets for the past one month to arrange two square meals for my family,” he added. Siblings Anil and Vineet used to make almirahs for a private company and earned Rs 15,000 per month. “We waited for the lockdown to end, but had to start selling vegetables to earn a living when the situation did not normalise,” said Anil. Gola said selling vegetables and fruits was the only option for him during the lockdown. He said he would continue sell vegetables till the situation was back to normal. Sonu Chhabra, president of the New Fruit/Vegetable Market Welfare Samiti, said the number of street vendors had doubled during the lockdown as those having no source of income began selling vegetables.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/out-of-work-many-turn-street-vendors-83134
11-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Cab drivers, delivery boys at receiving end||Gurugram, May 10Hit hard by the lockdown, around 15,000 food delivery boys have approached the local administration seeking relief package or deployment in ongoing pandemic management services. The delivery boys and around 12,000 drivers of Ola and Uber cabs claim to be worst hit by this lockdown, saying they are left with no money to manage meals for their families.They said while we were getting work initially but after a pizza delivery boy tested Covid-positive in Delhi, there has been a reduction in demand throwing many of them out of job. Majority of these persons work on incentive per order basis and have not been able to earn anything since weeks.“Our entire fraternity has been hit as people no longer seek deliveries and even if they do, online aggregators have reduced incentives adding to their woes. We too are corona warriors, who are putting our lives at risk to keep the supply chain running. Our families are struggling for food and it’s high time that the administration turns attention to us. We don’t seek charity but are demanding deployment to administration aided deliveries so that we continue to earn with dignity,” said Suresh Kaadiyan, representative of delivery boys of Sector 10, 14, 15, 31 and DLF.They also claimed that the companies using their services were not even providing them with sanitisers and masks. Drivers and owners of Ola and Uber cabs too were facing same problems, though Ola is running an initiative, seeking support from customers, but that is not enough, said many drivers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cab-drivers-delivery-boys-at-receiving-end-83135
11-05-2020||ibune News Service||Efforts on to revive industry, passes being given: CM||Chandigarh, May 10Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said industries closed because of the nationwide lockdown due to Covid were being revived. For this, work on granting permission and passes was underway on the portal saralharyana.gov.in, he said.Shelter for workersWith a view to avoiding mass movement of migrant workers, the state government has set up shelter homes for them. — Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterHe said all industries should register themselves and make their data available to the state government so that it could be used while formulating policies in the future.Giving details, an official spokesperson said there were about 1,16,700 micro, small and medium industries in the state and so far, 55,935 industries had applied on the portal for permission to operate.These included 35,572 industries in urban areas and 20,246 industries in rural areas. Apart from this, there were 608 in situ industries. With the reopening of these industries, 21,86,098 workers would get work again.Giving more information, the spokesperson said there were 43,653 industries with strength of up to 25 workers. The number of industries having between 25 and 200 workers was 10,186, while the number of industries with more than 200 workers was 1,979.He stated that so far, 34,375 industries had been allowed to operate. Of these, 18,816 industries were in urban areas and 11,842 industries in rural areas. With the opening of these industries, 15,48,574 workers had been employed — 8,02,825 in urban areas and 4,97,828 in rural areas, he added.He said 558 in situ industries had also been allowed to operate. With this, 26,546 persons were employed. Of these, 13,574 had been employed in 294 industries in urban areas and 12,972 in 264 industries in rural areas.The operation of 1,448 brick-kilns had been allowed in the state, in which 2,08,046 workers have returned to work, he added.He said Haryana Roadways buses had been put to use for the movement of employees for smooth operation of small, medium and micro industries. With a view to avoiding mass movement of migrant workers, the state government had set up shelter homes for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/efforts-on-to-revive-industry-passes-being-given-cm-83136
11-05-2020||
||Polytechnic makes UV box to sanitise papers||Yamunanagar, May 10 Seth Jai Prakash Polytechnic, Damla, Yamunanagar district, has designed and fabricated a decontamination box (almirah) to sanitise old records and office documents.  This box is fitted with four ultraviolet-C (UV-C) lamps. UV-C light is used to kill or inactivate microorganisms by destroying nucleic acids and disrupting their DNA, leaving them ineffective to perform vital cellular functions. Besides using such boxes in its educational institutes including Seth Jai Parkash Polytechnic, the management of the Mukand Lal Educational Institutes will provide these boxes to other institutes and health authorities too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/polytechnic-makes-uv-box-to-sanitise-papers-83137
11-05-2020||New Delhi||Supreme Court questions Haryana govt over remission to life-term convicts||The Supreme Court has questioned the Haryana Government over a policy of granting remission to life-term convicts aged 75 years or above, saying it appeared to be in “conflict” with a provision of law.The apex court has directed the state government to respond within two weeks on whether such a policy, which the court said appeared running counter to Section 433-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), could be framed under Article 161 of the Constitution.While Article 161 of the Constitution deals with the power of Governors to grand pardons and to suspend, remit or commute sentences in certain cases, Section 433-A of the CrPC relates to restriction on these powers in certain cases. Section 433-A of the CrPC also says that a convict shall not be released from jail unless he had served at least 14 years of the imprisonment, if he has been sentenced to life for an offence that entails maximum of death sentence or in cases where capital punishment has been commuted.The issue came up before a Bench of Justices UU Lalit and Dinesh Maheshwari which was hearing an appeal in a criminal case. The Bench was informed about a policy which stated that on the occasion of August 15, 2019, the Governor of Haryana had granted special remission to certain prisoners who were undergoing sentence.As per the policy, special remission could be granted to those, including male convicts of 75 years or above who were sentenced for life and have completed eight years of the actual sentence.“In terms of the aforesaid policy, those convicts who stood convicted for life sentence and are above the age of 75 years (in case of male convicts) and have completed eight years of actual sentence are entitled to be conferred the benefit of remission,” the Bench noted in its May 8 order.“Prima facie, the aforesaid policy appears to be in conflict with Section 433-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,” the Bench said.“Whether a policy could be framed under Article 161 of the Constitution of India, which would run counter to the mandate of Section 433A CrPC, and whether all individual cases in which benefit was granted in respect of the aforesaid policy were placed before the Governor of the state and whether facts of individual cases were considered by the authority before granting benefit of remission,” the Bench asked.It issued notice to the state government on these questions and directed it to file a response within two weeks.The top court has listed the matter for further consideration on July 6. As per the policy placed before the apex court, remission would not be granted to those prisoners who have been sentenced to death and their sentences have been commuted to life term. — PTIState govt told to respond in 2 weeks||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/supreme-court-questions-haryana-govt-over-remission-to-life-term-convicts-83138
11-05-2020||---||Test arrested persons for Covid before jailing them, says Director General of Health Services||Rohtak, May 10The Director General of Health Services (DGHS) has directed all civil surgeons across the state to ensure testing of all arrested persons for Covid before putting them into jails and to keep them in isolation at designated place in the jail concerned till their report comes out. The direction has been issued in order to check the spread of Covid pandemic in jails.“Complying with the directives, we have, with immediate effect, started doing Covid test of all of those arrested by the police. The test is done at a time when the police bring the accused to the hospital for medical examination before sending him/her to jail,” said Rohtak Civil Surgeon Anil Birla. Birla maintained besides them, prison staff returning from leave is also being tested for Covid as precautionary measures.On the other hand, the Jhajjar district health authorities have directed Medical Officer (MO) posted at dispensary in District Jail Dulina to prepare isolation room/ ward in the jail immediately so that new jail inmates could be tested for Covid and kept there under observation till their report comes out.“The MO has also been asked to carry out screening of all jail prisoners and employees as early as possible and submit his report within three days. A dental surgeon has been deputed at the dispensary for sample collection, packaging and transportation to designated lab,” said Jhajjar Civil Surgeon Randeep Singh Poonia. Poonia said they had also decided regular screening of all prisoners and employees to detect the coronavirus infection if any.Prison staff being tested||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/test-arrested-persons-for-covid-before-jailing-them-says-director-general-of-health-services-83139
11-05-2020||kesh Tandon||Kingpin supplied liquor in states enforcing prohibition: SP||Tribune News ServicePanipat, May 10With a wide network of distributors, suppliers and transporters, alleged liquor smuggling kingpin Bhupinder Singh of Sisana village supplied liquor in those states where sale of liquor was prohibited.Bhupinder Singh, who was allegedly involved in a dozen liquor smuggling cases, was arrested by the Sonepat police after he surrendered at the Kharkhoda police station on Saturday night.The police produced the accused in court on Sunday and sought 10-day police remand for recovery of stolen liquor, arrest of his accomplice and other recoveries required in the case. The court allowed four-day police custody of the accused.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said following police pressure after a raid at his residence in Sector 50 of Chandigarh, the accused surrendered at the Kharkhoda police station on Saturday night.It was revealed during preliminary inquiry that Bhupinder had sources in some distilleries to get liquor, besides distributors, suppliers and transporters in other states.He was supplying liquor illegally in containers, trucks and other vehicles of vegetables, fruits and other goods to other states, especially Bihar and Gujarat, where sale of liquor was prohibited. He had supplied liquor illegally during the lockdown.Sources said the accused was in connivance with officials of the Excise and Taxation Department and police. The sources said he also changed labels on bottles of liquor.“We have been inquiring into connivance of officials of the Excise and Taxation Department and the police,” the SP asserted. As per police record, 12 cases had been registered against Bhupinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kingpin-supplied-liquor-in-states-enforcing-prohibition-sp-83140
11-05-2020||
||Crop diversification scheme a planned conspiracy: Congress||Chandigarh, May 10 The Congress on Sunday objected to the state government’s new scheme “Mera Paani, Meri Virasat” aimed at discouraging paddy cultivation to conserve water terming it as a “planned conspiracy” against state’s farmers to deny them fundamental right to life and livelihood. Addressing a joint video conference, HPCC chief Kumari Selja and and AICC communication in charge Randeep Surjewala lambasted BJP-JJP government’s “tuglaqi farman” which directed that the farmers in Guhla, Pipli, Shahbad, Babain, Ismailabad, Ratia, Siwan and Sirsa blocks would cultivate paddy only on 50 per cent of last year’s cultivable area. “The state government’s illogical decision would adversely affect thousands of farmers as about 2.2 lakh acres of area would be barred from paddy cultivation,” asserted the Congress leaders. In fact, strict conditions, including non-procurement of paddy at MSP and non-payment of subsidies to farmers growing paddy against government’s decision, would play havoc with the livelihoods of small and marginal farmers and was a ploy to deny farmers their right to procure paddy at the MSP in the long run, the leaders alleged.  Last year, the Manohar Lal Khattar Government had started a ‘Jal Hi Jeevan Hai’ scheme in which seven different blocks were identified where the crop pattern was to be changed from paddy to maize on 1.37 lakh acres. Farmers were promised an incentive of Rs. 2,000 per acre, Rs. 766 per acre for insurance premium and maize hybrid seeds, but no such compensation has been given till today, the leaders alleged adding that the truth is that the conversion from paddy cultivation to maize cultivation did not happen and that is why the Chief Minister gave up those seven blocks and eight new blocks have been identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crop-diversification-scheme-a-planned-conspiracy-congress-83141
11-05-2020||Nitish Sharma
||Govt limits paddy cultivation to 50 per cent in eight blocks||Tribune News Service Kurukshetra, May 10 The government has toughened its stance on paddy growers in eight blocks where the water table is deeper than 40 metres. Farmers have to diversify at least 50 per cent of the area under paddy by growing alternative crops. Farmers who cultivate alternative crops on less than 50 per cent of their area in the target blocks will not be eligible for incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre. In case of such farmers, paddy will not be procured by state government agencies. These farmers will not get any subsidy from the Agriculture Department. The state government has launched “Mera Paani, Meri Virasat” scheme for replacement of paddy with maize, cotton, bajra and pulses on 1 lakh hectares in target blocks of Fatehabad, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Sirsa districts. The target blocks are Ratia, Siwan, Guhla, Pipli, Shahabad, Babain, Ismailbad, and Sirsa, having 1,79,951 hectares area under paddy cultivation.  To improve the water table, the government has decided to give an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre for diversification. Only those farmers who diversify over 50 per cent of the area under paddy for the last kharif season will be eligible. Farmers operating with 50-hp electric motor will not be allowed to grow paddy. The government has decided to restrict cultivation of paddy in Thanesar and Pehowa blocks of Kurukshetra and Fatehabad and Jakhal blocks of Fatehabad, having 3,136 hectares under paddy with water table deeper than 35 metres.  “The government has launched the scheme to check the depleting water table. All-out efforts will be made to achieve the target of crop diversification,” said Pradeep Meel, Deputy Director, Agriculture. “Similar incentives were announced last year and farmers were to be given Rs 2,000 per acre, but no money was given. There are flooded areas where no crop except paddy can be cultivated. The BJP and JJP should ask its farmer cells to adopt the scheme and stop growing paddy. Subsidy on drip irrigation should be increased to 95 per cent,” said Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU (Charuni) chief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-limits-paddy-cultivation-to-50-per-cent-in-eight-blocks-83142
11-05-2020||Parveen Arora||Online classes increase screen time of students, parents concerned||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 10Online classes have increased the screen time of students amid the ongoing Covid pandemic lockdown, raising concern of parents.Prolonged study on smartphones or tabs is different from studying in classrooms. The study involves staring at the screen for a prolonged period and this can lead to tear film instability and worsening of dry eye and allergic conjunctivitis among students. — Dr Summet Khanduja, Associate Professor , KCGMCBefore the lockdown, most of the students used to spend some time on social media and online games, but now, the parents see a jump of around three to four hours extra time their wards are spending online. Eye specialists feel the increase in screen time may be dangerous for the eyes of students.Students say the study in classrooms is better than the online classes. “I start my online class at 10am daily and it takes around three-and-a-half hour to complete my assignments. The online classes are stressful, while study in classrooms is better and interactive,” said Palaksha, a student of Class V.Another student Eklavya, a student of Class IX said, “I spend around four hours on screen to attend my classes online. Besides, I have to devote two more hours to online tuition classes. The study in classroom is more effective.”A teacher of one of the reputed schools said they had no option, but to teach the students online. “We also have to prepare a lot for the online classes. Earlier, we were not used to the online classes, but the lockdown has forced us to switch to online classes,” said a teacher.The eye specialists say prolonged study on smartphones or tabs can lead to dry eyes and allergic conjunctivitis. “Prolonged study on smartphones or tabs is different from studying in classrooms. The study involves staring at the screen for a prolonged period and this can lead to tear film instability and worsening of dry eye and allergic conjunctivitis among students,” said Dr Summet Khanduja, associate professor and head of the department of KCGMCHe cautioned that the students should take a break after every 20-minute and blink their eyes to maintain moisture in the eye.“The prolonged staring at the screen from a close distance may lead to eye muscle spasms, which can further lead to eye pain, redness or headache,” he further said.Declare lockdown period as holiday, says educationistVijay Kapur, chairman, DAV schools, Yamunanagar, urged the government to declare the period of prolonged lockdown as holiday for educational institutes. He said the lockdown had brought education sector to a standstill. He said some schools had mooted the innovative plan for imparting education to students on online platform and this picture was not that bright, as it only covered rich students which were mostly enrolled to public schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-classes-increase-screen-time-of-students-parents-concerned-83143
11-05-2020||Parveen Arora
||15 days on, Karnal farmers, arhtiyas wait for payment||Tribune News Service Karnal, May 10 Farmers and arhtiyas of various grain markets in the district are waiting for payment even after 15 days of procurement. Farmers and arhtiyas alleged that even after the claims of the state government of disbursing the payment in 72-hours, they were still waiting for their dues. As many as 6,52,959 MT wheat has been procured at around 170 purchase centres of the district. Of it, Food and Civil Supplies has purchased 3,41,500 MT, followed by 2,73,600 MT by Hafed, 37,325 MT by the Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HWC) and 534MT by the FCI. Arhtiyas agencies have transferred the dues of some of the farmers to the accounts of the arhtiyas till April 25. “Farmers have to come again and again to us for payment, but we have no answer. We have approached the procurement agencies, but no action has been initiated. Dues of some of the farmers have been transferred to the accounts of the arhtiyas,” said Rajnish Choudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association. The arhtiyas demanded that the government should allow the arrival of wheat from Uttar Pradesh (UP). “We request the government to allow the arrival of wheat from UP,” Choudhary said. Nirmal Singh, a farmer, said he had sold his wheat crop on April 26, but so far, his dues had not been cleared. Anil Kumar, DFSC, said they had cleared the dues of Rs 242 crore against the “I” form, which were uploaded till April 25. “We will make the remaining payment at the earliest,” he added. Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC, said, “I have pushed the procurement agencies and asked them to make quick payment to the farmers. Since, over 80 per cent wheat has been procured in the district, I will request the government to allow the farmers from UP to bring their crop. After the approval, we will lift the ban on the entry of wheat from UP,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-days-on-karnal-farmers-arhtiyas-wait-for-payment-83144
11-05-2020||
||Carry ashes to Haridwar with movement pass||Karnal, May 10 The wait for ‘moksha’ of hundreds who died before and during the lockdown is going to end as the administration has allowed immersion of ashes in Haridwar. They have to apply for movement pass on the Saral Haryana portal. “Since the Uttarakhand Government has allowed immersion of ashes in the Ganga, we have allowed the provision of movement pass. Family members have to apply on the portal,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, District Magistrate. “We understand the pain and agony of people who have been waiting for immersion of ashes of their beloved ones, but were not able to allow it due to lockdown restrictions,” he said. Following the decision, residents thanked the district authorities. Pardeep Mehta of Kunjpura said his father Subhash Mehta died on March 25, but they could not go to Haridwar for immersion of ashes due to restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/carry-ashes-to-haridwar-with-movement-pass-83145
11-05-2020||
||Bakery sealed, 32 challaned in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, May 10 A municipal corporation team on Saturday sealed a bakery and issued challans to 32 shopkeepers for violating lockdown norms and odd-even formula. The team recovered Rs 15,500 as fine from the violators. The team included Jagadhri naib tehsildar-cum-duty magistrate Om Prakash and chief sanitary inspector Anil Nain. Jagadhri SDM Darshan Kumar, Yamunanagar City SHO Kamaldeep Singh and Farakpur SHO Mukesh Kumar were present. “The shopkeepers did not mark circles outside their shops, had opened shops without following odd-even formula and were working without masks,” said Nain.   “The bakery was open in violation of the odd-even formula. A youth was working without mask. A 60-year-old man was at work, which was illegal. Therefore, this bakery was sealed,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bakery-sealed-32-challaned-in-yamunanagar-83146
