11-01-2021||New Delhi||Haryana Congress demands CM Khattar’s resignation over Karnal incident||The Congress on Monday demanded that Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar resign as he has “lost the faith of the people” and the moral authority to rule after farmers did not allow his chopper to land during an event in Karnal.Agitating farmers had on Sunday ransacked the venue of the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ programme at Kaimla village in Karnal, where Khattar was to address the gathering to highlight the “benefits” of the three contentious central agriculture laws.Khattar had accused BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, the Congress and Communists for “instigating” people.Addressing a joint press conference here, Congress in-charge for Haryana Vivek Bansal and former Union Minister and Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said it is unfortunate the BJP is putting the blame for the Sunday incidents on the Congress and choosing to ignore the mass movement of farmers against the three new agri laws.Bansal said with lakhs of farmers taking to streets and not allowing the chief minister to hold a ‘mahapanchayat’ in his home district indicates that he has lost the faith of the people of the state.“They are not seeing the mass movement of lakhs of farmers taking to the streets as part of the ‘jan andolan’ against the farm laws. The chief minister has lost the faith of the people and has no right to govern the state,” he told reporters.Bansal rejected allegations of political sponsorship to farmers’ agitation and said it has taken the shape of a mass movement.“Neither the Congress party is behind this nor anyone else. It is a mass movement and the people who have ignored this mass movement should be removed from power. We take strong objections to the chief minister blaming the Congress for yesterday’s events at Karnal,” he said.Kumari Selja said the BJP government in Haryana is fully responsible for the situation arising in the state due to the farmers’ agitation.“The BJP has lost the faith of the public and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar should immediately resign,” she said.“If this government has a little grace, it should immediately repeal the three farm laws, after the Supreme Court made critical observations with regard to the handling of the farmers stir and asked why the laws cannot be kept in abeyance,” she also said.The Haryana Congress also condemned the BJP government and the chief minister for “holding the Congress responsible” for the events in Karnal on Sunday.“Holding the Congress responsible is condemnable and uncalled for, as the farmers’ agitation is not that of the Congress but is a ‘jan andolan’. The Haryana Congress is separately holding its agitation and will gherao the Raj Bhawan on January 15,” Selja said. —PTI
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||CBI court orders handing over chargesheets to additional accused in Manesar land ‘scam’||The CBI Special Court, Panchkula, on Monday here ordered the CBI to handover chargesheets to additional accused in the alleged Manesar land scam.Earlier on December 1, 2020, while passing strictures against Investigating Officer (IO), the CBI court had called Home Secretary Rajeev Arora, former Director Industries DR Dhingra, former Chief Town Planner (CTP) Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development (HSIIDC) Surjit Singh, former CTP of Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD) Dhare Singh and former Deputy Superintendent of TCPD Kulwant Singh Lamba as additional accused in the case.They were cited as witnesses by the investigating agency, but the CBI court was of the opinion that a prima facie case was made out against them as well.However, Arora got a stay from the Punjab and Haryana High Court on December 14.Later, Dhinga and Dhare Singh also moved the high court but their matter was adjourned to January 28.Meanwhile, the CBI filed an affidavit before the high court, on January 8, where it submitted with “excruciating pain” that the trial court “has clearly transgressed its jurisdiction” while passing strictures against the investigating officer (IO) of the case.It has called for expunging two paragraphs from the CBI court order, dated December 1. The first paragraph said that “IO of this case has done investigation in an apparent pick and choose manner”, and “has chosen to turn a blind eye to the role of some important public servants whose acts and omissions can be prima-facie termed to be more culpable than the persons arrayed as accused in this case”.Also, it has added that “such isolated instances are enough to bring the sobriquet of caged parrot to the agency”.In the second paragraph, the CBI court has said that “the conduct of investigators, especially in sensitive matters needs to be put under scanner and be scrutinised with reference to their movements and call records of the relevant time”.However, regarding calling additional accused in the case, the CBI has said that the order of the “Learned Trial Court is liable to be defended by the Public Prosecutor”.The case pertains to alleged purchasing of land from farmers at meagre rates and then earning huge profits by getting it released in connivance with bureaucracy and politicians.Former CM BS Hooda and three former Principal Secretary to CM — SS Dhillon, ML Tayal and Chattar Singh — are also accused in the case besides private builders. The next date in CBI court is January 18.
11-01-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Covaxin trial head at Rohtak PGIMS tests Covid-positive||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 11Dr Savita Verma, the principal investigator of the clinical human trials of indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin at Rohtak PGIMS, has tested positive for the virus.As per an official statement issued here today, Dr Verma is legally bound not to get herself vaccinated as she is the principal investigator of the human-trial project.“Dr Verma’s name figured in the contact history of a PGIMS doctor who had tested positive for Covid earlier. Hence, Dr Verma got herself tested and was found Covid-positive. She is under home isolation and does not have any symptoms as of now,” says the statement.
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||BKU’s Charuni among dozens booked over vandalism at Khattar’s Karnal event||The Haryana Police Monday booked BKU (Charuni) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni and dozens of other protesters for rioting and damaging public property, a day after vandalism at the venue of a farmers’ event which was to be addressed by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.According to a police official in Karnal, where the ‘Kisan mahapanchayat’ was to be held, a case has been registered against 71 people by name, including Gurnam Singh Charuni, while 800-900 unnamed people have also been booked.They have been booked for rioting, assault on public servant, damaging public property, criminal conspiracy and other charges, police said.The police said they are collecting evidence, including video clips, in connection with the incident and would take action against those who are found involved in it.However, nobody has been arrested yet, the police official said. Agitating farmers had Sunday ransacked the venue of the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’, forcing the cancellation of Khattar’s programme during which he was to address the gathering highlighting the “benefits” of the three contentious Central agriculture laws.Khattar had accused Charuni of instigating people for vandalising the programme venue.The Haryana Police had used water cannons and teargas shells to prevent farmers from marching towards Kaimla village, where the programme was to be held.The farmers, however, had managed to reach the venue and damage a makeshift helipad where Khattar’s chopper was to land despite elaborate security arrangements made by police.A purported video of Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Charuni, making an appeal to “end the arrogance of the CM” by not allowing him to address the mahapanchayat, was circulating on social media.On January 6, the BKU (Charuni) had threatened to oppose the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’. PTI
11-01-2021||Jhajjar||Illicit liquor smuggling racket using fake label of popular brands busted in Jhajjar; five held||With the arrest of five persons, the local police on Monday claimed to have busted a racket involved in smuggling illicit liquor with fake labels of popular brands. It has also seized 714 cartons of illicit liquor and other materials.The accused have been identified as Surender of Rankhanda village, Sundar of Chhichhdana (Sonepat), Mohammad Farman, Sahil and Manaazir of Bareli (Uttar Pradesh), while the police have recovered duplicate stickers and cartons of Blender Pride, Royal Stag and Old Monk brands from the spot. Surender was the kingpin of the racket.Rajesh Duggal, Superintendent of Police (SP), informed they got a tip-off that illicit liquor was being supplied from a godown located on the Badli road here.A police team led by Inspector Jitender Singh conducted the raid there and arrested the accused working there. A total of 714 cartons of illegal liquor were also recovered from the godown, he added.“The accused were produced before a local court which awarded police remand for three days to Surender and sent others to judicial custody. From where the liquor was being brought here and it was later supplied to which places will be ascertained during interrogation,” said Duggal, adding that some more persons were likely to be involved in the racket.
11-01-2021||Panipat||Owner of Panipat School among 14 people arrested in paper leak case||Panipat Police said they arrested 14 people---the owner of a school and his son among them---on charges of leaking answer keys to a test for recruiting Panchayat secretaries.Panipat Superintendent of Police Shashank Kumar Sawan said that eight of the 14 were arrested from Rohtak, four from Panipat and two from Sonepat. Sawan claimed police had been tipped off about a gang that was involved in leaking the answer key in several districts.He said that police made the bust and arrested suspects from Paradise School on Hathwala road in Samalkha when suspects were still electronically distributing the answer key on January 9.Paradise School was an exam centre.The suspects have been identified as Rahul from Garhi Kesari village in Sonepat’s Ganaur, Jagdeep and his son Anuj from Garhi Kewal and who own the school, and Rajesh from Panipat’s Sewah village.A second team arrested eight people---Pushpender and Vishwajeet from Rohtak’s Pakasma; Anuj from Rohtak’s Shivaji Colony; Sanjeet, Aman, Sunil alias Shilu and Ankit from Baliyana; Deepak from Kasrehti village in Karnal; Devender from Sonepat’s Atail village; and Vaibhav from Panipat’s Kishanpura.A suspect, Rahul, is believed to have told police that the owners of Paradise school had called him and some other people to provide answers to the test and enlisted another suspect, Rajesh, to distribute the answer key at examination centres.Sawan said that the owners of the school had promised Rahul and some others short-term Class 4 positions in his school in return. Police also suspect that there may be others involved in the case.
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Consider letter as resignation if Centre fails to withdraw farm laws by January 26, INLD's Abhay Chautala tells speaker||Indian National Lok Dal legislator Abhay Singh Chautala wrote to the Haryana Assembly speaker on Monday, saying if the Centre does not withdraw the three recent farm laws by January 26, then his letter may be considered as his resignation as an MLA from the House.In a letter to Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Chautala, the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) MLA from Haryana's Ellenabad, slammed the Centre for imposing the "black laws" on farmers in an "undemocratic way" and said the farming community in the entire country is opposing these legislations.A farmers' agitation against the laws has been going on for over a month and the protesting farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders in the cold weather conditions, he pointed out.More than 60 farmers have "attained martyrdom" because of the intense cold weather but the Centre has paid no heed to their demands, Chautala wrote in the letter.Despite holding eight rounds of talks with the farmer leaders, the government has not shown any sign of agreement on the withdrawal of farm laws, he said.The INLD leader said it does not seem that being a responsible member of the House, he can play any role to protect the rights of farmers under the kind of conditions created by the government."Considering all these situations, if the government of India does not withdraw these three 'black laws' by January 26, then this letter should be considered as my resignation," he wrote to the speaker.A couple of days ago, Chautala had said he would resign from the Assembly if the demands of the farmers were not accepted by the Centre by January 26.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are camping at three border points of Delhi---Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur---for more than a month now, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) system for their crops. --- PTI
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Repeal farm laws by January 26 or accept resignation, Abhay Chautala writes to Haryana Speaker||Senior INLD leader and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Chautala on Monday sent a “conditional” resignation letter to Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker.In his letter to the Speaker, Chautala said the letter should be considered a resignation from the Haryana Assembly if the Central Government failed to repeal the three farm laws by January 26.Chautala, the grandson of former Deputy Prime Minister and the INLD founder Chaudhary Devi Lal, is the lone INLD MLA in the Haryana Vidhan Sabha.
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions continue in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions persisted in most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Monday.With a minimum temperature of four degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, Narnaul was the coldest place in Haryana.Chandigarh, the joint capital of both states, recorded its low at 9.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said here.Among other places in Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded minimum temperatures of 7.2, 7.9 and eight degrees Celsius respectively, up to four notches above normal.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 9.4, 8.3, 6.3, 6.8, 7 and 8.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.In neighbouring Haryana, the minimum temperatures of Ambala, Hisar and Karnal were 7.5, 5.2 and 6.8 degrees Celsius, respectively.The minimum temperatures of Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 7.4, 7.4 and 5.9 degrees Celsius, respectively.A thick blanket of fog enveloped several cities, including Chandigarh, Ambala, Hisar, Sirsa and Patiala, in the morning. PTI
11-01-2021||---||Haryana Chief Minister: Gurnam Singh Charuni to blame||Chandigarh, January 10Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today blamed BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni for instigating youths who vandalised the “kisan mahapanchayat” venue at Kaimla village in Karnal.Addressing a press conference, Khattar said, “There was no intelligence failure as the protesters had assured the administration that they would hold a peaceful symbolic protest. These people have defamed farmers through such violent acts. In fact, today’s incident gave a stronger message to the people, bigger than I intended to give by attending the function.”Blaming the Congress, Left and BKU (Charuni) president for instigating protesters, he said such acts only exposed them.“Charuni’s video that has gone viral since January 8 was basically responsible for today’s unruly behaviour by some youths,” he said. “Farmers don’t have such nature. A farmer can be less educated or simple, but he is sensible,” he said.He said the Centre had already agreed to amendments to farm laws and the farm unions should let these be tested for a year across the country.On Congress’ demand for a special Assembly session for seeking trust vote, he said the Opposition was “day dreaming”.
11-01-2021||Parveen Arora||Khattar’s ‘mahapanchayat’ venue ransacked||Tribune News ServiceKaimla (Karnal), January 10Braving tear gas shells and water cannons, hundreds of farmers on Sunday broke through barricades, stormed Kaimla village in Chief Minister ML Khattar’s home constituency Karnal and ransacked the venue for a “kisan mahapanchayat”, forcing the CM to cancel his programme.Haryana Chief Minister: Gurnam Singh Charuni to blameGurnam Singh Charuni for BKU’s village-level committeesThe protesting farmers, who had the villagers’ support, damaged the helipad where Khattar’s chopper was to land. A face-off between local BJP workers and the farmers left 10 persons with minor injuries. The farmers breached six police checkpoints to reach the helipad. A strong police contingent comprising four Superintendents of Police and more than 12 DSPs deployed at various points failed to prevent them from entering the village.Read also:The “kisan mahapanchayat”, which was planned to educate the farmers on the “benefits” of the recent farm laws, was to be addressed by the CM, who was also to dedicate to the people projects worth Rs 47.17 crore. Hundreds of farmers carrying black flags started assembling at the Bastara toll plaza in the morning. Around 11.30 am, they began moving towards Kaimla village on tractors, SUVs and bikes, crossing the first barricade on the Gharaunda-Kaimla road without any resistance.At the second barricade, the police had lined up trucks and dumpers to foil the march. When stopped by Ganga Ram Punia, SP, and other officers, the protesters staged a sit-in. Later, parking their vehicles on the roadside, they proceeded on foot. As they crossed the third barricade, the police used tear gas shells and water cannons. Changing strategy in view of the heavy police deployment, the protesters made their way through the fields and reached Kaimla where tear gas shells once again failed to stop them. Raising slogans, they stormed the venue, tearing down banners, smashing flower pots, and breaking tables and chairs.BJP state president OP Dhankar, ministers Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Sandeep Singh, local MP Sanjay Bhatia and other leaders left after the protesting farmers laid siege to the venue. As the strength of the farmers began to swell, some of them took shelter in a nearby shrine.The farmers had on January 6 announced they would not allow the BJP to hold the “Mahapanchayat”. On January 8, they had organised a march to Kaimla village to “disrupt” preparations for the event.This was the CM’s first “kisan mahapanchayat” for which local MLA Harvinder Kalyan had made all arrangements. Similar panchayats were to be organised across the state.Farmers damage helipad; 71 booked
11-01-2021||---||Haryana Government announces sops to give affordable housing a boost||Chandigarh, January 10To boost affordable housing, the state government has amended its Affordable Housing Policy, 2013, by doling out major sops to the recession-hit realty sector.Under the new policy, the builders have been extended incentives concerning project area norms, commercial component and parking area norms.These incentives are intended to draw the big real estate players into the affordable housing sector, which is set to become popular in the post-Covid scenario.While the minimum area norms for setting up the housing project have been reduced from five to four acres, the maximum area norms have been extended from 10 to 30 acres. The commercial component has been increased from 4 per cent to 8 per cent of the net planned area.A notification issued by AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department, said the builders would be able to provide 0.5 equivalent car space (ECS) to the allottees on chargeable basis (not more than 5 per cent of the flat cost) under the new policy.The allottees already get 0.5 ECS free under the existing policy, which would mean that the car parking problems of the allottees would be taken care of under the new policy.Meanwhile, projects under construction would be able to avail these benefits with some riders.BK Sanghi, a real estate expert, said the new policy would make the housing in the affordable segment more affordable as more commercial component in the projects would go a long way in keeping the prices competitive.“The provision of car parking for all allottees will draw more investors and end-users into the affordable housing segment, boosting sales,” he added.
11-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||2,682 wild animals died in Hisar division in 5 yrs||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 10In a serious threat to wildlife in the region, RTI information procured by a wildlife activist revealed that a total of 2,682 wild animals have died in past five years in Hisar division comprising Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa and Bhiwani district.The dead creatures include 411 blackbucks and 35 chinkara deers which are listed as an endangered species and are included in the Schedule-I of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, 68 peacocks, 74 monkeys, 2,005 roz (neelgai) and 89 other wild animals.Akhil Bhartiya Jeev Raksha Bishnoi Sabha, which has been in the forefront to protect wildlife, stated that they are extremely concerned over the loss of wildlife in the region which has resulted in loss of animals like blackbucks, chinkara and national bird peacock.Vinod Karwasra, RTI activist and president of the sabha, informed that he had sought information under RTI Act from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2020 from the state government.Karwasra said that he has also compiled district-wise details of the loss of wildlife in Hisar division and concluded that highest number of wildlife, including 1,271 animals which comprised 216 blackbucks have died in Hisar district. This was followed by Fatehabad (862 wildlife and 176 blackbucks), Bhiwani (360 wildlife and seven blackbucks) and Sirsa (187 wildlife and 12 blackbucks).The activist said that the deaths of wildlife have been caused due to various reasons including attack by stray dogs, poaching, natural death and death by getting entangled in razor wire fencing erected by the farmers in their fields.
11-01-2021||Ambala||Man held for using phone in HSSC exam||The Ambala police have arrested a man for using mobile phone during evening session of Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) exam held for the post of gram sachiv on Saturday. The suspect has been identified as Pankaj of Sonepat. He was produced before a court which sent him to judicial custody. In his complaint, centre superintendent RP Rathi stated that on Saturday, during the evening session of the HSSC exam at Major RN Public School, Ambala Cantonment, a candidate was found carrying a mobile phone while giving the exam although he was frisked at the entrance gate. The candidate was seated in Room No 1. The invigilator on duty found him using a phone and informed the centre superintendent. On being frisked again the mobile phone was recovered. — TNS
11-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Firing outside hotel, 2 booked||The Kurukshetra police have booked two unidentified persons after one of them opened fire outside a hotel at Amin Road here last night.An unidentified man went inside the hotel, gave a chit at the counter of the hotel and went out. Later another miscreant, reportedly carrying two weapons reached outside Kathi King hotel and opened fire. The accused then fled away. No injuries or casualties were reported in the incident.SHO Krishna Gate Police Station Sunil Vats said, “It seems to be a case of extortion. The owner claimed that he has no enmity with anyone.” — TNS
11-01-2021||Palwal||Man booked for practising sans medical degree||The police have booked a man for practising without any valid medical degree.  The accused, identified as Yograj (35), was found to be operating a clinic in Solra village after a team of the Health Department conducted a raid on a tip-off on Saturday morning. The team deputed by the Civil Surgeon lodged a complaint with the police that the accused who was found providing consultation and treatment to some patients at his clinic, could not produce his degree or documents that could prove that he was a trained or qualified medical practitioner.  Certain medical equipments and 39 medicines were recovered from the clinic by the team. — TNS
11-01-2021||---||Three nabbed for attack on rice miller’s house||Karnal, January 10The Karnal police arrested three persons and claimed to have cracked the incident of indiscriminate firing at the residence of a Nissing-based rice miller in Sector 8 on January 4 morning.Around 16 bullets were fired by the miscreants at the house of Subhash Singla, the police said.In the preliminary investigation, it came to light that a monetary dispute between the rice miller and the father of one of the accused was the reason behind the firing.Deepender Rana, CIA-1 in-charge, said the accused had been identified as Sachin of Bhadurgarh in Jhajjar district, Pardeep of Sudana village in Rohtak and Harsh of Tikri Kalan in Delhi. They were arrested from Namstey Chowk on secret information, he said, adding that they had recovered two pistols and a car used in the crime.Rana said Singla had to pay money to accused Sachin’s father and to build pressure, he along with his accomplices fired at the residence of the rice miller.“The police had registered a case under Sections 307, 506, and 34 of the IPC and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act,” Rana said, adding that SP Ganga Ram Punia gave the probe to CIA-1. “We have put our sources on alert and arrested the trio on Thursday,” he said, adding that they would be produced in a court, from where they would be taken on remand to determine the actual reason.He said a case under the Arms Act was already registered against Sachin in Delhi and he was on bail, while Pardeep is an accused in murder, loot and dacoity cases in Sonepat and Rohtak.
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Free vaccine for poor: CM||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday promised free Covid vaccination to the poor in the state. Addressing a press conference, Khattar hinted that other sections of society would have to bear the expenses of the vaccine. “It will be good if some people support us in subsiding it as the cost will be high,” he stated.With 234 fresh cases, the state Covid tally jumped to 2,64,955 on Sunday. The death toll reached 2,950 with a death. Gurugram reported the maximum of 73 cases followed by Faridabad (36) and Sonepat and Karnal (19 each). Hisar reported the lone death. — TNS
11-01-2021||---||Gurnam Singh Charuni for BKU’s village-level committees||Kurukshetra, January 10Ahead of the tractor parade on January 26 in New Delhi, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has asked the cadre to strengthen the organisation’s base in Haryana and constitute village-level committees across the state by January 22.“A meeting of the BKU was held on Saturday. It has been decided that we would constitute committees, where the union’s base is weak. Besides, block and district office-bearers have been directed to form committees by January 22. The farmers can constitute 11 or 21 member depending upon the population of their villages,” Charuni said here on Sunday.BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rajiv Sharma said, “There are still many blocks and villages, where the union doesn’t have committees. It is important to form committees because these help the union in circulating messages and maintaining discipline during the agitation.”Charuni gave the call to farmers to prepare for the Republic Day tractor parade. He asked them to chalk out a strategy and finalise names of people, who would reach Delhi with their tractors.Meanwhile, the BKU paid tributes to farmers, who lost their lives during the agitation, during an event organised in Barara.
11-01-2021||---||Congress seeks special Assembly session||Chandigarh, January 10With agitating farmers forcing the cancellation of the Chief Minister’s ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ at Kaimla village in Karnal today, the Congress demanded a special session of the Assembly asking the BJP-JJP government to seek a trust vote.Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja said that the government had lost the trust of the people.“The protest against Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s event at Kaimla village is another example of the government’s unpopularity. A special session of the Assembly should be convened immediately,” said the HPCC chief.Kumari Selja alleged that the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ was planned to mislead the people of the state over the three farm laws.She once again appealed to the MLAs to listen to their conscience and leave this “anti-people” government, else the people of the state would never forgive them.Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the state government should avoid any type of confrontation with farmers at a time when they were agitating against the farm laws at Delhi borders for the past 46 days.On a clash between the police and farmers in Karnal district, Hooda said the government should not do anything that led to confrontation.AICC general secretary Randeep Surejewala termed the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ a “sarkari” event. “Instead of talking to state-sponsored farmers, the government should engage in a dialogue with those sitting at the Delhi borders,” he added.
11-01-2021||---||27 booked for murder bid after attack on Dy Speaker’s vehicle||Hisar, January 10The police on Sunday registered a case of attempt to murder against 27 protesters, including seven identified persons, in the assault on the vehicle of Deputy Speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa, who is a BJP MLA from Nalwa Assembly segment, at Arya Nagar village here yesterday.Sandeep Kumar, a security personnel with the Deputy Speaker, suffered injury after which he lodged a complaint with the police.The police spokesperson said that acting on the complaint, the police registered a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 341 (wrongful restraint), 291 (nuisance) and 506 (criminal intimidation).The police have identified seven of the accused as Sandeep Dhiranwas, Anil, Manjeet Bishnoi, Amit Bishnoi, Satish Laura, Amit Bisla and Rajesh. The others are unidentified persons.The complainant has alleged that the protesters tried to drive a tractor over him and pelted a stone which smashed the rear windowpane of the official vehicle of the Deputy Speaker when he was returning from a programme organised at Arya Nagar. One of the accused Anil, a resident of Gorchi village, was a booth agent of Ranbir Gangwa during the Assembly elections.A social panchayat in Dhiranwas village has announced to socially boycott Ranbir Gangwa while demanding withdrawal of the FIR against the protesters. Villager Surender Arya said that the villagers have imposed a ban on Gangwa’s entry into the village.Meanwhile, Gaurav Sampat Singh, son of BJP leader and former minister Sampat Singh, stated that levelling of attempt to murder charges against the protesters was unjustified and added that he would defend the protesters in court.Gangwa, however, stated that the law is taking its own course on the complaint of a security personnel and maintained that he has not lodged any complaint.Aide among accused
11-01-2021||---||Dhankar: All have right to express views||Karnal, January 10State BJP president OP Dhankar, after the vandalism of the pandal, said that everybody has the right to express his/her point of view in a democracy.Harvinder Kalyan, Gharaunda MLA, referred it to be a victory of the people who came to listen to the CM. He claimed it to be a failure of the administration.“It was a victory of the people who came to the venue in large numbers to listen to the CM as they are in favour of these three laws. The majority of the protesters were not farmers. Anti-social elements were among them. The administration failed to control the anti-social elements,” said Kalyan.
11-01-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal village turns fortress||Tribune News ServiceKaimla (Karnal), January 10Kaimla village was in the news in view of the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ scheduled to be addressed by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday, with a group of farmers adamant on not allowing the function.Read also: Khattar’s ‘mahapanchayat’ venue ransackedHaryana Chief Minister: Gurnam Singh Charuni to blameThe village was turned into a fortress with huge presence of police personnel from across the state and barricades at all entry points to the village, due to which residents had to face difficulties.Several villagers could not go to their fields due to barricading, while scores of the residents kept talking about the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ and the confrontation expected on account of this programme.“I had to go to my fields, but the police did not allow me to go as all entry points were closed due to the Chief Minister’s visit,” said a village resident on the condition of anonymity.After a minor clash between BJP supporters and protesting farmers, the situation in the village was tense. An elderly woman said the incident should not have happened.“The village should not be chosen for this programme. The result of the programme was not good for anyone, be it the government, farmers or villagers. It may lead to anger among people in the village and surrounding villages. The government should have avoided the programme,” said the elderly woman.Raj Kumar, another resident of Kaimla, said the village had become a police cantonment for the past three days, due to which lots of restrictions were being forced on the people.Scores of people in the village chose to climb atop their rooftops instead of going to the venue. When the protesting farmers entered the village, local residents were capturing them on their mobile phones.Public outrage swells
11-01-2021||Vinayak Padmadeo||‘Dangal’ at Ghazipur border to honour protesters||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 10The sun was out and so was the wrestling mat at the Ghazipur protest site today. Young grapplers from the Capital and surrounding areas showed up in hundreds to bring a smile to the faces of protesting farmers sitting there for over a month now.“We are sons of farmers so how can we not support their cause. This is our way of joining the protest against the laws,” said 17-year-old Adi, who trains at the famous Guru Hanuman Akhada in Delhi.As a token of respect to farmers, a wrestling event titled ‘Kisan Kesari Dangal’ was organised at the protest site today. A special wrestling mat, the one used by Olympic wrestlers, was sourced from Guru Chandagi Ram Akhada. The slogans of “Sada haq, itthe rakh’ and ‘Kisan ekta zindabad’preceded every bout.Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson for the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), said, “While the dangal with the government is on, we organised this event to give our farmers something to enjoy. It also means that each and every section of the country is standing with the farmers.”The young grapplers were given three-minute bouts and the winners were given medals. However, the big ticket was a heavyweight bout between Uttar Pradesh Kesari Sandip Koswal and Bharat Kesari Sanjiv Joon.“I am happy that I was given an opportunity to participate in this unique protest. We are sportsmen and this is our way to show that we are with the farmers,” said Joon, who won the bout. He trains at Virendra Kumar’s akhada in Sonepat.
11-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Ahead of January 26 tractor parade, more from Pb reach Singhu||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 10More farmers from Punjab have started reaching the Singhu border ahead of the Republic Day tractor parade.On Sunday, a group of farmers from Bathinda reached Sonepat by train. They took an auto-rickshaw for the Singhu border.Among them were Kartar Singh and Balbir Singh, who said the Centre’s adamant attitude forced farmers to protest in the bone-chilling cold for the past 45 days.“We will not step back until the Centre repeals the farm laws,” said their friend Manender Singh.“If the Centre doesn’t revoke the laws till January 26, farmers will be forced to enter the national capital. We have come here for the preparations for the tractor parade scheduled for January 26,” Kartar said.Farmers’ leaders, meanwhile, appealed to people to celebrate Lohri (January 13) and Makar Sankranti (January 14) by burning copies of the three controversial farm laws.On the Women Farmers’ Day (January 18), women will lead the protest at the tehsil, district and city level in Haryana and at protest sites at the Delhi borders. On January 20, on the occasion of Prakash Purb of Guru Gobind Singh, an oath will be taken to achieve their goal of getting the laws repealed.Boycott BJP leadersThe Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on Sunday appealed to Punjab people to socially boycott BJP leaders Harjit Grewal and Surjit Jyani, and oppose their entry into Punjab. “Grewal and Jyani have been regularly giving statements against farmers. They have started making false allegations to defame the movement,” it said on Sunday.Protest ScheduleOn Women Farmers’ Day (Jan 18), women will lead the protest at tehsil, district and city level in Haryana and at protest sites on Delhi borders. On Jan 20, an oath will be taken to make the struggle successful.
11-01-2021||---||Farmers stand firm despite chill||Sonepat, January 10Amid the cold wave, the farmers’ protest continued on Sunday. The farmers were making arrangements to brave the cold wave and said it could not defeat their spirit.The mercury plummeted to 7 degree Celsius and bone-chilling winds at 13 km per hour left the protesters shivering. The cold wave was likely to continue on Monday and temperature could dip more in the coming days.The farmers at the Delhi borders braving the cold wave said they would not step back till their demands were fulfilled. Amarjeet Singh of Tarn Taran said they had come to the Delhi borders for their rights and were ready to face all odds, be it the weather or the government.At least 60 farmers had died during the agitation for their rights, but the government did not pay heed to their demands, he added.Sukhmeet Singh of Gurdaspur said the bone-chilling cold could not defeat their spirit because it was a question of their and their children’s livelihood and they had come to save their agricultural land.Various farmer union leaders had made arrangements for the protesting farmers to save them from the cold wave. They had brought thousands of tarpaulins, blankets, quilts and waterproof tents while some social groups were providing them eatables.The United Sikh Organisation, a social group, has set up an eight-bed temporary hospital at the Singhu border to provide 24-hour medical facility to the protesting farmers. It arranged essential medical equipment and medicines for the farmers.A group of doctors from Punjab reached the Singhu border and held an OPD. Six patients were admitted to the hospital on Saturday.
11-01-2021|| 
||Damaged highway to be repaired in month||Faridabad, January 10 In a meeting held between Neeraj Sharma, MLA from NIT Assembly segment, and the PWD authorities here today, the officials concerned assured to get the repairs done of the damaged section of the Ballabgarh-Sohna highway within a month. This comes within 36 hours of a report regarding the issue in the columns of The Tribune. With around 10 km of the passage lying damaged for the past over two-and-a-half years, the authorities concerned didn’t suspend the collection of toll from commuters on this state highway. While Sharma claimed that he had been in touch with the state government for a long time, he said he had requested the PWD to conduct a physical survey of the patch, especially the area falling under the NIT Assembly segment. For this, a meeting was held at the toll plaza located near Pakhal village.  He said the meeting was attended by the Superintending Engineer, PWD, Rajiv Yadav, who he said has assured to get the repairs done in a month. He said a dispute between the concessionaire and Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) had been going on regarding the repair of a section which was dug up for laying a sewer line in 2018-19. Admitting that PWD has taken cognisance of the matter, Yadav said that issue would be taken up with the MCF so that repairs are done immediately. He said since it was a toll road, the concessionaire is responsible for maintenance, though overall supervision is under the state government.                                     The 32 km-long road built on build-operate-transfer (BOT) basis was opened in 2012. The toll charge varies between Rs 27 and Rs 300 per vehicle for one way. BK Kardam, Chief Engineer, MCF, said that the civic body is ready to pay the cost of the repairs of the patch dug up for the sewer line.
11-01-2021|| 
||Yamunanagar civic body removes encroachment||Yamunanagar, January 10 The Municipal Corporation removed encroachments from the Nehru Park area and the Govindpuri road here on Thursday. A team constituted by Chief Sanitary Inspector Govind Sharma started the anti-encroachment drive from Nehru Park area. It removed flex banners, signboards and other advertisement material placed outside shops. Later, the team went to the Govindpuri road, where traffic jam is a common sight because shopkeepers display their wares on the road. It removed the wares and gave a warning to shopkeepers. Besides removing encroachments, the team put reflector tapes on stray cattle to curb road accidents. The MC team caught six unclaimed head of cattle from ward 12 and sent them to a “gaushala”, he said.
11-01-2021||QUOTE||Uncertainty over Covid SOP in govt schools of Rohtak||“Following Covid SOP is mandatory. If any school head allows students not having the requisite documents to attend classes or take exams, it will be at their own risk and responsibility.”-	Vijay Laxmi Nandal, district education officer, rohtakSunit DhawanTribune News ServiceRohtak, January 10Uncertainty prevails over the observance of Covid standard operating procedure (SOP) in government schools in the district, especially during the conduct of the pre-final tests for Classes IX to XII.As per the SOP, only those students who bring medical fitness certificate and permission letter from their parents can attend school. However, a majority of students fail to furnish the said certificate and permission letter due to which they are not allowed to take their pre-final tests.On the other hand, headmasters/principals of some schools have allowed the students to appear for tests even if they do not have the said documents. “The attendance in our school was thin as most of the students could not bring the required certificate and permission letter. However, our headmaster has decided to allow the students to take the tests after their thermal scanning. A student is sent back only if he/she has fever,” said a teacher at a government school in the district.On the other hand, Rohtak District Education Officer (DEO) Vijay Laxmi Nandal said observing SOP was mandatory and if any school head allows the students not having the requisite documents to attend classes or take exams, it would be at their own risk and responsibility. “The students can take the exams online as well. The question papers can be collected by their parents from the school or sent on their smartphones through WhatsApp,” she added.On being pointed out that the students can copy from their books/notebooks if they are allowed to take the tests from their home, the DEO said the purpose of these tests was to get them acquainted with the pattern of the final exams. “The students will learn something by taking the pre-final tests, which will be made a regular feature,” she added.
11-01-2021||BQ||Rs 9.6 cr tender floated to resolve waterlogging issue in Ambala||The tender has been floated with a provision to complete the project within 10 months. The project will be a relief to the residents of Baldev Nagar, Jaggi Colony and other areas along the national highway. Dinesh Gaba, public health department executive engineer...Tribune News ServiceAmbala, January 10To resolve the issue of waterlogging in Ambala City, a 2,815-m long pipeline will be laid from Banuri Naka to near the Ghaggar river at a cost of Rs 9.6 crore. A tender has also been floated for the project.Several areas of Ambala City get waterlogged during rainy days. Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel said, “People of Ambala City had been facing a lot of trouble due to waterlogging. Due to overflowing drains, water used to enter the houses and even disturb the vehicular movement on the highways. To check the problem, a demand to construct a drain from Banuri Naka to near Ghaggar river was raised before the Chief Minister. The project was cleared and a tender has been floated.”Sharing the details, Public Health Department Executive Engineer Dinesh Gaba said, “To drain out rainwater 2,815-m long pipeline will be laid. The tender has been floated with a provision to complete the project within 10 months. In this project, 900-mm pipes will be laid so that rainwater can be drained out easily. The project will be a relief to the residents of Baldev Nagar, Jaggi Colony and other areas along the national highway.”
11-01-2021||Hisar||Licensed tractor driver at 19!||Popularising sanitisationGurugram: Elan Foundation organized a sanitisation and hygiene awareness campaign with the distribution of blankets, hygiene care goods and clothes for labourers and their families. The drive was organised in collaboration with Siddhi Philanthropic Foundation. The objective was to mitigate the hardship faced by construction workers and their families and sensitise them on the importance of hygiene and sanitisation amid Covid.Taking to writing skillsRohtak: A book titled ‘Chhabis Chhakke’, penned by Rohtak-based lawyer Bachan Ram Arora, was released in Kalanaur. Tarun Bajaj, Secretary in the Union Ministry of Finance, was the chief guest. A play based on the theme of ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ was staged by schoolchildren on the occasion.Warmth for the homelessHisar: Students of the IC College of Home Science at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University have launched a drive to collect warm clothes for the homeless and poor. Three teams have put up stalls to collect donations. Dr Kavita Dua Jadhav, who coordinated the effort, said the students collected clothes and distributed these among those forced to spend the night on the roadside.Turning women self-reliantKarnal: The NGO Sarthi has taken an initiative for skill development and women empowerment. Volunteer coordinator Gagan Banerjee said they had set up a stitching centre in Darar village for training women to be self-reliant. Rajveer Samra, a local resident, would monitor the centre. He said six sewing machines had been donated by Poonam Bansal and her team — Helping Hands Karnal. The centre would provide an opportunity to women to learn sewing at low cost and teach the skills to other women. Sarthi had been actively working against female foeticide and climate change over the last 17 years.New book releasedGurugram: Aastha Kulshreshtha’s book titled ‘Pankhudiyan Ehsaas Ki’ was unveiled in Gurugram. Writers Laxmishankar Bajpai, Niwas Tyagi, Rajendra Nigam, Indu Raj Nigam, Chetan Anand, Mamta Kiran and Savita Upadhyay were present. The ceremony started with recitation of the poem ‘Papiha’.
11-01-2021||Hisar||Principal scientist on expert panel||Online employability testKurukshetra: The University Institute of Engineering & Technology, Kurukshetra University, conducted an online employability test (AMCAT). It was evaluated by Aspiring Minds. Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, and Director, UIET, Prof CC Tripathi congratulated appreciated the initiative. Tripathi said the online test would not only help the students check their aptitude, verbal, logical and technical skills in the subject of their choice, but also helped them find suitable jobs. Training and placement convener Nikhil Marriwala said it was one of the largest online employability tests recognised by more than 700 companies nationwide.Endocrinology body memberRohtak: Dr Sameer Aggarwal, consultant endocrinologist and former professor at Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, has been selected as a member of the early career committee of the International Society of Endocrinology (ISE). As per an official communiqué issued by the ISE, Dr Aggarwal is among 12 specialists selected from various parts of the world for the committee membership. These specialists will work to facilitate pathways for career development opportunities for the upcoming endocrinologists, apart from promoting global research, exchange and training collaborations.Talk on professional coursesFaridabad: The training department of DAV Institute of Management, Faridabad, recently organised a session on "Gaining competitive edge in career" for the first year students of BBA, BBA (CAM), BBA (BE) and BBA (II). Company secretary Vinit Sikka highlighted the importance of various professional courses. ''Mere graduation in this highly competitive time is not sufficient for an individual to survive and grow in the industry," said Sikka while discussing the nature of responsibilities of chartered accountants and company secretaries. Dr Anjali Ahuja, dean, training department, Dr Juhi Kohli, Dr Parul Nagi, Dr Dhrity Gulati, Kanika Duggal, Monika Khatri, Bhawna Khatri, Pooja Gour, Ashima Tandon, Harish Rawat, Hema Gulati and Reema Nangia attended the programme.Livestock health awarenessHisar: Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences organised a one-day livestock health awareness programme at the veterinary hospital, Rajli village, here. Extension education director of the university Dr Praveen Goyal and head of veterinary public health & epidemiology Dr Naresh Jindal also attended the event, which was organised under the ICAR's outreach programme on zoonotic diseases. Villagers were informed about measures to be taken for the prevention of diseases in animals.Webinar on air pollution, healthHisar: The department of alumni relations, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, organised a webinar on "Air Pollution and Health" on Friday. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, was the chief guest while Dr Avnesh Verma was the guest of honour. Professor Tankeshwar highlighted the importance of fresh air in life. He exhorted people to save the environment. Prof Suresh Jain said air pollution was a silent killer.Jambheshwar varsity results outHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, has declared the results of examinations conducted in March-May. Controller of Examinations Yashpal Singhla said the results of MTech (third semester-electronics and communication engineering) re-appear and mercy chance of the 2015 batch, MSc 4th semester (mathematics), 2018 batch, had been declared.New model of Gurugram varsityHisar: Chief Minister Manohar Lal unveiled the new model of Gurugram University. Vice-Chancellor Markanday Ahuja said the new green campus was being built in Sector-87, Kankrola village, about 15 km from here. The master plan included administration block, auditorium, faculty house building, pharmaceutical science block, physiotherapy block, science block, law block, central library, innovation centre, athletics track, hostel and parking. The construction would be completed in the next three years.HTET OMR sheets available onlineBhiwani: The candidates who had appeared for the Haryana Teacher Eligibility Test -2020 conducted by the Haryana Board of School Education on January 2 and 3 can download their OMR sheets from the official website, www.bseh.org.in, within 60 days starting from January 9. The prescribed fee for downloading is Rs 100.
11-01-2021||A central team visiting Barwala confirmed the presence of avian influenza in the region recently. As a precautionary measure||Bird flu outbreak should be contained||— Minaksh Prasher, NaraingarhGarbage dumped at vacant plotsDESPITE the sanitation drive launched by the municipal corporation in Hisar town, the roads and open spaces in Sector 16 and 17 are in pitiable condition. Vacant plots are filled with garbage and wild growth has worsened the situation. The entire locality developed by the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran seems to be an abandoned one as nobody takes care of sanitation, cleanliness and civic facilities here. Though, local residents had been voicing their concerns and had raised the matter with concerned officials several times, there has not been any solution and the problem remains unaddressed. I had also urged safai karamcharis to collect garbage from vacant plots but to no avail. Later, I submitted a complaint to the MC authorities along with a photograph and GPS location of the site and surprisingly, I got an SMS from the MC office that garbage had been removed from the spot. There are around 80-90 similar vacant plots which are being used as garbage dump sites in these two sectors and the authorities must get it removed too.— Anil Jalandhra, sector 16, HisarNeed to impose heavy penalty on violatorsPoullution of water bodies is one of the major problems that we face these days and can only be curbed by the government's interference. The state government must issue strict guidelines and impose heavy penalty on defaulters for polluting water bodies. Strict laws should be imposed and culprits should be strictly punished. Wrong-doers should be aware of the consequences of this heinous crime if they don't follow the government's rules and regulations. The people of our state/country must know their responsibility and make efforts to improve the situation of filthy ponds, canals, rivers and polluted beaches etc. Nobody is bothered to keep water bodies pure and clean. In fact, it seems they have become habitual to throw trash into the water bodies. The government had launched river cleaning programmes such as Namami Gange, worth thousands of crore, but these can't be a success without people's cooperation. Like most of the other developed nations, we too must make effective measures to make our water bodies clean.—Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaHSVP plots lying vacantSeveral plots in Sector 20, HSVP (HUDA), Kaithal, which were earmarked for public facilities by the administration have not been used for the desired purpose even after decades. At some places wild grass and bushes have grown and at other places the residents living in the vicinity of the community centre have started dumping wastes in such vacant plots. All this had been happening due to indifferent attitude of the concerned HSVP staff. Not only this, the sites reserved for commercial purpose in this Sector are also yet to be auctioned thus leaving the same in bad shape. The HUDA residents are at loss to find the authorities not concerned over such problems and demand appropriate measures to improve the situation.— Satish Seth, KaithalCrime on rise in NarwanaTHE incidents of thefts have become common in Narwana. Recently, a family in Subhash Nagar, went to a nearby temple and returned after around an hour, only to discover that their valuables worth Rs10 lakh were stolen. Though, the incident was captured in CCTV camera but soon it will be forgotten as a routine crime. The police must increase patrolling and ensure safety of residents.— Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
