11-06-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Not much to cheer for Haryana institutes in NIRF-2020 as none appears in top-100 club||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 11Haryana educational institutes have performed poorly in National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF)-2020, released on Thursday in New Delhi, as none of them could appear in the top-100 in the ‘Overall’ category.Last year, Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, Hisar, had appeared at the 89th spot.Even in other categories, barring management and dental studies, Haryana institutes are way behind than those in Punjab and Chandigarh.In the category of overall rankings, IIT Ropar is at 39th place, Panjab University (PU) is at 44th position, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, is ranked 51st, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar is at 88th place and Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, is ranked 99th. But none from Haryana could enter the top-100 club.Also, none of the institutes of law and architecture from Haryana, respectively, could make it to the list of top-20.It is the Ministry of Human Resource and Development (MHRD) which brings out NIRF rankings every year based on scores on five parameters-Teaching, Learning and Resources (TLR); Research and Professional Practice (RP); Graduation Outcomes (GO); Outreach and Inclusivity (OI) and Peer Perception (PR).In the ‘University’ category, none from Haryana could make it to top-50 bracket. However, Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, improved its ranking from 90th to 76th place. Maharishi Markandeshwar, Ambala, and Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, have entered top-100 bracket and are placed at 93rd and 94th positions respectively this year. Kurukshetra University (KU) slipped by one rank to 99th place this year.In engineering, only National Institute of Technology (NIT), Kurukshetra, appears among the top-100 institutes at 40th place as it has also improved its ranking by one place.The Northcap University, Gurugram, has also improved its ranking from 117th to 110th rank, while YMCA Faridabad has jumped from 144th to 120th spot. However, National Institute of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management, Sonipat, has slipped from 117th to 121th position this year. In comparison, Punjab’s IIT Ropar and Thapar’s engineering institute in Patiala are ranked 25th and 29th respectively.  Maharishi Markandeshwar’s pharmacy has improved its ranking from 41st to 28th and Guru Jambheshwar University’s course goes from 35th to 31st spot. However, MDU’s pharmacy has slipped from 32nd to 36th spot. On the other hand, PU’s pharmacy department is ranked second in the country this year as well.“A number of institutes have improved their rankings. But we need to do more. As we are improving, the next year would bring better results,” said Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar.   However, there is good news in management studies. Management Development Institute (MDI), Gurugram, is the 10th best management institute in the country. It was ranked 12th last year. IIM Rohtak also improved its ranking from 23rd to 21st this year while BML Munjal University, Gurugram, has entered into top 75 bracket and is ranked 37th this year.In medical education, Maharishi Markandeshwar has appeared at the 33rd spot while there was none last year. PGIMER, Chandigarh, is at second spot, CMC Ludhiana is at 18th spot and Dayanand Medical College, Ludhiana, is at 26th spot.  IC College of Home Science, Hisar, has entered the backet of top-100 colleges of the country and is ranked at 49th spot. There was no college from the state last year in top-100 bracket.The dental institutes are ranked for the first time this year. Postgraduate Institute of Dental Sciences, Rohtak, is ranked at 15th spot while Maharishi Markandeshwar is at 25th rank.   University categoryRank    Name of University     Score1. Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru-84.1826. Panjab University, Chandigarh-51.8531. Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala-50.6551. Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar-46.5864. Punjabi University-44.0776. Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak-41.9578. Lovely Professional University, Phagwara-41.6987. Central University of Punjab, Bathinda-40.9393. Maharishi Markandeshwar, Ambala-40.4994. Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar-40.4399. Kurukshetra University-39.79
11-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak may have 1 lakh COVID-19 cases by August: ACS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 11Haryana Additional Chief Secretary (Medical Education and Research) Alok Nigam has stated that the number of COVID-19 patients in Rohtak might touch 1 lakh by August and the local authorities had been directed to make adequate arrangements in this regard.“As per the extrapolations and feedback received from the authorities of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, as well as the district administration, the number of COVID-19 cases in Rohtak district is likely to go up to 1 lakh by August,” Nigam told reporters here on Thursday.He, however, maintained that there was no need to panic and all necessary arrangements were being made to deal with the projected situation.The ACS stated that as nearly 3 per cent of the COVID-19 patients might require oxygen support, the local authorities had been directed to get 3,500 oxygen-beds ready to cater to the patients.
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Solar eclipse fair in Kurukshetra to be low-key||The solar eclipse fair, scheduled to be held in Haryana's Kurukshetra on June 21, will be a low-key religious ceremony this time due to COVID-19 pandemic, an official said on Thursday.A simple religious ceremony is proposed on the bank of holy Brahma Sarovar in keeping with the ancient traditions, he said.Adhering to the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the Haryana Government has decided that there will be no grand-scale solar eclipse fair this time, the official said in a statement.Keeping in view various guidelines of the Centre and the state government for the coronavirus pandemic, he urged the people not to visit the fair for worshipping or taking a holy dip.During normal times, thousands of devotees from various parts of the country reach Kurukshetra on the occasion of the solar eclipse fair to take a holy dip in the Brahma Sarovar.An annular solar eclipse will take place on June 21. PTI
11-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||Fish farmer shot dead in Rohtak village, incident caught on camera||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 11A 35-year-old fish farmer, identified as Devender, was shot dead and another youth suffered bullet injuries in an attack at Sunaria village under Shivaji police station here on Thursday.The assailants fled the spot after perpetrating the crime while the incident was captured on a CCTV camera installed at a house in the village.  The police have booked an ex-serviceman, Rajeev alias Fouji, and another resident of Sunaria village on the charges of murder and launched a hunt to nab them.A verbal duel between Devender and Fouji this morning is stated to be the reason behind the crime. Fouji works at a bank in Meham town in the district.In the CCTV footage, a man is seen disembarking from a car and intercepting Devender who was riding a motorbike. The man then opened fire at Devender who died on the spot. Later, he also fired in the air.The CCTV footage showed several villagers watching the incident from a close distance.   Balwant Singh, SHO, Shivaji Police Station, said Devender, who was into fish farming in the village, manhandled one Kanwar Pal this morning over some issue pertaining to water. He also took Kanwar Pal to Fouji’s house in the village on his motorbike where the latter again manhandled the former, he added.“Fouji objected to Devender’s act and advised him not to do so. Devender had a verbal duel with Fouji, which led to the murder later. Raids are being conducted to nab the accused,” he added.
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury hovers around 40 deg C in Haryana, Punjab||The maximum temperatures hovered close to the 40 degrees Celsius-mark at many places in Haryana and Punjab on Thursday, with common capital Chandigarh recording a high of 39.3 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a maximum of 39.7 degrees Celsius, up one notch against the normal, while Hisar registered a high of 40.5 degrees Celsius, one notch below the normal.Narnaul recorded a high of 40 degrees Celsius, down one notch, while Karnal's maximum settled at 39 degrees Celsius, up one degree against the normal limits.Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded their respective maximums of 40 degrees Celsius and 40.1 degrees Celsius, each up by one notch.Amritsar's maximum settled at 37.3 degrees Celsius, two notches below the normal.As per the Meteorological Department forecast for Haryana, light to moderate rain or thundershowers are likely at a few places from June 12 to 13 and at isolated places thereafter in the state.For Punjab, the forecast is of light to moderate rain or thundershowers at a few places on June 12-13. PTI
11-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak admn told to keep 3,500 oxygen-supported beds ready to tackle Covid||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 11With the peak of Covid cases being predicted by July-end, the district administration is gearing up to handle the emergency situation.Additional Chief Secretary (Medical Education and Research), Alok Nigam, has directed the local authorities to make arrangements of at least 3,500 oxygen- supported beds to tackle the coronavirus disease.“There is a prediction of Covid pandemic getting its peak in July-end, hence Rohtak is likely to have a considerable number of cases at that time, but health workers and people need not to be worried as ample arrangements are being made to tackle the situation. Generally, three-four per cent Covid patients require oxygen-supported beds; hence we have planned to arrange at least 3,500 such beds in the district,” Nigam said.  The ACS was chairing a meeting of district officials here to review the arrangements made for the treatment of Covid patients and to decide the further course of action for dealing with emergency situations.The state government has sent its top bureaucrats to all hotspot districts to monitor the arrangements for Covid patients and coordinate with the district administration in handling the situation. Nigam has been assigned Rohtak district which has recorded 235 cases out of 5,579 cases reported in the state up to June 10.At the meeting, Nigam also asked the officials of district administration and the PGIMS to prepare an estimate of resources needed and submit a report in this regard.Rohtak Deputy Commissioner RS Verma informed that 101 containment zones had been notified in the district and standard operating procedures (SOPs) were being executed strictly. Five hunderd and fifty oxygen-supported beds had been arranged in the district, which can be extended further. Besides, quarantine centers having a total capacity of 650 beds and other basic facilities had been established in the district, he added. Earlier, Nigam visited the PGIMS and Covid Care Centers to take stock of the arrangements.  D. Suresh, Commission, Rohtak Division, Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma, ADC Mahendra Pal and SDM Rakesh Saini were also present on the occasion.
11-06-2020||Karnal||Coronavirus: Haryana reports death, 158 new cases; state tally rises to 5,737||Haryana on Thursday reported a death and 158 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s COVID toll to 53 and case tally to 5,737.Gurugram reported 90 new cases, Faridabad (30), Ambala (12), Palwal (10), Panipat (1), Jind (1), Karnal (10) and Hisar (4).The state has reported 53 COVID fatalities so far and 48 patients are critical as of now. A 23-year-old woman died of COVID in Ambala, taking the district’s COVID toll to 3.Health officials said the woman was a chronic tuberculosis patient from Delhi and had come to meet her maternal grandmother in Ambala Cantonment.“When her condition deteriorated, she was rushed to a local hospital, where she died,” said officials, while stating that she tested COVID-positive after death. All the three COVID deaths reported in the district were in patients with co-morbid conditions such as acute TB, kidney and liver ailments. The total number of COVID patients in the district has risen to 124, of which 66 were active cases while 55 patients have been discharged after being cured so far.  Gurugram reported 90 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 2,636. Karnal reported ten new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 118. The new cases include a 38-year-old man of Sector-13, a 38-year-old man of Sector-9 and two teenagers from Delhi.Palwal reported 10 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 152. The number of  patients cured in the district rose to 66 as five more people recovered on Thursday. Yamunanagar reported nine new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 36. On Wednesday, Haryana had reported 370 new cases of the contagion.
11-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Youth shot dead in Gurugram||Gurugram, June 10A 25-year-old resident of Patli village was gunned down after two alleged liquor mafia groups clashed on Tuesday evening. The assailants fled the spot in their car. An FIR has been registered at the Farrukhnagar police station.According to the police, the incident happened around 8.30 pm at Patli village, when Amardeep, alias Sethi, an alleged bootlegger, along with his friend Anil was consuming liquor at his plot. A youth came there and asked for a bottle of liquor, but Sethi refused, saying that he was no longer in the business.Soon Sethi and Anil came out on the street and spotted two men coming out from a car who fired at Sethi. Though Sethi managed to escape, they shot at Anil and fled. Anil was declared brought dead by doctors.Sethi, in his complaint to the police, held Vinas, alias Diljale, of his village responsible for the incident. As per the complaint, an FIR has been registered against Diljale and others under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. “Raids are being conducted to nab the accused,” said Investigating Officer Krishan Kumar.
11-06-2020||Rewari||Rewari teens commit suicide||Two teenagers, a girl and a boy, committed suicide by jumping before a train on the Alwar-Rewari track near Karnavaas village here on Wednesday. The girl (16) and the boy (18) were lovers and belonged to the same village and had eloped on Tuesday.The incident came to light on when someone spotted the bodies lying on the track and informed the Railway Police which sent the bodies to the civil hospital. — TNS
11-06-2020||Sushil Manav||As +ve cases cross 5K, shift in strategy by state||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10As Covid cases have crossed the 5,000 mark in the state today, courtesy a sharp spike in Gurugram, Faridabad and other NCR towns, the Haryana Government is now taking not it merely as a public health emergency, but a situation for management at several fronts.The number of Covid-positive cases today reached 5,579 in Haryana and the state is now ahead of Bihar which has a virus load of 5,459 cases.With over 3,700 positive cases of Covid reported in the nine days of this month and over 2,600 of these coming from Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat alone, the state government has now decided for a shift in its strategy to deal with the situation.“The Covid outbreak has no longer remained a public health emergency for us. It is more of a management job now. The situation warrants management at several fronts. The management of the spread of disease and management of patients, of course, are still top priorities. But at the same time, it is the management of people, of beds, of sampling and also of communication that is the need of the hour,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Haryana.He said that with a number of young officers at its disposal, the state government is committed to managing all these fronts effectively so that on the one hand, the outbreak of the virus could be contained while on the other, the resources could be managed well for those getting infected.“Hospital beds are for those who actually need them. Those with mild symptoms or no symptoms are being home-quarantined or being sent to government or private isolation facilities as per the people’s choice,” he said.He said Gurugram — from where the maximum cases are being reported — has been attached to three medical colleges, though several people from the millennium city prefer to get treatment from private hospitals too.Arora said that as the figures suggest, the spike in Haryana is largely because of the unusually high number of cases coming from Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and other areas close to Delhi where the Covid situation is already grim.“Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat are almost an extension of Delhi and after opening of activities in Unlock 1.0, it is almost impossible to contain the outbreak of the virus in these areas. People have been travelling to Delhi for their jobs as well as for business activities and meeting others, some of whom could be asymptomatic patients spreading the disease,” the ACS said.Arora, however, stopped short of terming the steep spike of cases in the NCR region as community spread.“Community spread is when it becomes impossible to trace from where one has been infected. But in a large majority of people in the NCR, people have contracted the disease from Delhi,” he said.Meanwhile, the number of active case in Haryana today is 3,339 with 52 people succumbing to the virus and 1,807 discharged after recovery.Forty-three of these active cases are in a critical condition with 30 on oxygen support and 13 on ventilator in various government and private hospitals, according to government’s media bulletin.Officers to visit districtsThe state government has deputed senior officers to visit the districts for a minimum of two days and two nights to supervise and review the current arrangements and to plan the future arrangements required to be put in place based on the analysis of the rate of spread of Covid in the state..
11-06-2020||Nitish Sharma||Ambala farmers opt for mechanisation||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 10Following labour shortage, farmers in the district have started opting for direct seeded rice machines. The technique involves direct seeding of rice instead of transplantation.It requires less water, labour and electricity and is considered better in view of the depleting water table. Paddy is grown on around 86,000 hectares every year.Till last year, there were around 10 machines in the district. This year, 61 machines have been purchased and bills uploaded on the department’s portal for subsidy. In view of labour shortage, the department has offered subsidy on 1,000 machines this year.For SCs, STs, small and marginal farmers and women, the subsidy is 50 per cent of cost or Rs20,000, whichever is less. For others, the subsidy is 40 per cent of cost or Rs16,000, whichever is less.“We have received 61 bills for subsidy so far. Bills for subsidy can be uploaded till June 30,” said Rajinder Sethi, Junior Engineer, engineering wing, Agriculture Department.“We are hopeful that mechanisation will increase in the coming years,” said Girish Nagpal, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Ambala.
11-06-2020||---||7 deaths; record 381 cured||Chandigarh, June 10With seven deaths and 370 fresh cases, Haryana’s tally of positive cases today jumped to 5,579.The deaths were reported from Faridabad (3), Gurugram (2), Sonepat (1) and Charkhi Dadri (1). So far, 52 deaths have taken place with a fatality rate of 0.93 per cent.In Faridabad, a 67-year-old male hailing from ward-11 in the city, who had a history of chronic kidney disease and diabetes mellitus, and 84-year-old patient from sector-9, who was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and hypertension, succumbed to the viral disease.Along with them, a 46-year-old male resident of Sehatpur village, who had also been a patient of diabetes, was among the casualties. So far, 18 people have died of Covid in Faridabad.A 48-year-old from Sonepat who was admitted to PGIMS, Rohtak, died today. Also, a 66-year-old man from Kamla Nagar of Rohtak died at PGIMS, Rohtak, but he is yet to be counted in the state health bulletin.The fresh cases came from Gurugram (217), Faridabad (41), Sonepat (28), Rohtak (23), Ambala (13), Jind (11), Charkhi Dadri (10), Fatehabad (6), Hisar (5), Kurukshetra (5), Panchkula (2), Nuh (2), Rewari (2), Yamunanagar (2), Sirsa (1), Bhiwani (1) and Kaithal (1). At present, 30 people are on oxygen support and 13 are on ventilator.The fresh cases in Faridabad came from Old Faridabad, Ballabgarh, NIT, Jawahar Colony, Dabua Colony, Sanjay Colony, SGM Nagar, Bharat Colony, AC Nagar, Tigaon, Kheri Kalan village and Panhera Khurd village.Among the positive cases in Ambala district included four of a family from Nagla village and four from Ambala city, all having travel history to Delhi and Gurugram. Three others from Ambala Cantonment tested positive.Among the positive cases in Rohtak, 17 came from Sampla.One positive case each came from Azad Nagar Colony and Jagadhri in Yamunanagar today.In Kurukshetra, a 28-year-old man from Jhansa, who had a travel history to Delhi, a 20-year-old man from Pratapgarh, who had returned from Noida, a 21-year-old woman and a 51-year-old man from Ekta Vihar, who were the primary contacts of Covid-positive patients of Ladwa, and a 29-year-old man from Sandholi village, who used to visit Delhi regularly, were among the fresh cases.A 60-year-old man from HUDA sector -18 tested positive today in Kaithal. One case came from Jalalpur village in Palwal.Meanwhile, 381 got cured, the highest so far, taking the tally of recovered people to 2,188 with a recovery rate of 39.22 per cent. As many as 184 got cured in Gurugram alone, followed by 110 from Faridabad, 22 from Sonepat and 16 from Hisar. On June 8, 226 people had got cured.
11-06-2020||Jind||Undertrial escapes from hospital, held||A Covid-positive undertrial who was admitted to a Covid ward at a Jind hospital escaped from there wearing a PPE kit on Wednesday, but was held later. He was facing criminal charges and was in judicial custody.The police were alerted by the medical staff after which he was held near the Railway crossing. The police said the youth was booked at Julana police station on Saturday.He had tested positive for Covid on Monday and was shifted to the Covid ward from where he escaped from the hospital. — TNS
11-06-2020||---||Jhajjar tops with 88% Covid recovery rate||Rohtak, June 10Jhajjar district is at the top across the state in terms of Covid recovery rate with 88.4 per cent patients winning the battle against Coronavirus till June 9.Nuh stood second with 71.6 per cent recovery rate followed by Sirsa and Panipat having 66.7 per cent and 66.3 per cent recovery rate respectively.Significantly, Charkhi Dadri, which has the second lowest number of Covid patients in the state, has recorded the worst recovery rate of 2.9 per cent.Jhajjar has reported 112 Covid cases and 99 of them have been cured. 73 of 102 have recovered in Nuh. 186 out of 474 patients have been cured in Sonepat, 57 out of 86 patients in Panipat, 38 of 57 patients in Sirsa and 26 of 41 patients have won the battle against Covid in Panchkula.
11-06-2020||sar||Under pressure to settle matter with Sonali: MC secretary||A week after BJP leader Sonali Phogat allegedly assaulted market committee secretary Sultan Singh in the district’s Balsamand village, he has claimed that powers that be are mounting pressure on him to strike a compromise. He narrated his side of the story to the Binain khap panchayat during a meeting in the district’s Danoda village on Wednesday. Sultan Singh, a native of Jind’s Sachakhera village, belongs to the Binain khap.  He said he had faith in the khap panchayat and would abide by its decision in the matter. Ishwar Singh Nain, a khap leader, said Sultan Singh decided to take up the matter with the khap panchayat because he was under pressure to strike a compromise. “A delegation of the khap will meet the Hisar DC and the SP on Friday, requesting for a fair investigation,” he said.  The khap has served an ultimatum on the police to arrest Phogat by June 14. If she will not be arrested by then, the khap will convene another meeting on June 15 to chalk out the next course of action. — TNS
11-06-2020||Sushil Manav||Licences for sanitisers issued by Ayush Department questioned||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10The Drug Control Department (Food and Drug Administration) and Ayush Department are not on the same page over approvals for sanitisers and disinfectants issued by the latter to certain ayurvedic manufacturing units after the outbreak of Covid.The controversy deepened after the Ayush Department issued licences for manufacture of products for disinfection of fruits and vegetables, but had to withdraw these once questions were raised over the department’s authority to issue any such licence.With Covid becoming worse in the state, scores of brands of sanitisers and disinfectants had flooded the market, with even grocery shops and roadside vendors selling these products. Most of these had been manufactured by Ayush units, with many having got licences from the Ayush Department.One such approval for sanitiser issued by the Ayush Department to a unit based in Ambala district (a copy of the approval letter issued on April 1 is with The Tribune) shows that it contains coriander, aloe, neem, tulsi, lemon and turmeric as active ingredients and alcohol (80 per cent strength), glycerine etc as base and excipients.“I have never heard of the use of alcohol or isopropyl alcohol in around 80 per cent strength as excipient, stabiliser or preservative to preserve or stabilise neem, tulsi, aloe etc, which are herbal products. Hand sanitisers, which are used to disinfect hands, are not covered under the ambit of ayurvedic medicines. These products fall under the domain of drugs defined under Section 3(b)(i) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act,” said GL Singla, a former State Drug Controller.He said there was a need to review licences issued by regulators since the market was flooded with a variety of sanitisers manufactured under ayurvedic, homoeopathic or cosmetic manufacturing licences or even without any licence.Meanwhile, Narender Ahooja, State Drugs Controller, Haryana, is learnt to have told his officers to take legal action if they come across such preparations. “In this period, unscrupulous people are exploiting the public by way of selling unlicensed disinfectants. These are mostly being sold as patent or proprietary ayurvedic medicines. A disinfectant does not qualify for the definition of ayuvedic drug, patent or proprietary ayurvedic medicine,” he told his officers in an internal communication.Dr Satish Khatkar, State Licensing Authority, Directorate of Ayush, claimed there was nothing wrong with the approvals granted by him. “Our preparations are herbal. The government has even permitted distilleries and sugar mills to prepare sanitisers. A controversy is being raised by vested interests,” he said.Dr Khatkar admitted approvals for the manufacture of products to disinfect fruits and vegetables were wrongly issued, but the licences were withdrawn immediately after legal position in this regard was brought to his notice.
11-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court: Decide appeals by sarpanches in 2 weeks||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10The High Court has set a two-week deadline for a decision on appeals filed by sarpanches against the orders of Deputy Commissioners in Haryana to place their services under suspension. The Bench made it clear that charge, if taken from any of the sarpanches, would not affect their status and the arrangement would be considered as a temporary administrative step.The direction by Justice Rajbir Sehrawat of the High Court came on a bunch of petitions filed by Sunita and other sarpanches against Haryana and another respondent. Among other things, the petitioners claimed that Deputy Commissioners passed the order of suspension during the lockdown on account of the pandemic.Claiming to have approached the statutory appellate authority with their appeal against the impugned orders, the petitioners contended that appeals were filed in some cases. In some other cases, the authorities allegedly refused to accept the memorandum of statutory appeals.The statutory appellate authorities had not given a hearing to the petitioners despite the fact that their status as elected representatives of villages had been clogged by administrative orders, it was added.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, Additional Advocate General Ravinder Singh Dhull contended that the appeals would be duly considered and a final decision taken at the earliest, now that work in government offices had started. The petitioners whose appeals were allegedly not accepted could prefer these now, he added.Disposing of the petitions, Justice Sehrawat directed the statutory authorities to finally decide the appeals filed, or to be filed, by the petitioners within two weeks. The Bench added that the petitioners could be heard through virtual hearing, if physical hearing was not possible.“Still further, it is clarified that in the meantime, if any charge is taken from any one of the petitioners, pursuant to the impugned orders, the same shall not affect the status of the petitioners in any manner whatsoever. The arrangement shall be taken only as a temporary administrative step and this fact itself shall not invite any more consequences of any kind qua the petitioners,” Justice Sehrawat concluded.
11-06-2020||Panipat||Man held for dragging SPO on car bonnet||A day after a Special Police Officer (SPO) succumbed to his injuries after he was dragged on the car bonnet, the police on Wednesday arrested a man in connection with the incident.CIA-II incharge Inspector Deepak Kumar said the accused, identified as Sawan (24) of the district’s Kalkha village, was produced before the court on Wednesday; he was sent to four days’ police remand. — TNS
11-06-2020||---||We’ve right over SYL waters: CM||Chandigarh, June 10Haryana has four-year stock of paddy and two-year stock of wheat against the one-year stock required before procurement begins, necessitating the need for diversification in agriculture. This was stated by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here today.He announced the launch of Kisan Mitra Club to provide guidance to farmers on lucrative crops and help them with fiscal management and a modified rice shoot policy.On fiscal health We have reached a break-even point, where we are able to meet expenditure on salaries, pensions, repayment of old debts and interest and power subsidy. But for development, we will either have to take a loan or wait for some time.—Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterAddressing a press conference, Khattar said it had been proved beyond doubt that Haryana had a right over the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal waters.“There is complete clarity that Haryana will get its water. Only an execution order hearing is on. The court had initially said this be settled by mutual consent. During the last hearing, we informed the court that Punjab was not ready to listen. We think that the court will give its decision in the next hearing or so,” he said.The CMadded the “Mera Pani, Meri Virasat” scheme, which encourages farmers to go for diversification, was aimed at benefiting farmers.
11-06-2020||Faridabad||Two drown in Faridabad lake||Two youths died after drowning in a lake at Surajkund area here on Wednesday. Gone for a swim, they drowned around 11.30 am.According to reports, the victims were identified as Sunil and Bunty, both were friends, hailing from Tughlakabad area of New Delhi.The duo drowned before the onlookers could raise an alarm. The police on being informed fished out the bodies.This is the second such incident in the past four days. A 15-year-old boy from Anangpur village had drowned on Saturday.
11-06-2020||New Delhi||Enforcement Directorate books Medanta in PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate has registered a money laundering case against Medanta hospital and its co-founder Dr Naresh Trehan and others over alleged fraudulent allotment of land to the health facility in Gurugram.Officials in the ED said the case was filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) after perusing a recent FIR of the Gurugram police against 16 persons, including Dr Trehan. Sources said the agency would soon issue summons for questioning.The FIR was lodged following directions by the district Additional Sessions Court in connection with alleged irregularities in the allotment of 53 acres for the hospital in Sector 38 for which locals were evicted in 2004, the Gurugram police had said.Medanta, however, has called the allegations as false and motivated. A PIL was filed by RTI activist Raman Sharma in the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Ashwani Kumar, who on Saturday directed the police to lodge the FIR within 24 hours.
