11-09-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Woman seeks parole cancellation of stalker neighbour||In what highlights the plight of a mother, a Naharpur Roopa woman has moved police seeking cancellation of parole granted to her neighbour during COVID-19.Threatening to commit suicide with her two daughters, the woman claims the accused has constantly been stalking, eve teasing and molesting them.The man was jailed two years ago for allegedly stalking and molesting her elder daughter leading to the girl’s suicide.He was, however, let out on parole after COVID-19 outbreak and has allegedly been stalking her other two daughters and molested one yesterday.The victim claims that she and her daughters live in fear and has thus moved to police seeking help.Following her complaint, an FIR has been registered at Sadar police station.According to the complainant, the accused, Ranjit, is a distant relative who lives across the street.He was let out in April this year and had been troubling them ever since. It was yesterday when he stalked, molested and thrashed her youngest daughter, a 15 year old, breaking her jaw.“Two years ago my eldest daughter committed suicide as he would stalk her forcing her to marry him. We have been in shock ever since. He was sent to jail but when he came out owing to coronavirus he started troubling my other two daughters. I have to take them along with me everywhere as I can’t leave them alone and he follows and harasses us."My youngest daughter was going to buy milk when he stopped her on road and held her hand. She screamed and I ran out along with my husband but he punched my daughter breaking her teeth and fled. We are living in constant fear and may have to end our lives as we cannot talk about this stalking or eve-teasing anymore,” the mother of victim told police.As per the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the accused under Section 12 of POCSO Act at Sadar police station.“The accused is absconding but we are conducting raids to nab him. He will be arrested as early as possible,” said Inspector Dinesh Kumar, SHO of Sadar police station.
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||From 30 per day in March, daily testing now 30,000 in Haryana||From 30 tests a day in March, the Health Department in the state has ramped up its capacity for Covid detection to over 30,000 tests per day.“Haryana has tested 13,70,399 samples till September 9, of which 83,353 were found positive and 12,80,217 negative, while results of 6,829 samples were awaited,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare.Of these, 12,25,988 samples were tested in government laboratories, while private laboratories had tested 1,13,089 samples till Wednesday.Arora said when tests were started in March, the testing capacity of the state was only 30 samples per day. However, 31,322 samples were tested in the state on Wednesday, he said.Gurugram led the state in terms of total number of tests, with 1,97,014 samples having been tested, 14,000 of which were found positive.Faridabad, the worst affected district with 14,721 cases, had tested 1,52,652 samples. Sonepat (99,934 samples) and Rohtak (87,302 samples) were among the districts where testing had been high.With 16,373 tests, Charkhi Dadri had tested the least number of samples, though the district also had the lowest number of positive cases at 335.Arora said the state government had been performing nearly 70 per cent of tests by the RT-PCR method, which was the gold standard test for Covid, while 30 per cent samples, largely in containment zones and bigger clusters, were tested by rapid antigen tests.“As per ICMR guidelines, if a symptomatic person tests negative in rapid antigen test, the department tests the person again by the RT-PCR method for confirmation,” he pointed out.
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||2,591 cases, a new record; 25 more die in Haryana||In the biggest single-day spike in Covid cases, Haryana reported 2,591 fresh cases today, taking the tally to 85,944. With 25 more deaths, the toll reached 907.A maximum of 307 cases were reported from Gurugram, followed by Faridabad (282), Ambala (225), Panipat (199), Karnal (189) and Kurukshetra (180).Karnal reported four deaths, followed by Ambala, Panipat and Kurukshetra (three each). Fatehabad, Rohtak and Sirsa reported two deaths each while one death each was reported from Faridabad, Rewari, Bhiwani, Nuh, Yamunanagar and Jind.Ambala district recorded the highest single-day spike of 225 fresh cases, including IAS officer Vaishali Sharma, posted as Naraingarh SDM, and three more deaths. The casualties comprised a 60-year-old woman and a 75-year-old man from Ambala and a 60-year-old man from Barara.With one more death in the past 24 hours, the toll in Faridabad rose to 183. The number of cases rose to 15,003 with 282 new cases today.
11-09-2020||Hisar||‘Mission Chahak’ for Hisar maids||The district administration is to launch a pilot project ‘Mission Chahak’ to extend a helping hand to the maids in Hisar town.Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni on Thursday said under the mission, social security schemes and other benefits would be provided to them. Soon, the administration would carry out a survey to prepare their database.The DC held a meeting with the officials of various departments, including education, health, social welfare, labour, women and child welfare, to complete the survey. “These people are usually unaware of the schemes and thus left out of the benefits of the schemes. Now, the officials will reach out to them and ensure that they get an honourable living,” said the DC.
11-09-2020||Our CorrespondentFaridabad||Fake IPS officer who smuggled cars held in Faridabad||A fake IPS officer and his friend have been arrested and sent to eight-day police custody.The main accused, Abang Mehtab, reportedly used to pose as an ACP of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and along with his friend Kabir Khan would steal luxury cars. The duo, both from Manipur, allegedly smuggled the stolen cars to their home state and sold them. An illegal weapon and fake documents were also recovered from their possession.According to the police, the crime unit sector 30 team led by Vimal Kumar nabbed the duo from the Delhi-Faridabad border.Mehtab used fake identity card for benefits such as toll exemption. To facilitate his stay in hotels, he had five fake Aadhaar cards in different names and addresses. He was carrying illegal weapon of his friend and had even uploaded a photo with AK-47 on the social media to influence people.Mehtab told the police that they would reach Delhi by air, steal luxury cars and go back to Manipur by road. To avoid checking, he used fake identity card of an ACP and always carried a gun. An FIR has been registered against the duo under relevant sections of the IPC at the Sarai Khwaja police station.“We are trying to crack the network of these carjackers. They will be questioned rigorously during the eight-day remand. We hope many others involved in the racket will be unmasked,” said Anil Yadav, ACP, crime, Faridabad.
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Tribunal non-functional for 9 months, High Court startled||The Punjab and Haryana High Court dubbed as “startling revelation” the fact that a tribunal under the Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Development Act, 1963, has not been functioning in the state for nine months now.The Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu was hearing a bunch of petitions filed by M/s BR Foods and other petitioners against Haryana and others respondents. “A startling revelation has been made that no tribunal is in existence since December 2019. The parties cannot be left without a statutory remedy of filing an appeal before the tribunal,” Justice Sharma asserted, while speaking for the Bench.Faced with the situation, the state counsel undertook that the tribunal would be constituted within two weeks. Taking a note of the undertaking, Justice Sharma directed the placing on record the notification on the tribunal by the next date of hearing. The case would now come up for hearing in the last week of September.The tribunal hears appeals against the orders of the Director, Town and Country Planning Department, on issues such as demolition of buildings. In the absence of the tribunal, the aggrieved parties have been deprived of statutory remedy of filing an appeal before it.The Act, that received the assent of the President on November, 22, 1963, before the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, aims at preventing haphazard and substandard development along scheduled roads and in controlled areas in Haryana.Among other things, it provides for the constitution of the tribunal, consisting of a chairman who is a retired High Court Judge and a member of Chief Engineer’s rank having special knowledge about roads and highways.The tribunal can sit in Chandigarh or at any other place of convenience to hear appeals filed within 60 days of demolition notices issued by the Town and Country Planning Department and its decision on such appeals is final.The tribunal also hears cases involving construction up to April 28, 1995, in violation of the Act along scheduled roads and otherwise as if these were appeals against the order of the Director. Any case against the Director passed under the provisions of the Act pending in any court of law except a High Court or Supreme Court is transferred to the tribunal.
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Congress launches employment helpline in Haryana||Terming the unemployment rate in Haryana “very alarming” at 33.5 per cent, the Congress today launched “employment helpline” to gauge the exact dimension of the problem in the country and the state.Krishna Allavaru, in charge of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC), and HPPC chief Kumari Selja said though the Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy (CMIE) had pegged unemployment rate at 33.5 per cent in the state, the exact situation seemed to be worse in the backdrop of the lopsided policies of the Central and state governments.Demanding Rs 6,000 monthly allowance for unemployed youth, Allavaru urged the unemployed youths to register on the helpline so that the Congress could come out with a comprehensive report on unemployment in the country. Selja condemned the lathicharge on farmers and arhtiyas by the Haryana Police in Pipli today,
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Admission begins in Panchkula college||Webinar on literacy in education policyKurukshetra: A webinar on 'Literacy in New Education Policy 2020' was organised on the occasion of International Literacy Day at the National Institute of Technology (NIIT), Kurukshetra. The purpose of this webinar conducted online was to highlight the importance of literacy in individuals, communities and societies. The event was organised jointly by NITTTR, Chandigarh, and the NIT, Kurukshetra. Padmashri Dr Satish Kumar, Director of the institute, present as the chief guest on the occasion, emphasised the development of indigenous technology for a self-reliant India. He focused on and elaborated on skills development in key areas of technology, including digital literacy, increased teacher role, artificial intelligence, machine learning and data science. Dr Shyam Sundar Pattanayak, Professor, NITTTR, Chandigarh, who was presiding over the programme, highlighted the importance of digital social-education in the education policy.Awareness campaign todayFaridabad: Vidya Bharati will commence a nationwide awareness campaign on the recently unveiled National Education Policy (NEP) on September 11. In addition to the comprehensive discussions on the scope, scale and impact of the reforms under the NEP, the campaign will also comprise of the MyNEP competition involving NEP-themed popular contests in the online mode, social media and website (www.mynep.in) from September 25 to October 2. MyNEP competition will be held in 13 languages on four sub-themes, namely Bharat Centric Education Holistic Education, Knowledge Based Society and Quality Education, across three categories. The first being Class IX to XII, second undergraduates and postgraduates and third the citizen category. While significant cash prizes will be awarded to the winners in each category, every contestant will receive a participation certificate.Five buildings inaugurated in CUHMahendragarh: Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' inaugurated five building projects of Central University of Haryana (CUH) here online. "boys hostel, engineering workshop, mini auditorium, wi-fi park and Vice Chancellor's residence -cum-camp office were inaugurated by the Union Minister," said Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad. Minister of State for Education Sanjay Shyamrao Dhotre was virtually present on the occasion.Dyal Singh school 1st in Bhajan GayanKarnal: To mark the death anniversary of Sardar Dyal Singh Majithia, founder of Dyal Singh Trust Society, an online Bhajan Gayan competition was organised by Dyal Singh Public School, Dyal Singh Colony on Wednesday, in which 12 schools participated. The first position was bagged by Dyal Singh Public School, Sector 7, Karnal, second position was secured by SD Model School and third by Delhi Public School. Consolation prizes were bagged by SBS Senior Secondary School, JPS Academy, Assandh and OPS Vidya Mandir, respectively. On the occasion, the academic adviser Ramesh Lather and Principal Sushma Devgan paid floral tribute to the founder of the institution and congratulated the winners
11-09-2020||Ambala||One caught in drugs case||Four arrested for assaultThe police have arrested Babloo, Rajinder Kumar, Amrish and Vinod of Ambala in a case of assault. Nand Lal had reported that the accused assaulted and intimidated him. A local court ordered the release of the accused on bail. TNSOne nabbed in fraud caseThe police have arrested Sandeep Seth alias Sonu of Ambala for immigration fraud. Harpreet Singh of Naraingarh had reported that the accused took a huge sum with the promise of sending him abroad. The accused was later released on bail. TNS
11-09-2020||On last Saturday||Narwana gets flooded again post rain||Policy must for removing aged treesIt is observed that many trees are damaged/tilted or become hollow due to natural and/or man-made causes and pose a risk to life and property and requires a transparent policy for their removal. The competent authorities must frame proper rules and regulations for the removal of aged/old/termite-infested and damaged trees. — Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaWeak foundations of bungalowsIt is a matter of grave concern that in Gurugram district well-furnished bungalows have tilted and there is danger of these collapsing at any time and it has been noticed in Sector 27, 46 and 47 post heavy rain recently. And most astonishing aspect is that their adjoining buildings can face danger. The probe committee had revealed that their foundation was very poor and could not bear any load. The authorities must ensure that foundation of bungalows are not poor in future. —Subhash C Taneja, GurugramIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
11-09-2020||Rohtak||High drama as legislator stopped on way to Pipli||High drama was witnessed on Thursday morning when Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu, along with his supporters was leaving his farm house on Jind road here for Pipli (Kurukshetra) to attend the farmers’ rally.A huge police force surrounded the MLA and his farm house and did not let him and his supporters proceed to Pipli. A heated exchange of words was also witnessed between the enraged supporters and police officials.The situation turned tense when the policemen came in front of Kundu’s SUV and forcibly stopped the vehicle after the latter tried to go ahead.Sensing the gravity of the situation, the policemen took Kundu and his supporters into custody. They were taken to the Police Lines in a bus. The MLA and his supporters were released from there in the afternoon.Condemning the police action, Kundu later told mediapersons that it was the murder of democratic rights of the people. It had exposed the anti-farmer face of the state government. Farmers were fighting for their rights but the police were arresting them at the behest of the state government, he alleged.“It is unfortunate that no one takes action when the BJP organises rallies amid the Covid pandemic while farmers, who have reached the verge of devastation due to erroneous policies, are being stopped from organising rallies in the name of Covid,” alleged the MLA, adding that he would continue to raise the farmers’ voice come what may.
11-09-2020||Rohtak||Kisan sabha: Govt trying to muzzle voice of farmers||Condemning the use of police force on farmers in Pipli, Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) state general secretary Sumit Kumar said the state government had tried to suppress the voice of farmers and other sections against its “erroneous” policies, but the sabha would not let the government do so.While interacting with the media here on Thursday, he said the BJP government would have to face the consequences of resorting to force against the farmers who were peacefully raising their voice against “misdeeds” of the government.The ABKS vice-president, Inderjit Singh, threw a challenge to Agriculture Minister JP Dalal to have a public debate with ABKS leaders anywhere and anytime on the three ordinances.He also accused the state government of adopting an insensitive attitude towards the woes of cotton growers who suffered extensive loss due to pest infestation. “It is unfortunate that the government has failed to notify a special survey of losses,” Inderjit Singh added.District president Preet Singh and state committee member Balwan Singh appealed to all organisations of farmers, agricultural workers, mandi labourers and small traders to forge a broad unity in order to resist and oppose the “anti-agriculture” policies of the BJP-led Centre and state governments.
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||More rallies on September 14: Bhartiya Kisan Union||The BJP government has exposed its anti-farmer faceby indiscriminately lathicharging farmers at Kurukshetra, alleged Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary, BKU (Dakonda).“The All-India Farmers Struggle Coordinating Committee will hold rallies in front of Parliament and at five places in Punjab on September 14,” he added. — TNS
11-09-2020||Gurugarm||5 held for killing liquor contractor in Gurugram||Five persons were today arrested for killing a liquor contractor and seriously injuring his friend in the shootout on September 2 in Jatauli village here.Inderjeet, the victim, had received 17 bullet shots and his friend is still hospitalised.“We have so far arrested six accused and raids are on to nab others,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime. — OC
11-09-2020||Gurugram||Dairy owner robbed  of Rs4.5 lakh, jewellery in Gurugram||Armed men allegedly robbed a milk dairy owner of Rs 4.5 lakh, jewellery worth Rs 10 lakh and a mobile phone in Tajnagar village here on Wednesday.In her police complaint, dairy owner Saroj Yadav said around 2 am on Wednesday, she went to the dairy to call her workers. On not getting a reply, she entered the workers’ room only to find them tied and held hostage by seven masked men.“They pointed a gun towards me and led me to my home. They forcibly took the almirah keys and decamped with Rs 4.5 lakh, gold jewellery, a mobile phone and car keys,” Yadav said in her complaint.“The police have formed a special team to arrest the accused,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime. — OC
11-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Protect mandi, MSP system: Hooda to govt||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday said the voice of the people in a democracy cannot be suppressed by the use of force.“In a democracy, everyone has the right to raise his voice and go anywhere. The farmers are agitating for their legitimate demands. By bringing farm ordinances, the government has forced the farmers to come out on the streets and protest. No ordinance can be in the interest of the farmers unless it guarantees MSP and there is a discussion in Parliament. If the government wants to make any changes in the system, it will have to guarantee the protection of the mandi and the MSP system,” Hooda said. — TNS
11-09-2020||Hisar||Farm activists stopped midway||Members of the arhtiya association and farmer activists were stopped by the police from going to Pipli at various places in Hisar, Sirsa, Jind and Bhiwani districts today.In Hisar’s Uklana town, Uklana Arhtiyas Association president Dhoop Singh Botham was taken into custody by the police. The police also stopped arhtiyas in Kalanwali town in Sirsa district as the DSP had put up a ‘naka’ to block the cavalcade of arhtiyas.Krishan Kirmara, a farmer leader in Hisar, said that they were stopped near the toll plaza at Barwala town of Hisar district. The protesters from across the state were stopped by the police due to the Covid pandemic.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) had announced to hold a state-level rally at Pipli near Kurukshetra today to protest the ordinances of the Centre.Various farmer organisations and arhtiyas associations extended support to the rally to protest the ordinances which allow private players to purchase agricultural produce.
11-09-2020||Hisar||JJP flays lathicharge||Senior leaders of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), which is in power in alliance with the BJP in Haryana, have criticised the lathicharge on protesting farmers at Pipli town of Kurukshetra today.JJP leader Digvijay Singh Chautala, founder member of the JJP along with his elder brother Dushyant Chautala who is the Deputy Chief Minister, tweeted that the lathicharge is condemnable. Stating that they realise the pain of farmers, Digvijay demanded a probe into the incident. “It is painful and should not have happened.”Naina Chautala, MLA from Badhra, during her visit to her Assembly segment stated that it is wrong if farmers have been lathicharged. “I will get to know about the incident after watching the news,” she said.Meanwhile, INLD leader and MLA from Ellenabad Assembly segment in Sirsa Abhay Singh Chautala condemned the incident. “It is unfortunate that the government is unleashing lathis on farmers instead of talking to them on the three ordinances. We will fight the battle for the farmers rising above politics,” he mentioned in his tweet. — TNS
11-09-2020||---||Stopped from reaching rally, farmers clash with cops||Kurukshetra, September 10A high-voltage drama was witnessed here today as farmers clashed with the police after being denied entry to Pipli grain market to participate in a state-level ‘Kisan Bachao-Mandi Bachao’ rally, organised to demand withdrawal of the Centre’s farm ordinances.The face-off saw the farmers breaking barricades and pelting the police with stones and the cops cane-charging the protesters to disperse them. An alleged attempt was made to run a tractor-trailer over the Shahabad SDM, who was on the spot to stop the farmers.It was after the farmers, gathered under the aegis of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), blocked the Delhi-Ambala highway for an hour that they were allowed to proceed towards the rally venue. The commuters, meanwhile, were a harried lot.Farmer unions and commission agents have threatened to go in for a statewide blockade on September 20 if their demands for withdrawal of the three ordinances and making ‘Right to sell at MSP’ a law were not met by September 19.The unions have also decided to start dharnas at district headquarters across Haryana from September 15 if the Centre or the state government failed to invite them for talks on their demands by September 14. Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur said the farmers had been denied permission for the rally due to the Covid pandemic.‘PB villages won’t allow MPs backing ordinances’Ludhiana: The Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal) announced on Thursday that MPs backing the Centre’s farm ordinances would not be allowed to enter Punjab villages. Its general secretary HS Lakhowal claimed that the NDA government wanted to hand over cultivable land to corporate houses. “We will hold a dharna outside Parliament House on the day Bills to replace the ordinances are tabled in Parliament,” he added. OC
11-09-2020||Vijay Mohan||Rafale induction stern signal to adversaries, says Rajnath||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, September 10Terming the Rafale fighter a game changer for India’s security, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the induction of the aircraft has sent a strong message to the world, especially to those who challenge the country’s sovereignty.Speaking at the formal induction ceremony for the first batch of five Rafales with No.17 Squadron at the Ambala Air Force Station today, Rajnath said the induction was significant in the light of the present situation that has been created on the borders.All-weather fighterEditorial: Welcome RafaleAlso read: Induction of Rafale jets big, stern message to those eyeing India’s sovereignty: RajnathRafale may participate in joint exercise in France next yearReiterating the resolve to not compromise India’s sovereignty under any circumstances, he said: “Strengthening our defence is aimed at achieving international peace and stability and we do not want to take any step that can endanger international peace. We have the same expectation from our neighbours and other countries of the world.”‘India to have edge’In strategic terms, it (Rafale induction) means India will have an edge over the entire region to protect its people…. France has always stood beside India in good times and bad. —Florence Parly, French Defence MinisterComplimenting the IAF for its swift and decisive action during the current standoff in Ladakh, he said the speed with which the IAF deployed its assets at forward bases instilled confidence that it was fully prepared to carry out its operational tasks.Stating that the IAF needed to look into new challenges related to artificial intelligence and unconventional warfare, he said the defence capabilities had to be constantly upgraded. He added that India’s commitments were not just restricted to its borders, but had been expanded to the Indian Ocean Region and the Indo-Pacific where India’s role has been well received internationally.French Minister for the Armed Forces Florence Parly said the aircraft provided an invaluable sovereign tool to India to meet its security requirements. She Parly added that the induction of the Rafale was testimony to the strong Indo-French strategic partnership. Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said the Rafale induction could not have come at a more appropriate time.To work closely in Indian Ocean RegionDefence Minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart Florence Parly held extensive talks during which they vowed to step up cooperation in the Indian Ocean, a region which is witnessing rising Chinese military posturing.
