11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana not to stop pension of those unable to withdraw it through biometric or voucher system||In a big relief to the pensioners covered under various social security schemes, the Haryana government has decided not to stop the payment of those who are unable to withdraw it through biometric or voucher system till June 30.Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment OP Yadav said on Saturday it is mandatory that beneficiaries covered under various schemes like old age, widow pension, ‘Ladli’ pension and ‘Divyang’ pension have to withdraw their pension through biometric / voucher system at least once in three months.“Under the rules, if they fail to do the same then the pension amount is sent back to the department through bank or post office and then the department stops the pension benefit of that beneficiary and he has to reapply for it after one year,” he said in an official release.He said due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown implemented to contain COVID-19, the pensioners are facing trouble in withdrawing their money through vouchers by going to banks.In view of the present circumstances, the government has decided that the pension of the beneficiaries, who are unable to withdraw it, will not be stopped till June 30, according to the release. PTI
11-04-2020||---||Lockdown to be extended, Haryana to have 3 zones: CM||Chandigarh, April 11Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday announced that lockdown is likely to be extended by two weeks after April 14.He said that the state will be divided into three zones -- Red, Orange and Green. The red zone would comprise hot spots like Nuh, Gurugram, Palwal and Faridabad.The orange zone would have districts which have lesser cases or one or two positive patients.The green zone will comprise districts and blocks which have no case. At present, Kurukshetra, Rewari, Mahendragarh and Jhajjar have no case.The three zones will have different set of rules with more strictness on movement in red zone.Nuh leads among all districts with 44 Covid positive cases followed by 32 in Gurugram and 29 each in Palwal and Faridabad.“We are developing the protocol,” said Khattar, in an address to people today.Regarding MSMEs, he said those industries with lesser workforce could be allowed to function but they have to maintain social distancing. He urged the builders to follow the social distancing norm too. He promised that there would be free movement of raw material and finished goods.He advocated for using masks whenever people go out.At present, 250 mobile dispensaries are working. The CM announced to enhance it to 500.   He said in future the number of hours for availability of essential items will be enhanced to avoid rush of people in markets.As harvesting season is approaching, he said the state was facing labour shortage. “We are trying to engage MNREGA workers and about 15,000 migrants, who are staying in state’s shelter homes,” he said.The state’s Covid count reached 177 today. Three people died so far.
11-04-2020||Jhajjar||Chief Minister praises Jhajjar DC, SP for containing the spread of coronavirus||Chief Minister, Manohar Lal Khattar, has showered praise on Jhajjar Deputy Commissioner (DC) Jitender Dahiya and Superintendent of Police (SP) Ashok Kumar for checking the spread of COVID-19 pandemic as well as efficiently handling the situation emerged during the lockdown in the district.The CM has written separate appreciation letter to both the officers.“I convey deep appreciation of the state government for the excellent work done by you and your team to contain the spread of Coronavirus and in maintaining the supply of essential goods and services to people of your district during the national lockdown,” states the CM in the letters.Jhajjar is among five districts of the state, where no case of COVID-19 has been reported.As many as 1,317 people with travel history abroad and various states of India are, at present, under home quarantine in the district while samples of 43 people tested negative for COVID-19.“You have provided inspiring leadership to your team to work with great courage, selflessness, determination, and focus. Your thoughtful actions and devotion to duty in this war-like situation is indeed commendable. I am sure efforts will go in a long way in achieving our objective of defeating this virus in Haryana,” reads the letter sent to the DC by the CM.Jhajjar police are working round-the-clock for proper implementation of lockdown to prevent community transmission of deadly COVID-19 diseases.The police have challaned 2,856 vehicles and registered 88 FIR against violators of the lockdown during the past 20 days.“You have led your team in implementing the lockdown measures from the front with determination and focus. This has ensured that the state has remained on track in these difficult times. Your devotion to duty in this war-like situation is indeed commendable,” states the letter sent to SP by the CM.SP Ashok Kumar said he was enthused and motivated on getting the commendation from Chief Minister. It would also encourage him to perform his duty with more toil and devotion, he added.
11-04-2020||Sanjay Yadav||9 nabbed for forcing migrants to buy grocery from their shops in Gurugram||Gurugram, April 11Gurugram police have nabbed nine persons for allegedly thrashing four migrants for not buying "overpriced" groceries from their shops.The accused had attacked four boys, students of local ITI, on Wednesday, critically injuring one. The accused allegedly broke into their rented room and beat them up with sticks for not buying grocery from their shops.The police booked the accused under verious sections of tge IPC and nabbed them. They were eventually let off on bail."We are ensuring prompt action on any such complaint," said CP Mohammad Akil.
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Medicine delivery offer||Shruti Choudhry, former Congress MP from Bhiwani-Mahendragarh, has launched an initiative to deliver medicines to the people. The cost of medicines and expenses on delivery are being borne by her. She said she had started the service for people of Dadri, Bhiwani and Mahendragarh. Those in need could WhatsApp their prescription on the number 09812195558 with name, address and contact number, she said. In a video posted in several WhatsApp groups, she said, “With this lockdown, it is not possible for everyone to have stock of medicines in villages. With public transport shut, they cannot go out and procure these from far-off places. In case anyone in Dadri, Bhiwani and Mahendragarh is in need of medicines, I will get medicines delivered on their doorstep.” TNSAMBALATimings for services fixedAmbala City SDM Gauri Midha has fixed timings for those providing essential services. As per the order, door-to-door supply of milk and newspapers has been allowed till 8 am and shops providing essential services and commodities, including chemists, will remain open from 9 am to 5 pm. Home delivery of essential items has been allowed and chemists operating in hospitals and nursing homes can remain open 24x7. The order has stipulated opening of fruit and vegetable market till 9 am. The mandi will remain closed to the general public. Milk dairies and vendors can remain open for the public from 9 am to 5 pm. The order will remain in force till April 14. tns
11-04-2020||Gurugram||SPO attacked in Nuh village||An ex-Armyman, employed as SPO with the Nuh police, was allegedly attacked by a group of men, including a local sarpanch. They accused him of spreading Covid. The incident was reported from Sangel village in Nuh. An iron chain was put around victim Saimmuddin’s neck and he was dragged by the men. He was grievously injured and was rushed to a private hospital in Gurugram. The victim’s wife, Samina, moved the police against the accused. “He is a former soldier and serves in the police as an SPO at the Nuh police station. In the noon today, he was going to the fields to check on the harvesting being done there. The local villagers had erected a naka on the way. The local sarpanch Rajender abused him and made communal comments. He urged other people to attack Saimmuddin,” said complainant Samina. — TNS
11-04-2020||---||11 hospitals, 2,901 beds for Covid-hit in state: Health Dept||Chandigarh, April 10As the Covid count touched 162 in Haryana, the Health Department has designated 11 hospitals with 2,901 beds for treatment of positive cases.As per a letter issued to all Civil Surgeons, dated April 8, every district now has a dedicated Covid hospital. Maharaja Aggarsen Medical College Hospital, Agroha, Hisar, will be the designated hospital for Sirsa, Hisar and Fatehabad. It has 550 beds.For Nuh, Shahid Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, with 600 beds has been designated, while SGT Medical College Hospital, Budhera, Gurugram, with 80 beds has been reserved for Rewari and Narnaul.For Gurugram district, ESIC Hospital, sector 9-A, Gurugram, with 125 beds has been designated, and for Rohtak, Jind, Bhiwani and Jhajjar, Pt BD Sharma PGIMS Rohtak, with 500 beds, has been reserved.BPS Government Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat, with 150 beds will be used for patients from Sonepat and Panipat and Adesh Medical College Hospital, Shahbad, Kurukshetra, with 410 beds for Karnal, Kurukshetra and Kaithal Covid patients.MMU Mulana, Ambala, with 210 beds will cater to Ambala and Yamunanagar and ESIC Medical College Hospital, Faridabad, with 210 beds is designated for Faridabad and Palwal.For Panchkula, two hospitals have been designated — Paras Hospital with 23 beds and Civil Hospital, Sector 6, with 113 beds.As per guidelines issued, Covid patients will be referred only to designated hospitals of their district. They have to be referred in designated ambulances and staff accompanying patients must take precautionary measures. Ambulances have to be disinfected after every visit.Civil Surgeons have been directed to keep a record of every referred case. Under the Haryana Epidemic Disease, Covid-19, Regulation, 2020, dated March 11, no private medical college or hospital could charge Covid patient more than the rates or packages fixed for various treatment modalities under Ayushman Bharat Scheme. A Covid patient also includes a suspected case.
11-04-2020||---||Visited Delhi hospital? Inform us, says govt||Rohtak, April 10 With eight persons who visited New Delhi’s Agrasen Hospital testing Covid-positive, the Rohtak district health authorities have appealed to residents who went to the medical facility to report themselves on helpline numbers.  “Residents who visited the hospital in the National Capital’s Punjabi Bagh area for their own treatment or accompanied any patient between March 13 and April 4 are advised to inform us. The helpline numbers are 01262-281031, 7027816559, 01262-244163 and 9468090380,” said Deputy Civil Surgeon-cum-District Surveillance Officer (Covid unit) Dr Satyawan. — TNS
11-04-2020||---||Jindal institute sets aside 125 beds for virus-hit||Hisar, April 10 The Jindal Institute of Medical Sciences (JIMS), Hisar, has dedicated 125 beds for an isolation ward and two negative pressure isolation rooms for Covid patients.   With an armamentarium of 150 ICU beds, 60 ventilators, 250 monitors, 300 syringe pumps, the 580-bed hospital is all geared up for any medical exigency, a spokesperson said. The hospital has also earmarked a dedicated flu screening unitwith isolation rooms for timely detection. A spokesperson of the Jindal Stainless group, owned by Hisar-based Jindal family, said doctors were providing free telephonic consultation for OPD patients during lockdown. The group also announced a contribution of Rs 5 crore towards PM CARES Fund. It had earlier pledged Rs 15 lakh to the Haryana Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. All employees of the Company have contributed two days gross salary to support these initiatives.   Managing Director, Jindal Stainless, Abhyuday Jindal pledged support from food requirements to medical and sanitation supplies. “We are producing and supplying industrial and medical oxygen to JIMS and Agroha Medical College. We are supporting 500 families through food packet and food grain distribution in areas around the plants at Hisar and Jajpur in Odisha besides ensuring availability of sanitisers, masks, and surgical gloves wherever needed,” he said.
11-04-2020||---||Karnal cops make ‘sanitising trunk’ for frontline warriors||Karnal, April 10Taking a cue from the ‘UV sterilisation trunk’ developed by IIT-Ropar that uses ultraviolet light to sanitise any item placed in it, the Karnal police have prepared 20 such trunks.30 mins is all it takes IGP Karnal Range Bharti Arora handed over these trunks to 20 police stations, asking them to sanitise all items coming from outside before use. These would include uniform, belt, currency notes, vegetables, anything ordered through delivery, wallets, mobile phones or any document.“I read about this initiative of Dr Naresh Rakha, senior scientific officer, and his team members at IIT-Ropar. Police personnel are discharging duty at nakas and other places to ensure lockdown compliance and come in contacts with all sections of society. Their uniform, caps, belts and other useable material may get infected and virus may remain dormant for a long time. I conveyed the idea to Karnal SP Surinder Singh Bhoria, who got these trunks prepared immediately,” said the IGP.She said trunks were available in police stores and they arranged UV lights and other machinery needed from water purifiers. “It took around Rs 500 to make a trunk and40 such boxes are being prepared — 20 each for Panipat and Kaithal police,” she added.60 patrol vehiclesIGP Bharti Arora flagged off 60 vehicles — 50 scooters and 10 bikes — for patrolling in the narrow lanes of the city and in rural areas. These bikes have been given by Hero Motor Corps to the Karnal Range. Twenty vehicles each have been given to Karnal, Kaithal and Panipat police. The IGP thanked Dr Prem Bhamba for the support through the CSR activity. “We are receiving complaints of people not complying with the lockdown in certain colonies. These new vehicles will strengthen patrolling,” Arora said.
11-04-2020||Parveen Arora---||999 committees to scan health of 16 lakh in Karnal district||Tribune News Service Karnal, April 10 With the aim of scanning the health of every person in the district and knowing their requirements, 999 micro-level administrative committees have been constituted to reach out to around 16 lakh residents in around 3 lakh households in the district. They will collect details of individuals who are, prima facie, symptomatic and have fever, cough and cold. As per the authorities, it will help in tracing Covid patients of the district speedily as the committee members will have to upload details online through a Google spreadsheet. They will also coordinate with social organisations, NGOs and volunteers of that locality for effective distribution of ration to the needy. Members of the committee include ASHA workers, anganwari workers and booth-level officers. They will enquire about the health of between 250 and 300 households, supply ration, verify forms received from daily wagers for Rs 1,000 per week financial assistance, collect details of households which require support in terms of medicines, therapists and consultation. The committees have started work. The district has been divided into 13 zones. “We have constituted these committees and training has been imparted to them. These committees will scan each and every household,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. As many as 105 sector committee had been constituted, comprising patwaris, gram secretaries, supervisors of Women and Child Development Department and in-charge of health sub-centres in each district, to supervise the work of unit committees, he said. He added that 15 zonal committees had been formed comprising BDPO in rural areas or MC secretary in urban areas, along with CDPO concerned and SMO, to monitor the work of sector and unit committees. At the district level, a district committee headed by the DC, including SP, SDMs, Civil Surgeon, district programme officer of the Women and Child Development Department and Election Tehsildar, had been formed, he added.
11-04-2020||Panipat||Panipat survivor tests negative||The 34-year-old Covid positive woman of Naultha village tested negative on Thursday evening. Following the reports, the health department discharged her from the general hospital. She was admitted there after she suffered from breathing trouble on Tuesday evening.  The reports of other 42 suspects also came negative. The woman was working in the rice sheller of the 21-year-old Model Town youth who was the district’s first Covid patient. She was admitted to PGIMS, Rohtak, after she developed symptoms on March 23, and discharged after two reports come negative on April 2.  On Tuesday, she experienced difficulty in breathing. She was admitted to the hospital. She was discharged after her reports came negative on Thursday. — TNS
11-04-2020||Ravinder Saini||In Rewari, quick thinking, lots of precaution pay off||Tribune News ServiceRewari, April 10When all districts were home quarantining those with foreign travel history to check community transmission of Covid, Rewari was one step ahead. It began placing under surveillance people returning from even high-risk states such as Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra and Kerala and was, perhaps, the first in the state to do so. This, and several other measures later, no Covid case has been reported in the district that borders Rajasthan.District authorities took the lead in turning several educational institutes into quarantine centres and establishing specialised ICU for Covid suspected/patients at the Civil Hospital, while taking precautionary measures well before the nation-wide Janata Curfew announced by the Prime Minister on March 22.Sensing the gravity of the situation, authorities set up the Disaster Relief Fund to collect funds, food and necessary items for the needy and sealed entry, exit points on the border with Rajasthan where Covid cases were being reported. It is the outcome of timely action, a slew of precautionary measures and strict execution of lockdown that the district authorities and people can breathe easy.As many as 1,468 persons — 82 with foreign travel history and 1,386 with domestic travel history — are presently under surveillance. Besides, 100 persons have completed their quarantine period and 36 out of 53 samples tested have been found negative and reports of 17 were awaited.Social activist Naresh Chouhan said the lockdown revived memories of the Emergency imposed in 1975, but with a difference. “Back then the common man was scared of the district administration for various reasons and that made people stay house. This time, people are afraid of Covid and not the district administration and have hence home quarantined themselves to fight the virus. This is the basic reason Rewari is so far safe,” he said.Ishwar Yadav, a physician, said residents of Rewari district were well aware of the Covid threat were fully cooperating with the district administration to make the lockdown a success. “I too am not running my clinic and staying indoors,” he said.Saket Dhingra of Chhipatwada locality said adequate supply of essential commodities on every doorstep had ensured a near-total lockdown. “Vendors are reaching every street to sell vegetables and fruits. Hats off to the administration,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh said they started creating awareness about the Covid pandemic through ASHA workers and other health officials in February itself. “Sincere efforts were made to prevent the assembly of people in the district. Public movement was restricted. Shopkeepers were challaned. FIRs were lodged against violators of lockdown and more than 500 vendors were registered to provide vegetables, fruits and grocery items on the doorstep so people do not have to move out,” he said.The DC admitted it was a challenge to trace people with foreign and domestic travel history, but it was done. “All such persons were quarantined at home and their samples collected for Covid testing.”Migrant exodus checked too
11-04-2020||Hisar||63-year-old tests positive||A 63-year-old man, who is the father of an administrative official posted out of Hisar, tested positive for Covid in Medanta hospital, Gurugram, on Thursday. The health officials have traced 19 contacts, including some government officials and family members, and home quarantined them. Hisar CMO Dr Yogesh Sharma said the man was admitted to the hospital on April 5 as he was suffering from fever. He was earlier admitted to Jindal hospital on March 31 and stayed there till April 5. The district health officials took the sample on April 2, which tested negative. — TNS
11-04-2020||Sanjay Yadav---||Markets finally shut in hotspot Nuh dist||Gurugram, April 10 The district administration has shut all markets in Nuh following ‘The Tribune’s’ report on social distancing going for a toss due to opening of shops for a few hours every day during lockdown. Issuing the instructions on Friday, Nuh DC Pankaj Kumar that all markets shall be shut and only home delivery of items allowed. Anybody violating the orders shall be penalised and even jailed.  The district has the highest number of Covid cases at 38. Though no new case has been reported in the last two days, but the decision was taken given the hotspot’s vulnerability and failure of social distancing.  “All the shops, even grocery stores, will be closed till the next order. People will stay at their home and all essential items will be provided at doorstep,” the order reads.  Realising the threat posed by open markets, shops in Sohna — where 10Jamaatis tested positive — have also been closed till April 14.  Gurugram authorities once again tried the odd-even scheme at the Khandsa wholesale vegetable mandi, but failed miserably. Though only a few shops opened, over 100 went to the market on Friday looking to buy reasonably-priced vegetables.
11-04-2020||---||Repeat test report of three Karnal patients negative||Karnal, April 10 The repeat test results of three out of four Covid positive patients in the district came negative. The report of the fourth patient, a resident of Birchpur village, is pending and expected to come on Saturday. As per the health officials, the patients would remain in isolation ward and the department would wait for one or two more negative reports. Karnal has seen five Covid positive cases. The first patient, a resident of Rasin village, died last week. Three persons included the victim’s son, doctor and staff nurse, who got infected from the first patient. The fourth positive case is a youth, who belongs to Birchpur village. “The repeat test results of doctor, staff nurse and the victim’s son came negative, which is a relief for us. We will keep them in isolation ward and will wait for two more negative reports,” said Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Civil Surgeon. He said they collected 198 samples, of which the reports of 158 were declared negative, while five were positive, and the rest are pending.
11-04-2020||Sanjay Yadav---||Forced to buy from shops of landlord, labourers cry foul||Gurugram, April 10 The brutal thrashing of four labourers in Aliyar village near Manesar for refusing to buy ‘overpriced’ groceries from their landlords’ shops has brought to fore the unsaid rule that governs rented settlements of labourers in Gurugram: ‘Buy from where we say’. Being home to the highest number of migrants in NCR, Gurugram has a unique chawl or urban ghetto culture. Many people, especially in MCG colonies or rural areas, have erected chawls in their plots housing anywhere between 30 to 100 families of migrant labourers. The landlords set up their own grocery and vegetable shops, and in addition to rent, the tenants are mandated to buy essentials from these shops. In many areas the landlords even fix minimum quantity of articles or amount that a labourer needs to pay every month and get the essentials. Anybody defying the orders is kicked out of rooms or allegedly thrashed. With governments mandate to forego the rent, these landlords are now looking to compensate ‘losses’ by forcing the migrant tenants to buy overpriced essentials from their shop. With no money in hand, and food and ration being provided by the administration, many are refusing and facing the brunt. On Thursday four students of ITI were beaten by local goons of Aliyar village for refusing to buy grocery from the landlord’s shop. One of the boys is critical and being treated at a local private hospital. “This practice is prevalent everywhere in Gurugram. We are supposed to buy our grocery, vegetables and even medicines from either their shops or the ones they recommend. If we refuse, they beat us. I pay Rs 4,000 for a single room with common toilet and have to pay Rs 1,000 every month to my landlord’s shop and buy kitchen essentials. I have got ration from an NGO. Yet I was asked to buy articles with minimum value of Rs 500 to keep his shop going during the lockdown as he had forgone my rent,” said a resident of the same chawl. One of the local landlords from Manesar, who has seven such chawls said they gave groceries on credit round the year to these migrants, and now were asked to not take rent. “Rent is our primary income. If they do not pay it and nor even buy from our shops, we will go hungry. It’s a practice followed for years. Why let them break now? We are giving credit also,” said a landlord, who is a resident of IMT, Manesar.
11-04-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Lockdown violations cause for concern in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, April 10Faridabad, an industrial hub and the city with the largest population in the state, has also emerged as a leading hotspot in the number of Covid positive cases.With a total of 28 positive cases, it stands at the fourth spot. Despite high-risk conditions, the authorities concerned have decided to take on the problem by its horns by launching an intensive door-to-door survey, a task undertaken for the first time.Of the total positive cases, as many as 17 cases are of the Jamaatis while the other 11 are residents of various colonies and villages who had come in contact with other positive cases.Some of the Jamaatis have been found to be hailing from villages like Badkhal, Fatehpur Taga and Ranhera Khurd and their detection came to the fore when the drive for it was launched.The first case that surfaced on March 20 was a 53-year-old woman residing in a sector here. She had come from abroad.The number of local cases increased when persons travelling to other districts and states came in contact with positive cases, making the number jump to 28 recently.The detection of the first case made the authorities sense huge trouble in the making in the wake of the huge population with several lakh persons living in slum areas and highly congested colonies.“With a large number of industries and factories, the number of workers, labourers and employees associated directly and indirectly here is estimated to be around eight to nine lakhs. The quick spread of the infection was in the offing had precautions not been taken and screening not taken up speedily,” says DC Yashpal Yadav.He said, “Efforts on a war-footing have been launched to ensure that not only contacts of all positive persons are identified and tested, but also to provide essential supplies to all those who have been affected by it, especially migrant workers.”According to the officials concerned, the timely and planned strategy that was put in place to identify suspected patients perhaps gave the district an advantage in getting control over the spread.Revealing that the pace of recovery of the admitted patients is expected to gain speed, Dr Ram Bhagat, Deputy Civil Surgeon, said that five out of the total 28 have recovered by Friday. He said the condition of the rest is also stable.It is reported that a total of 271 persons have been found with a history of foreign travel, but the majority of positive persons had acquired the virus locally.As many as 1,273 persons have been put on surveillance. A 54-year-old man, who got the virus from a positive case in Noida, passed it on to his wife and son.In another case, a couple who came from another state was found to be positive. Only one health worker got this disease during his duty.Though the lockdown made things easier, the violations have been a cause for concern.“The police have been registering an average of 40 FIRs daily and has challaned hundreds of vehicles in the past two weeks,” says an official.The district administration has set up 21 camps across the city for migrant labourers and homeless persons where food and essential items are being provided free of cost.“Till date, we have provided 5.48 lakh food packets with the help of NGOs,” says Commissioner Sanjay Joon. He added that the formation of 13 containment zones and launching house-to-house survey of all the households in the city with the help of 2,300 teams would take the drive to the level of effective control soon.
11-04-2020||---||2 new cases, state’s tally reaches 166||Chandigarh, April 10With two fresh cases being reported, Haryana’s count reached 166 on Friday. One positive case each was reported from Ambala and Panchkula.At Panchkula, one more Tablighi Jamaat worker, aged 37, tested positive. He had moved from Sikar in Rajasthan, where he had attended a religious congregation, to Kalka in Panchkula.Besides him, there are two more cases of Covid-positive Jamaat workers in Panchkula who are aged 18 and 80 respectively. They had tested positive on Thursday and were part of the group of people who came from Sikar.At Ambala too, a 65-year-old Tablighi Jamaat worker tested positive on Friday.So far, 22 patients have been discharged and three died. Nuh with 38 positive Covid cases leads among all districts followed by 32 in Gurugram, 29 in Palwal and 28 in Faridabad.A 63-year-old man, who is the father of an administrative official posted out of Hisar, was found positive for Covid in Medanta hospital in Gurugram on Thursday night, but the Health Department didn’t include him in the official bulletin.Meanwhile, no FIR was registered on Friday against any Tablighi Jamaat worker, according to ADGP Law and Order Navdeep Singh Virk.For large-scale testing in hotspots, Haryana today placed an order for the purchase of 1.1 lakh rapid testing kits.The state claims that it has 13,147 PPE kits, 83,250 N-95 masks, 6 lakh triple ply masks and 4.21 lakh Hydroxychloroquine tablets with Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited.At the district level, the state claims to have 18,246 PPE kits, 71,941 N-95 masks, 7,426 VTMs (used to take samples), 10.1 lakh gloves, 8.7 lakh triple layer masks and 47,318 hand sanitisers bottles (500 ml). A government spokesperson said that there is no shortage of essential protective medical equipment in the state.Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today granted approval to release an amount of Rs 5.18 crore for sanitisation of 2,588 panchayats across the state. Each gram panchayat can spend approximately Rs 20,000 on sanitation.The CM also issued 64 demi-official letters to officials including Divisional Commissioners, Deputy Commissioners, Commissioner Municipal Corporations, Inspectors General of Police of Ranges, Commissioners of Police and District Superintendents of Police for providing inspiring leadership to their teams in containing the spread of Covid and maintaining supply of essential items.Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today appealed to all former Congress MLAs to donate one month pension to the Corona Relief Fund.
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Psycho-social helpline started||The Haryana Government on Friday launched a psycho-social helpline — 1075 — for giving aid to persons affected by the Covid pandemic. The helpline aims to provide psychiatric support to the people affected by the pandemic. Around 110 volunteers have offered their services for tele-counselling. — TNS
11-04-2020||---||Panipat teen hangs herself||Panipat, April 10 A 19-year-old girl reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself here last evening. The police handed over the body to her kin after postmortem examination today.  The victim was identified as Kiran of Deshraj Colony. Victim’s father Sanchid told the police that his younger daughter, who was short-tempered, locked herself in her room on Thursday evening. He said they found her hanging in her room, after which they broke the door open and brought the body down. The police sent the body for postmortem examination. Quilla SHO Sandeep Kumar said inquest proceedings were initiated under Section 174 of the CrPC.
11-04-2020||---||Inspect sites for procurement centres, DCs told||Chandigarh, April 10The state government has asked all Deputy Commissioners to inspect and verify sites for purchase centres, received from Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB).About 2,000 purchase centres are being set up in the state for procurement of wheat.A spokesperson of the agriculture department said standard design for purchase centres was prepared and designated seating plan of staff, arthiyas and labourers was made. Every Deputy Commissioner was directed to ensure that the same was implemented in each centre.He shared that colour coded passes would be issued to the staff, labourers and arhtiyas visiting the centres.
11-04-2020||---||Utilise Jat stir funds to buy safety kits: Panel||Karnal, April 10 The members of peace committee, which was constituted during the Jat agitation in 2016, raised the demand of utilising the funds collected for ventilators and other safety gears to fight against Covid pandemic. During the agitation, residents of Karnal formed a peace committee with the coordination of then Deputy Commissioner J Ganesan and then SP Pankaj Nain. More than 100 members were a part of this committee. The members had reached out to residents and collected Rs1 crore. The fund was to be utilised to help the victims of the agitation in Karnal district, but as there was no such victim in Karnal, so funds were deposited in the bank. The peace committee members said even after raising the issue repeatedly with the administration to buy ventilators and other safety gears, no step was initiated. “We discussed the issue with the DC few days back. The funds are lying in the bank account for last four years, and now is the best time to utilise them. I have also approached peace committee members to come forward and they have given their consent for the proposal,” said Pritpal Singh Pannu, one of the founder members of the peace committee. Kapil Atreja, another founder member, said, “I have requested the DC to use the funds to strengthen the health sector of the city.” DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the funds were lying in the bank and the issue came to his notice. He said the state government had already placed order for ventilators and Karnal has no shortage of safety equipments so far. “I will call a meeting of the members of the peace committee at the earliest to take the final call,” he said.
11-04-2020||---||Randeep Surjewala alleges threat to life||Gurugram, April 10  All-India Congress Committee spokesperson and former state minister Randeep Singh Surjewala lodged an online police complaint, alleging threat to life from a gang inUttar Pradesh. Surjewala claimed that a man who identified himself as a member of a gang headed by Mukhtar Ansari, Raja Bhaiya and Papu Yadav threatened to shoot him and his cousin Sudeep. Though the complaint was made on April 1, an FIR was registered under Section 506 of the IPC in Panchkula on Friday. “I was at my official residence in Panchkula and my neighbour was visiting me. I was also attending a videoconference when the call came on my landline number. The caller threatened to eliminate my cousin Sudeep and me and disconnected the call. A minute later, he called again and said he knew I was in Panchkula and was aware of my location and car movements and could shoot us any time. He made a third call and identified himself as Agrim,” read the complaint.  While Surjewala, who is in Delhi at present, remained unavailable for comment and a source close to him confirmedthe development.
11-04-2020||---||Polytechnic staff design disinfection chamber in Y’nagar||Yamunanagar, April 10 With a quest to contribute to the fight against Covid, two teachers of Seth Jai Parkash Polytechnic, Damla, Yamunanagar district, have indigenously designed and fabricated an automated disinfection chamber to be placed at the entrances in public places.  The management of the institute will provide four such automated disinfection chambers free of cost to the district administration. Principal Anil Budhiraja said the automated disinfection chamber had a passage of 7-ft length with a width of 4 ft and height of 8 ft. “It is covered with PVC fibre sheets from all sides and will be useful in institutions and offices with large footfall,” he added. The chamber is fitted with ultrasonic sensors and timers at the entrance on both sides of the chamber, which automatically activate the sprayers as and when a person enters and stops after his exit. It is also fitted with LED lights.  The chamber, designed and fabricated by Kapil Sharma and Deepak Kumar, teachers of mechanical and electrical engineering departments of the institute. It would cost Rs25,000 per piece.
